                                    Document of
                                The World Bank


                                                        Report No: ICR2286



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                   (IBRD-72380 IDA-39360 IDA-44980)



                                         ON A

                                         LOAN

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 3.7 MILLION

                                     AND ON

                       CREDITS (2) IN THE AMOUNT OF

                                SDR 2.6 MILLION
                        (US$ 3.8 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                SDR 1.9 MILLION
                         (US$ 3 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                TO SAINT LUCIA

                                         FOR A

                     DISASTER MANAGEMENT PROJECT II


                                 August 29, 2012



Sustainable Development Department
Caribbean Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective June 2012)

              Currency Unit = Eastern Caribbean Dollars (EC$)
                           US$ 1.00 = EC$ 2.70

                              FISCAL YEAR
                          January 1 to December 31

                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APL       Adaptable Program Loan
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CDERA     Caribbean Disaster Emergency Response Agency
CDEMA     Caribbean Disaster and Emergency Management Agency
CDMP      Caribbean Disaster Mitigation Project
DMP II    Disaster Management Project II
ECCB      Eastern Caribbean Central Bank
EIA       Environmental Impact Assessment
EOC       Emergency Operations Center
ERDMP     Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management Project
ERP       Emergency Recovery Project
EU        European Union
IBRD      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA       International Development Association
IADB      Inter-American Development Bank
LAC       Latin America and the Caribbean
MCWT&PU   Ministry of Communications, Works, Transport and Public Utilities
MOE       Ministry of Education
MOH       Ministry of Health
MPDE&H    Ministry of Physical Development, Environment and Housing
NEMO      National Emergency Management Office
NHC       National Hurricane Center
OECS      Organisation of Eastern Caribbean States
PAHO      Pan American Health Organization
OCHA      Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs
UNDP      United Nations Development Program
USGS      United States Geological Survey

                         Vice President: Hasan Tuluy
                       Country Director: Françoise Clottes
                        Sector Manager: Anna Wellenstein
                   Project Team Leader: Tiguist Fisseha
                      ICR Team Leader: Tiguist Fisseha
                                              SAINT LUCIA
                                      Disaster Management Project II



                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 7
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 14
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 19
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 20
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 23
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 25
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 26
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 27
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 31
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 39
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 41
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 42
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 43
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 45
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 46
  MAP IBRD 39258
:A. Basic Information·
                                                                                                                                                                                 LC Disaster
Country:                                                                         :st. Lucia                                                            !Project Name:
                                                                                                                                                                                 Management Project II
                                                                                                                                                                                 IBRD-72380,IDA-
Project ID:                                                                      'P086469                                                              VC/TF Number(s):
                                                                                                                                                                                ;39360,IDA-44980
:IcR Date:                                                                       :os/3112012                                                           JCR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                                                                                                                                 GOVERNMENT OF
:Lending Instrument:                                                              SIL                                                                  Borrower:
                                                                                                                                                                                 SAINT LUCIA
.Original Total
                                                                                  USD 7.50M                                                            Disbursed Amount:         USD 10.50M
1Commitment:
[13:~y_i~~-d Amount:                                                             !USD 1O.SOM
!Environmental Category:
i'~"""           -- ..... '
                            B
!Implementing Agencies:
i ~i~i~t_ry of Finance (~c;u)
<Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


~~~~tri~~!'!~~
'                                                                                                                                                                                     Revised I Actual
                   Process                                                                    Date                                               Process              Original Date
                                                                                                                                                                                          Date(s)
    Concept Review:                                                             10/28/2003                                         Effectiveness:                      10/27/2004        10/27/2004
    Appraisal:                                                                 05/04/2004                                      ,Restructuring( s):
                                                                                                                               i                           .


    AIJproval:                                                                 06/22/2004                                      :Mid-term Review:
                                                                                                                                   ~losing:                                              12/3112011
p·:·~-~~·~'""'"""~"7~ ~.':""'':"'': ~~ "F··~-· '" Jf~(:~·~·~w·.:~:"•:':"':~ '.~'Ci?":"   ··   '-'~;- -:':":•:t''~'7'i"il~~T·' r~ r:::·"'7' n<:.1..:-


l~~:~~~.§P:m.~!!Y          .;• ,,, ,~.~~                                                                                            ..
_C.l Performance Rating by ICR
                                                                                                                                                       Satisfactory
                                                                                                                                                       Moderate
                                                                                                                                                       Sati~factory   _
                                                                                                                                                       Satisfactory

C.l Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                    Ratings         Borrower              Ratings   1



Quality at Entry:       'Satisfactory      Government:         Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Moderately Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                         Satisfactory                          Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:
r-··------~----------·----                     .. -·                                                                            -··---   ...... ·----··             ..             -
f~~~_2_~~~~-~~!-~~try_~~~--I".Ipl_e._~-~-!l. !~f!~~--}>~~~~~~!l-~~-!!l~icat()_..-_s
.
1
                    Implementation                                                                  I
                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                       d' t
                                                                                                                     1n 1ca ors
                                                                                                                                                          !
                                                                                                                                                          '
                                                                                                                                                            QAG Assessments
                                                                                                                                                                .                             Rating
.                    Performance                                                                                                                          .    (1f any)
 Potential Problem Project                                                                                                                                Quality at Entry
                                                                                                                                                                                       None
at any time (Yes/No):      No                                                                                                                             !(QEA):
 Problem Project at any                                                                                                                                    Quality of
                                                                                                    No                                                                                 None
time (Yes/No):                                                                                                                                             Supervision (QSA):
I

: DO rating before                                                                                  1
                                                                                                        Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:
1




·iii~~~i~i6r'knii!li~;ue:tE~d~-
.,..   ;,::.:,.,,,_,,~,,_,),_,_,., .'e~•   :.•. •·- -'...,''' :, -----·-"- ;, "   "'""""   "" . .   "   • •   " •   "" "'•• •


                                                                                                                                                                                                 Actual
    Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
, Celltralgovemment administration                                                                                                                                           15                       15
       Flood protection                                                                                                                                                      60                       60
· Other social services                                                                                                                                                                               15
       Sub-natio_llt\1 government admi!list~ation _                                                                                                                                                   10


'Theme Code _(its % of total Bank financing).
; Natural disaster management                                                                                                                                                 50                      50
       Rural services and infrastructure                                                                                                                                      25                      25
       Water resource management                                                                                                                                              25                      25

·E. Bank Staff
                                   Positions                                                                                             At ICR                                         At Approval
                                                                                                                                                                         !
       Vice President:                                                                                  Hasan A. Tuluy                                                   David de Ferranti
       Country Director:                                                                            1
                                                                                                        Francoise Clottes                                                Caroline D. Anstey
                                                                                                                                                                         f
' Sector Mana~er:                                                                                   'Anna W ellenstein                                                   ;John Henry Stein
lProj~ct Team Leader:
                                                                                                    I



                                                                                                    Tigl!ist Fisseha                                                     !Francis
                                                                                                                                                                         !
                                                                                                                                                                                  Ghesquiere
                                                                                                                                                                                      ...

       ICR Team Leader:                                                                                 Tiguist Fisseha
. ICR Primary Author:                                                                               Rossella Della Monica



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project aims at further reducing the country's vulnerability to adverse natural events
(hurricane, floods, etc.) through investment in risk management activities. As such, the
objectives of the project are to further strengthen (a) infrastructure against the impact of
adverse natural events (hurricanes, flooding, etc.) through the implementation of physical
mitigation measures; (b) the response capacity in case of adverse natural event


                                                                                                                                                          11
(hurricane, flooding, etc) through capacity building, equipment purchase and investment
in emergency infrastructure; and (c) the institutional capacity of the various ministries
and agencies dealing with disaster management through the provision of adequate
facilities, critical equipment, technical assistance and training.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
Not Applicable

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target . Formally           Actual Value
                                              Values (from        Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                 approval .        Target        Completion or
                                               documents)        . Values         Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Percentage of population with access to improved infrastructure
Value
quantitative or   30%                       65%                 70%             80
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2004                 12/31/2008         12/31/2009      12/3112010
Comments
                  It was estimated that by the project closing, 80% of the population had access to
(incl.%
                  improved infrastructure
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Dennery Village protected from storm surge of a 10 year return period
Value
quantitative or                                                                 Yes
Qualitative)
Date achieved                                                                   12/31/2011
Comments          The coastal defense, the Berm and the recreational parks area are completed. No
(incl.%           major storm surge was experienced to date, and works proved to be effective
achievement)      after two hurricane events (2007 & 201 0).
                  National Emergency Management Office (NEMO) operational in new
Indicator 3 :     Emergency Operations Center (EOC) and with updated Emergency Response
                  Plan
Value
quantitative or                                                                 Yes
Qualitative)
Date achieved                                                                   12/31/2009
                  Works were completed on 12/1/2009. The EOC was actively used as a command
Comments
                  center for relief efforts during and after Hurricane Tomas. A non technical
(incl.%
                  version of the emergency response plan was printed. The technical version was
achievement)
                  finalized on 7/2/201 0.
                  Populations with access to shelters with acceptable water systems and with
Indicator 4 :
                  access to emergency equipment throughout the territory.
Value
quantitative or                                                60%             60%
Qualitative)
Date achieved                                                  06117/2008      12/3112011
Comments        Water tanks were installed in all the foreseen schools serving as emergency



                                                  111
(incl. %          shelters.
achievement)
Indicator 5 :     At least 5 contractors using improved building standards
Value
quantitative or                                                5              5
Qualitative)
Date achieved                                                 06/17/2008      12/3I/20II
Comments          Contractors have been trained and are implementing improved building
(incl.%           standards. The Building Codes have not been enacted yet, but approval by the
achievement)      MPDE&H are based on this new code.

(b) Intermediate Outcome lndicator(s)

                                            Original Target                     Actual Value,
                                                                 Fm·mally
                                              Values (from        Revised       Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                approval                       Completion or
                                                              Target Values
                                               documents)                       Target Yeat·s
                  Protection works at Dennery (a) Beach reclamation; and b) Dennery River
Indicator 1 :
                  Ravine works.
Value
(quantitative                              IOO%                               IOO%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                              10/27/2004                         I2/31/20 II
Comments
(incl.%
achievement)
Indicator 2 : Reconstruction of 2 bridges
Value
(quantitative                              2                                 2
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                              10/27/2004                         12/31/201I
Comments
(incl.%         The 2 bridges have been completed
achievement)
                Slope stabilization [small mitigation works- integration of hazard mapping
Indicator 3 :
                objective with small mitigation wall and technical audit]
Value
(quantitative                              5                                 7
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                              I2/3I/2009                         I2/31/20II
Comments
(incl.%
achievement)
Indicator 4 : Retrofitting of schools: 4 schools hurricane resistant
Value
(quantitative   55%                        80%                4              5
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 10/27/2004                   I0/27/2004         06/17/2008      12/31/20Il



                                                 IV
Comments
{incl.%         Retrofitting works were completed in 5 schools
achievement)
                 Retrofitting of health centers: 3 health centers retrofitted for hurricane
Indicator 5 :
                 resistance/flooding
Value
(quantitative                              8                     3               3
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                               10/27/2004           06117/2008       12/31/2009
Comments
(incl.%         3 health centers were fully retrofitted.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                      Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                               DO                           IP                 Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                   (USD millions)
   1    11/30/2004             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      0.02
   2    12/22/2004             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      0.72
   3    04/29/2005             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      0.72
   4    10/15/2005             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      0.72
   5    01/03/2006             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      1.16
   6    04/26/2006             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      1.86
   7    12/18/2006             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      4.02
   8    05/24/2007             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      4.59
   9    08/31/2007             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      5.34
  10    01/29/2008             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      5.71
  11    09110/2008             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      5.83
  12    03/09/2009             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      5.94
  13    09/24/2009             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      7.22
  14    12/30/2009             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      7.51
  15    05/27/2010             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      7.96
  16    02/12/2011             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      9.13
  17    07/31/2011             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      9.60



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                                  v
I. Disbursement Profile
                                                 Original ---- Formally Revised - - Actual
        12

        10

         8
  "'
  c
  0      6
 =
 :i
 _...
        4
 =
 loll



         2

         0
                                                                                                                                      ,....
             "1'
             r::l
             "1'
             0
             0
             .....
                     .....
                     r::l
                     IJI
                     0
                     0
                     .....
                             g
                             IJI
                             0
                             0
                             .....
                                     .....
                                     ...
                                     r::l
                                     0
                                     0
                                     .....
                                             "1'
                                             ...
                                             r::l
                                             0
                                             0
                                             .....
                                                     .....
                                                     r::l
                                                     ,...
                                                     0
                                                     0
                                                             g
                                                             ,...
                                                             0
                                                             0
                                                                      .. ..
                                                                      .....
                                                                      r::l
                                                                      0
                                                                      0
                                                                              "1'
                                                                              r::l
                                                                              0
                                                                              0
                                                                              .....
                                                                                      .....
                                                                                      r::l
                                                                                      ~
                                                                                      0
                                                                                      0
                                                                                      .....
                                                                                              .....
                                                                                              r::l
                                                                                              ....
                                                                                              0
                                                                                              0
                                                                                                      g
                                                                                                      ....
                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                              ....
                                                                                                              ....
                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                      ....
                                                                                                                      ....
                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                              .....
                                                                                                                              r::l
                                                                                                                              .....
                                                                                                                              ....
                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                      r::l
                                                                                                                                      .....
                                                                                                                                      ....
                                                                                                                                      0
                                                     .....   .....    .....                   .....   .....   .....   .....   .....   .....




                                                                     vi
1     Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1    Context at Appraisal


1.     At the time of project appraisal in 2003, Saint Lucia had just initiated the
preparation of its National Hazard Mitigation Policy to establish an enabling legal
framework for the integration of disaster risk management (DRM) and prevention
planning into all aspects of public and private sector activities. The Policy also
formalized Saint Lucia’s political will to considerably shift its approach to adverse
natural events, from response and recovery towards disaster risk mitigation and
prevention.

2.      This shift stemmed from the realization of the high financial and human costs
caused by adverse natural events which threatened the sustainability of the country’s
development processes. A series of adverse natural events marked the decade preceding
project appraisal and severely impacted Saint Lucia’s development. Such events include
Tropical Storm Debbie in 1994 which resulted in losses over US$88.5 million, the
Tropical Wave of October 1996 which incurred an estimated US$4.6 million in damages
to property and infrastructure across the island and Tropical Storm Lili in 2002 which
cost Saint Lucia an estimated US$20 million in damages. Furthermore, flooding which
recurred frequently, particularly in low-lying areas as well as coastal villages, resulted in
population displacement and property destruction.

3.     In 1997, Saint Lucia requested support from the World Bank to improve disaster
response capacity and reduce vulnerability following the extensive damages caused by
Tropical Storm Debbie. The Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management Program
(ERDMP) (PAD Report No. 18655), an IBRD/IDA blend project totaling US$ 6.27
million (Loan 44190 SLU/Credit 31510 SLU) was implemented as part of an Adaptable
Program Loan (APL) prepared for the Eastern Caribbean sub-region. The project was
developed under the Bank’s Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies (OP/BP 8.0), to
support physical and institutional efforts for disaster recovery and emergency
preparedness and management in five OECS members States, namely, Saint Lucia,
Dominica, St. Kitts & Nevis, Grenada and St. Vincent and the Grenadines. The program
financed physical prevention and mitigation investments, development of a building code,
early warning systems, and capacity building initiatives to strengthen disaster
management, and community preparedness activities.

4.      Following the successful implementation of the ERDMP, which closed having
realized all the project development objectives, Saint Lucia was keen to build on the
project’s success to further reduce the island’s vulnerability to disasters. Saint Lucia
also carried out studies with the intention of implementing works for areas that had been
severely impacted by Tropical Storm Debbie (i.e. Dennery village). The Bank and the
Government agreed that clear benefits would be derived from further investments in
disaster vulnerability reduction and management capacity following the multi-sectoral

                                             1
approach initiated under the ERDMP, which would include coastal protection investment,
retrofitting of health facilities and schools that double as emergency shelters, and health
facilities, construction of satellite warehouses, community-based small mitigation
programs, as well as institutional strengthening activities which aimed to improve the
country’s disaster preparedness and response capacities. The resulting project (DMP II),
was aligned with the National Hazard Mitigation Policy which: (i) highlighted the need to
place emphasis on long-term disaster prevention measures that would embrace all
relevant economic and social sectors inclusive of the public and private sectors; and (ii)
intended to facilitate the more effective use of scarce financial resources in a
comprehensive approach to disaster management in Saint Lucia.

5.      A combination of reasons has contributed to why project financing was
appropriate at the time of appraisal. The dual challenge of needing to implement
measures mandated under the National Hazard Mitigation Policy, coupled with the
country’s fiscal constraints1 provided a key entry point for Bank assistance. Furthermore,
the country’s successful experience with ERDMP well-positioned the Bank to assist the
Government both in (a) providing the needed financial resources to support priority
disaster risk mitigation programs and (b) designing a comprehensive hazard mitigation
project that would strengthen Saint Lucia’s infrastructure and institutional capacity to
withstand disaster events.

6.       The 2002-2006 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS - Board date: June 28, 2001:
Report 331 18-LAC) for the Eastern Caribbean States also provided the framework for
the Bank’s disaster risk management engagement in Saint Lucia. In line with the CAS
objectives, the project was expected to contribute to reducing the country’s income
volatility by reducing its vulnerability to natural disasters. The project was also expected
to contribute to poverty alleviation, through community participation, taking into account
that the poor are generally the most vulnerable to natural disasters and would be direct
beneficiaries from the project’s mitigation investments.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

7.       The project sought to reduce the country's vulnerability to adverse natural events
through investments in DRM activities. As such, the objectives of the project were to
further strengthen (a) infrastructure against the impact of adverse natural events through
the implementation of physical mitigation measures; (b) the response capacity in case of
adverse natural events through capacity building, equipment purchases and investments
in emergency infrastructure; and (c) the institutional capacity of the various ministries
and agencies dealing with disaster management through the provision of adequate
facilities, critical equipment, technical assistance and training.

8.        The key indicators of the project were defined as follows:


1
  At the time of appraisal, Saint Lucia had already spent significant amounts of its limited resources on recovery efforts
from past disasters.


                                                            2
        (a) the increase in the percentage of the population protected by key investments
            in infrastructure and emergency facilities; and

        (b) the strengthening of the country’s institutional capacities to prepare for, and
            respond to, disaster emergencies.

9.     In addition to the 2 key indicators listed in the main text of the PAD, stated above,
a third outcome indicator, ‘Readiness and capacity of the country’s institutions to
prepare for and respond to disaster emergencies by planning district’, was included in
the Results Framework and Monitoring under Annex 3 of the original PAD.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

10.      The PDO were not revised. However, the key outcome indicators for Component
1 were revised when Additional Financing (AF) for the project was approved in 2009, to
reflect the added activities. See Table 1 below.

                              Table 1: PDO Level Outcome Indicators
                Original Indicators                                Revised Indicators
(a)       The percentage of population protected (a)        The percentage of population with
by key mitigation works on infrastructure,          access to improved infrastructure
flood control and hardening of emergency
facilities by planning district                     (b)     Dennery village protected from storm
                                                    surge of a 10 year return period
(b)       Readiness and capacity of the
country’s institutions to prepare for and           (c)     National Emergency Management
respond to disaster emergencies by planning         Office (NEMO) operational in new
district                                            Emergency Operations Center (EOC) and with
                                                    updated Emergency Response Plan
(c)       The country’s institutional capacities to
prepare for and respond to disaster emergencies (d)         Population with access to shelters with
are strengthened and improvements are seen in acceptable water systems and with access to
the individual planning districts                   emergency equipment throughout the territory

                                                     (e)     At least 5 contractors using improved
                                                     building standards


1.4 Main Beneficiaries

11.    Broadly, the project beneficiaries included the entire population of Saint Lucia
who has benefited from: (i) improvements to local and national infrastructure; (ii) an
improved civil protection system that warns of imminent events and facilitates timely
evacuation and secure protective sheltering. The primary beneficiaries of the project were
the specific communities where investments were executed, including, inter alia, the
5,000 inhabitants of Dennery village, the 7 communities (216 households in total) that

                                                 3
benefitted from slope stabilization interventions, 150 school children that attend the
retrofitted school facilities (which also serve as emergency shelters to nearly 210 local
inhabitants), and the 14 communities that benefit from the improved health facilities. In
addition, more than 150 small local contractors were employed to carry out the small
mitigation works, and hence directly benefitted from the project.

12.    The social benefit of the project, however, was slightly skewed toward specific
income strata. As the Project specifically targeted the most disaster-prone and financially
vulnerable communities, areas with moderate and lower income groups benefited more
from landslide mitigation works and sheltering facilities.

13.     While not explicitly specified in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), national
emergency management authorities and decision-makers also benefited from the
Project’s training and institutional strengthening activities, as an improved understanding
of risk and the measures necessary to reduce the vulnerability of their communities led to
better-informed planning policies. .

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

14.    Component 1. Physical Prevention and Mitigation Works (US$5.96 million)
aimed at strengthening key public infrastructure to reduce their vulnerability to landslides,
sea swells, storm surges, floods and hurricanes. The component included the retrofitting
of schools also used as shelters as well as other critical infrastructure such as health
centers and bridges, coastal protection works in Dennery and training and capacity
building for the Technical Service Division of the Ministry of Communications, Works,
Transport and Public Utilities (MCWT&PU) and the Architectural Section of the
Ministry of Physical Development, Environment and Housing (MPDE&H).

15.     Component 2. Strengthening Emergency Preparedness and Response
(US$1.38 million) to support the National Emergency Management Organization
(NEMO) in responding to emergencies. The component included the construction of a
Central Warehouse and the Emergency Operation Center (EOC), the construction of
additional satellite warehouses as well as the purchase of specialized disaster equipment.
Technical assistance as well as training was also provided for NEMO and other
stakeholders (training of school principals to serve as shelter managers and training of
local disaster committees and core stakeholders involved with disaster response).

16.      Component 3. Institutional Strengthening (US$0.41 million) to improve the
capacity of the MCWT&PU to address disaster risk in its infrastructure program. The
component included technical assistance to the MPDE&H to improve enforcement of
territorial planning and building code regulations, and to the Ministry of Finance to
undertake a study on vulnerability and risk transfer of government assets.

17.     Component 4. Project Management (US$0.30 million) for costs associated with
project administration, coordination, supervision, monitoring and evaluation, as well as
training for the PCU staff.


                                             4
1.6 Revised Components

18.    The four components were not revised. However, additional activities were
included under the original Components 1 (US$2.71 million) and 4 (US$0.29 million)
with the approval of total additional financing of US$3 million (see Section 1.7 for detail)
and the activity related to the study on vulnerability of government assets for risk transfer
was dropped from Component 1.

1.7 Other significant changes

19.    Additional Financing. In 2007, Saint Lucia requested additional financing to scale
up investments under Component 1 (Physical Prevention and Mitigation Works). The
request was based on the need for: (i) additional coastal protection works to solidify the
gains made under the original project in Dennery Village; and (ii) extension of the
successful small mitigation works. More specifically:

   i) The success of the sea defense construction in Dennery, which was designed both
      to protect the town’s coast from storm surge and extreme wave activity as well as
      to reclaim eroded beach front resulting from previous changes to bay hydraulics,
      led to 15,000 square feet of reclaimed beach, more than originally envisaged. So,
      part of the additional funds financed the creation of a communal recreational park
      on the newly reclaimed land, to prevent encroachment by unauthorized persons,
      as recommended by technical audits of the sea defense works. Funds from the AF
      were also allocated to support a river berm extension and to raise the elevation of
      an embankment to effectively protect an additional 50 Dennery households
      against flooding. This intervention required private land acquisitions, hence
      triggering the Bank Safeguards policy on Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12).

   ii) Recognizing the additional need for small mitigation works, the government
       requested additional funds to finance the continuation of investment in drainage
       systems and river walls. In addition, community-based slope stabilization
       interventions were included.

20.     Additional resources were also allocated for Component 4 (Project Management)
for project management costs associated with the execution of the above-mentioned
activities during the two year implementation extension period as well as for conducting
technical audits of the mitigation works executed under the original Project. The portion
of the additional resources allocated for Project management under the AF is greater than
that of the original Project (10% vs. 3.3%) in part due to underestimation of the Project
management costs in the initial project design. However, the increase was primarily
considered essential in providing adequate supervision of civil works (through
supervision consultancies), undertaking technical audits of investments already
completed under the earlier phase of the original project, and for close monitoring of
implementation of the Land Acquisition Plan that was developed under the AF. The
World Bank policy on Involuntary Resettlement was not triggered under the original
project, hence not included under the initial project management budget.

                                             5
21.    Closing Date Extension. Along with the approval of the AF, the project’s original
closing date was extended by two years, from December 31, 2009 to December 31, 2011.

22.     Project Outcome Indicators. With the additional resources, the Results
Framework was revised to include results indicators to measure the additional activities
financed with the AF. The AF contributed to the incremental achievement of the first two
expected outcomes of the project. The revision of the PDO level outcome indicators is
discussed in detail in Section 1.3. Table 2 below provides an overview of changes in the
results indicators per component.

23.    Study on Vulnerability and Risk Transfer of Government Assets. This activity
under Component 3 was dropped from the Project, but was completed under the Bank-
financed OECS Caribbean Catastrophe Risk Insurance Facility (CCRIF) program.

       Table 2: Overview of Revisions to Project Results Indicators per Component
                              Intermediate Results Indicators
             Original Indicator                              Revised Indicator
                                        Component 1
                                                   Contract milestones achieved for
                                                      works completed at Dennery village
                                                     15,000 sq feet of community area
      Contract milestones achieved for
                                                      organized in the reclaimed land
       works completed at Dennery village
                                                   Mobilization of a community area
                                                      including preventing illegal settlements
                                                   100 meters of river bank protected
      # of bridges completed and contract               2 bridges completed and contract
       milestones achieved.                               milestones achieved

                                                      -   75 minor works completed by class
                                                      -   Good practice guidelines on
   -   # of minor works completed by class                community low-cost landslide and
                                                          hurricane risk mitigation measures
                                                          submitted to at least 5 communities

   -   % of schools hurricane resistant               -   4 schools hurricane resistant

                                                      -   3 health centers retrofitted for
   -   # of health centers retrofitted
                                                          hurricane resistance/flooding.
                                          Component 2
      EOC and Central Warehouse                         EOC and Central Warehouse
       completed                                          completed
      Warehouses completed                              11 Warehouses completed
      Water tanks installed                             5 Water tanks installed
      Emergency plan completed; shelter                 Emergency plan completed; shelter
       manuals completed; shelter regulations             manuals completed; shelter regulations
       completed; # of persons trained (shelter           completed; # of persons trained (shelter
       management, telecommunications and                 management, telecommunications and

                                                  6
       supply management completed);                     supply management completed);
       national Emergency Response Plan                  national Emergency Response Plan
       completed                                         completed
      Strong boxes and additional                      Strong boxes and additional
       communication equipment pre-                      communication equipment pre-
       positioned                                        positioned
                                           Component 3
      # of inspectors and staff trained on             100 inspectors and staff trained on
       building codes and territorial planning           building codes and territorial planning
      Assessments and hazard mapping                   4 Assessments and hazard mapping
       completed                                         completed
      Study on risk transfer completed and             Study on risk transfer completed
       reviewed


2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

24.    Project Preparation. Following the completion of ERDMP in 2003, DMP II was
prepared as a follow-on operation to scale up disaster risk reduction investments in Saint
Lucia, building on the successful achievements established by ERDMP. The Project was
appraised in May 2004, approved by the Board in June 2004 and declared effective in
October 2004. The Additional Financing for US$3 million was approved by the Board in
July 2008, and declared effective in January 2009. No Quality Assurance Group (QAG)
review was undertaken for the project.

25.     Project preparation was sound and relied on a comprehensive project
identification jointly conducted by the Government and the Bank. Furthermore, the
project intended to implement works for which studies were developed under ERDMP
for areas that had been severely impacted by Tropical Storm Debbie, such as Dennery
village. Consultations were held with the Budget Office of the Ministry of Finance to
ensure that project activities were complementing the national investment plan. This
preparatory work established the framework for determining the project’s components
and activities.

26.     Most project preparation activities that could be undertaken before project
effectiveness, (i.e. feasibility studies, TORs, designs, tender documents) were completed
in advance of project effectiveness. More specifically, the complete bidding document,
including drawings; engineering design, bills of quantities for the largest works (i.e. the
first phase of the flood protection works in Dennery); and technical designs for the
extension of the berm at the Dennery bridge, were financed under ERDMP. The TOR for
communal park’s technical design for the communal area was in an advance stage by the
time of AF approval.




                                              7
27.     A shortcoming during project preparation involves the amount of attention paid to
the collection of baseline information. An inadequate amount of baseline data exists for
most of the project activities. Another weakness involves the underestimation of the
project management budget, as explained above.

28.     Project Design. Project design adequately proposed a well-balanced longer-term
approach to disaster management that included structural and non-structural (early
warning systems, emergency communication equipment, etc) disaster mitigation
interventions as well as institutional capacity building activities (training and technical
assistance with spatial planning and review of the building codes, etc.) for disaster
preparedness.

29.     Due consideration was given to issues of sustainability during project design. To
ensure the sustainability of project-related facilities and infrastructure, the Bank
requested advanced preparation of maintenance Plans for all structures to be retrofitted or
built under the Project, with responsible public entities identified and a budget dedicated
for implementation of the Plans. During Project preparation, the Government committed
to provide the necessary resources to carry out the maintenance stipulated in the Plans.
Furthermore, as part of Component 1, it was agreed that after Project completion, local
residents would manage Dennery recreational park and establish a community-based
organization to manage and maintain the facility.

30.    Critical risks to Project implementation were also clearly identified and
appropriate mitigation measures put in place.

31.     Under the design of the Additional Financing, the Government incorporated a
new component on community-based slope stabilization intervention which applied the
MoSSaiC methodology (see box below) that had been successfully piloted in Saint Lucia
under a USAID-funded project. The component was well-designed to facilitate
collaboration between the MoSSaiC team of technical consultants, the targeted
communities and the technical government agencies to deliver low-cost landslide risk
reduction measures and to develop sustainable strategies of slope stabilization. In
addition to the risk reduction benefits of the approach, the MoSSaiC design had the added
benefit of employment generation for local contractors within the communities.




                                            8
                    Box 1: Management of Slope Stability in Communities

The MoSSaiC (Management of Slope Stability in Communities) methodology, lead by a team of
academics from the University of Bristol, was initiated in Saint Lucia in 2003 with the aim of
reducing landslide risk affecting the most vulnerable communities and vital infrastructure. The
work started in a number of communities with the support of the Government of Saint Lucia, and
later continued in partnership with several international organizations (particularly the World
Bank), through the Saint Lucia Second Disaster Management Project.

The methodology of MoSSaiC are based on: (a) the identification of localized physical causes of
landslide risk (i.e. poor drainage); (b) the identification of appropriate mitigation measures to
address these causes (i.e. constructing drains); (c) the justification of these solutions to both the
community and the government; and (d) an explanation of the need for a certain standard and
quality of design and construction to effectively address the hazard’s root cause.

MoSSaiC stands apart from many other interventions as it is deeply rooted in community
engagement - from start to finish. Community residents participate in identifying landslide risk
causes and solutions, are employed in vulnerability mapping and constructing drainage
infrastructure, as well as work in collaboration with civil servants and practitioners to deliver
mitigation measures. As a result, the vision for this proactive, sustainable approach to slope
management is shared, championed, and owned by the communities themselves, not only by the
government or an implementing agency. Such low-cost landslide risk reduction methodologies
and interventions also establish a feedback loop between project inputs and outputs, with more
than 80 percent of funds spent in the communities, thereby allowing communities and
governments to establish a clear link between risk perceptions, inputs, and tangible outputs.


32.     Both project preparation and design were appropriately responsive to the
established legal framework as outlined in the Disaster Preparedness and Response Act #
13 of 2000 which relates to the legal, regulatory and administrative framework for the
role of the National Emergency Management Organization (NEMO) and to the directions
of the draft National Hazard Mitigation Policy. Project preparation and design and were
also consistent with the Government’s Medium-Term Economic Strategy Paper (2003).

33.     At the time of project design, the PDO was fully aligned with the World Bank
Group’s Country Assistance Strategy for the Eastern Caribbean sub-region for the period
2002-06, which placed high importance on reducing vulnerability to disasters and
increasing its resilience to shocks.

34.    Implementation Arrangements. The Project implementation arrangements
followed the same model as the ERDMP. The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) housed
within the Ministry of Finance was responsible for overall project oversight, including
the day-to-day coordination amongst implementing agencies, as well as fiduciary
management. The PCU was also responsible for reporting to the World Bank, as outlined
under Component 4 (Project Management). The MCWT&PU was tasked with the
responsibility of contracting and supervising coastal protection works at Dennery Village
and the majority of the small mitigation works under Component 1 (Physical Prevention
and Mitigation Works). The Ministry of Education and Culture (MOE) and the Ministry

                                                 9
of Health, Wellness, Human Services, Family Affairs, Gender Relations, and National
Mobilization (MOH) were responsible for contracting and supervising retrofitting works
for schools and health facilities, respectively. NEMO was responsible for implementing
the technical assistance activities under Component 2 (Strengthening Emergency
Preparedness and Response). The (MPDE&H) and the Ministry of Finance (MOF) were
responsible for implementing Component 3 (Institutional Strengthening).

35.     Lessons learnt from ERDMP were adequately reflected and taken into account in
the implementation setup for this operation. Specifically, past experience revealed that
poor communication between the PCU and the implementing agencies caused some
delays during implementation, especially at the Project’s beginning. In view of such,
respective line agencies were requested to designate a contact person to work closely
with the PCU and provide progress reports to the PCU on a quarterly basis.

36.     Shortly after the project became effective, a project launch workshop was held to
sensitize relevant agencies (including the Central Tenders Board, Budget Department
within Ministry of Finance, and accountants of the Implementing Agencies) to the
process, roles and responsibilities for the Project, as well as procurement and financial
management procedures for the Project.

2.2 Implementation

37.     Overall, project implementation was always on track and progressed well
according to the project execution schedule. The one exception was the construction of
the communal recreational park in Dennery village, which experienced delays due to land
acquisition issues (see section 2.4). Despite the tardy launch of this sub-component, all
project activities were successfully completed before the closing of the project.

38.    Two of the key factors that contributed to the successful implementation of all
project activities in a timely manner include: i) implementation readiness; and ii)
adequate project management capacity. Detailed preparatory activities, including bidding
documents and TORs for specific works were financed under the ERDMP and completed
ahead of Appraisal, which allowed swift implementation of works and activities soon
after Project effectiveness. Secondly, at the time of project appraisal, the PCU had
acquired solid experience and adequate capacity for project management having already
been involved in the implementation of the first ERDMP project. In addition, a training
program in Procurement and Financial Management was developed to further enhance
the PCU’s capacity as well as the capacity of the implementing agencies’ Technical
Officers to foster smooth project management.

39.      Weak safeguards capacity of the implementing agencies presented some
challenges, causing slight delays in the execution of the Dennery recreational park works.
The lack of capacity to produce a decent RAP, coupled with limited experience in
resettling squatters, including compensation calculation, led to the delays. However, with
close support from the Bank team, the project adhered to the Bank’s OP 4.12 guidelines.



                                           10
40.     During the life of the project, Saint Lucia was impacted by three adverse natural
events: Hurricanes Ivan (2004), Dean (2007) and Tomas (2010). The passage of
Hurricane Ivan caused an estimated US$2.6 million in damages, while Hurricane Dean
caused significant damage to Saint Lucia’ infrastructure and agricultural production.
Total losses resulting from Hurricane Dean amounted to 0.5% of the nation’s GDP.
Hurricane Tomas, a 1-in-500 year’s rainfall event, severely impacted Saint Lucia with
total estimated losses equal to 43% of its GDP. None of the Hurricanes hampered the
project implementation, causing only minor delays to a few mitigation works. These
events renewed the government’s already high level of commitment to disaster risk
management. In the aftermath of Hurricane Tomas, the World Bank conducted a damage
assessment, including an evaluation of past and current Bank-financed disaster risk
management investments (including those funded under DMP II). The review, further
detailed in section 3.2, mainly concluded that physical prevention and mitigation works
that had previously been financed by the Bank proved to perform effectively.

41.    During implementation, as agreed at the design stage, a Maintenance Manual was
prepared for the coastal protection structures at Dennery. In addition, as part of the
vulnerability assessment of the health centers, a checklist was developed for the Ministry
of Health to be used as a guide for routine maintenance, which the Ministry agreed to
adopt.

42.    Despite the concrete efforts, the Plans were not fully executed and maintenance of
the structures is carried out partially due to limited public resources, in view of
competing needs in other development areas.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

43.     At the time of project design, the Results Framework and Monitoring were
developed, with annual target values established to measure progress made towards
achieving the project outcomes and results. However, the design of the Results
Framework is deficient on many fronts, as compared to today’s Results Framework
design standards. Firstly, the Framework focused more on short-term project outputs than
on long-term outcomes. Secondly, baseline data were missing for many of the project
activities, thereby making it difficult to precisely assess the project’s achievement. With
the Additional Financing, the Results Framework and Monitoring was either revised or
further detailed. PDO indicators were strengthened and focused more on outcomes.
Furthermore, to improve the project’s monitoring and evaluation, a M&E training was
provided to the PCU by the Bank’s Independent Evaluation Group (IEG).

44.     Reporting, monitoring and evaluation were done through: (i) Bank supervision
missions that were conducted on average twice yearly; (ii) quarterly IUFRs (Interim
Unaudited Financial Reports) including reviews of financial reports and procurement
plans; (iii) annual audits; and (iv) a mid-term review (MTR) which was conducted in
May 2007. The values of the project’s indicators were recorded every six months in the
Implementation Status and Results (ISR) reports. These reports demonstrated that the
PDO indicators were monitored consistently during the project life.

                                            11
2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Environmental Safeguards

45.     The project was classified under Environmental Category ‘B’, as no adverse long-
term impacts on human populations or environmentally important areas were anticipated.
To comply with the policy, an Environment Management Framework was prepared prior
to Appraisal. With the Additional Financing, the Framework was subsequently updated
and incorporated into the revised Operational Manual. The Mid-term Review (MTR)
conducted by the Bank and the supervision reports (mission aide-memoires, ISR)
indicated that implementation adhered to the Bank’s environmental safeguards
policies:(i) identification of project sites for all civil works closely followed the required
environmental and social screening process for environmental impacts and cultural
property; (ii) all civil works were implemented with appropriate environmental measures
applied to the worksite, and (iii) once works were completed, worksites were fully
restored to pre-disturbance conditions.

Social Safeguards

46.    Under the original project, the Involuntary Resettlement Safeguards Policy
(OP/BP 4.12) was not triggered as acquisition of land was not envisaged. However, for
the AF coastal protection works in Dennery, and more specifically for the berm extension
works, the need to acquire privately owned land was identified. In response, the Policy
was triggered and an Abbreviated Land Acquisition Plan was prepared and successfully
implemented, in compliance with the Bank’s guidelines.

47.    During the implementation of the AF, the project had to address an encroachment
issue on the reclaimed area identified for the communal park. The government had
designated the reclaimed area as a 'Special Enforcement Area,' where no structures
should be built. Despite a visibly displayed on-site sign clearly forbidding settlement, and
routine monitoring of the area, two semi-permanent structure shops were illegally
constructed. After consultation with the Bank safeguards team, it was concluded that OP
4.12 would not apply. The squatters remained on the land while the government
determined an appropriate solution to address the issue. This process extended for over
one year.

48.    The Land and Survey’s Unit within the MPDE&H worked closely with the Bank
to prepare a RAP to address the relocation of the informal shops, although a Plan was not
required in this particular case. The government paid for the construction of new shops
located 500 meters away from the original location and the shop owners were
successfully relocated. This process delayed implementation of the subcomponent,
though it did not affect the timely completion of the project overall.




                                             12
Financial Management

49.      The Client was required to submit unaudited interim financial management
reports every six months and conduct a financial audit of the project accounts each fiscal
year. The project had capacity gaps in preparing acceptable Interim Financial Reports
(IFRs). IFRs were in some instances submitted late, and with inconsistencies and errors,
such as payment being incorrectly apportioned, which occurred throughout much of the
project life. Annual financial audits of the project were completed and submitted to the
Bank every year, as agreed in the Loan and Credit Agreements. Some of the Audits were
submitted late and the auditors mentioned a number of generic issues in the management
letters, requiring the attention of the Central Government, such as:
     The Project’s accounts were not reconciled monthly in the Government accounts;
     Capital revenue to cover expenditure was not recorded in the Accountant
         General’s Account;

50.    The PCU management acknowledged the shortcomings in its financial
management (FM) performance and the importance of developing sound FM systems.
To address such shortcomings, the PCU management addressed the problem by regularly
sending its staff to participate in fiduciary training sessions organized by the Bank. The
Bank also provided hands-on training to three PCU FM staff in the preparation of IFRs.
As a result, the PCU made some improvements in financial management over the last two
years of project implementation. While the quality of the FMRs had improved
substantially, submissions remained late, partly due to the large load of work the PCU
manages.

Procurement

51.     Procurement activities were carried out by the procurement officer within the
PCU. The Operational Manual was drafted on the basis of the ERDMP’s Manual prior to
project effectiveness and served as a guide for implementing agencies. The Manual
included an extended section on procurement guidelines and processes. During the
project launch, all stakeholders and participating agencies were provided with
information on procurement and financial management processes, and clarifications were
given on roles, responsibilities, and reporting requirements in an effort to ensure smooth
implementation of the project. In addition, the PCU staff was trained in both World Bank
and national procurement procedures. Overall, despite some delays, procurement was
managed adequately throughout the implementation of the project. Some minor capacity
issues that emerged were fixed through training.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

52.    In October 2010, nearly a year before the project closing date, Saint Lucia
suffered extensive damages from Hurricane Tomas, with economic losses of US$336
million (equivalent to 43.4% of Saint Lucia’s GDP). In response to the disaster, Saint
Lucia requested support from the World Bank for the reconstruction and rehabilitation of
damaged public buildings and infrastructure. The Saint Lucia Hurricane Tomas

                                           13
Emergency Recovery Project (P125205) was approved by the Board in March 2011, and
took into account the achievements and lessons learnt from the previous disaster
management projects. The project finances the rehabilitation of damaged critical
infrastructure to support Saint Lucia’s recovery from Tomas.

53.    Prior to Hurricane Tomas, Saint Lucia requested in September 2010 to be part of
the regional Disaster Vulnerability Reduction APL Program (DVRP) that would be
implemented in four Eastern Caribbean islands, namely: Grenada, Dominica, Saint Lucia
and Saint Vincent and the Grenadines. The DVRP APL for Saint Lucia is currently under
preparation and will be presented to the Board in December 2012. The project would
finance structural mitigation investments in selected critical public infrastructures and
technical assistance activities with the aim of measurably reducing Saint Lucia’s
vulnerability to natural hazards and climate change impacts. The proposed US$ 27
million project would have a similar implementation set-up as the previous two disaster
management projects, and lessons learned would be taken into consideration in
appraising the DVRP for Saint Lucia.

54.      While overall progress have been made in reducing the country’s vulnerability to
disasters, Saint Lucia still faces challenges in understanding and strategically and
comprehensively managing natural hazard risks it faces, particularly in the context of a
changing climate that threatens to increase the disaster risk, further aggravating the
hydro-meteorological hazards that impact the island. In spite of the intentions of the
National Hazard Mitigation Policy of 2006, most development decisions in Saint Lucia
still do not account for disaster risk management and expected climate change impacts, in
part due to lack of available information on hazards and climate change impacts at the
right scale. Secondly, data sharing and collaboration among agencies, both regionally and
nationally is weak, largely due to limited capacity and lack of an overall mechanism to
share information with low transaction costs. Additionally, DRM responsibilities are
dispersed among various Government agencies, and, lacking an overall structure for
analyzing and integrating risks in the development process, agencies operate in a relative
information vacuum with limited resources, particularly in their capacity to analyze and
integrate risk and climate change management in the development process. The DVRP
will contribute to overcome several of these challenges.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

55.     The project development objective (PDO) was and remains highly relevant to
Saint Lucia’s development agenda, in view of the fact that one of the most important
issues confronting Saint Lucia’s development is the vulnerability of its population and
economy to adverse natural events. The island is exposed to a range of natural hazards,
the most frequent of which stem from weather-related phenomena, such as heavy rainfall,
hurricane, winds and droughts. Disasters caused by these hazards have, and continue to
impose large costs on the country’s fragile economy and exacerbate poverty levels.



                                           14
56.     The PDO was aligned with the government’s hazard mitigation vision as
articulated in the National Hazard Mitigation Policy (2006) which provides the enabling
legal framework for a comprehensive and preventive approach to disaster management in
Saint Lucia.

57.     The PDO was also consistent with the Regional Partnership Strategy for the
Eastern Caribbean (Report 33118-LAC), approved in June 2001, which, aimed to reduce
the island’s overall vulnerability by promoting greater social inclusion and strengthening
disaster risk management.

58.     Finally, natural disaster events that occurred on the island during project
implementation ensured that disaster risk management remained a high priority, and the
government has remained committed to reducing the island’s vulnerability to disasters
and to building its climate resilience.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

59.    Most of the Project Development Objectives were achieved. The achievement of
the project development objectives compared against indicators defined at project
appraisal is illustrated below. (See Annex 2 for a complete listing of project results).

60.     The first objective of the project, to further strengthen infrastructure against the
impact of adverse natural events through the implementation of physical mitigation
measures, was satisfactorily met. All mitigation investments financed under the project
were completed. These include the coastal protection works in Dennery Village, the
reconstruction of two bridges, retrofitting of 4 schools and 3 health centers, and 79 small
mitigation works (4 more than the targeted output) were completed, of which
community-based landslide mitigation interventions were undertaken in seven
communities and benefitted 261 homes.

61.     A World Bank assessment of the structural investments was undertaken after the
passage of Hurricane Tomas in 2010. The retrofitted public buildings (schools and health
centers) withstood the hurricane and no damage to the facilities was reported. There were
no reports of landslides in project beneficiary communities after Hurricane Tomas, while
in past hurricanes, project areas suffered from regular landslides.

62.     While no major storm surge was experienced since the construction of the coastal
protection at Dennery, the mitigation structures proved to be effective during the two
hurricane events (in 2007 and 2010) that occurred after the works were completed.
Following Hurricane Dean, UN ECLAC carried out a damage and loss assessment. For
Dennery village, the assessment concluded that little damage was incurred largely owing
to the coastal protection structure financed under the Bank Project.

63.    Overall, through these interventions, the percentage of population with access to
improved infrastructure increased significantly, from 30% at pre-project phase to an
estimated 80% (the target was 70%) by project completion.

                                            15
64.     The second objective, to further strengthen the preparedness and response
capacity in case of adverse natural events through capacity building, equipment purchase
and investment in emergency infrastructure, was partially met. The component was
successful in the following areas: (i) completion of the emergency infrastructure works,
including the construction of the EOC, the establishment of 11 satellite warehouses
across the island, and the installation of water tanks in selected schools which also serve
as emergency shelters; and (ii) provision of adequate technical assistance and training to
NEMO.

65.     Hurricane Tomas tested the systems and investments implemented under this
component. The EOC was actively used as a command center for relief efforts during and
after Hurricane Tomas. Similarly, the satellite warehouses where emergency supply items
were stored were instrumental in the relief operations at the district and local levels.
Schools served as shelters to host displaced people. The shelter management and supply
management trainings demonstrated their value as NEMO staff and member volunteers
successfully fulfilled their responsibilities during the emergency – by managing
warehouses, emergency shelters occupied by disaster-affected people, and logistics
related to emergency supply and stock, both efficiently and effectively.

66.    However, the component fell short in the provision of adequate emergency
communication equipment and the training in the areas of effective coordination between
NEMO and the national emergency committees, following a disaster event.
Communication between the central EOC and district emergency committees was
compromised because of failure of emergency communication equipment. Some of the
emergency communication equipment (primarily procured under the ERDMP and
completed during DMP II) was not maintained and was outdated, hence was not
functioning during the emergency. Furthermore, when the communication equipment was
purchased and installed in each of the island’s 18 districts, no back-up power systems
were installed. Since the power network went down during the passage of Hurricane
Tomas, the communication system was not operational.

67.     At the institutional level, coordination between the ministries and NEMO was
also inefficient during the emergency operations. Coordination between the various
ministries and agencies dealing with disaster management, as stipulated under the
National Disaster Management Plan is still not as systematic as it could be. The National
Emergency Committee which consists of NEMO as its chair, and with representatives
from all the ministries and public agencies, are expected to meet daily at the EOC to
coordinate rehabilitation efforts during the emergency phase. During Tomas, however,
the Committee did not meet. The first meeting that brought the Committee together was
organized by the World Bank team who was on the ground in Saint Lucia five days
following Tomas. Recognizing the observed challenges during Tomas, the Government is
undertaking a comprehensive review of the National Disaster Management Plan that will
include an evaluation of the lessons learned from the response operation during Hurricane
Tomas and make recommendations for capacity building activities.




                                            16
68.     The third objective, to strengthen the various ministries and agencies dealing with
disaster management through technical assistance and training in territorial planning,
building codes, vulnerability assessment and hazard mapping was achieved. Technical
assistance in territorial planning was provided to public physical planners, while building
code training and sensitization activities were conducted for 100 inspectors and design
engineers. Flood risk assessments were carried out in Dennery and landslide risk
assessments and mapping were conducted in the 7 communities where MoSSaiC
interventions were financed. Drought hazard maps were also successfully developed to
provide improved understanding of the hazard risks for better planning. The assessment
on the Vulnerability and Risk Transfer of Government Assets has been fulfilled under the
Bank-financed OECS Caribbean Catastrophe Risk Insurance Facility (CCRIF) project.

3.3 Efficiency

69.    At Appraisal, detailed economic and financial analyses were prepared for the
coastal protection works in Dennery, to quantify the economic benefits of the
investments.

70.     Following project completion, an economic analysis for the project was
undertaken based on actual investment, operating costs, and benefits. All costs and
benefits were transformed to 2004 prices to make them comparable with results obtained
at Appraisal. The same discount rate of 12 percent was used for this evaluation. The ex-
post economic evaluation was conducted for the works implemented in Dennery village
as was done at Appraisal, including a percentage of the costs of Component 2
Strengthening Emergency Preparedness and Response, and Component 3 Institutional
Strengthening. Additionally, an ex-post economic analysis was carried out to evaluate the
impact of small mitigation works focused on community-based slope stabilization
investments, (MoSSaiC). Financial analysis was not carried out, as the project does not
generate any revenue.

71.      The economic analysis was carried out and the NPV and ERR were re-estimated,
including actual investment costs and an updated projection of benefits based on benefits
already seen in the Dennery area, and in other communities in Saint Lucia. Economic
returns for Dennery works show profits of XCD 8.6 million, which are twice as much as
the returns foreseen at appraisal of XCD 3.85 million. The Economic Rate of Return
obtained is 20 percent; while lower than the 23 percent projected at appraisal, the rate of
return is well above the discount rate of 12 percent. Evaluation of the small mitigation
intervention, which was not evaluated at appraisal, show actual benefits of XCD 257
thousand. These results were obtained from the evaluation of the interventions in a
typical community in Castries consisting of 20 houses, which closely represents all
mitigation works carried out in a dozen communities in St Lucia under the MoSSaiC
interventions.

72.    Based on economic evaluation results, the outcome for efficiency is considered
highly satisfactory based on the good economic returns. Details of this evaluation are
presented in Annex 3.

                                            17
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

73.     Overall, project outcome is rated as satisfactory based on the high relevance of
the Project objectives and the achievement of the Key Performance Indicators, with
minor shortcomings. The project has been successful in reducing the specific
vulnerability of the assets financed and in strengthening the capacity of ministries and
agencies dealing with disaster management planning, through improved understanding of
the country’s vulnerabilities and risks and provision of practical tools (territorial
planning, building codes) to reduce vulnerabilities. However, two shortcomings have
been highlighted above and can be summarized as follows: (i) the emergency
communication equipment purchased under ERDMP and partially under DMP II were
not functional, which hampered the communication between the national and the district-
level emergency centers during the emergency phase following passage of Hurricane
Tomas; and (ii) the coordination among NEMO and the emergency committee
representing the various ministries during the disaster was inefficient during the
emergency phase, which indicates the need for further capacity building, training and
sensitization for community emergency committee members, ministries and agencies.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

74.      While the project did not directly focus on aspects related to poverty, gender, and
social development issues, many of these issues are linked to disaster risk management,
as disasters have a disproportional impact on poorer segments of the population who
settle in the most vulnerable areas and live in poorly constructed housing. Therefore, the
social benefit of the project in terms of economic segment was slightly biased, providing
greater benefit to the moderate and lower economic income groups as many of the small
landslide mitigation works were planned and executed in the most disaster-prone and
financially vulnerable communities.

75.    Overall, the project had a direct and indirect influence on poverty reduction
through improved safety measures, vulnerability reduction, better dissemination of
knowledge about risks in communities, and employment generation for 55 small local
contractors during the construction of the MoSSaiC interventions.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

76.     The project contributed to an increased awareness in the public sector about the
importance of comprehensive disaster risk reduction and management. During the
project’s lifetime, the Disaster Management Act was enacted in 2006, providing NEMO
leadership in the disaster risk management initiative with the support and participation of
the relevant agencies. Subsequently, with the funding from the project, the National
Disaster Management Plan which was developed under ERDMP, was adopted and

                                            18
published in 2007 under DMP II to guide prevention, mitigation and response, post-
disaster. The Plan contributed to strengthening institutional capacity in the area of
disaster risk management.

77.     With the successful implementation of the slope stabilization interventions using
the MoSSaiC methodology, the project contributed to enhancing the in-country capacity
for managing and mitigation landslide risks, with more than 15 engineers within the
MCWT&PU fully trained in the MoSSaiC methodology. The Government has expressed
strong interest to establish a MoSSaiC Core Unit housed within the MCWT&PU to
continue implementing slope stabilization activities in the remaining communities across
the island.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

78.    While the objective of the investment in the Dennery Coastal Protection Works
was to protect the community from storm surge and the beach from erosion, an
unexpected 15,000 sq. meters of sandy beach was reclaimed as a result of the intervention,
which has enhanced economic activities in the community.

79.    The project allowed local communities participation, integration, and organization,
around the topic of disaster risk management. In the case of the MoSSaiC interventions,
more than 100 local contractors were trained in landslide mitigation and maintenance of
drainage, while the 7 targeted communities were trained on environmental health
management, including waste management and garbage disposal.

80.     In addition to the direct benefits associated with landslide risk reduction, the
MoSSaiC approach that fosters improved drainage and installation of roof guttering
brought about a number of additional benefits to the community’s residents, including:
(i) savings in water bills through the harvesting of intercepted rainwater from roofs; (ii)
improved access to and from the community due to reduced flooding and debris washed
onto footpaths, thereby making it easier to get to work and school; (iii) reduced erosion
and flood damage to property; and (iv) reduced mosquito population due to fewer
mosquito-breeding sites. The indirect benefits were listed in a 2010 survey that was
carried out for beneficiaries/households directly affected by the MoSSaiC intervention.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

81.    Not applicable

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

82.     The risk to development outcome is rated moderate. While the civil works
investments and most of the instruments that were procured under the operations showed
to perform well during Hurricane Tomas, the sustainability of the specific vulnerability

                                            19
reduction achievements and the disaster management achievements will depend on: (i)
how well the structural elements and the equipment procured are maintained; and (ii) the
replacement of outdated emergency communication equipment. While maintenance plans
have been developed for all the structures as part of the project, it is critical to ensure that
the Government is fully committed to allocating the necessary funding for periodic and
scheduled maintenance. The capacity building improvements for NEMO and private
contractors are susceptible to lack of staffing, change in staffing, and lack of incentives to
apply improved building standards. Continued training and capacity building and further
institutional improvements are likely needed to turn NEMO into a consistently better
performing agency, and to consolidate the capacity improvements among local
contractors.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

83.     The Bank adequately identified the country’s disaster management needs, and the
operation was highly relevant to the Government of Saint Lucia. The Bank’s preparation
adequately incorporated lessons learned from the implementation of ERDMP such as
early preparation of engineering designs and TORs for works and TA prior to
effectiveness to ensure implementation readiness and minimize delays.

84.      One area where quality at entry could have been improved would be the Results
Framework, which lacked specificity and baseline information for some of the activities.
Nonetheless, inclusion of baseline and specific targets in the results matrix as part of the
Additional Financing has enabled better tracking toward achievement of project
objectives. Overall, while the design of the project’s Results Framework was advanced
at the time the project was prepared, in comparison to today’s standards, the Framework
appears weak due to its focus on outputs than on outcomes, and due to lack of baseline
data for many of the project activities.

85.     Financial management was another aspect of the project that could be improved.
The fact that the project’s financial management remained a challenge throughout the
project life, as stated earlier, leads to the conclusion that insufficient attention was given
to strengthen the FM arrangement at the early stages of project preparation, although
some resources were allocated for training for the PCU FM staff. The Bank team could
have better evaluated the PCU’s FM capacity to identify the weak areas and tailor the FM
training to address those specific issues or recruit additional staff to support the project
and ensure timely delivery of FM reports. The training provided during implementation
was rather general and did not address the specific needs of the PCU, such as training on
preparation of adequate IFRs. While some of the FM issues were project-specific (such as
the poor quality of the IFRs and delayed submission of Audit reports, in some instances)
and could have been improved had they been addressed adequately at the beginning,
                                              20
there were many challenges that have to do with the overall country system, hence
requiring the attention of the Central Government, including the Project’s accounts not
being reconciled monthly in the Government accounts and the Capital revenue to cover
expenditure not being recorded in the Accountant General’s Account.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

86.     The quality of the supervision is rated satisfactory on the basis that the Bank
team conducted frequent and close supervision, provided strategic guidance to the
implementing agencies, mobilized additional training resources for the PCU and
implementing agencies, and remained flexible and responsive to emerging needs and
crisis. The Bank’s pro-activity and flexibility to quickly provide additional funding for
continuity of critical activities when requested should be highlighted. Within days
following the passage of Hurricane Tomas, a Bank team was deployed to Saint Lucia to
support the Government’s effort to undertake a damage assessment. In addition, using the
Bank’s convening power, the team organized a meeting in Saint Lucia during the
Emergency period after Tomas to facilitate a cross-sectoral dialogue among key
stakeholders on the ongoing damage assessment, when local authorities were not
coordinating amongst themselves.

87.     During project implementation, the Bank team undertook an average of two
supervision missions per year, adding to 19 supervision missions in total, and all of them
with a Disaster Risk Management Specialist. Disbursement, Finance, Procurement and
Safeguards specialists regularly joined missions and provided training in Bank
procedures to the PCU and other agencies staff, which proved instrumental for the project
implementation. Supervision missions identified and documented implementation issues,
and Aide-Memoires shared with Government were transparent and frank in highlighting
concerns. In addition to the routine supervision, a Mid-Term Review (MTR) was
conducted in 2007, and twice yearly ISRs were, in accordance with LCR regional
practice, produced, reviewed by management and filed in IRIS. The ISRs included
detailed updates on the project indicators on each component, which provided a good
basis to monitor progress and assess final results.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

88.    Based on the performance ratings at entry and during supervision, the overall
Bank performance is rated satisfactory. This rating reflects a well-designed and relevant
operation with respect to country development priorities, as well as a close and
professional implementation support provided to the Project.




                                           21
5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

89.     The Government of Saint Lucia was actively involved in the identification and
preparation of project activities. The PCU was already established and had been
implementing ERDMP. The Government worked diligently to declare the loan and credit
effective, and provided counterpart funding up front for the additional funding needed to
bridge the construction cost for the EOC (16% of total project amount) and remained
highly committed during the project’s lifetime.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

90.     Various implementing agencies were used to facilitate project implementation.
The PCU satisfactorily implemented the project, always in compliance with Bank
policies. During the project duration, the PCU has also been simultaneously managing
three other World Bank projects satisfactorily. The PCU was well managed and
performed efficiently in its coordination and procurement role throughout the project.
The PCU took a proactive role in timely implementing all the activities under the
different components, including reallocating funds saved under specific sub-component
to undertake additional works that included additional designs, surveys, and additional
remedial and ancillary works including drainage and fencing work at three health centers.
However, the PCU’s FM and Safeguards capacity were weak, as explained earlier. Under
Component 4, funds were made available both under DMPII and the Additional
Financing for the provision of technical assistance for project management which
included the recruitment of a technical engineer as set out in the project design. However,
no action was taken on the part of the PCU to hire the technical engineer. The project
engineer could have provided the needed supervision support for the civil works
component, rather than hiring new supervision engineers for each civil works, Instead,
the project utilized the services of the engineer of the Special Projects Unit of the
MCWT&PU to assist with review of designs and supervision support for the civil works
component and in most instances hired supervision engineers for civil works. The
Technical Staff of the concerned implementing agencies also assisted with monitoring
and supervision. The schools and the health centers were adequately designed, supervised
and monitored by the MOE and the MoH, respectively.

91.    The MPDE&H was the agency that had technical oversight for the construction of
the Emergency Operations Center. While the MPDE&H was staffed with highly qualified
personnel, the amount of work at the initial stages of construction overwhelmed the
MOPD staff who were unable to devote the needed attention to the activity. In order to
overcome this challenge, the PCU and MPDE&H mutually agreed that a project



                                            22
management engineer be hired to supervise the construction of the civil works and report
to Ministry.

92.     The MCWT&PU was responsible for the implementation of the communal
recreational park in Dennery, while the MOPD was responsible for the implementation of
the RAP. The MOPD’s performance in dealing with the relocation issue was not
satisfactory. After several follow-ups by the PCU and by the Bank’s team, MOPD
managed to identify a suitable relocation site for the two shops and arrived at an adequate
compensation for the affected persons that were operating from the reclaimed land. The
process took close to two years, which caused some delays in the works.

93.     As the implementing entity for all the works (the coastal protection works, berm
construction and open recreational facility in Dennery, Trou a Leau Drainage, the
rehabilitation of the 2 bridges, and the small mitigation works in communities, and
MoSSaiC intervention), the MCWT&PU performed satisfactorily. The team conducted
close technical supervision of the works activities and provided timely progress updates
to the PCU. The community-based landslide mitigation investments were particularly
well-managed, with smooth coordination of the various stakeholders, including the local
residents, the small contractors, the PCU, the community officers assigned for the
particular communities benefitting from the MoSSaiC intervention employed with the
Social Transformation Agency, and the MoSSaiC technical team.

94.    The ministries of Health and Education performed well in supporting contracting
and implementing the retrofitting activities for their respective facilities.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

95.     Despite the shortcomings mentioned above, overall, the borrower performed
satisfactorily. The human and technical capacity of the PCU and other implementing
agencies improved significantly over the life of the project.

6. Lessons Learned

96.     The passage of Hurricane Tomas demonstrated that the emergency
communication equipment was inadequate due to lack of maintenance. In future disaster
vulnerability reduction operations, there is a need to finance full system solutions capable
of transferring data and visuals in real time. Such solutions should include appropriate
training in use of equipment, planning for and training in equipment maintenance, and
ensuring that all needed elements for the equipment to perform under emergency
conditions are included. Additionally, in Saint Lucia, there is a need to establish a radio
protocol in the national emergency management plan.

97.    The engagement of communities in identifying and addressing landslide risk
reduction can bring good results. Hurricane Tomas tested the slope stabilization

                                            23
interventions in the seven communities that had benefitted from them, and they passed
the test. While in past hurricanes, project areas suffered from regular landslides,
following the project's slope stabilization interventions, no landslides were reported in
beneficiary communities. Given the additional social gains and employment generating
benefits of the approach, it is likely that other countries with similar landslide risk could
benefit from using this approach as well.

98.     Hazard maps produced under the project were not sufficiently put into use. For
example, in 2010 Saint Lucia experienced a severe drought. The drought maps, produced
by the Ministry of Physical Planning, were not sufficiently used as tool for organizing the
government response to this emergency. There is a need for significant capacity building
on the use and interpretation of hazard and risk information. It is likely that better results
would be achieved if production of risk information was derived from prior identification
of the decision processes the risk information should inform, and the involvement of the
decision maker in the process.

99.      Conducting comprehensive hurricane vulnerability assessments of the targeted
health centers and school buildings prior to the interventions has been critical in
informing and identifying the appropriate retrofitting interventions that will protect the
buildings against adverse hazards. This also ensures that the investments focused on
vulnerability reduction and not just maintenance of the facilities. At the same time, the
retrofitting program was so focused on vulnerability reduction of the buildings alone that
critical elements such as drainage, landscaping and fencing were not included in the
scope of work, and in most cases had to be postponed for completion in the future.
Therefore, it is critical to include all elements in the scope/design of retrofitting programs.

100. While maintenance plans have been developed for all the structures as part of the
project, it is critical to ensure that the Government remains fully committed to allocating
the necessary funding for periodic and scheduled maintenance. As an example, the
Emergency Operations Center was completed and has been in operation since 2009.
Peeling of exterior painting and leakages in some parts of the roof are already being
observed. Similar examples can be drawn from observations of some of the schools and
health centers completed under the project. There is a need for a dialogue and reaching an
agreement with government officials during project preparation on the issue of preventive
maintenance of buildings that have been built through government financing in order to
come up with administrative directives in the preservation of assets such as the EOC and
various other structures.

101. The Bank’s ability to stay engaged with Saint Lucia in this agenda over a period
of fifteen years (four projects that included emergency response and risk mitigation
investments) has enabled the Bank and Saint Lucia to learn together and to gradually
improve Saint Lucia’s approach and capacity to manage disaster risk. Disaster risk
reduction entails a change in behavior and change in development patterns. Establishing a
culture of prevention and reducing disaster risk of a country takes time, and requires
dedication and resources over multiple years and activities. The project shows that a
combination of capacity building initiatives and concrete investments such as mitigation

                                             24
works are key factors in keeping actors involved through a full project cycle. This leads
to tangible changes in perception, behavior and capacity to manage risks.

102. Specific vulnerability reduction interventions reduce localized risk, but do not
measurably reduce risk at a national level. While specific vulnerability reduction
investments continue to be important investments, a more systematic approach is needed
in order to reduce disaster risk measurably at a national level. Particularly for small island
states, it may be feasible to use probabilistic risk assessment methods for various sector
portfolios to generate baselines against which risk could be measurably reduced country-
wide.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

103. The Completion report prepared by the PCU on behalf of the Borrower and their
comments on this ICR are presented in annex 7.

(b) Co-financiers

104.   Not applicable

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

105.   Not applicable




                                             25
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                             Actual/Latest
                                   Appraisal Estimate                        Percentage of
          Components                                         Estimate (USD
                                    (USD millions)                            Appraisal
                                                                millions)
PHYSICAL PREVENTION AND
                                             9.31                   9.74        77.52
MITIGATION WORKS
STRENGTHENING
EMERGENCY
                                             1.38                   1.82        11.49
PREPAREDNESS AND
RESPONSE
INSTITUTIONAL
                                             0.41                   0.28         3.41
STRENGTHENING
PROJECT MANAGEMENT                           0.91                   1.23         7.58
         Total Baseline Cost                12.01                  13.07         100
Physical/Price Contingencies
                                             0.80                   0.00
             Total Project Costs            12.81                  13.70
Front-end fee                                0.08                   0.00
     Total Financing Required               12.89                  13.70




(b) Financing
                                                        Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                        Type of Co-      Estimate     Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                         financing         (USD         (USD      Appraisal
                                                         millions)    millions)
Borrower                                              2.39         2.76         18.54
International Bank for Reconstruction
                                                      3.70           3.70      28.70
and Development
International Development
                                                      6.80           6.80      52.75
Association (IDA)




                                              26
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Below are the achievements of outputs as indicated in the Project Appraisal Document
and the Project Paper for the Additional Financing. This information was collected from
interviews with the PCU and implementing agencies, and project monitoring documents
(ISR).

Project Development                 Project Outcome Indicators       Comments at ICR stage
Objectives

(a)     To further reduce the       (a)     Percentage of            Achieved. It was estimated
vulnerability of infrastructure     population with access to        that as of December 31, 2011,
to natural disasters                improved infrastructure          80% of the population has
(hurricanes, floods, etc.)                                           access to improved
through the implementation of                                        infrastructure (the target was
physical mitigation measures,                                        70%).
improvements and repairs; and       (b)     Dennery Village
                                    protected from storm surge of    Achieved. The coastal
(b)      To strengthen the          a 10 year return                 defense, the Berm and the
institutional management and                                         recreational park area are
response capacity of the                                             completed. No major storm
respective ministries and                                            surge was experienced to date
agencies for disaster                                                but works proved to be
management through the                                               effective after two hurricane
provision of facilities, critical                                    events (2007 & 2010)
equipment, technical
assistance and training.            (c)     National Emergency       Achieved. NEMO’s office
                                    Management Office (NEMO)         building, the EOC, was
                                    operational in new Emergency     completed on December 1,
                                    Operations Center (EOC) and      2009. The Center was actively
                                    with updated Emergency           used as a command center for
                                    Response Plan.                   relief efforts during and after
                                                                     Hurricane Tomas. A non
                                                                     technical version of the
                                                                     Emergency Response Plan has
                                                                     been printed and disseminated.
                                                                     The technical version was
                                                                     finalized on July 2, 2010.

                                    (d)      Population with         Achieved. Water tanks were
                                    access to shelters with          installed in all the foreseen
                                    acceptable water systems and     schools serving as emergency
                                    with access to emergency         shelters
                                    equipment throughout the
                                    territory

                                    (e)     At least 5 contractors   Achieved. 5 Contractors have
                                    using improved building          been trained and are
                                    standards                        implementing improved

                                                  27
                                                                 building standards. The
                                                                 Building Codes have not yet
                                                                 been enacted, but design
                                                                 approvals for new works by
                                                                 the MPD are based on this
                                                                 Code.
Intermediate Outcomes per       Results Indicators for Each      Comment and ICR rating
Component                       Component

Component 1: Physical Prevention and Mitigation Works

(i) Protection works at         Contract milestones achieved     Achieved. All protection
Dennery [(a) Beach              for works completed at           works at Dennery have been
reclamation effort –            Dennery Village                  completed.
construction of a public area
for community use, to prevent   15,000 Sq feet of community      Achieved. 15, 000 sq feet of
illegal settlement on newly     area organized in the            beach front area was
regained beach land; and (b)    reclaimed land                   reclaimed as a result of the
Dennery River Ravine Works                                       coastal protection works in
(river walls) – Further the                                      Dennery, and an open
protection of Dennery Village                                    communal recreational park
against flooding by extending                                    was build on the reclaimed
the reinforcement of the                                         land.
embankment upstream until
Dennery Bridge (100 meters)]
                                Mobilization of community-       Not Achieved. The
                                based committee to monitor,      management of the
                                maintain and manage the new      community park has not been
                                community park, including        transferred to the yet to be
                                preventing illegal settlements   established community-based
                                                                 committee. In the interim, the
                                                                 National Conservation
                                                                 Authority which is responsible
                                                                 for maintenance of all public
                                                                 beaches, is in charge of the
                                                                 management of the park.

                                100 meters of river banks        Achieved. The Berm
                                protected                        withstood Hurricane Tomas
                                                                 and protected households
                                                                 during adverse rains in
                                                                 October 2010.

(ii) Reconstruction of 2        2 bridges completed and          Achieved. The 2 bridges have
bridges                         contract milestones achieved     been completed


(iii) Drainage, river walls &   75 minor works completed by      Achieved. 79 minor
slope stabilization [Small      class                            mitigation works have been
Mitigation Works –                                               successfully completed.
Integration of Hazard

                                              28
Mapping Objective with Small        Good practice guidelines on        Achieved. Good practice
Mitigation Works and                community low-cost landslide       guidelines on community low-
technical Audit]                    and Hurricane risk mitigation      cost landslide and hurricane
                                    measures submitted to at least     risk mitigation measures were
                                    5 communities                      submitted to 7 communities

(iv) Retrofitting of schools        4 schools hurricane resistant      Achieved. Retrofitting works
                                                                       were completed in 5 schools.

(v) Retrofitting of health                                Achieved. 3 health centers
                                    3 health centers retrofitted for
centers                                                   were fully retrofitted in 2009.
                                    hurricane resistance/flooding
                                                          The PCU utilized the
                                                          remaining balance of funds
                                                          under IBRD Loan (from
                                                          savings) to carry out
                                                          additional works in these 3
                                                          centers (such as drainage,
                                                          fencing and landscaping) as
                                                          well as in the Vieux Fort
                                                          health center, which was
                                                          retrofitted under the
                                                          HIV/AIDS Prevention and
                                                          Control Project.
Component 2: Strengthening Emergency Preparedness & Response

(i) Construction of EOC and         EOC and Central Warehouse          Achieved. Construction was
Central Warehouse                   completed                          completed on December 1,
                                                                       2009.

(ii) Construction of additional     11 satellite warehouses            Achieved. 11 satellite
Satellite Warehouses                completed                          warehouses have been
                                                                       constructed across the island.

(iii) Installation of water tanks   5 water tanks installed            Achieved. 28 water tanks have
in shelters                                                            been installed

(iv) TA, Planning and training      Emergency Plan completed;          Achieved. All the TA and
for NEMO                            shelter manuals completed;         training activities were
                                    shelter regulations completed;     completed, and proved to be
                                    80 persons trained (shelter        effective during and after the
                                    management,                        passage of hurricane Tomas,
                                    telecommunications & and           since staff and volunteer of
                                    supply management); national       NEMO adequately handled
                                    emergency response plan            their responsibilities during
                                    completed.                         the emergency, such as
                                                                       coordination, warehouse
                                                                       management and logistics
                                                                       related to emergency supply
                                                                       and stock, as well as shelter
                                                                       management.


                                                   29
(v) Specialized disaster          Strong boxes and additional     Partially achieved. The
equipment                         communications equipment        construction of strong boxes
                                  prepositioned in satellite      was cancelled as it was
                                  warehouse and EOC.              discovered that some of the
                                                                  schools/emergency shelters
                                                                  already had strong boxes that
                                                                  could serve the same purpose.
                                                                  The emergency
                                                                  communication equipment
                                                                  was successfully procured.
Component 3: Institutional Strengthening

(i) Building Code Training        100 inspectors and staff        Achieved. The training has
and territorial TA                trained on building codes and   been successfully completed.
                                  territorial planning

(ii) Vulnerability Assessment     4 assessments hazard mapping    Partially Achieved. 3
and Hazard Mapping                completed                       assessments have been
                                                                  completed; including: i) a
                                                                  drought hazard map, ii) flood
                                                                  assessment for Dennery and
                                                                  iii) landslide assessments and
                                                                  risk mapping in communities


(iii) Study on Risk Transfer of   Study on risk transfer          Partially Achieved. Although
Government Assets                 completed and reviewed.         the study was not done under
                                                                  the project, the Government
                                                                  successfully accomplished this
                                                                  activity under the OECS
                                                                  Catastrophe Risk Insurance
                                                                  Project (P094539).




                                               30
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

1.     Methodology. This evaluation followed the same approach used at appraisal,
which estimates the net benefits based on the projection of two scenarios: with and
without project. The net benefit corresponded to the difference between incremental
benefits and incremental costs from the two scenarios. Financial prices were adjusted for
the impact of taxes, subsidies, and externalities to arrive at the economic flow of costs
and benefits and the net present value was estimated, using the same standard conversion
factor of 0.918, and discount rate of 12 percent used at appraisal.

2.     Project Components. The project consisted of four components: (a) Physical
Prevention and Mitigation Works; (b) Strengthening Emergency Preparedness and
Response; (c) Institutional Strengthening; and (d) Project Management. The works
implemented under component 1 included coastal protection, river defense, and beach
reclamation works in Dennery, bridges, health centers, and mitigation intervention
focused on community-based slope stabilization investments, also known as the
MoSSaiC approach All of the works aimed to improve resilience to hazards, such as
landslides, sea swells, storm surges, flood and hurricanes.

3.     Actual Investment Costs. As table 1 shows, the actual cost of the project was XCD
35.1 million (USD 13 million), which is just 1% higher than projected at appraisal plus
additional financing (XCD 34.6 million).

 Table 1. Project Costs
                                                                     PROJECTED COSTS
 XCD                                              ACTUAL
                                                           PAD      ADDTL FINANCING    TOTAL
 COMPONENT 1
  Works at Dennery
    Coastal Protection Works Dennery Village       6,609   7,376                        7,376
    Architectural Designs                            41                                   -
    Dennery (Trou A L’eau Works)                   1,462   1,495         1,263          2,759
    Cadastral Survey                                75                                    -
    Creation of Communal Recreation Areas          1,712                  968            968
    Dennery River Berm                              614                                   -
  Subtotal Works Dennery                          10,513   8,871         2,231         11,102
  Other works (in areas different to Dennery)     15,657    7,149        6,774         13,923
 TOTAL COMPONENT 1                                26,170   16,017        9,005         25,022
 COMPONENT 2:
  Strengthening Emergency Preparedness Response    4,880   3,709                       3,709
 COMPONENT 3:
  Institutional Strengthening                      744     1,102                       1,102
 COMPONENT 4:
  Project Management                               3,306    806          1,640         2,446
 OTHER:
  Price contingencies                                      2,150                       2,150
  Loan Fee                                          50       215                        215
 TOTAL PROJECT (000 XCD)                          35,150   24,004        10,644        34,648
 TOTAL PROJECT (000 UCD)                          13,076    8,930         3,960        12,890

                                                  31
4.    The evaluation at appraisal was carried out for the works on Dennery, and so this
ex-post evaluation. Additionally, an evaluation of the effectiveness of mitigation
measures was carried out on a typical community in Castries, as representative of the
MoSSaiC interventions implemented under the project.

Economic Evaluation of Works in Dennery

5.    The actual costs of works in Dennery under component 1 were XCD 10.5 million,
40% of this component. An additional cost was added to count for components 2 to 4,
which was estimated as a percentage of the investment costs. The resulting investment
cost was XCD 13 million (USD 4.9 million), 38% of total investment (Table 2).

 Table 2. Project Costs at Dennery
 Project Costs in Dennery                                           ACTUAL COSTS
                                                          000 XCD                  000 USD
 Works in Dennery                                          10,513                   3,911
 Strengthening Emergency Preparedness and Response          1,459                    543
 Institutional Strengthening                                 238                      89
 Project Management                                          989                     368
 TOTAL PROJECT IN DENNERY                                  13,198                   4,910


 % Investment cost                                                                  38%


6.     Operating costs were assumed the same as at appraisal, that is XCD 350 thousand
for a 5-year period. The Dennery Development Foundation is in charge of maintaining
the infrastructure using the revenues collected from tolls charged to hotels and cruises
when offering visits to Dennery area.

7.     Other Projects. In 2009 the Ministry of Tourism launched a new project for
Dennery and Mabuya communities. The project targets were developing an action plan
for improving economic activities, capacity building and training. The project centered
on: Mandele Labaee and La Pointe Visitor Stop Centre, Dennery Seafood Fiesta, High
Street Plant and Paint Project, Fond d’Or Heritage Park, and Sankfa Rainbow Roots Farm.
The project was borne out of European Union-funded Community Based Eco-Agro
Tourism (CBEAT) program (SFA 2007).

8.      The SFA 2007 project had a total cost of Euros 4.2 million and developed
activities on the agro, tourism facilities, and training. Some of the works complemented
the World Bank project and contribute to boost recreational activities along the area, such
as the painting of all houses along High Street, which gave colorful view to the area
along the beach. It is estimated that 20% of the cost complemented the World Bank
project and impact the benefits. Therefore the cost is added to the costs used for this
evaluation. The Foundation plans to oversee the projects implemented on the area and to
help in ensuring their sustainability.

9.   Benefits. The approach used to estimate the benefits followed the same
methodology used at appraisal, which included: (i) avoided flooding damage costs; and

                                                     32
(ii) increase of revenues from boosting economic activities along the shoreline. For this
evaluation it has added benefits that came through the construction of the sewage
treatment plant, which was built with the additional financing.

10. Avoided damage costs. Two benefits were included: (a) avoided costs to
households and commercial entities within the coastal area due to property damage as a
result of flooding and beach erosion; (b) relocation costs of the properties along the
coastline due to beach erosion; and (c) avoided road reconstruction costs assuming a
substantial storm event every ten years that could result in storm surge flooding and road
damage.

      a. The damage costs of flooding were based on the collected data during
         preparation, of the number of properties affected with the flood and the damage
         cost. The damage cost was applied in this evaluation before relocation cost was
         applied to avoid double counting of benefits.
      b. The relocation cost was also estimated at preparation, as it was noticed that the
         shoreline was experiencing a steady erosion pattern. The Dennery village had
         lost almost 40 meters of beach over a 36-year period. This indicated that if
         project had not been implemented greater damage of properties in the area
         would have occurred and eventually the properties would have to be evacuated
         and the population relocated. It was foreseen that under without project situation,
         residents and businesses from the area on the east side of High Street would
         have been gradually relocated starting in year 2 and completed by year 5.
         Relocation of the residents and businesses on the west side of High Street would
         have started in year 21 and completed by year 25. The same assumptions of
         relocation costs at appraisal were used for this evaluation under the without
         project scenario and presented in table 3.
      c. The road reconstruction was estimated as XCD 1.5 million per km. The potential
         road frontage that could be damaged was estimated as 400 mt, which equals to a
         cost of XCD 600 thousand.

 Table 3. Relocation Costs “Without? Project Situation
                                            Residential   Commercial       Vacant lots
 Number of properties affected
   East side                                    30             16              7
   West side                                    30             12              -
   Average size of the building (sq.ft)        600            400
   Average construction costs ($EC/sq ft)       75             75
   Average cost per property                  45,000         30,000             -

   Average size of the lot                    1,800          1,800            1,800
   Average land price ($EC/sq ft)               5              5                5
   Average cost of the lot                    9,000          9,000            9,000




                                              33
11. Benefits for increasing economic activity. The World Bank project has helped
Dennery to capitalize its strategic location and rebound economic benefits to the
community. The Seafood Fiesta, the Carnival, Sports, and the visits that tourists pay to
Dennery en route to and from the main international airport in Vieux Fort, are some of
the activities that have made a difference in Dennery’s daily life.

12. It is interesting to note that 52% of current businesses in Dennery area were
established on or after 2004.

 Table 4. Business According to Year Established
                                           Established        Established on or    No information
                                           before 2004           after 2004           on year          Total
 Accommodations & Food services                16                     21                  6              43
 Other                                         72                    88                  17             167
 Total                                         88                    109                 23             210
 %                                            42%                   52%                 11%            100%
Source: The Central Statistics Office of St. Lucia. 2010 Information


13. If the project had not been implemented these activities would have deteriorated
and eventually would have disappeared as the erosion of the beach and floods damage
would have made their part in deteriorating the area along coastline. According to people
familiar with the area (Dennery Foundation, Eco Agro Tourism, and PCU) no more than
ten year would have passed before the recreational activities ended. For the without
project scenario the revenues gradually diminish during a 10-year period and then no
activity along the beach is included.

14.    For the with-project situation the following assumptions were made:

       a. Seafood Fiesta. Currently about 1,000 people show up for the fiesta every
          weekend, 80% of them are local and 20% tourists. Locals are generally young
          people who spend about XCD 25, while tourists spend twice as much. Even
          though the main attraction is the fish, locals take advantage of the activities and
          set vending sites for additional kind of food such as chicken and pork. It is
          estimated that about 4 to 5 vending sites are organized every week, and each site
          consists of about 8 locals selling their food and earning revenue of about XCD
          200 per night.

      Saturday Night Fiesta                          Without                   With Project
                                                     Project           Total    Locals      Tourists
      No of Patrons per week                            62             1,000      800         200
      Average bill/person (XCD)                        30               30        25          50
      Annual Growth rate                              -10%              1%
      Food Fiesta (Chicken-Pork)
        Vending sites                                                   4
        Average # of Tables per site                                    8
        Revenues/vendor/night(XCD)                                     200

                                                        34
          b. Tourists that stop by on their way to the airport. The assumptions of number of
             tourists used at appraisal, 12% of those going to and from the international
             airport at Vieux Fort) was reviewed with people familiar with the area and found
             accurate. They spend an average of XCD 30 per person. The projection of
             tourists going to and from the international airport was based on updated
             information provided by the Central Statistics Office of Saint Lucia.
          c. Cruise Ship Passengers. It is estimated that about 500 passengers from cruise
             ships go to Dennery on a daily basis during tourism season (October to May)
             and spend about XCD 50 per stay. The number of tourists is the same assumed
             at appraisal, when it was estimated that 15% of the cruise ship passengers were
             excursionists traveling south and of these, 30% stopped for a snack or lunch.
             The projection of cruise ships was based on updated information provided by the
             Central Statistics Office of Saint Lucia.

15. Sewage Treatment Plant. It was built with the additional financing and
complemented the work of the Communal and Recreational Facility. It also included: (a)
the construction of sanitary facilities for the recreational area and its connection to the
sewer system; (b) connection of about 25 houses and businesses along the coastline to the
sewer system; (c) upgrading or constructing sanitary facilities for those houses; (d)
disposal of treated wastewater.

16. The benefits of the sewerage connection are basically two: (a) convenient
wastewater disposal in the houses and businesses connected; and (b) appropriate sanitary
facilities at recreational area and correct sewage disposal. These benefits were estimated
as the cost savings from not having to evacuate the sewage from the available on-site
solution. According to 2010 Census information2 27% of the houses located in the coastal
area of Dennery have septic tanks, and all the businesses along the coastline. 25
properties were connected to the sewer system, 10 of which were restaurants, and 15
houses. The septic tanks were cleaned out twice a year at a cost of XCD 1,200 for
restaurants, and XCD 120 for houses.

17. Additionally, every week after the Seafood Fiesta took place, the area had to be
cleaned and the wastewater had to be evacuated. According to information provided by
the Dennery Development Foundation the cost savings of cleaning the area is XCD
21,000 fortnight and 10% of which could be attributed to sewage evacuation. Results
show that cost savings of having sewer connections are about XCD 80 thousand per year.

18. The benefits of sewage treatment include: improvement of water quality, restored
aesthetic properties, reduction in fecal coliform and potential human infection, reduction
of human health risk, increase in property values, and enhanced marine environment.
Even though these benefits are already seen in the area and have positively contributed to




2
    The Central Statistics Office of Saint Lucia.



                                                    35
the quality of life of the community, they could not be estimated for this evaluation due
to lack of information.

19. Results. The results show a net benefit of XCD 8.6 million and internal rate of
return of 20%. The expected benefit at appraisal was XCD 3.86 million and the EIRR of
23%. Actual results are very satisfactory, as benefits were twice as much and the EIRR is
well above the discount rate of 12%.

 NPV of Actual Net Benefit                              (000 XCD)
 Costs
   Investment Costs                                       8,913
   Operating costs                                         286
   Total Costs                                            9,199
 Benefits
   Road Reconstruction                                    308
   Relocation costs                                      2,120
   Damage costs of properties due to floods              1,648
   Cleaning the beach due to lack of ww treatment         194
   Cleaning septic tanks                                   89
   Revenues from Saturday Fish Fry Fiesta                7,038
   Revenue from tourists in their way to the airport     2,514
   Revenues from cruise passengers                       3,869
 Total Benefits                                          17,780


 Net benefits (without project situation)                 8,580
 IRR                                                      20%



Economic evaluation of small mitigation works (MoSSaiC)

20. Methodology. Avoided damage cost was the approach used to evaluate the
MoSSaiC interventions. For doing this, damage costs were estimated for different
landslides scenarios, and the benefit of intervention were defined as avoided landslide
costs. The landslide risk was quantified in terms of the hazard, exposure and
vulnerability of elements at risk. Landslide hazard (magnitude and frequency) was
modeled with and without drainage interventions. These hazard predictions were then
used to estimate the damage potential of the elements exposed.

21. The evaluation was carried out for a MoSSaiC project implemented in 2008 in a
typical community in Castries consisting of 20 households located on the lower slopes of
a moderately steep (300) ridge. The vulnerability of the community to events such as
landslides is typical of unplanned settlements in the region in terms of poor construction
standards, limited access, lack of drainage, and poverty levels.



                                                   36
22. By choosing a completed landslide risk reduction intervention at a scale of a single
community it was possible to quantify the landslide hazard using physically based
modeling methods and made possible to prepare a direct assessment of the vulnerability
and the benefits of landslide mitigation. Additionally, knowledge of, and access to, the
local community through the project made possible to estimate the direct benefits form
the risk reduction, as well as some indirect benefits that accrue to the community (such as
improvements in water supply and access to and from the community.

23. The two main components of MoSSaiC interventions are: (a) the construction of a
network of surface drains to intercept surface-water runoff and convey it to main drains
or natural watercourses; and (b) the connection of houses roof water (using roof guttering
to capture rainfall) and grey water to these drains. The analysis showed that the amount
of rainfall intercepted by the roofs of the houses was about 35%, based on the estimation
of the areal extend of the community, and the calculation of the roof area of each house.
This translated to a 35% reduction in the “effective intensity? of the design rainfall events
used in the simulations. The assumption of 35% is conservative, as it only represents
rainfall intercepted on the roofs of houses, captured by the new guttering and directed
into the drains or water tanks. In reality, the drains, intercept surface-water runoff, would
be concentrated at convergence zones and infiltrate into the soil, which could increase the
estimation to about 50%.

24. Costs. The costs included in the evaluation were mainly those incurred in 2008
when drain construction and guttering installation were undertaken. Minor additional
costs accrue when ongoing maintenance was assumed. The costs were based on standard
unit costs of construction adopted by the government social development agency, which
implemented the project.

25. Benefits. The estimation of benefits included direct benefits from the reduction in
landslide risk (which reduces the expected cost of rebuilding damaged homes and
replacing lost possessions); as well as indirect benefits arising from improvements in the
everyday lives of community residents. Estimation of benefits was made for community
residents who continue to carry out maintenance and when they do not continue
maintenance.

26. Direct benefits were estimated as the reduction in landslide risk by comparing the
expected cost form landslides without the intervention and with it. The hazard assessment
component identified two scenarios and their associated frequency and magnitude, and
the expected damage potential of the exposed houses. The two scenarios were: A.
Progressive shallow failures affecting whole slope; and B. Minor failure in particular
locations, selecting three locations. For each scenario it was estimated the damage cost
from lost houses,, damage houses, and lost possessions. Then the landslide probabilities
were incorporated to find the expected damage cost, which translates into benefit of the
intervention.

27.   The results of direct benefits for each scenario is the following:



                                             37
 Expected benefits                                                       NPV (000 XCD)
                                                     With                                      Avoided damage
                                                 intervention           W/o intervention        cost (benefit)
  With maintenance
    A. Progressive shallow failures
 affecting whole slope                              68.8                     286.9                  218.1
    B. Minor Failure in particular
 location:
    Location 1                                      13.2                     39.7                   26.4
    Location 2                                      14.9                     44.7                   29.8
    Location 3                                      14.9                     44.7                   29.8
 Total expected cost:                               111.9                    416.1                  304.2
 Without maintenance
    A. Progressive shallow failures
 affecting whole slope                              149.1                    286.9                  137.9
    B. Minor Failure in particular
 location
    Location 1                                      21.9                     39.7                   17.8
    Location 2                                      24.7                     44.7                   20.0
    Location 3                                      24.7                     44.7                   20.0
  Total expected cost                               220.4                    416.1                  195.7

28. Indirect Benefits. The improved drainage and installation of roof guttering have
the potential to bring additional benefits to the community, such as: savings in water bills
through the harvesting of intercepted rainwater from the roofs; improved access to and
from the community due to reduced flooding and debris washed onto footpaths; possible
reduced mosquito population. These benefits were estimated using the Revealed
Preference Method, with results of XCD 106 thousand when maintenance to the works
were carried out by the community, or XCD 64.9 thousand when no maintenance
occurred.

29. Results. The results show higher benefits when maintenance is carried out with
benefit cost ratio of 1.7 without maintenance and 2.7 with maintenance.

 Results for MoSSaiC interventions                                       NPV (000 XCD)
                                                       With Maintenance          Without maintenance
 Costs
   Investment                                                   150.0                      150.0
   Maintenance                                                   3.6                         -
   Total                                                        153.6                      150.0
 Benefits
   Benefits of Risk Reduction (direct)                          304.2                      195.7
   Benefits for community residents (indirect)                  106.3                      64.9
   Total                                                        410.5                      260.6
 Net Benefit                                                    256.9                      110.6

                                                    38
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                                   Respo
                                                                                   nsibili
             Names                                Title                Unit          ty/
                                                                                   Specia
                                                                                     lty
Lending
Oliver Davidson                    Consultant                         LCSUW
Francis Ghesquiere                 Program Manager                    SASDU
Gerard L. Liautaud                 Consultant                         LCSTR
Jose C. Joaquín Toro Landivar      Sr. Disaster Risk Management       LCSUW
María Angélica Sotomayor Araujo    Sector Leader                      LCSSD
Supervision/ICR
Trish Barrett                      Disaster Risk Management Analyst      LCSUW
Ana Daza                           Program Assistant                     LCSUW
Rossella Della Monica              International Affairs Officer         EXTBR
Maricarmen Esquivel                Consultant                            LCSTR
Tiguist Fisseha                    Disaster Risk Management Specialist   LCSUW
Marc S. Forni                      Sr. Disaster Risk Management          SASDU
Joseph R. Goldberg                 Consultant                            C3PDR
Niels B. Holm-Nielsen              Sr. Disaster Risk Management          LCSUW
Mozammal Hoque                     Sr. Financial Management Specialist   LCSFM
Plamen Kirov                       Sr. Procurement Specialist            LCSPT
Gerard L. Liautaud                 Consultant                            LCSTR
Brett J. MC Farlan Libresco        Evaluation Officer                     IEGPS
Gerald E. Meier                    Environmental Consultant              LCSEN
Nara C. Meli                       Consultant                            LCSPS
Ulrich Cedric Myboto               Consultant                          CCAVP-LVL
Maritza A. Rodríguez De Pichardo   Sr. Financial Management Specialist   LCSFM
Seyoum Solomon                     Consultant                             PPIAF
Jose C. Joaquín Toro Landivar      Sr. Disaster Risk Management          LCSUW
Kimberly Vilar                     Social Development Specialist         LCSSO
Yao Wottor                         Sr. Procurement Specialist            LCSPT




                                            39
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                    USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                          travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY04                                       9.86                     91.18
  FY05                                       0.03                      0.08
  FY06                                                                 0.00
  FY07                                                                 0.00
  FY08                                                                 0.00
  FY09
  FY10
  FY11
                          Total:             9.89                     91.26
Supervision/ICR
  FY05                                       9.41                     52.33
  FY06                                      12.43                     58.57
  FY07                                      10.60                     73.19
  FY08                                      16.29                     87.62
  FY09                                      25.69                    104.86
  FY10                                       8.70                     87.80
  FY11                                       4.46                     44.01
  FY12                                       5.87                     43.74
  FY13                                                                13.12
                          Total:            93.45                    565.24




                                       40
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Not applicable




                                      41
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not applicable




                                   42
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Executive Summary

In June 2004 the Government of Saint Lucia secured a loan from the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) in the amount of US$3.7 million and a
credit from the International Development Association (IDA) in an amount equivalent to
US$3.8 million to finance the Second Disaster Management Project (SDMP). This
Project became effective in October 2004 and should have been completed in December
2009. By December 2006 (mid-term) 46% of the total project cost, which was EC$23.9
million inclusive of counterpart funds, was disbursed, while project expenditure including
commitments was estimated at EC$19.2 million (80% of the total project cost).

By mid-term it was evident that there would be significant savings available under the
Project prior to project closure. It is important to note that by December 31, 2009 the
IDA Credit was fully disbursed. Therefore, the available savings which had resulted
from coastal protection works undertaken at Dennery Village and reprioritization of
funds originally earmarked for the Vulnerability Reduction and Risk Transfer activity
were available under the IBRD Loan. This activity (the Vulnerability Reduction and Risk
Transfer) was met through the implementation of the OECS Catastrophe Risk Insurance
Facility (P094539; IDA Credit 42710) implemented May 2007 – December 31, 2010.
Consequently, in 2007 the GOSL sought additional financing (IDA Credit #4871-SLU) in
the amount of US$3 million to undertake decisive interventions to build on the successes
of the ongoing Project. Throughout its implementation, this project was rated satisfactory
by both the World Bank and the GOSL as the project continued to meet the overall
developmental objectives as outlined in the Financing Agreement.

The success and satisfactory rating was achieved through several factors, which included
allotment of sufficient time for preparation of the project concept note and the Project
Appraisal Document. The Team ensured that the lessons learnt from the first disaster
management project (ERDMP –ERL) were carefully utilized. The team also ensured that
there was consistency with the PAD and Loan Agreements, that adequate staff with the
appropriate knowledge and skills were in the PCU at the onset of the project. Under the
ERDMP, staff of the PCU and of the implementing agencies had been trained in
procurement and these same staff members were retained for coordination and
implementation of the Project. Therefore, the necessary institutional capacity building,
which is integral for effective project implementation and management, had been created.
The Project ensured that provisions were in place to further build on this capacity by
providing training to participating agencies and staff. The World Bank facilitated this by
hosting annual Fiduciary Workshops and Meetings of Project Coordinators meetings (the
last meeting was held in 2006). The technical information (designs and bill of quantities)
required for bidding of major civil works (such as the Dennery flood protection works)
and for some of the small works were prepared prior to effectiveness of the Project. By
December 2004, 41 small works contracts were awarded while the major civil works
contracted for over EC$6.0 million was signed by mid-2005.

                                           43
There was significant achievement upon completion of the project. The original
objectives of the project were met. All of the equipment and the supplies were acquired
and delivered to the various agencies, and all of the civil works of varying degrees of
complexity were completed. The major activities, Territorial Planning and the Drought
Hazard and Vulnerability Assessment under the Institutional Capacity Component were
awarded by mid-term while the Physical Planning Section of the MOPD was finalizing
for conducting of the Building Codes Training and the deliverables under the proposed
contract. At mid-term, the Bank agreed to provide technical assistance on the way
forward for the Study on Vulnerability and Risk Transfer of Government Assets.

Of major concern is the extent of borrowing by the GOSL and maintenance of physical
infrastructures constructed under the Project. As such, a non-governmental organization
has been formed to ensure adequate sustainability and maintenance of the works
implemented at Dennery Village. An assessment undertaken by the World Bank
following the passage of Hurricane Tomas in 2010 revealed that the civil works activities
executed under the Project were able to withstand the effects and impact of the event. The
Emergency Operations Centre constructed under the Project was fully operational during
and after the Hurricane. Despite this, the GOSL must ensure that adequate security is
provided for the newly acquired facilities, infrastructure, equipment and resources that
have been provided to ensure future utilization. The GOSL must ensure that resources,
both human and financial, are available to sustain the facilities well into the future. The
Ministry of Finance has been exploring the possibility of insurance. Should this become
a reality, then the objectives and benefits of the project would be fully realized.

The GOSL must express gratitude to the World Bank Team involved in supervision for
the dedicated support and assistance given to the PCU throughout the implementation of
this multifaceted project. Overall, the World Bank’s performance in this regard was
highly satisfactory.




                                            44
Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not applicable




                                    45
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Project Appraisal Document. The World Bank. Report No. 27951. May 25, 2004.

Project Paper for Additional Financing. The World Bank. Report No. 44002-LC. June 17,
2008.

Development Credit Agreement. No.3936-SLU. July 29, 2004.

Loan Agreement. No.7238-SLU. July 29, 2004.

Financing Agreement. Additional Financing for Second Disaster Management Project.
No.4498-LC. November 6, 2008.

Environmental Management Plan. Government of Saint Lucia. 2004 and updated in
January 2009.

Resettlement Action Plan for the Construction of a communal and recreational facility at
Dennery Village. Government of Saint Lucia. August 2011.

Project Files, including mission documents (Implementation Status and Results Report,
Aide Memoires), Financial and Audit reports, Operations Manual.

Saint Lucia Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management Project - Performance
Assessment Report, 2005.

MoSSaiC- Saint Lucia Second Disaster Management Project. Final Report. December
2011.

Review of World-Bank-Financed Disaster Risk Management Projects in the Aftermath of
Hurricane Tomas. Assessment of Selected Structural and Non-Structural Disaster
Mitigation Activities. January 2011.

UNECLAC – Macro Socio-Economic Damage Assessment Report (December 2010).

Project Mid-Term Review (May 1, 2007).

List of Interviewees: Implementation Completion Report Mission, December 12-14,
2011:

Name                       Organization                Title
Cheryl Mathurin            PCU                         PCU Coordinator
John Calixte               Ministry of Finance         Deputy Permanent Secretary
Myrtle Drysdale-Octave     PCU                         Procurement Officer
Rosilia Joseph             PCU                         Financial Management Officer

                                          46
Calus Monchery         PCU                     Project Officer
Lester Arnold          MCWTPU                  Chief Engineer
Renata Mac Kie         MCWTPU                  Engineer
Peter Felix            MoPD                    Chief Surveyor
Augustin Poyotte       MoPD                    Chief Architect
Christopher Williams   MoPD                    Survey and Mapping Officer
Magdalena Henry-       MoPD                    Physical Planning Officer
Fontenelle
Celsus Baptiste        MoPD                    Commissioner of Crown Lands
Marcus Edward          Ministry of Education   Deputy Chief Education Officer
Hubert Harte           Ministry of Health      Building Officer
Dawn French            NEMO                    Director
Joanne Haynes          MoPD                    Architect




                                     47
                                                                                                                                                                                               IBRD 39258
                                                                           61˚00'W                                                                                                 60˚50'W

                                                                                                              Sain t L uc ia Ch an n el
                                                                                                              Cap Point



                                                                                    Pigeon Island

                             SAINT                                                               Gros Islet
                             LUCIA                                                          Rodney Bay




                                                                                                                                                           Cape Marquis
                                                                                                               GROS                           Dauphin
                                                                                   Choc Bay                    ISLET

                                                        Pointe Seraphine
                                                                                                                               DAUPHIN
                                                                                            CASTRIES
                                                                                                                                                     Grand Grand
14˚00'N                                                                                                                                              Anse  Anse                                  14˚00'N
                                                      Grande Cul                                                                                               Bay
                                                      de Sac Bay
                                                                                             CASTRIES
                                                                                   Sans
                                                                                   Soucis
                                                                                                 Cul de Sac

                                             Marigot Bay
                                                                                 La Croix
                                                                                 Maingot



                                                        Anse La Raye                                                                         Denne




                                                                                                                                                 ry
                                                                                                                           DENNERY
                                                                                                                                                                               Caribbe an
                                                                        ANSE                                                                              Fond d'or Bay
                                                                       LA RA
                                                                          RAYE
                                                                            YE                                                                Dennery
                                                                                                                                              Denner y                            Sea
                            Canaries        CAN ARI ES
                                            CANARIES



                                                                     Mt. Gimie                                                             Praslin       Praslin Bay
                                                                     (950 m)
                                                        Tabac
                                                    Mt. Tabac
    Grand Caille Point                              (678 m)                                                           PRASLIN                    Mon
                                                                                                                                                                 Trou Gras Point
                               Soufrière                                                                                                         Repos
                      Soufrière Bay               SOUFRIERE
13˚50'N                                                                                            Ca                                                                                            13˚50'N
                                                                                   Mt. Grand
                                                                                                       ne




                                                                                                              es
                                                                                                         ll




                      Anse de Piton                                                Magazin
                                                                                    (616 m)                        MICOUD                             Micoud
                                                                                                                                                           Vierge Point
        Gros Piton Point
                                                                                                                          Desurisseau
                                          CHOISEUL
                                                                    Londonderr y
                                                                    Londonderry

                                       Choiseul                     LABORIE                    VIEUX
                                                                                               FORT                                                                                60˚50'W


                                                                             Laborie
                                                                                                                                                                       SAINT LUCIA
                                                                        Laborie
                                                                          Bay                                                                          SECOND DISASTER
   0      1       2    3 Kilometers
                                                                                                Vieux Fort
                                                                                                                                Maria I.
                                                                                                                                                     MANAGEMENT PROJECT
                                                                                             Vieux Fort
                                                                                                Bay                                                                       CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                                                                            Cape Moule
   0          1         2       3 Miles
                                                                                                                            Chique                                        NATIONAL CAPITAL

 This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                          RIVERS
 The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
 shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                          MAIN ROADS
 Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                  S a in t Vin c en t P assage                                                           QUARTER BOUNDARIES
 endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                           61˚00'W                                                                                        INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                  APRIL 2012
