                                              Document of
                                          The World Bank



                                                                             Report No: 25702-CHA


                                      FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY




                                 PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                ONA

                                           PROPOSEDLOAN

                               INTHEAMOUNT OFUS$100MILLION

                                               TO THE

                                   PEOPLESREPUBLICOF CHINA

                                                FORA

             JIANGXIINTEGRATEDAGRICULTURAL MODERNIZATIONPROJECT

                                           October 23,2003




Rural Development and Natural ResourcesSector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region

This document has a restricteddistributionandmay be usedby recipientsonly inthe performanceof their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwisebe disclosedwithout World Bank authorization.

                                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                     (ExchangeRateEffectiveSeptember2003)

                                           Currency Unit = Renminbi(RMB)Yuan (Y)
                                                    Y1.00 = US$0.12
                                                 US$l.OO = Y8.3

                                                     FISCALYEAR
                                                January 1 -- December31

                                      ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS

ABC      Agricultural Bank o f China                            NBF     Non Bank Financing
ADP      Agricultural Development Project                       NPV     Net Present Value
BP       Bank Procedures                                         NCB    National Competitive Bidding
B P M    Beneficiaries Participation Manual                      NDRC   National Development and Reform Commission
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy                             N S    National Shopping
CFAA     Country Financial Accountability Assessment             O&M    Operation and Maintanence
CPP      Community Participation Procurement                     OP     Operational Policy
D C      Direct Contracting                                      PAD    Project Appraisal Document
EIA      Environment Impact Assessment                           PIM    Project Implementation Manual
E M M P  Environmental Monitoring and Management Plan            PHRD   Policy and Human Resources Development
ERR      Economic Rate o f Return                                PLG    Project Leading Group
FA       Force Account                                           PMO    Project Management Office
FM       Financial Management                                    PMP    Pest Management Plan
FRR      FinancialRate o f Return                                PPMO   Provincial Project Management Office
ha       hectare                                                 PRA    Participatory Rural Appraisal
IBRD     International Bank for Reconstruction and               PRC    People's Republic o f China
         Development                                             QAG    Quality Assurance Group
ICB      International Competitive Bidding                       RCC    Rural Credit Cooperative
ICR      Implementation Completion Report                        SA      Social Assessment
IDA      InternationalDevelopment Association                    SAR     Social Assessment Report
I P M    IntegratedPest Management                               SIDD    Self-Managed Irrigation and Drainage District
JIAMP    Jiangxi Integrated Agricultural Modernization Project   SOE     Statement o f Expenditures
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation                               sw      Small Works
MIS      Management Information System                           TA      Technical Assistance
mu       Chinese area measurement, 1 mu=0.07 ha. 1ha=15 mu       TAG     Technical Advisory Group
MEIRO    Machinery and Electric Product Import Review Office     TOR     Terms o f Reference
MNDP     Multi-Nationalities Development Plan                    WDF     Women Development Facilitator
M O F    Ministry of Finance                                     wso     Water Supply Organization
MOFTEC   Ministry o f Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation     WTO     World Trade Organization
                                                                 WUA     Water User Association




                                          Vice President:      Jemal-ud-dinKassum, EAPVP
                                        CountryDirector:       YukonHuang,EACCF
                                         Sector Director:      Mark D. Wilson, EASRD
                                      Task TeamLeader:         Sari Soderstrom, EASRD

                                                                  FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                    CHINA
               JIANGXI INTEGRATEDAGRICULTURAL MODERNIZATIONPROJECT


                                                  CONTENTS




    A. Project Development Objective                                                        Page

       1. Project development objective                                                       2
       2. Key performance indicators                                                          2

    B. Strategic Context

       1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      2
       2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          3
       3. Sector issues to be addressedby the project and strategic choices                   4

    C. Project Description Summary

       1, Project components
       2, Key policy and institutional reforms supportedby the project
       3. Benefits and target population
       4. Institutional and implementationarrangements

    D.Project Rationale

       1. Project altematives considered and reasons for rejection                            11
       2. Major relatedprojects financed by the Bank andor other development agencies         12
       3. Lessons leamed and reflected inthe project design                                   13
       4. Indications ofborrower commitment and ownership                                     14
       5. Value addedo f Bank support inthis project                                          14

    E.Summary Project Analysis

       1. Economic                                                                            14
       2. Financial                                                                           15
       3. Technical                                                                           16
       4. Institutional                                                                       17
       5. Environmental                                                                       22
       6. Social                                                                              24
       7. SafeguardPolicies                                                                   27


This document has a restricted distribution andmay be usedby recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.

F. Sustainability and Risks

   1. Sustainability                                  29
   2. Criticalrisks                                   30
   3. Possible controversial aspects                  30


G. MainLoanConditions

   1. Effectiveness Condition                         31
   2. Other Loan Conditions                           31

H. Readinessfor Implementation                        33

I.CompliancewithBankPolicies                          33



Annexes

Annex 1: Project Design Summary                       34
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                 39
Annex 3: EstimatedProject Costs                       44
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                46
Annex 5: Financial Summary                            60
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements    61
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                  74
Annex 8: Documents inthe Project File                 75
Annex 9: Statemento f Loans and Credits                77
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                          81
Annex 11: Summary of Social Issues                     83
Annex 12: Summary o f EnvironmentalIssues              87




MAP(S)
IBRD31793, IBRD31794

                                                       CHINA
                                 Jiangxi IntegratedAgricultural Modemization Project
                                        Project Appraisal Document
                                             EastAsia andPacific Region
                                                      EASRD

late: October 23,2003                                      Team Leader: Sari K.Soderstrom
Sector Managermirector: Mark D.Wilson                      Sector@): Irrigation anddrainage (50%), Agricultural
Zountry Managermirector: Yukon Huang                       extensionandresearch (15%), Agricultural marketingand
?roject ID: PO65463                                        trade (15%), Animal production (1O%),   Crops (10%)
Lending Instrument: Specific InvestmentLoan (SIL)          Theme(s): h ~ r aServices and infrastr~cture(p), Rural
                                                                             l
                                                           markets (P), Other rural development(P)


 [XI Loan       [ ] Credit      [ ]Grant         [ ]Guarantee       [ ]Other:
For LoanslCreditslOthers:
Loan Currency: United States Dollar
Amount (US$m): $100.00
Borrower Rationale for Choice of Loan Terms Available on File:         Yes
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Variable-Spread Loan (VSL)
Grace period (years): 5                                  Years to maturity: 20
Commitment fee: 0.75 %                                   Front end fee (FEF) on Bank loan: 1.00%
                                                                  I                 1               I
FinancingPlan (US$m):          Source                                  Local           Foreign             Total
BORROWER                                                                                                    46.91
[BRD                                                                     46'91
                                                                         68.41              31.59
                                                                                             O.OO           100.00



Borrower: PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
Responsible agency: JIANGXI PROVINCIAL PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION
Jiangxi Provincial Agriculture Foreign FundUtilizing Office
Address: 12FL. Provincial PlanningCommissionBuilding, West 2 Road, ProvincialGovernmentCompound,Nanchang
330046, China
Contact Person: Mr.Yuan, Jin Mu
Tel: +86-791-6211815                   Fax: +86-791-6212873                  Email: JAFFO@public.nc.jx.cn




 Project implementation period: 6 years
 Expected effectiveness date: 01/15/2004 Expected closing date: 06/30/2010

A. Project Development Objective

1. Projectdevelopment objective: (see Annex 1)
The development objective of the project is to improve the livelihood of rural households in Jiangxi
Province through establishment o f integrated, economically and environmentally sustainable, and
market-driven agricultural production systems focusing on productivity and agricultural output of high
quality and value. Improved livelihood i s defined as increased income; reduced risks; increased
employment, in particular of women; and improved access to irrigation and drainage, technologies,
information, training, and markets.

2. Key performanceindicators: (see Annex 1)
Key indicators measuring the achievement of the project development objective would be obtained by a
comprehensive monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system. The following impact indicators, defined in
terms of the difference between participating project householdsand representativenon-project households,
would be measured: (i)    Growth in on-farm income; (ii)   Growth in farm output value per mu; (iii)Increase
of yield of crops; (iv) Product value share of three most important products as indicator of diversification;
(v) Increaseof volume and variety of sales of local seed companies; (vi) Increase insales volume of local
agro-enterprises; (vii) Farmer loan and agro-enterprise repayment rate; (viii) Water fee collection rates;
and (xi) Quality o f irrigated land.

B. Strategic Context
1.Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supportedby the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 25141              Date of latest CAS discussion: December 19,2002

The project supports the goals of the Bank's country assistance strategy (CAS) to China being consistent
with all three central themes o f the CAS: (1) improve the business environment and help accelerate the
transition to a market economy; (2) address the needs of the poorer and disadvantagedpeople and lagging
regions; and (3) facilitate environmentally sustainable development.
(1) HelpAccelerate the Transition to a Market Economy: The project is consistent with the Bank's overall
assistance strategy for the rural sector in China, which aims at assisting local governments to accelerate
commercialization of agriculture, develop new income generating opportunities in interior provinces,
develop new approaches to food security, promote better utilization o f agricultural production resources,
 and support investments in private enterprises. The focus o f the Bank's overall assistance strategy to the
rural sector in China is now on the shift from subsistence grain production to commercial agriculture and
 from the quantity to the quality o f food products. The need o f this shift in approach is enforced through
 China's recent accession to the World Trade Organization (WTO). This was also emphasizedin the joint
 China-Bank in-depthanalysis o f China's rural sector ("Accelerating China's Rural Transformation," World
 Bank, Albert J. Nyberg and Scott Rozelle, August 1999). That analysis stresses the need for taking an
 integrated approach to rural development which includes improved land and water use, diversified
 agricultural productionwith modern technology, and an efficient marketingsystem.
 (2) Address the Needs of the Poorer and Disadvantaged People: The project is also directly supporting the
 humanresource development and poverty alleviation goal of the assistance strategy to China. The project is
 designed to improve the livelihood of farmers in areas with poor irrigation and drainage infrastructure.
 Farmers without adequate irrigation are one of the poorest strata of the society in Jiangxi Province, which
 is greatly affected by the large and growing rural-urban income gap. The project aims at increasing the net
 income of these farmers, which currently averages less than US $1 per day and capita. The project would

also improve these farmers' access to land, water and financial resources, as well as to public services. In
particular, great attention would be paid to the provision of information and access to knowledge. In
addition, increased production and quality of food will benefit especially the poor, whose expenditure share
on food is particularly large. Moreover, the project would address gender issues, directly through a
stream-lined approach supported through a specific women farmers' activity and indirectly by targeting
farmer households, a large share of which are headedby women.

(3) Environmentally Sustainable Development: The project also contributes to the CAS goals o f
environmental protection through a more sustainableutilization of natural resources. The rehabilitation and
extension of irrigation anddrainage systems incombination with reforming their managementwould leadto
more efficient use of water, which would reduce incidents of water logging and salinity threat. Other
expected positive impacts are reduced soil erosion and improved soil fertility. The project would promote
environmentally sustainable agricultural production (including Integrated Pest Management) and marketing
practices.
The project concept is also fully in line with the three overarching goals o f the Bank's updated rural
development strategy "Reaching the Poor" which are to: (i)craft pro-poor policies and institutions; (ii)
facilitate broad-based rural economic growth; (iii)improve access to natural resources and human assets;
and (iv) reduce risk and vulnerability. The project would address these goals through: (a) promoting policy
changes in the area of water resources management and farmer groups; (b) improving the economic
efficiency of farm production systems and promoting product diversification at farm and village group
level; (c) improving access to adequately irrigated and drained land, financial means, and training and
extension services; and (d) improving sustainability of water and landuse.

2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
In the last two decades, China has not only ensured food grain security for its large and still growing
population, but also achieved impressive growth in agriculture and the rural sector. Many elements
regarded as critical for rural development, such as upgrading o f marginal lands, investments into the water
sector, and agricultural research and technology have contributed to the substantial gains. However, in
recent years agricultural growth has slowed and farm income has fallen increasingly behind
non-agricultural income. The sector faces considerable challenges, in particular after China's entrance into
WTO. In order to maintain the effectiveness o f transitional policies and investment gains, new integrated
development approaches have to be developed.

Stable and sustainable growth in agriculture and ensuring food security is one of the key areas of the
Government's strategy as articulated in the "Ninth Five-Year Plan" and the "Fifteen-Year Perspective
Plan." The major challenges defined in these plans are to achieve greater self-sufficiency in grain, to raise
farmers' standard of living, to make better use o f technology and to speed up the development o f nearby
industriesthat use agricultural products and to eliminate poverty. Inthe "TenthFive-Year Plan," there was
a shift in focus from quantity of food supply towards cost effectiveness inproduction and larger diversity
and higher quality of products. With growing income inChina and the country's recent WTO membership,
it is acknowledged that any sustainable approach to agricultural and rural development needs to be towards
meeting consumers demand. With increasing income levels in the urban areas, consumer demand is
becoming increasingly sophisticated requiringa higher variety of products and a distinctively higher quality
of products at competitive prices. Responding to the changing needs, the Government's focus i s shifting
towards regulatory responsibilities and on removing the remaining policy, administrative and regulatory
constraints that are preventing the emergence o f full incorporation of socialistic market principles, In
addition, to be successful, the public sector has to target investments for creating the necessary market
institutions which enable private entrepreneurs to make their resource allocation and marketing decisions
basedon undistorted and transparent price signals.


                                                     - 3 -

3. Sector issuesto be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
General. The project reflects a response to the challenges of the Chinese agricultural sector which lie in
the need of continued growth while satisfying an increasing demand for food diversification in an
increasingly competitive internal and external environment. Hence, the proposed project focuses on the
production and marketing of high-quality agricultural and food products through the integration of
improvedresources, production, researchand extension, and marketing of the produce.

Issues to be Addressed. A major constraint to improvedagricultural productivity and farmers' livelihood
in China is the poor state of the resource base, such as: (1) lack of adequate irrigation and drainage
facilities; (2) lack o f sufficient farmers' skills and improved agricultural production technologies; and (3) a
weak marketing system.
(1) Lack of adequate irrigation and drainage facilities. Inadequate farm-level irrigation and drainage
facilities limit crop production and prevent farmers from diversifying their production systems in response
to market signals, Past investments focused on the construction of infrastructure while their operation and
maintenance, including the institutional set-up to do so, was largely disregarded. Consequently, many
existing schemes have insufficient water-carrying capacity and can only irrigate and drain a part of the
originally designedarea.
(2) Lack of improved agricultural production technoloPies, Improved.crop varieties and technologies,
on-farm applied research, and access to quality extension and farmer training are very limited. Currently,
training, research, and extension, to the extent they exist, are based on yield potential rather than
profitability and/or marketability for farmers. Moreover, farmers often lack access to financial means to
improve their productionsystem.
(3) Weak market svstem. Farm management advice through the extension services has little emphasis on
marketing. Farmers have limitedawareness of developments within the agricultural marketing system, and
private sector support strategies of local authorities are largely made without sufficient investigation of
demand and without consulting producers about product quality, quantity, seasonal supply, delivery
arrangements or price. Marketinginitiatives are diffuse and designedto benefit individual companiesrather
thanthe entire province. While some of these initiatives have beenwell developed (e.g. trade markingof
 vegetables and long term contracting of seed supply), the experience and benefits have not been shared.

 Strategic Choices. Sustainable rural development requires an integrated, community-driven development
 approach which embraces close association with the private sector, encouraged and assistedby the public
 sector. Hence, the key approach of this project is beneficiary participation in design, implementation,
 monitoring and evaluation. The public sector will fhction as a guarantor and facilitator for this process,
 preparing for and providing an enabling environment for efficient markets so as to maximize the economic
 benefits to the farmers. The community-driven development aspect of the project comes through the direct
 involvement of the beneficiary communities in the design and implementation of the proposed project and
 through supporting the establishment o f water users' associations (WAS)and informal and/or formal
 farmers' groups. The project would finance various sets of hardware (infrastructure, equipment, etc.) and
 software (technical assistance), and promote the establishment of self managing entities (e.g. WAS,
 producer marketingassociations, etc.).
 An important problem farmers face in marketing their products is high transaction cost, including lack of
 comprehensive information about market opportunities. Gradual opening o f foreign trade and resulting
 competition from low cost high quality products from abroad and from other provinces may hrther
 constrain farmers profits. Hence, the proposed project would support market development along all levels
 of the marketing chain through helping farmers and traders to reduce the transaction costs (e.g.



                                                         - 4 -

information, organization of teclmical associations), improving the product quality (e.g. development of
quality standards) and supporting value-added activities at the local (e.g. farm, village group, technical
association) level.   The objective is to promote product diversification (and thus alleviate the price
pressures on homogeneous products) at the local markets and to gain access to higher value regional and
nationalmarkets though developing specialized andhighquality products.

Policy Issues.     China's transition towards a filly-functioning market economy provides a generally
enabling environment for the project. However, several policies still constrain private sector development,
and therefore the implementation of the project. For instance, while market are generally well integrated,
trade barriers such as lack of information, put wedges between price for farmers and markets outside the
village.    Other example include the legal foundation for water user associations and other farmer groups,
which is still under development; grain quotas and constraintsto the free movement of goods (formal andor
informal transportation restrictions, informal restrictions in inter-county trade), etc. In many cases,
adequate policies are in place at least on the national level, and the project would attempt to push the
enforcement o f such existing rules and regulations.

In past rural development projects, uncertainties in land tenure was an issue for effective project
implementation. This i s not the case anymore. Land laws have and continue to develop rapidly. All
project beneficiaries have clear landtenure arrangements. Normaltenure arrangementsare 30-50 year land
leases with limited inheritance rights.

C. Project DescriptionSummary
1. Project components(see Annex 2 for a detailed description andAnnex 3 for a detailedcostbreakdown):
General, The project main components are: (i)     Irrigation and Drainage; (ii) Production Improvement;
                                                                              Farm
(iii)Market SystemsDevelopment; and(iv) ProjectManagement,MonitoringandEvaluation. Applied
research, training and extension activities are included ineach component.

Irrigation and Drainage Component. The specific objectives of the component are to: (a) ensure
sustainable use o f land and water resources for irrigated agriculture (including improving water use
efficiency);  (b) increase agricultural productivity and reduce risks in production; and (c) demonstrate a
model of on-farm irrigation development for agricultural modernization. The component would include (i)
physical construction that comprises rehabilitation and extension of existing irrigation works, including
main and secondary canals, drainage structures, and pumpingstations (works and goods); construction o f
on-farm irrigation and drainage systems (works and goods); construction of access and farm roads (works);
and (ii)institutional support for a more efficient and sustainable operation and maintenance o f the
 infrastructure and the land and water resources for irrigated agriculture (technical assistance and training).
The establishment o f Self-Managed Irrigation and Drainage Districts (SIDD) for all irrigation command
areas under the project would be ensured. About 90 sub-projects with about 70,000 ha of land would be
 covered by investments, benefiting about 283,000 farm households.
 Detailed designs for irrigation and drainage schemes will be developed and include improvements in
primary, secondary, and tertiary (household level) systems, including roads. The design of five pilot areas
has already been appraised. The other schemes will be designed by official design institutes with
 participation from the water users and appraised by technical specialists, appointed by the Provincial
 Project Management Office (PPMO). Acceptable appraisal o f these schemes include the willingness of
 households to participate, formation of a WUA, and technical, environmental, economic and dam-safety
 criteria. The appraisal steps for individual schemes are: (i) reservoir dam safety check (if applicable); (ii)
 development of a construction plan; (iii)establishment o f the water supply organizations (WSOs) and
 WUA; (iv) participatory detailed design; (v) planning for sources of finding, including farmer's labor



                                                       - 5 -

input; (vi) selection of supervising institute; (vii) bidding for construction works; (viii) construction; and
(ix) check and receipt. Two manuals, onefor the implementation of thephysical works and the otherfor
the institutional (SIDD) development, outline the specific implementationprocedures. The development
of the SIDDs is covenantedin the legal documents. (see Section GD.l.,D.4.)

FarmProduction Improvement Component. The specific objective of the Farm Production Component
is to support improved (Le. higher value) agricultural production. The component would specifically target
those farmers who benefit from the Irrigationand Drainage Component and includes:
(i)SoilFertilityImprovement:Throughone-timefertilizationwithlimeandorphosphatefertilizerofpart
of the project area under irrigation rehabilitationthat would require such treatment (estimated at about 10%
of the area), Farmers are expected to provide the labor to apply the fertilizer as their counterpart
contribution, and as part of a larger loan including also the irrigation and drainage works, would repay the
loan which finances the purchaseof the fertilizer.
(ii)Training, Extension, and AppliedResearch:This sub-componentwill finance applied researchat
universities and research institutes, technical assistance (TA), training of trainers (in line bureaus and
extension stations), and training of households and participating enterprises. Activities to be financed
include: (1) grants for applied research (identifying, developing and adapting relevant low-cost technologies
to solve specific problems to facilitate implementation and enhance benefits from the project activities; (2)
training (of trainers; farmers; and of provincial, county and township project staff to ensure smooth project
implementation and sustainability).      This training would be delivered through TA, individual training,
workshops, and study tours; and (3) public extension services (participatory demonstrations, household
visits, group discussions, technical training, company led training and extension). An applied research,
training and extension strategy i s included inthe Project ImplementationManual (PIM).
(iii)Farm ProductionSupport: To facilitate the shift towards higher value production systems and to
improve farmers access to markets, the project would, in addition to hnding infrastructure investments,
provide sub-loans for individual farm households or farmer groups for the improvement of soil fertility or
farm production activities such as: (a) irrigated field crops; (b) livestock (mainly pigs and poultry); (c)
small-scale on-farm fish production; and (d) upland crops. Household would be proposed by the
communities and selected by the PMO or RCC based on their willingness (as determined by their
application), their needs (as determinedby the community) and their fund repayment ability. The farmers
would be able to choose their investments into improved agricultural production. The menu o f investment
options would be designed in a participatory maimer, in the farmers groups, through Participatory Rural
Appraisal (PRA) methods, to ensure that the farmers demands across different farm production systems are
met in a flexible manner throughout the project implementation period. This component would be
implemented in a community-driven manner, partly including community procurement. A detailed
implementation plan (Farm Production Improvement Manual) including the technical design, selection of
beneficiaries, and financial arrangementshas been developed.

(iv) Support to Women and Ethnic Minority Farmers: While all activities under the project are designed in
a non-discriminatory manner, this Sub-component would ensure that women participate actively and
benefit from the project. The Jiangxi Provincial Women's Federation will play the leading role in its
implementation. Provincial, county, and township level Women Development Facilitators would be
appointed and trained. In addition, earmarked funds would be made available to people in the Yaoshan
village, avillage inhabitedby people of Yao minority.

 Market Systems Development Component. The specific objectives of the Market System Development
 Component are to: (a) increase farmers' access to markets; (b) add value to farm products; (c) ensure
 efficient processing and delivery of high value products from producers to consumers; and (d) reduce
 transaction costs. The Component would focus on activities that add value to the investments in irrigation


                                                       - 6 -

and drainage and in improved agricultural production, consisting of: (i)financial support to
agro-enterprises and leading households; (ii)     construction, rehabilitation or up-grading of agricultural
product markets; (iii)  promotion of quality standards and improvements of market information systems; and
(iv) promotion o f farmers' marketinggroups (farmers' professional associations).

Longer term loans (3-7 years) would be made available to rural enterprises, leading farmers and farmers'
groups for capital investments that would increase production efficiency, profitability and add value of
farms and processing enterprises (Le. small combines, feed-mills, storage facilities for perishable products,
processing space and equipment etc.). Similarly, loans would be made available for the construction and
rehabilitation o f agricultural product markets. The loan funds would be channeled through local Finance
Bureaus. The screening and appraisal of the proposed investments would be coordinated by the PPMO.
The loan decisions would be made by an Investment Committee representing principal stakeholders. An
Enterprise Investment Lending Manual has been developed as the implementation guide for these
sub-components 6) and (io (Section G.D.1.j
The promotion o f quality standards and market information systems as well as the promotion of farmers'
marketinggroups would be activities offered to private or public entities.

Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation. The objective of this Component i s to develop and
strengthen the overall implementation capacity of the various levels of project management and promote
effective community participation in project activities. The component includes: (i)project management;
(ii)institutional strengthening of PMOS(goods and training); (iii)establishment of a monitoring and
evaluation system that includes environmental and social indicators (technical assistance and training); and
(iv) development of community advisory/participation groups (technical assistance and training).           A
Management Information System (MISj is beenfinalized to enableproject monitoring and timely project
reporting. Semi-annual reporting will take place to the Bank, In addition, independent social and
environmental monitoring will take place in accordance with the Environmental Monitoring and
Management Plan (EMMPj and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank. (Section GB.I.-B.3., E.1.)

                                                                 Indicative                 Bank-        % of
                           Component                               costs       O/Oof      financing      Bank-
                                                                  (US$M)       Total       (US$M)      financing
  Irrigation and Drainage                                           83.17         54.0        54.31        54.3
  Farm Production Improvement                                       45.21         29.4        31.04        31.0
  Market SystemsDevelopment                                         21.16         13.7        12.17        12.2
  Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation                      3.44          2.2         1.48          1.5
                                             Total Project Costs   152.98         99.4        99.00        99.0
                                                   Front-end fee      1.oo         0.6         1.oo          1.o
                                    Total Financing Required    I  153.98    I    100.0  I   100.00   1   100.0  1
Integrating Features. The project has a number o f integrating features. This includes: (a) geographic
concentration of activities to priority irrigation areas in the project counties, i.e. areas with no or poor
irrigation and drainage. The activities proposed under the Farm Productivity ImprovementComponent and
to some extent under the Market Development Component are closely linked to and will build on the
irrigation and drainage investments in their geographic context. Furthermore; (b) crop and livestock
activities would be integrated at the farm household level with the irrigation, drainage and land
improvement investments in order to maximize the retum to these infrastructure investments. This would
 allow for expansion o f production possibilities through diversification and productivity increases. In
 addition, (c) integrating features also include improving farmers' responsivenessto market signals and add
 value to agricultural production while ensuring that part of the new value added accrues to farmers.



                                                      - 7 -

2. Key policy and institutionalreformssupportedbythe project:
Main Reforms that the Proposed Project Supports. The project contributes to the continuation of
China's reform process towards a market-driven rural economy. I t supports private entrepreneurship in
rural areas and complements China's efforts to further integrate with intemational markets and adjust to
WTO requirements by developing an integrated agricultural systemwhich producesand marketshighvalue
and quality products which can compete internationally.

The project also supports the reforms in water resources utilization by promoting the concepts of farmer
participation and financial responsibility for investments into irrigation and drainage systems and of WUA
and water supply organizations (WSO) in line with the general concept of SIDDs. In addition, the project
would attempt to support the enforcement of other national policies such as the elimination of non-tariff
domestic trade barriers (e.g. inter-county and inter-provincial transportation barriers) through provincial
level implementation support. Moreover, the proposed project would support reforms towards a sustainable
and more efficient rural development path based on the active involvement of the farmers.

3. Benefitsandtarget population:
The project would target rural households in Jiangxi, a province, where the difference between rural and
urban incomes is particularly severe. The average (net) per capita income of these rural households in
Jiangxi i s RMB 2,316/year (2001). This figure, equivalent to less than U S $l/day, is less than half of the
average urban net annual per capita income in Jiangxi i s RMB 5,506 (2001), and also less than China's
average rural income (RMB 2,366/year, 2001). The participating counties were primarily chosen basedon
the condition o f their irrigation and drainage works. Counties with greatest need for rehabilitation were
given priority. Additional concem was the interest and ability of the counties to provide counterpart funds
and their ability to repay the loan.

Direct Beneficiaries. The criteria for selecting participating households would be based on their
willingness, their needs and loan repayment ability. The target households are the ones that lack or have
insufficient irrigation and drainage. Since the amount o f adequately irrigated land is one of the most
limiting factors of income increase, the direct benefits of improved infrastructure combined with better
production technology and marketing would go to the poorer section o f the rural population. I t i s estimated
that about 283,000 households, about 1.3 million people in 21 counties (Chongren, Nancheng, Yihuang,
Chongyi, Gan, Golden Development District, Longnan, Quannan, Shicheng, Xinfeng, Xingguo, Xunwu,
Zhanggong District, Hukou, Pengze, Wuning, Yongxiu, DexingCity, Hengfeng, Guangfeng, Yugan) in
Jiangxi Province would benefit directly from the proposed project. The majority of these beneficiary
households (about 230,000) are located on about 70,000 ha (about 16% of the total irrigated area in the
project counties) of irrigatioddrainage schemes to be supported under the proposed project. These
beneficiaries would receive financial and technical support under the Irrigation and Drainage and the Farm
Production Improvement Components. Other households would benefit from training, extension, the
Market Systems Development Component and other project activities.

Women Beneficiaries. More than a third of rural households in Jiangxi are headed by women as their
spouses work as migrant laborers during a large part o f the year. Women are considered as the main
beneficiaries of the proposed project; and women's participation in the detailed design and implementation
of the project would be closely monitored. In addition to mainstreaming gender into all components and
activities o f the project, the "Women Farmer Development Activity" o f the project, involving the Women's
Federation, will contribute to a wide participationof women.




                                                     - 8 -

Indirect Beneficiaries. It is anticipated that the project would create additional income opportunities in
areas such as trading and marketing as it improves the quality o f the goods and services o f the agricultural
up-stream and down-stream sectors. Therefore, the total number o f beneficiaries i s anticipated to be
considerably higher through market multiplier effects. Higher food quality and increased availability o f
more diversified food products through improved production and marketing methods would also lead to
greater food security for the whole populationin the region.

4. Institutionaland implementationarrangements:
InstitutionalArrangements.
General, The project would be executed by the ProvincialDevelopment Commission (under the National
Development and Reform Commission) under which the PPMO is located. The Provincial Development
Commission inJiangxi has successfully managed a number o f Bankprojects before.

Project Management Structure. The integrated approach of the project is reflected in the project
management structure, in which the various stakeholders, including the beneficiaries, various government
line agencies, private sector and civil society, participate. Project Leading Groups (PLGs), Project
Management Offices, and Technical Advisory Groups (TAGS)at provincial, county and townships levels
have been established. An Investment Lending Committee has been established at the provincial level with
the purpose o f evaluating and appraising the agro-enterprise loans. Detailed terms of reference for each of
these entities have beenprepared (see Section G C.l.-C.4.)

Project Leading Group. The PLG at the provincial level is headed by the Govemor of Jiangxi.
Representatives o f the Provincial Finance Bureau and Planning Commission function as deputy heads. To
ensure broad ownership for implementing the integrated approach o f the proposed project, all relevant
departments and agencies are represented, including: Bureaus o f Planning, Finance, Agriculture, Water
Conservancy, and Pricing. Similar P L G structures also exist at the county levels. Establishment and
maintenance of the PLGs are covenanted in the legal agreements (see Section G C.1.)
The PLGs will provide overall guidance to the project. Specific responsibilities include to: (i)mobilize
institutional, technical and financial resources and support for project implementation; (ii)review the
annual implementation plans; (iii)monitor the implementation works o f line agencies; (iv) define and
supervise the work of the PMOs; and (iv) discuss, define, and bring to the attention o f the Government,
policy support measures which, by complementing project investments, could enhance the achievement o f
the development objective.

Project Management Offices. A Provincial PMO is fully operational and has been in charge of the
preparation of the project. Project institutions similar to those on the provincial level have been established
at prefecture/municipal and county levels and will be funded by the project.
The PMOs, under the guidance o f PLGs, are responsible for: (i)coordinating the day-to-day
implementation of the project, (ii) drafting o f annual implementation plans and any readjustment plans; (iii)
in cooperation with the line agencies, implementing overall project management rules, financial
management methods, procurement management methods, engineering management and training methods;
(iv) supervising and monitoring the project implementation plan, engineering quality, financial management
and procurement, and training implementation; (v) the coordination o f line agencies and project
areadcounties; (vi) reporting to PLGs and the Bank; and (vii) communication and public relation,




                                                      - 9 -

PMOs are headed by a director o f the Planning Commission, and have a hll-time executive vice-director
from the Planning Commission. They further consists o f staff responsible for the different components and
their integration, for communications and coordination o ftraining andextension, andfor procurement and
financial management. Staff from the Financial Bureaus, working on financial management and
disbursement, are part o f the PMOs. Establishment and maintenance of the PMOs are covenanted in the
legal agreements (see Section G C.2.)A Project Implementation Manual (PIM) has been prepared by the
PPMO and reviewed by the Bank. The P I M will be used as key implementation guide for the proposed
project. Duringimplementation, annual project implementation plans will be prepared by the PPMO based
on county level plans prepared in accordance with the county level Beneficiaries Participation Manuals
(BPM) and PRA techniques. All implementation arrangements including for financial management
(provision of counterpart funds, on-lending, disbursement, auditing), procurement, supervision (including
reporting), monitoring and evaluation, and the BPMs are included in the PIM (see Section G D.I.,0.3,).
In addition, annual workplans will be prepared in aparticipatory manner per the BPM, and submitted to
the Bankper requirements in the legal agreements (see Section G0.2.).

technical support to the PMOs - under leadership o f PLG. Its major responsibilities are to: (i)provide
Technical Advisory Groups. TAGs have been established to provide technical advise to the PLGs and

advice in technical issues relevant to the project design, engineering, institutional, technical and financial
feasibility and environmental impact; (ii)review technical specifications and project standards; (iii)
participate in project monitoring, evaluation, and in the design o f research and extension, formulation o f
training plans and appraisal o f scientific achievements; (iv) assist PMOs to carry out market surveys and
analyses for the project areas; and (vi) support the coordination with line agencies and strengthen linkages
with existing institutes for research, technical extension and consulting services in the project areas. The
TAG would be represented by smaller groups at county levels to enable timely participation by
beneficiaries. The TAGs are composed o f technical specialists and engineers from technical bureaus,
cooperating research institutes, representatives o f Producers Associations, and other agencies involved in
the project. The TAGs would be represented by smaller TAG groups at county levels to provide similar
services. (See Section G C.3.)
Investment Lending Committee. A provincial level committee has been established to make decisions on
the loan financing for individual sub-projects under the Market System Development Component. The
committee includes decision makers as well as representatives from the PPMO, the private sector, a
state-owned commercial bank (ABC), and technical experts. The Committee will meet regularly, review
and decide upon loan applications from enterprises, including agricultural product markets, which have
been appraised successfully by the appraisal unit o f the PPMO. Based on this review, the board will decide
upon the support for these investments. (See Section G C4.)

ImplementationArrangements
 Phased Approach. The implementation of the project will be phased. While irrigation sub-projects and
 the activities under the other components are clearly defined in terms of technical standards, criteria and
 implementation procedures, only those approved for implementation in the first year are specified in detail
 in terms o f sub-project sites, scale, and detailed design and cost estimates. Activities for second year
 implementation will be prepared and finalized during the first year, those for the third year prepared and
 finalized in the second year, and so on.     Specific site selection criteria is specified in the PIM. This
 approach would give sufficient flexibility in the implementation o f the project allowing for continuous
 adjustments o f project activities in response to change in policy and market environment, thereby
 contributingtowards better achieving the project objectives,




                                                     -10-

Timing, Sequencing and Combining Project Activities.              The integrated implementation approach
requires that the timing, sequencing, and combining of the various component activities be carehlly
planned to achieve the desired combined benefit. "Timing" is the time allocation to an activity for its
completion and a specific point in time for its starting. "Sequencing" is the arrangement of the order of
implementation for any two project activities (i-e., which activity comes first and which follows).
"Combining" i s the combination of an irrigation sub-project and a group of project activities into a logical
flow o f inter-related activities to achieve the desired optimum results. The timing, sequencing, and
combining of project activities are elaboratedindetail inthe PIMalong with the definition of standards and
criteria and description of proceduresfor the selection and inclusionof activities for implementation.

Line Agencies. The main day-to-day implementation o f the project would be in the hands of the line
agencies and the PMOs at provincial, prefecture, and county levels. The main responsibilities of the line
agencies, in particular Water Resources Department and Agriculture Department, are: (i)to provide
assistance in the areas of law and regulation, policy, technical specifications and standards; (ii)to review
and comment on the overall design, engineering, technical, financial and economic feasibility studies, and
environmental impact o f the proposedproject; (iii)to support and give guidance to the work of the PMOs,
and supervise and monitor project implementation; and (iv) to provide technical support and information
and give necessary training to the relevant staffs in the project areas. In addition, the Finance Bureau i s
actively engaged in the project assuming the main responsibility for the financial aspects of project
implementation as part of the PMOs. Cooperation (Work) Agreements between the PMO and the line
agencies will be concluded (see Section G C.5.)

D. Project Rationale
1. Projectalternatives considered and reasonsfor rejection:
The alternative of not supporting Jiangxi's shift to a modern agricultural production system would cause
increasing social and economic costs associated with stagnating agricultural productivity and increasing
exposure towards external economic shocks while adjusting to WTO requirements. Therefore a number of
alternative approaches to achieve the development objective of improving the livelihood of the rural
population in Jiangxi were considered. Due to the overwhelming importance of agriculture for the rural
population and the lagging development of this sector, the project has to focus on this sectors.

Focused Scope. The possibility of carrying out a more narrowly focused project such as a (traditional)
irrigation and drainage project, a research and extension project or a rural finance project was considered.
These concepts were rejected on the ground that such approach is unable to satisfactorily address the
comprehensive issues underlying a stagnated agricultural sector in Jiangxi. For instance, an improved
irrigation system does not lead to a sufficiently high return unless new production techniques are applied;
and higher value crops do not lead to higher profits unless they are well marketed. The complexity of the
challenges in the agricultural sector can only be tackled through an integrated approach including
infrastructure activities, farm productionimprovement, marketing and technology transfer.

Agro-Processing Project. The option of a traditional agro-processing project was considered. However,
the success rate of such projects or project components financed by the Bank has been low, mainly due to
unclear ownership rights and poor management o f such enterprises. Another concern was that, given the
monopolistic power of many of these enterprises, most o f the value-added generatedby the project may not
go to farmers but mainly to the enterprise owners. While the need for support of ago-enterprises i s
recognized, the project addresses this on a much smaller scale and only after careful appraisal of individual
 sub-projects during project implementation, and with an emphasize on the integration of this component
with other activities, thus leading to increasedbenefits to farmers.



                                                     - 11-

2. Major relatedprojects financed by the Bank and/or other developmentagencies(completed,
ongoingand planned).
                                                                                      Latest Si ervision


                                                                                Implementation    Development
Bank-financed                                                                     Progress(IP)    Objective (DO)

Intensificationof agriculture.            Jiangxi Ag. Development                      S                S
                                          Project completed.
                                                  -

Integrated ag. production, use of         SecondRedSoils Area Dev.                     S                S
marginal areas, ag. commercialization. Project - completed.

Agricultural commercialization,           Songliao Plain Ag. Dev. Project              S                S
relevanceof gender.                       - ongoing.

Sustainablemanagement of irrigation       Yangtze BasinWater Resource:                 S                S
and drainage systems.                     Project - ongoing.

Rehabilitation, extension, management IntegratedAgriculture                            S                S
of irrigation and drainage schemes        IntensificationProject

Intensificationof agriculture.             Sichuan Ag.Dev, Project                     S                S

Intensificationof agriculture.            HenanAg.Dev.Project                          S                S
3ther development agencies
UNDP - institutionaldevelopment,           Mountain, River and Lake
regionalplanning and training.             Development and Control
                                           Project - completed.
Japan improvement ofmedium and
       -                                   IncreaseGrain Production
low yielding grain fields.
Rural Bank of Bangladesh rural micro Micro Financing GB Model
                            -              Project IandI1   - completed.

financing experiment.                      Extension Project - ongoing.
Germany    - comprehensivewatershed        Sust. Dev. inMountainous
development.                               Areas inJiangxi I1  - ongoing.
Improved seedbreeding, small field         Jiangxi State Large Commodib
irrigation and drainage, improvement of Grain Base Project.
mediumand low yielding fields.
Improvement of mediumand low               Jiangxi Ag. Comprehensive
yielding fields.                           Development Project.
Water supply, electricity and road         Jiangxi Poverty Alleviation
;onstruction.                              Project.
PlDO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), I I (Highly Unsatii




                                                     - 12-

3. Lessonslearned and reflectedinthe project design:
The project design has benefitted from the Bank's extensive experience inagriculture and rural development
inChinaand other countries around the world. More specifically, the project has built on lessons learned
from, among others, the Jiangxi Agricultural Development Project, the Second Red Soils Area
DevelopmentProject, the IrrigatedAgriculture Intensification Projects, the Yangtze Basin Water Resources
Project, and the Sichuan , Henan, and Songliao Plain Agricultural Development Projects (ADPs).                A
number o f key lessons include:
    Government and Beneficiary Commitment. A key lesson from Bank financed projects in general i s
    that commitment by governments and the active participation o fbeneficiaries and stakeholders (village,
    township and county governments, and line agencies) in project implementation ensures smooth
    implementation, success and sustainability o f the project. The nature o f the proposed project requires
    that its design, preparation and implementation is driven by local entrepreneurial groups and
    individuals. The proposed project recognizes the need for considerable and sustained long term support
    of grass-roots organizations such as WUAs or farmers' marketing groups. This support includes both
    technical assistance through the project, and political support from the government.

    Benefits of Small Scale Investments. An important lesson leamt from the Irrigated Agriculture
    Intensification  Projects i s that compared to large-scale new irrigation areas, investment to improve and
    expand existing irrigation facilities for smaller irrigation unit areas is less costly in capital investment,
    and benefits couldbe accrued in a relatively short period o f time.

    Beneficiary Ownership of Project. The experience gained from other recent irrigation projects in
    China provides strong evidence for supporting the formation o f SIDDs. In general, Bank-financed
    water projects in China show that the recovery o f investments, operating and maintenance costs
    through water charges and irrigators' ownership is key for project sustainability. The design o f this
    project therefore supports the "user pays" principle, and user (farmer) participation i s explicitly built
    into project planning, implementation and operation. The irrigation and drainage investments go in
    parallelwith support for institutional development and the establishment o f WUAs and WSOs.

    Integration of Infrastructure Activities with Income Generation Initiatives.                    Finally, the
    Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Sichuan ADP clearly reveals that the integration o f
    infrastructure investments with parallel income generation initiatives such as orchard and vegetable
    crop and livestock development provides a basis for highreturns on investments. Similarly, the ICR for
    the Henan ADP finds that the establishment o f an integrated system that links production, processing
    and marketing is necessary for the optimum utilization o f resources and maximum benefit and should
    be the preferred direction for future development for the agricultural sector. The reasons why some
    projects have achieved lower than expected retums to irrigation investments include, among other
    things, lower than expected response o fcrop yields; lack o fdiversification, i.e. the over-emphasis o fthe
    role o f rice as one crop amongst many which can contribute to household incomes; and the difficulties
    experienced by farmers in adapting their traditional practices to new technology and technical
    packages. This project addresses these concern by putting strong emphasize on an integrated approach
    which combines investments into infrastructure with those into improved and more diverse agricultural
    production, and the processing and marketing o f these products.

    Flow of Funds Monitoring. Flow of funds monitoring becomes particularly important in rural
     development projects where funds come from various sources and are widely disbursed. The project
     financial monitoring system has been designed to determine the exact timing o f funding needs, thus
     facilitating the provision of timely and adequate counterpart funds.




                                                      - 1 3 -

4. Indications of borrowercommitmentand ownership:
The Provincial Government of Jiangxi initiated the project and has worked jointly with the Bank's Task
Team, the counties, and potential beneficiaries to develop its concept. PLGs, PMOS, and TAGSare in
place, the Govemor of the Province i s heading the Leading Group and thorough preparatory work has been
undertaken. In-depth discussions have been carried out with the project counties regarding the project
concept and the counties and their respective finance bureaus have expressedtheir commitment inwriting
to the Provincial Government. The provincial and county Governments have paid considerable attention
not only to securing the necessary counterpart funds, but also to establishing a transparent system that
ensures their timely and sufficient availability.

5. Value added of Banksupport inthis project:
The project is designed to be a "second-generation" agricultural development project. It would give China
the opportunity to pilot integrated market-oriented support to the agricultural system that is expected to
substantially contribute to improve livelihoods of its rural population. In addition, Jiangxi does not have
the financial resources of its neighboring coastal provinces, nor does it benefit from China's Westem
Development Strategy. However, Jiangxi has a strong rural agricultural base with a great potential and
comparative advantage ina wide range of agricultural and food products. In addition, it is relatively close
to important domestic and international markets.

Bank support for the project i sjustified through its mandate to lendfor development-oriented activities with
a strong element of public goods, such as basic infrastructure, public information systems, training,
extension, and research. Provision of these kinds of basic services inJiangxi will provide a firm foundation
for future agricultural sector investments by the private sector. Furthermore, they will improve the
utilization of scarce public resources (financial and technical) and create a basis for increased government
revenuesfor future development.

The Bank's extensive experience in this area would add value to the Borrower's efforts to provide an
enabling environment for future economic growth in Jiangxi while accelerating the transition process of its
agricultural sector into a modern social market economy. In particular, the project would promote and
support: (i)ongoing institutional reforms necessary for demand-driven design and construction o f
infrastructure and sustainable use of water resources; (ii)newproduction and processing technologies; (iii)
better production management and provision of knowledge of commercial agriculture production and
marketing to enable producers to respond to market demand; and (iv) a participatory project management
approach basedon extensive international experience.

In addition, Bank involvement can be instrumental in attracting the interest of domestic and foreign
investors and of enhancing and coordinating the work of other donor organizations. It i s anticipated that the
project would attract grant financing from other donors and the private sector, especially for some of the
technical assistance components. Some activities have already been initiated and active discussions are
ongoing with potential donors.

E. Summary ProjectAnalysis (Detailed assessmentsare intheproject file, see Annex 8)
 1. Economic(see Annex 4):
    Cost benefit      NPV=US$ million; ERR = 17 % (see Annex 4)
0Costeffectiveness
0Other(specify)



                                                      - 14-

General, Economic analysis has played an important role in identifying costs, benefits and risks, and in
evaluating design alternatives duringproject preparation. An overall cost-benefit analysis was carried out
for the Irrigation and Drainage and the Farm Production Improvement components combined. An
area-based approach was used with farm models that define farmers responses to irrigation and land
improvement investments. Projections based on detailed results for three pilot irrigation schemes provided
estimates for the whole project area. Net present value (NPV) and Economic Rate of Return (ERR) were
estimated for different scenarios of expected farm output mixes in project areas and sensitivity and risk
analysis was carried out to determine the robustness of the estimates. It should be noted that each
sub-project for rehabilitation and extension of irrigation and drainage sites will be subject to an individual
economic appraisal before they are accepted for financing under the project. Moreover, while the types of
investments under the Farm Production Improvement Component can be defined, exact allocations to
different activities can only be determined in the process of community participation during project
implementation.
The economic analysis of the Market Systems Development Component i s based on the appraisal reports
for those investments proposals that have been accepted for loan financing in the first project year. The
loan for agro-processing investments or agricultural product markets account for more than 90% of the
investments under this component. It should be noted, that only those investments will be financed that
yield an expectedreturn of 20% or more.
The ERR for the Irrigation and Drainage Component for the whole area covered by the project is estimated
at 14%. While this is still satisfactory, it is significantly lower than the ERR for the three pilot areas. The
detailed appraisal o f individual sub-projects will eliminate economically non-feasible sites and increasethe
overall ERR o f the project. Moreover, the investments into irrigation alone are calculated only for
transparency of the analysis. These investments provide the basis for improved farm production and have
to be assessed together with them. The bulk of the investments under the Farm Production Improvement
Component are decided upon by the farmer groups and farmers themselves, so that the investments cannot
be determined indetail a priory. However, the economic analysis of Irrigation and Drainage with additional
potential investments under the Farm Production Improvement Component based on conservative
assumptions yields ERR of 17%.

2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = 16 % (see Annex 4)
The overall financial returns for the combined Irrigation and Drainage and Farm Production Improvement
Components are estimated at 16%. While this is lower than the economic returns - mainly due to the higher
financial than economic labor costs, it is still satisfactory, in particular, taking into account the
conservative assumptionsunderlyingthis analysis.

 Fiscal Impact:
 The loan is anticipated to have little net impact on the central budget since it would be on-lent to the
 province. Some positive impacts can be expected from an increased tax income due to greater economic
 activity. Similarly, a large part o f the loan would be onlent to beneficiaries. This portion of the project
 should have a very small direct impact on the budget since the sub-loans would be paid back by the
 beneficiaries. Direct budgetary costs will occur at the provincial and county levels since a substantial share
 o f the counterpart finds will be born at those government levels. By establishing self-sustained SIDDs, the
 project is expected to have a positive fiscal impact on provincial budget through cost savings from
 subsidies and transfer payments. Inaddition, by raisingthe value of marketable farm production output, the
 project i s expectedto have a positive impact through increasedagriculturaltax revenues.




                                                       - 1 5 -

The major fiscal benefits would come from agricultural taxes, as a result o f higher yields and
diversification of production. Taxes vary according to crops and products. For rice, cotton and vegetables,
agricultural taxes depend on cropping area, therefore increases in yields would not affect the amount of
taxes paidby farmers. Only changes in cropping pattern would have an impact. The situation is similar for
oil crops. For other products, taxes vary according to value o f production. With the changes in cropping
pattern assumed under the base scenario, the increase in sales of these products would generate an
additional RMB 15.06 million o f agricultural taxes over the project period. This impact would be
considerably larger, ifthe on-going tax-for-fee reforms are fully adopted inJiangxi.

3. Technical:
General, Technical challenges o f the project vary among components. As a general principle, technical
requirements used under the project will conform with or complement Chinese standards. The project will
ensure fill implementation o f these generally high standards through its design and institutional set-up,
various check and control measures, and its monitoring and evaluation system. In addition, the project
would attempt to improve techniques and technical standards through experiences gained during
implementation and specific TA. Technically, the main challenge o f the project is to retain its flexible
approach that enables quick adjustments in the detailed design to adjust to changing markets.            The
flexibility has been integrated into the project design and its implementation guidelines. In addition, the
Bank will carry out regular reviews in order to make structural changes inthe project possible.

Irrigation and Drainage. The technical standards used inthe planning and design o f infrastructure works
include: (i)assured irrigation in 4 out o f 5 years (80% irrigation assurance); (ii)sufficient drainage for
evacuation o f 24-hr storm water with 10% probability o f occurrence (1 in 10 years) within 24 hrs; (iii)
Class IV Road Standards for access roads and lesser standards for farm roads; and (iv) national technical
standards for dams. The design and supervision of works will be carried out by a qualified engineering
firm and quality will be controlled by an independent design institute. (Section G (2.6.).
The national level legal framework for SIDD implementation is inplace, and still evolving. At local levels,
there are still remaining issues to be addressed in terms o f how exactly to implement the various activities
 involved. The project will have to take a flexible approach in order to promote and support this process.
 Jiangxi Provincial Govemment has demonstrated great commitment in facilitating this process. The PLG
 will be instrumental inthis regard. The SIDD Manual provides guidance inthese issues.

 Farm Production Improvement. Detailed technical standards have been included inthe P I M (e.g. the use
 only of Grade 1 seed and seedlings, meeting recognized land quality standards for soil improvement -
 manure, straw inputs, and, where possible, basing fertilizer rates on soil testing and known standards for
 optimal plant requirements.) A Pest Management Plan (PMP) has beenprepared and will be implemented
 to ensure the technical requirement of integratedpest management. (Section GE.2.)

 Market System Development. The majority o f implementation standards under this Component are
 financial and institutional, which have been included in the implementation manual. Technical standards
 for the physical markets have been developed and included inthe PIM.

 The legal framework for farmers' associations in China is still very rudimentary. They are currently
 covered as social organizations with limited legal status. The project will take a flexible approach in order
 to promote and support firther progress in this area. Additional work on farmers' associations i s ongoing
 jointly with the Bank and the Development Research Center under the State Council. The project will
 closely follow recommendations from this study once available.




                                                     - 16-

4. Institutional:
General, Overall, Bank-financed projects in China have had a good implementation record. Areas to
improve, per lessons leamed from other Bank financed rural development projects and in recent Bank
Quality Assurance Group (QAG) reviews include: (i)monitoring and evaluation; (ii)          procurement; (iii)
financial management; and (iv) provision o f counterpart funding. These areas o f improvement have been
addressed in the design o f the project.
Project InstitutionalArrangements. The project's institutional and implementation arrangements are
standard and well tried out to most Chinese projects. Based on experience, it is anticipated that project
management (PLG and PMOs) will have to pay particular attention to coordination among line agencies
and adequacy o f management funds at line agencies.
4.1 Executingagencies:
The execution of the various project activities involve a large number o f bureaus and departments and
require close collaboration and strong support of the key line agencies. For instance, the Water Resources
Department will take substantial responsibility for executing the activities under the Irrigation and
Drainage Component, and the Agricultural Department for those under the Farm Production Improvement
Component, etc. Several o f the province's line agencies have been involved in implementation of other
Bank-supported projects and are technically strong. However, coordination among these agencies has
proved to be a pertinacious issue in project execution. This risk is mitigated by that the PMOs are located
inthe PlanningCommissionand that the overall management ofthe project is guidedbyhighlevelPLGs at
various government levels. Cooperation (work) agreements will be completed between the PMOs and the
line bureaus and adequate managementfunding will beprovided to the line bureaus (Section G C.5.).
4.2 Project management:
Keys in project management are the PLG, PMOs, TAGs and the Investment Committee. The PLG at the
provincial level i s headed by Govemor of Jiangxi, which ensures highest level support for the project.
Deputy heads o f the groups are the Directors o f the Provincial Planning Commission and the Provincial
Financial Department. Other group members include high ranking representation from the other relevant
line departments. Based on experience from other rural development projects, the full attention o f PLGs is
key for smooth project implementation.

While the PMOs are in place and active, their capacity will be further strengthened during implementation
o f the project. PMO staff at all levels will receive specific training in project management (e.g. financial
management, procurement, disbursement, monitoring, PRA methodology) in order to better meet the
demands of the integrated approach o f the project. For the TAGs and the Investment Committee to be
effective, it is necessary that their members are well recognized and experienced individuals. Also, it is
imperative the adequate beneficiary representation is included (private sector and farmer households). The
Bank will continuously review the effectiveness of these groups.

4.3 Procurement issues:
(See Annex 6)

 Country Procurement Assessment Report. Issues identified in the Country Procurement Assessment
 Report (July 7, 1997) have been basically resolved or significantly diminished. All procurement under the
 Bank financed projects in China has been governed by the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
 Loans and IDA Credits and Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank


                                                    - 17-

Borrowers, The Bank approved Chinese Model Bidding Documents for procurement of goods and works
under International Competitive Bidding(ICB) andNational Competitive Bidding(NCB) proceduresare in
mandatory use for all Bank financed projects.

ChineseBiddingLaw and Local ProcurementRegulations. The Law on Tenderingand Biddingof the
People's Republic of China became effective on January 1,2000 ensuring sound proceduresto be followed
inprocurement and codifying the duties andresponsibilities ofprocurement agencies. Since developmentof
the private sector in China i s still in its early stages, procurement procedures for the private sector and
commercial practices are not documented.
There are some inconsistencies between the Chinese bidding law/local procurement regulations and the
Bank Procurement Guidelines in terms of procedures, in particular for procurement of civil works
contracts. While the nationalprocurement laws and provincial regulations do not apply to the World Bank
financed projects in China as specified in the Chinese BiddingLaw, they may impact Bank projects, Main
issues to pay attention to are: (i)cost estimates are preparedbasedon mandatory but out-of-date norms and
guidelines; (ii) bid preparation (20 days); (iii)bracketing is used for evaluation; (iv) a merit point
                shorter
system (scoring system) i s used for bid evaluation; (v) bidding with less than three bidders can be
cancelled. All these issues have beenaddressed inthe project's legal agreements and through the Ministry of
Finance (MOF) NCB Guidelines which are currently beingprepared with the assistance of the Bank.The
MOF NCB Guidelines will supersede the NCB procedures set out in the Bidding Law and other local
procurement regulations.
Another issue to be paid attention to i s the internal procurement review process, mainly for ICB. The
involvement of the Machinery and Electric Product Import Review Office (MEIRO) of the Ministry o f
ForeignTrade and Economic Cooperation (MOFTEC) inthe review process has been resulting in delays in
the procurement process. MEIRO's function is to review biddingdocuments and bid evaluation reports for
mechanical and electric equipment procurement. The World Bank Office in Beijing has been closely
working with MEIRO and MOFTEC to improve their efficiency of the review processand help them better
understandthe Bank's procurement procedures. However, the central and provincial review processeshave
been incorporated into the preparation of the procurement plan of the proposedproject.

Operational Procurement Review (OPR). An OPR report for China was completed in February, 2003.
The basic conclusion o f the OPR is that, given the large size and complexity of the China portfolio, the
number of issues that constitute intractable barriers to good procurement in the long run is small.
Nonetheless, the problems identified are serious enough to warrant close attentionby both the Bank and the
Government of China.        These include weaknesses in procurement planning, use o f unrealistic cost
estimates, poor technical specifications, incomplete design studies, inadequate procurement and project
management capacity, sub-optimal procurement slicing and packaging, and potential conflicts of interest.
Based on the recommendations made in the OPR ajoint Action Plan will be developed for China, Results
of this actionplan will be incorporated to the extent possible into the project duringimplementation.
Procurement under the Project. Most procurement under the project will involve acquisitions of small
 items and civil works. The procurement would generally follow the procedures of National Competitive
Bidding, Shopping, Small Works, Direct Contracting, Force Account and Community Participation in
 accordance with the Bank's procurement guidelines. Contracts would cover construction o f access roads,
upgrading o f irrigation facilities, on-farm works, farm production establishment, construction of physical
markets and funding for rural enterprises, etc. In accordance with other Bank financed projects in China
 and to assist project implementation agencies in handling the procurement, model procurement documents
have been developed for Small Works, Force Account Works, goods under Shopping procedures, and
 Community-Based Procurement procedures. A Procurement Management Manual, and a procurement plan
 have been drafted with the objective to provide detailed procedures for PMO staff to follow, minimize



                                                      - 1 8 -

procurement delays and cost overruns. TA under the project will require various levels of consulting
services and will follow the Bank's procurement guidelines for consulting services. The Bank's standard
procurement covenants are included in the legal agreements. (See Section GA.6.)
Procurement Management Capacity. Lessons learned from previous Bank financed rural development
projects in China demonstrate a variety of potential procurement problems. E.g. unless the quality of the
designated staff and the filing and management system i s adequate, the procurement of agricultural inputs
might lead to substantial delays and, since agriculture is dependent on season and weather, to substantial
implementation problems. However, the PPMO has experience with Bank procurement from the Jiangxi
Agricultural Development Project and the Yangtze Flood Emergency Project. Review of past experience
has shown that procurement in general has been implemented quite well in term of advertising, bidding
documents, bid evaluation, contract award and contract execution. An assessment of the procurement
capacity of the various levels of PMOSwas carried out during preparation (October 2001, updated in
March 2003 and July 2003) in accordance with Bank's requirements identified no significant procurement
problems. Potential weaknesses in procurement management identified during this assessment, and
recommended actions are describedinAnnex 6.
4.4 Financial management issues:
Country Financial Accountability. In general, China is in good compliance with the Bank's financial
managementpolicies and procedures. Challenges exists inthe areas of internal financial control procedures,
the reporting system, and staffing. A formal country financial accountability assessment (CFAA) has never
been carried in China. However, the Chinese government made substantial improvements in the areas of
public expenditures, accounting and auditing in China. It strongly supports a strong financial management
system in Bank financed projects and has laid the foundation for compliance with Bank policies by issuing
several national laws, including the revised "Accounting Law of the People's Republic of China" and the
"Audit Law of the People's Republic of China."
In 1997, MOF issued a document "Provisional System for Financial Reporting under the World Bank
Financed Project", which specifies the procedures for financial management as well as financial reporting
for all project implementation entities. The establishment of a financial management systemunder all Bank
financed projects i s now standard practice. Simplifiedfinancial reports have beenagreedupon by the Bank
and the government and have been used for all Bank financed projects in China appraised after July 1,
 1998. In addition, MOF issued "The Regulation on Accounting and Reporting for the World Bank
Financed Project in China" in early 2000. These regulations were jointly prepared by the Bank and the
government. Project accounting and reporting software developed for Bank-financed projects in China is
also available.
Project Audits. Auditingquality inBank financed projects inChina has improvedsignificantly and isnow
quite satisfactory. Audits have, on occasion, reveal cases of misused project funds, thus enabling the Bank
to address financial management issues at project level more forcefully. No outstanding audits or audit
issues exist with implementing agencies involved inthe proposed project. Jiangxi Provincial Audit Bureau
has been identified as the auditor for the project. This provincial level agency and its local chapters will
 cany out the audit fieldwork. The audit reports will be issued by the provincial audit bureau under the
 guidance and supervision of the China National Audit Office. In addition, the intemal audit department
 already establishedinthe provincial finance bureau will provide intemal audit function for the project. (See
Section GA.2.)
 Financial Control and Accountability. The availability of timely and reliable financial information is
 essential in enabling monitoring of the project's progress toward its objectives. The financial management
 capacity o f the implementing agencies of the project has already been strengthened during project
 preparation and would be further increased through specialized training at the start of the project. The


                                                     -19-

provincial audit bureau has been actively involved in the preparation of the project and assisted in the
design of the financial control and accountability system. The provincialaudit bureau will continue to play
an important role duringimplementation of the project.
An assessment o f the financial managementsystemand its capacity was carried out inNovember 2001and
updated in December 2002 per requirements of the Bank's OP 10.02. The assessment revealed no major
weaknesses and concludes that the financial management system under the project will be adequate to
provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information on the status of the project in the
reporting format agreed with the Bank.        Summary of this assessment and recommended actions are
described in Annex 6. The record and accounts keeping is covenanted in the legal agreements (see Section
GA.1)
Choice of IBRD Loan Instrument. MOF would on-lend IBRD funds to Jiangxi Province on the same
terms as the IBRD Loan to the Borrower. Jiangxi together with MOF has chosen the standard
US$-denominated variable-spread loan as the IBRD loan instrument (see LA, Art.       Io.The reasons for this
choice are this instrument's lower interest and administrative costs.

On-Lending Arrangements, Flow of Funds (including Counterpart Funds) and Loan Repayment.
On-lending agreements would be signed between the various Government levels of the Province, i.e.
Provincial Finance Bureau, Prefecture Finance Bureaus, and County Finance Bureaus. Either the county
finance bureaus or rural finance institutes, e.g. RCCs, would act as financial agents. Repayment for goods
and services of public nature would be made by the government at the county level or, in case of
province-wide benefits of such goods, at the provincial level. The financial responsibility for project
activities which are of private nature, would be passed on to individual beneficiaries (enterprises and
households) under varying on-lending terms for different project activities.          The following general
guidelines have beenagreedupon: (1) loans will be denominated inlocal currency and no foreign exchange
risk would be handed down to the final beneficiaries. Theforeign exchange risk would be borne by the
Province (see Section G A.3.); (2) the interest rate of the loans would be fixed at the time of contract
signing and cannot be changed over the course of the repayment period; (3) the cost of a loan is expressed
in terms of one uniform interest rate, Le. any other costs (fees and charges) have to be converted into a
mark-up o f the interest rate; (4) the maturity of sub loans will depend on the repayment capacity of the
borrower and the returns from the investments. The detailed onlending terms and conditions are
summarized in Table I below and have been specified in the PIM and component implementation
manuals (see Section G A.3.).       Water charges will be used to recover operations and maintenance
(O&M) andpart of the loan (see Section GA.5).
Commonly, Bank financed rural development projects in China experience serious delays in the provision
o f counterpart funding hindering timely project implementation. The participating counties' financial
situation and ability to provide counterpart funds has been assessed and will be closely monitored by the
Provincial Finance Bureau. The overall counterpart find requirement for the project i s about 1/3 of the
total project funding. Detailsfor sources of funds for the various activities have been agreed upon and
are included in the PIM. Repaid loans that have not yet fallen for repayment by the counties to the
province would be used for similar activities to the project (see Section G A.4.). To facilitate the
monitoring o f counterpart fundprovision, a computerized financial monitoring system will be active before
the project will start disbursing. In particular, this system will provide accurate information regarding the
timing o f the need for counterpart funds. As the implementation o f the project will involve very large
numbers of loan agreements between County Financial Bureaus andbeneficiaries, the M I S will also include
a loan tracking module. This would allow for sound control of the recovery of the loans.




                                                      - 20 -

Table 1. OnlendingTenns and Conditions


                                                                     Repaymnt
                                                 County                (grace;       Repaymnt    Interest
                              Prov.    Pref.    (&below)    (YO)     maturity)        Sched.     rate (YO)
Irrigation and Drainage

Damsafety review (and
rehabilitation,ifneeded)       20
Rehabilitationand
expansionof existing
irrigation areas, idaccess
Primaryandsecondary
dikes

Rehabilitationand
expansionof existing
irrigation areas, incl.access
Tertiary dikes                  0


Training andestablishment
of WUAs andWSOs                10




     rovementloans




IFarmersgroups TA                                  30                              I            I         I
 * grantsto thebeneficiaries(enterprises,leadinghouseholds,markets) which are reimbursableby IBRDand
 repayableby Government




                                                           -21 -

5. Environmental:                          Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessmentand EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) andthe significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
EnvironmentalImpact Assessment. An environmental impact assessment (EIA) o f the project has been
carried out in parallel with project preparation. The EIA has: (a) screened the project to the most
appropriate review and approval option; (b) established a reliable environmental baseline against which to
measure future change; (c) established environmental objectives, standards and performance indicators; (d)
identified additional environmental project design features; (e) identified benefits and residual impacts or
risks (i.e. those that cannot be avoided or mitigated); (f) developed an environmental monitoring and
mitigation plan with a schedule and triggers for action; and (g) provided guidance to more detailed planning
and implementation. (See also Annex 12)

Anticipated EnvironmentalImpacts. The environmental analysis of the project indicates that it would
have no major direct negative impact on the natural environment. The overall objective and design o f the
project suggest that the net environmental impact o f the project, if successfully implemented, will be
positive and that any negative environmental effects will not be irreversible or long-term.

The project would bring environmental benefits, through a more efficient use o f natural resources. The
rehabilitation and institutional reform o f existing irrigation and drainage schemes would lead to more
efficient use o f water, which would reduce incidents o f water logging and salinity threat. Other positive
impacts are expected through the farm production improvement and marketing components, which would
address issues like soil erosion, soil fertility, nutrient leaching, and promote environmentally sustainable
agricultural production (including Integrated Pest Management) and marketing practices. The project, in
general, will have a positive impact on the socio-economic conditions o f the farming communities by
improving their livelihood through increased purchasing power.

The most substantial negative environmental effects o f the project can be expected from a more intensive
agricultural production, which might involve higher use o f fertilizer andpesticides. The project inits design
will put strong emphasis on mitigating these effects by introducingmore efficient application techniques to
farmers. Most importantly, the project would support integrated pest management (IPM), including: (a)
managing pests (keeping them below economically damaging levels) rather than seeking to eradicate them;
(b) relying, to the extent possible, on non-chemical measures to keep pest populations low; and (c) selecting
and applying pesticides, when they have to be used, in a way that minimizes adverse effects on beneficial
organisms, humans, and the environment. Other potential negative impacts include a possible increase in
the incidents o f schistosomiasis within the project counties in the perimeter o f the Poyang Lake and
Yangtze River, and to a much smaller scale, noise or pollution o f construction sites, increased
transportation under the project, and increased waste disposal on agriculturalproduct markets.

 5.2 What are the main features o f the EMP and are they adequate?
To prevent or reduce the adverse direct andindirect environmental impact ofthe project as identified inthe
 EIA report, an Environmental Management Plan (EMP) has been developed to provide a plan to
 implement the identified monitoring and mitigation measures. The EMP also provides a budget estimate,
 manpower needs and trainingkapacity building requirements in order to ensure efficient implementation
 of the EMP. For activities under the Market Systems Development Component not yet designed in detail,
 the EIA and EMP spells out detailed environmental assessment procedures to be followed prior to
 clearance of such activities (see Section GE.I.)




                                                       - 22 -

The Environmental Management Plan (EMP), developed as part of the EIA, is based on the highest
standards of the Government of China. The content i s consistent with the corresponding Bank policies and
includes: (i)recommendation of feasible and cost-effective measures to prevent or reduce significant
negative environmental impacts to acceptable levels, including proposed work programs, budget estimates,
schedules, staffing and training requirements, and other necessary support services to implement the
mitigating measures; (ii)identification of the needs of institutions to implement environmental assessment
recommendations, including staffing, authority and capability, organization and management, and
knowledge and experience on environmental issues; and (iii)      preparation of detailed arrangements for the
monitoring of implementing mitigating measures and the impacts of the project during construction and
operation. A detailed training program for all people involved in the environmental monitoring and
mitigation program, including environmental inspectors and other county and provincial level
environmental staff has beenpreparedand budgetedinthe EMP.

5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
                      Date of receipt of final draft: 11/12/2001
The project has been categorized in Environmental Risk Category B and Safeguards Risk Category S2.
The ratings were given on the basis that the project only involves works in existing schemes and mainly
involves rehabilitation of these works. This category i s consistentwith guidance given in GP 4.01 Annex
l(b) and is consistent with recent practice in the East Asia Region on projects of similar scope. Adverse
impacts, if any, are expected to be localized. Environmental issues which may be encounteredunder the
project can be managed with knownmitigationmeasureswhich are defined inthe EMP.
The EIA has been carried out by a local institute (Jiangxi Provincial Environmental Protection Research
Institute) who is certified to undertake environmental impact assessments according to Chinese regulations.
A Bank contracted consultant worked closely with the EIA team to advise them in their work. The EIA
work is fully in line with the highlyparticipatory preparationapproach of the project.

An inception report including a detailed work plan and outline of the EIA report was prepared and
submitted to the PPMO and the Bank before any work started. A first draft of the EIA was completed in
mid-September 2001 and submitted to the Bank for review. It was distributed to all project-affected groups
and other key stakeholders (as identified by the Social Assessment team) to be used as an element and
background for project appraisal. A final EIA report, which takes into account the feedback from all
stakeholders, was submitted and reviewed in December 2001. The EIA has been disclosed through the
Bank's InfoShop and by the Borrower inJiangxi.
5.4 How have stakeholdersbeenconsulted at the stage of (a) environmental screeningand (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposedenvironment managementplan? Describe mechanisms
o f consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Inorder to seek local support, to increasetransparencyand accountability to the public, to reachconsensus
with various stakeholders, and to enhance ownership of the environmental management and the project,
participation of beneficiaries and other stakeholders was of crucial importance in the environmental
assessment process.
Inorder to keep all beneficiaries informed, the EIA Terms of Reference (TOR) were sent to the libraries
withinthe affected communities for review and comment by the interestedparties. Noticeswere issuedand
were put up on notice boards. Newsmedia including local newspapers, television and radio were also used
extensively to inform all beneficiaries and potentially affected people within the areas of project impact
about the plannedenvironmental study, and their inputwas sought actively.




                                                       - 23 -

A separate Beneficiary Participation Manual was prepared in close cooperation with the EIA (see 6.2
below) and established the means and mechanisms by which project beneficiaries would participate in a
meaninghl way in project implementation. All consultations were appropriately recorded. Training and
capacity building are proposed as part of the project to enhance the Borrower's ability to implement the
project in a participatory manner.

5.5 What mechanisms have been establishedto monitor and evaluatethe impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?

Monitoring is      an important part of the environmental assessment process throughout project
implementation. Detailedarrangements(including costing) for monitoring the impacts of the project during
construction and operation and implementation of any mitigating measures has been preparedas part of the
EMP in the EIA report. Training and institutional strengthening will ensure that environmental monitoring
will be carried out with participationof all stakeholders inthe project. Environmental monitoring indicators
are included in the regular monitoring reporting such that they fully reflect and follow the objectives of the
EMP. All environmental inspectors and county level environmental staff will be trained as part of the
training programs identified in the EMP on identification of project enviroiunental monitoring indicators
and triggering points

6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Social Assessment. The Social Assessment (SA) of the proposed project is a continuing process that is
focusing on issues that directly and indirectly impact the key stakeholders in the project. The range of
issues that were addressed by the SA include, but are not limited to: (a) affordability concerns; (b) land
security; (c) inclusion; (d) access to employment, credit, irrigated water, and land; and (e) social cohesion
and community decision-making. (See also Annex 11). In addition, a structured statistical baseline survey
was carried out to assess the socio-economic situation of the targeted populations. The following
summarizes the key social issues relevant to the objectives of the project, which were identifiedby the SA,
and specifies the project's social development outcomes.

Socio-Economic Situation of Project Beneficiaries. The majority o f the directly targetedbeneficiaries of
the project are farm householdswhich farm inpoorly irrigatedand drained areas andare primarily from the
poorer strata o f rural society. Their subsistence depends to a high degree on rice and other food produced
on the approximately one mu o f land they have per household member. Crop production is frequently
complemented by animal husbandry activities such as raising pigs or chickens, and off-farm employment
adds significantly to household income.

The availability o f effective drainage and irrigation i s of crucial importance for the livelihood of these
families, since it enables them to grow a second or even third crop, to reach higher yields, and to become
engaged inthe production of higher-value (cash) crops.
Other beneficiaries and stakeholdersinclude: (i)   farm households inother areas of the project counties who
could benefit from the market system development, training, extension, and other project activities; (ii)
employees, managers and owners of agro-enterprises; (iii) parts of the population (consumers of food
                                                            other
products); and (iv) government officials and employees inthe project counties.




                                                     - 24 -

Religious and Linguistic Composition. Followers of Chinese folk religion-that        amalgam of Buddhism,
Taoism and ancestor reverence-are       prevalent among the population in the project areas. A small minority
i s Christian. The project areas in the north and central parts of Jiangxi speak the Gan ldialect of Chinese,
while most o f those inthe southernproject counties speak Hakka, another Han Chinese dialect.

Ethnic Composition. Over 99% of all residents in the directly affected project areas are of Han
nationality; only small numbers of the She, Yao, Li, and Huiminorities are resident there. The She, mostly
recent migrants from Zhejiang Province to the east of Jiangxi, live fairly dispersed throughout the project
areas, and are basically acculturated to Han pattems. The Yao are mostly concentrated in the southeast of
Jiangxi province, in the counties adjacent to Guangdong, and have maintained both their residential
segregation and their Yao cultural distinctiveness. There is one significant Yao village in the project area,
"Yaoshan," where the local Yao are mainly engaged in hunting, timber felling, com, potato and taro
planting and the collection of mountain forest products. The proposed project is paying particular attention
to this village in its design by allocating funds for infrastructure and small-scale loans and by providing
additional support with the help o f the Women's Federation.

Social Structure in Villages, Historically, clan organizations were ubiquitous in rural communities of
Jiangxi. Today, the project areas can be classified into three types in terms of their social structure: (i)
                                                                                                           in
accord with marriage relations; (ii) village organization; and (iii) degree of clan influence on
                                       internal                               the
community affairs. In some areas, the clan elders are the key decision-makers, while in other areas, local
entrepreneursor local cadre are equally important, ifnot more so. The project villages have been classified
according to social structure to facilitate beneficiary participationinproject implementation.

Level of Education and Health Services. As elsewhere in China, all levels of governments are trying to
achieve universal elementary school enrollment. Nevertheless, mainly for financial reasons, some problems
o f low enrollment rates and highdrop-out rates inbothjunior and senior high schools remain. Medical and
public health institutions and villagers' access to medical treatment are of overall satisfactory quality.
However, some medical apparati are outdated and women report severe gynecological problems. Most
importantly, fees for health services are often not affordable by farmers and other rural dwellers.

Status of Women. The status of women in Jiangxi has improved considerably over the last decades.
Today, most women actively participate in decision-making on major family matters. However, inequalities
still exist. Women are generally less well educated than menand work inrelatively low-paid positions. Due
to seasonal out-migration of middle-aged men and younger (both male and female) workers, many farm
households are headed by women and a large share of the farm work is carried out by women. This
feminization o f agriculture in Jiangxi means that women make up a very large part of the targeted
beneficiaries o f the project.

Attitude Towards Project. Through Participatory Rural Appraisals (PRAs), fanners and other key
stakeholders have shaped the project from the concept stage onwards. The integrated nature o f the project
with a strong emphasis on irrigation and drainage infrastructure reflects the preferences o f the great
majority of farmers. The participatory approach of the project throughout preparation and implementation
will contribute to improvedproject managementand to addressingremaining concerns such as assuringthe
equity of the loan distribution process and the integrity of the financial administration of the project by
 local authorities, as well as operating and maintaining irrigation and drainage areas at a consistently high
level of delivery.

 Social Development Outcomes. The project aims at improving the social situation in the villages and
townships by increasing farmer households' access to infrastructure, information and training resources, by
 increasing their participation inpreparation, implementationand operation and maintenance o f investments,
 by mitigating social tensions between farmers and local officials, and by improving the status o fwomen.



                                                      - 25 -

6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholdersparticipatinginthe project?
General. The "bottom-up" approach of the project was initiated through PRAs carried out in July 1999.
Duringlater preparation, another roundof PRAs were carried out as an integralpart of a SA process.This
approacho f SA will continue during implementation.
Beneficiary Participation Manual.        The nature of the project requires close involvement of the
beneficiaries in the detailed design of the various project activities. In order to "streamline" beneficiary
participation, a Beneficiary Participation Manual (BPM) has been prepared (Section G 0.3.). The
purpose of the BPM is to describe in detail and formalize the consultation and participation process with
affected and beneficiary groups. As such, it is a strategy for allowing stakeholders to influence and share
control over the decisions and resources that affect them. The BPM is viewed as a working document that
i s modified to reflect any changes in the project andor in the economic and social conditions. The BPM:
(1) identifies the project's main stakeholder groups (beneficiaries in general, women in particular,
government leaders, academicians, and any other groups that would be affected by the project (2);
summarizesthe types o f activities project householdsand affected groups are involved in at differentpoints
inthe project life cycle for each ofthe components; (3) describes the extent ofparticipationbyhouseholds
and affected groups, and (4) the forum and means for participation. The lowest level of participationwill
take place at the village community level where the beneficiaries will select the household FarmProduction
Improvement activities through PRAs.        The procurement and monitoring of the activities would be
community basedas well.

6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
The project is actively promoting the formation of farmer's organizations which through their active
involvement in project implementation would increase project impact and sustainability. Under the
Irrigation and Drainage Component, WUAs will be established. Farmers will: (i)participate in finalizing
irrigation and drainage scheme layouts, including on-farm systems; (ii)contribute to irrigation investment;
(iii)participate in construction; (iv) pay water charges; and (v) be responsible for operating and
maintaining on-farm irrigation and drainage facilities. In addition, it is anticipated that such groups would
expand their activities beyond irrigation and drainage to other closely related economic areas. Reservoir
management bureaus and township water conservancy stations responsible for operation and maintenance
of existing irrigation areas would also be involved in the implementation of irrigation sub-projects, and
their functions and responsibilities will be re-oriented as WSOs. Their capacity and capability would be
 strengthenedto carry out the functions and responsibilities of WSOs.
The projectwill also support andpromote farmer productionand marketing groups. Inorder to improve the
project's targeting of women and female-headed households, the project works with the provincial-level
Women's Federation. Under a Women Development Sub-component, women in local Women's Federation
branchesget training infacilitating women's access to project activities.

 6.4 What institutionalarrangementshave been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
 development outcomes?
 As the project has been designed with a community-driven focus, the institutional arrangementsto ensure
 that the project achieves its social development outcomes are incorporated into the project design. The
 main tool to ensure this i s the BPM. Targeted project activities such as the Women Farmer and Ethnic
 Minority Development activities have beendesignedto generateincreasedsocial development outcome.



                                                    - 26 -

6.5 How will the project monitor performance interms of social development outcomes?
Just as for the environment, monitoring o f social performance is an important part of the social assessment
process throughout project implementation. Detailedarrangementsfor monitoring the social impacts of the
project have been prepared as part of the SA process and includedin the SA report and will be part of the
regular monitoring reports.
A quantitative/qualitative baseline survey has beenprepared for monitoring purposes. Continuos follow-up
monitoring of the baseline survey households will be carried out by an independent local institute in
cooperation with project beneficiaries.

In addition, the BPM establishes a feedback mechanism that allows project beneficiaries to influence the
implementation o f the project. Implementation arrangements of the project are designed in such a way that
it can easily respond to ongoing monitoring and evaluation findings. The BPM has also established
information dissemination mechanisms(inthe context of a Project Communication Strategy) through which
stakeholders can receive continuous information on the projects social impact.

7. SafeguardPolicies:




    Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                               0Yes 0No
    Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                                0Yes 0No
    Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                  0 Yes 0     NO
     Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                             0 Yes 0     NO
     IndigenousPeoples (OD 4.20)                                               0 Yes 0No
     Involuntarv Resettlement(OP/BP 4.12)                                      0 Yes 0No
     Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                         0Yes 0No
     Projects in InternationalWaters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)               0Yes 0No


7.2 Describe provisions madeby the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguardpolicies.
EnvironmentalAssessment: see Section 5 above.

Natural Habitats. Final sub-project designs will be amended to prevent any impacts on natural reserves
and will be reviewed by the Bank prior to implementation. No project works will take place in natural
reserves or within bufferingzones of natural reserves.The detailed designs for project activities will be such
that natural habitats will not be impacted. Procedures for environmental reviews for final plans have
been developed in the EMP (see Section GE.I.)
Pest Management. One potential negative impact o f the project could be expected from a more intensive
 agricultural production that might cause an increase in non-point source pollution through increased usage
o f pesticides. The project would mitigate this by supporting integrated pest management (IPM), including:
 (a) managing pests (keeping them below economically damaging levels) rather than seeking to eradicate
them; (b) relying, to the extent possible, on non-chemical measures to keep pest populations low; and (c)
 selecting and applying pesticides, when they have to be used, in a way that minimizes adverse effects on
beneficial organisms, humans, and the environment. A Pest Management Plan, acceptable to the Bank will
 be implemented (Section GE.2.).




                                                    - 27 -

Cultural Property. At preparation, it was considered that there was a possibility that cultural heritage
could be damaged due to the project, the main threat being the removal o f earth for construction purposes.
For this reason, a Cultural Heritage Desk Study was carried out by the Borrower. Based on the outcome o f
this study, a full Cultural Heritage survey was determined not to be needed for any project county or site.
However, the study will be distributed to all implementing agencies to raise the awareness about risks to
cultural heritage under the project. Moreover, training will be provided to the construction teams for the
rehabilitationand extension o f irrigation and drainage sites to raise their awareness and teach them how to
proceed incase any items with cultural heritage significance are found.

IndigenousPeople. While the number of minoritiesinthe project area isvery small, some She, Li,Huiand
Yao do reside there. Given this situation, a social assessmentwas carried out to learn more about and from
these minorities and to recommend to the Borrower and the Bank as to whether a minorities-targeting
development plan needed to be devised. It was determined that current conditions for the "She" nationality
and the "Yao" nationality warranted such a plan, as the appropriate approach for the application o f OD
4.20 to the project to ensure that indigenous people benefit from project activities and to avoid or mitigate
potentially adverse effects on indigenous people caused by project activities. The Multi-Nationalities
Development (MNDP), which: (i) identifies and describes the minority population in the project areas;
(ii) specijes the development requirements for minorities in project implementation, wasprepared and is
part of the overall implementation plan of theproject (Section GE.4.)       .
Involuntary Resettlement. Some project activities such as construction o f roads, canals, and market
places might make unavoidable the permanent or temporary acquisition o f land that is used by individual
farm households or communities. Although at the time o f project appraisal no such land acquisition (or any
kind of involuntary resettlement) was identified, a Land Acquisition Framework has been prepared incase
such resettlement or land acquisition would occur during project implementation. This Framework is part
the overall implementation plan of theproject (Section GE.3.)

Safety of Dams. Only rehabilitation o f existing reservoirs will be hnded under the project. However,
about three-quarters o f the irrigation districts tentatively included for rehabilitation and construction under
the project are served by reservoirs. According to Chinese national regulations relating to dam safety and
consistent with World Bank guidelines on Dam Safety, existing dams serving irrigation areas which will be
rehabilitated under the project would be subject to safety review in accordance with procedures acceptable
to the Bank if such dams exceed 15 meters inheight or other dams subject to dam safety review for safety
concerns. Furthermore, other dams o f more than 10 meters in height and with a reservoir storage capacity
o f 1 million cubic meters or more are also subject to Dam Safety Review Guidelines. Finally, all other
dams will be subject to regular inspections. The dam safety reviews, and strengthening o f dams where
necessary, wouldbe financed, on top o f project financing, by various sources o f government funds. Safety
reviews shall be carried out prior to any irrigation rehabilitation and construction. Jiangxi Province has
good knowledge and capacity in implementing project in accordance with OP 4.37. Jiangxi has had a
number o f projects including large-scale irrigation works that have triggered the policy. A Dam Safety
Review Management Plan for the project has been prepared and is part of the overall implementation
plan of theproject (see Section GE.5.)
Disclosure. The EIA, MNDP, and Land Acquisition Framework have been disclosed through the Bank's
InfoShop and by the Borrower inJiangxi.




                                                       - 28 -

F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The overall success of the project depends upon a continuing stable macro-economic environment and the
Government's political commitment to private sector development. Whereas continuing liberalization of
markets and internationaltrade are critical in terms of China's WTO membership, possible devaluation of
local currency may hinder the borrower's ability serve its loan obligations. On the other hand, future
liberalization of financial markets (e.g. commercial interest rates) may improve farmers' and agricultural
producers' access to credit resources.

Three main factors are critical to project sustainability. First, institutional sustainability is important, and i s
being pursued by building consensus on the project design among a wide range of stakeholders and
adopting a participatory process. Most o f the implementing institutions are at the local level and only
strong participation o f all stakeholders during planning and implementation can bring long-term
sustainability to project investments.
Second, selection o f irrigation areas would be based on economic incentives for farmers to participate. The
selection o f irrigation sites would be based on the potential for increased crop yield and potential of
production of higher-value products arising from reliable water supply and better maintenance. Only those
areas would be selectedwhere the incremental value of farm output are greater than the costs for farmers to
participate inW A S ,basedon existing farm productionsystems.
Third, a high level o f ownership of the planning and implementation process by project beneficiaries is
critical for the project success. For example, the sustainability of the investments into productive
infrastructure (e.g. irrigation, drainage, etc.) depend upon the functioning of the relevant resource users'
associations, being able to generate revenues for operation and maintenance and organize members to
contribute labor. Implementation of project investments and activities will thus go inparallel with capacity
building at the local level through a participatory approach. Particular attention would be paid to putting
inplace practical arrangements for operation and maintenance (O&M), and in this context, supporting the
beneficiaries inbuildingcapacity to take on this responsibility.




                                                     - 29 -

2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure o f critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
                                                   Risk Rating                 Risk Mitigation Measure

                                                         N          Traininghapacity buildingto achieve integrated
not leadto improved product quality and                             approach of ag. dev., includingbetter ag.
higheragricultural value added.                                     technology, differentvarieties, and marketing.
Lack o f participationof farmers inW A S                 M          Implementation of IrrigationComponent i s
and positive collaborationbetweenWSOs                               basedon participationby farmers; TNtraining
                                                                    for stakeholders; political support from PLGs.
Legislation supportive of SIDD                           N          National-level legislation advanced; strong
                                                                    provincial support for SIDD and project.
Low adoption rate o fnew technologies                    N          Techn. packagesconsistent with farmers' skill
and technical packagesby farmers.                                   leveldneeds; trainingiextension to build
                                                                    confidence innew prod. techniques/activities.
Availability and quality of technical                    M          Strengthenedservice provisionby public
assistance and extension services                                   agencies through establishmentof links between
continues to be limited                                             centers of technical expertise at all levels.
Farmers may not be able to pay back the                  N          Appropriate cost-benefit criteria for
                                                                    establishedactivities; training to private&public
                                                                    sector agents to ensure financial feasibility.
From Components to Outputs
Lack o f timely and sufficient availability              S          Commitment from provinciaYloca1govemments
of counterpart fundingat (central,)                                 to contribute resourceshave been obtained;
provincial and local levels.                                        detailed arrangementsfor allocationand
                                                                    channeling of funds ina timely manner to
                                                                    implementation entities are specified.
Unqualified staffwould be appointed to                   M          Close involvement of project staff during projec
implementproject activities.                                        prep.; capacity buildingprior to project start-up
                                                                    training/TA during implementation.
Procurement delays and cost overruns,                    M          Realistic PIM; adequate attention to project
inadequateproject management                                        managementorganizations; execution of strict
capability, contractor weakness, excessive                          pre-qualificationcriteria for civil works
contractual claims.                                                 contracts.
Overall Risk Rating                                      M
Risk Rating H (High Risk), S (Substantial Ris I, M (Modest Risk), I [Negligibleor Low Risk)
            -

3. PossibleControversialAspects:
The participatory approach of the project and the handing-over of responsibilities to W A S ,WSOs and
other grass-roots organization i s potentially controversial at the local level. However, most officials
recognize that this approach is in line with national policies and will improve the situation for the local
rural areas as a whole.




                                                        -30 -

G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
Standard Conditions

2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]

A. Procurement and Financial Covenants
         A.1.    Records and Accounts.      Project will maintain adequate project records and accounts,
including with respect to withdrawals made on the basis of statements of expenditures. (PA Article 111,
3.01.(a), LA, Article IV, Section 4.01,, (a)(g-(iig).
         A.2.    Audits. Jiangxi shall have annual audits of the province's and all project counties project
accounts (including Special Account) by independent auditors (this excludes county-level audit bureaus)
basedon terms o f reference acceptable to the Bank. (PA Article 111,3.01.(b), LA, Article IV, Section 4.01.,
(b)(i)-(iii)).
         A.3,    OmLending Arrangements for Beneficiaries. Onlending arrangements for beneficiaries
shall take place according to the Project Implementation Manual and various project implementation
manuals, The foreign exchange risk would be bornby the Province. (PA, Schedule 2, B, 6(a)-@), 8, 9, 11,
12, 14.
          A.4.   Sources of Funds. Details for sources of funds for the various activities have been agreed
upon and are included in the PIM. Repaid loans that have not yet fallen for repayment by the counties to
the province would be usedfor activities similar to those of the project. (PA, Schedule 2, B, 14(d)).
          AS.    Water Charges. Water charges shall be collected and used to recover operations and
maintenance and part of the sub-loan. Water charges shall be reviewed at regular intervals. (PA, Schedule
2, B, lO(a)-(C)).
          A.6.   Procurement. Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of
Section Iof the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRDLoans and IDA Credits." Consultants' services
shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers." (LA, Article III,Section 3.02, PA, Section 2.02 and Schedule 1).

B. Reportingand Monitoring Covenants
          B.1.   Management Information System. Project will implement and maintain a management
information systemacceptable to the Bank. (PA, Schedule 2, A, 6.).

          B.2.   Proiect Monitoring. Project will implement and maintain adequate policies andprocedures
to enable to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on an ongoing basis, in accordance with
indicators satisfactory to the Bank.     This monitoring includes independent social and environmental
monitoring. (PA Schedule 2, C2 and 3).
          B.3.   Reportina. The PPMO shall prepare and furnishto the Bank semi-annual reports for the
physical, financial, social and environmental aspects of the project inaccordance with outline and terms o f
reference acceptableto the Bank. (PA, Schedule 2, C3).




                                                     -31-

C. ProjectManagementand Coordination
        C.1.     Proiect Leading Groups (PLGs).            Project shall maintain throughout project
implementation, provincial, prefecturekity and county level PLGs in accordance with terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank. (PA, Schedule 2, A, 1(a)-@)).
        C.2.    Proiect Management Office (PMOS).            Project shall maintain throughout project
implementation, provincial, prefecturekity and county level PMOSin accordance with terms of reference
and staffing acceptableto the Bank. (PA, Schedule 2, A, 2(a)-(b)).
        C.3.     Technical Advisory Groups (TAGS). Project shall maintain provincial and county level
TAGS,throughout project implementation, with qualified members under terms of reference acceptable to
the Bank. (PA, Schedule 2, A, 3(a)-(b)).
        C.4.    InvestmentLending Committee. Project shall maintainthroughout project implementation,
an Investment Committee under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank and comprising members with
qualifications acceptable to the Bank. (PA,Schedule 2, A, 4.).
         C.5.    Design and Supervision of Irrigation and Drainage Works. The quality of design and
works will be supervisedby an independentdesign firm or institute. (PA, Schedule 2, A, 5.).

D.Project Implementation
         D.1.    Proiect Imulementation Manual. The project would be implemented in accordance with
the Project Implementation Manual, including Procurement Management Sub-Manual, Community
Procurement Sub-Manual, Financial Management Sub-Manual, Beneficiaries Participation Sub-Manual,
Irrigation and Drainage Sub-Manual, SIDD Sub-Manual, Farm ProductionImprovement Sub-Manual, and
Enterprise Lending Sub-Manual. (PA, Schedule2, B, 6).
         D.2.    Annual Work Plans. PPMO shall prepare in a participatory manner an annual work plans
for the Bank's prior review. (PA, Schedule 2, B, 7(a)-(b)).
         D.3,    Beneficiary Participation. Project shall be implemented according to the Beneficiaries
ParticipationManual agreedupon with the Bank. (PA, Schedule 2, B, 5.).
         D.4.    SIDD Develoument.       Project shall carry out SIDD development in accordance with
national guidelines, and procedures acceptable to the Bank. (PA, Schedule 2, B 9(a)-@)).

         D.5. Market Svstems Development. Project shall implement the market system development
programs for the financial support to agro-enterprises and leading households and for the agricultural
product markets in accordance with the provisions of the enterprise lending sub-manual. Jiangxi shall
prepare, in accordance with guidelines satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later
than December 31,2004, a proposed time-bound action plan for the carrying out of programs to
promote farmer marketing groups and provide support for marketing research, marketing
 information services and promotion of quality standards under Parts C.3 and C.4 o f the Project,
 and thereafter, carry out said action plan as shall have been approved by the Bank. (PA, Schedule 2,
B, 14,15.)

 E.Environmental,SocialandBank'sSafeguardPoliciesRelatedCovenants
         E.1.    Environmental Monitoring and Management Plan.              Jiangxi shall implement an
 Environmental Monitoring and Management Plan, acceptable to the Bank, in a manner satisfactory to the
 Bank. For investment sub-projects o f the Market Systems Development Component, the Project will carry


                                                   - 32 -

out environmental screenings in accordance with guidelines satisfactory to the Bank, and thereafter
incorporate adequate mitigation measures into the relevant sub-project. (PA, Schedule 2, B, l(u)-(Z~)).
         E.2.      Pest Management Plan Jiangxi shall implement an integrated pest management plan
acceptable to the Bank, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. (PA, Schedule 2, B, I(c)).
         E.3.      Resettlement and Land Acquisition. Jiangxi shall carry out the Project in accordance with
the Land Acquisition and Resettlement Framework. (PA, Schedule 2, 5, 2(a)-(4).
         E.4.      Indigenous People.  Jiangxi shall implement the Multi-Nationalities Development Plan
(MNDP), consistent with World Bank Operational Policy for Indigenous People, in a manner satisfactory
to the Bank. Jiangxi shall not amend, waive or modify the provisions of the MNDP without the prior
concurrence of the Bank, and said national minorities communities. The canying out o f the program for the
minority nationality villages under part B.4(b) of the Project will be specified by a time-bound action plan,
acceptable to the Bank and prepared by Jiangxi by December 3 1,2004. (PA, Schedule 2, B, 3(a)-@), 13).
         E.5.      D a m Safetv. Project will be implemented in accordance with the Dam Safety Review
Management Plan, acceptable to the Bank, the Chinese national regulations relating to dam safety, and
 consistent sith 'A'orld Bank Operational Policy for D a m Safety. (PA, Schedule 2, B, 4(a)-@)).

 H. Readiness for Implementation
    1. a) The engineering designdocuments for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
          o f project implementation.
 r? 1. b) Not applicable.

    2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start o f
       project implementation.
    3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
       quality.
 04.Thefollowingitemsarelackingandarediscussedunderloanconditions(SectionG):



 I. Compliance with Bank Policies
    1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
 02.ThefollowingexceptionstoBankpoliciesarerecommendedforapproval. Theprojectcomplieswith



                                                                                        j&2z+
                                                  ~~~~~




                                             M a r k D.Wilson                            YukonHuang
                                             Sector ManagerlDirector                     Country ManagarlDirector




                                                         - 33 -

                                   Annex 1: Project Design Summary
                     CHINA: Jiangxi IntegratedAgricultural ModernizationProject
                                   Key Performance                   Data CollectionStrategy
  Hierarchy of Objectives                indicators                                             C         ssumptio
ISector-related  CAS Goal:     ector Indicators:                 jectorl country reports:      rom Goal to Bank Mission)
 Achieve sustainablegrowth in  verage net income of              'eriodic income, production    0 Govemment will
 rural incomes.                articipatingprojecttownships      ind consumption statistics;      continue to focus on
                               Jmparedwith non-project           md poverty reports reports.      rural development.
                               wnships increasedby end of                                         Agricultural income
                               roject.                                                          0
                                                                                                  generation activities will
                                                                                                  provide significant
                                                                                                  contributions toward
                                                                                                  improving the livelihood
                                                                                                  inrural China.



 Project Development           htcome I impact                                                 ?om Objective to Goal)
                                                                     ~~~
                                                                 ?reject reports:
 Objective:                    idicators:
 To establish integrated,      Iifference between project        Eomprehensive monitoring      0 Stable macro-economic
 economically and              ndnon-project households in md evaluation(M&E)                    environment.
 environmentally sustainable   :rms of:                              reports; baseline and     0 Continued political
 and market driven                0  Growth in on-farm               subsequent household and    commitment to private
 agricultural production             income (%).                     company surveys camed out   sector development.
 systems focusing on              0  Growth infarm output            under the project; and    0 Liberal trade regimes on
 productivity and highquality        value per mu(RMB)               domestic household and      local (county, province)
 agricultural output.             0  Increase o f yield o f          enterprise surveys.         and international level.
                                     crops (t/ha).
                                  0  Product value share o f 3
                                     most important products
                                     as indicator o f
                                     diversification
                                  0  Increase o f volume and
                                     variety of sales o f local
                                     seed companies
 I                                 0 Increase in sales volume
                                     o f local agro-enterprises
 I                                 0 Farmerloan/
                                     agro-enterprise
                                     repayment rate
                                   0 Water fee collection
                                      rates
                                   0  Quality o f irrigated lanc.




                                                             - 34       -

                                                                                                from Outputs to Objective)
                                                                 ~~~~

Atput from each               utput Indicators:               'roject reports:
mponent:
omponent 1: Irrigation          B Number o f constructed            0 Project progress reports. 0  Improved irrigation and
id Drainage: Adequate and         and rehabilitated                  0Bank supervision             drainage systems will lead
stainable irrigation water        irrigation and drainage             missions.                    to increased productivity.
pply and drainage systems.        schemes.                           0Monitoring and             0 Active participation of

                                D Number of constructed               evaluation reports.          farmers in WUAs and
                                  and rehabilitated farm             0Farmer household             positive collaboration
                                  and field roads.                    surveys.                     between WSOs and

                                B Land area with adequate            0ICR.                         W A S .
                                  irrigation and drainage                                        0 Legislation supportive o f
                                  (ha).                                                             SIDD development.
                                  Numberof farm
                                  households benefiting
                                   from reliable irrigation
                                   and drainage systems
                                0  Number o f WSO and
                                   WUA established and
                                   operational.

:omponent2: Farm                0  Number o f households                                          0 Sufficient interest and
roductionImprovement:              benefiting from                                                  willingness for farmers to
icreasing the quantity,            investment funds.                                                adopt new products and
uality and diversity o f farm   0  Number o f women headec                                          production technologies.
roduction.                         households participating                                         Quality technical
                                    inthe project and                                               assistance and extension
                                    receiving funds.                                                available on need.

                                 0  Number o f minority                                           0 Farmerhave capacity to
                                    nationality households                                          repay loan
                                    participating inthe
                                    project and receiving
                                    funds
                                 0  Area o f land receiving
                                    one-time fertilization.
                                 0  Number o f new types anc
                                     varieties o fcrop,
                                 0  Number o f on-farm fish
                                     ponds established
                                 0   Number o f livestock (and
                                     type) purchased
                                 0   Number o f research
                                     proposals submitted,
                                     reviewed, and awarded.
                                 0   Number of onfarm case
                                     studies for applied
                                     research implemented.
                                 0   Number o f demonstratio;
                                     sites established.
                                 0   Numberof farmers
                                     activity centers
                                     established.


                                                            - 35 -

                                Number o f logged
                                technician visits to
                                villages and households.
                                Household satisfaction
                                withtechnicianvisits
                                (wiextension services).
                              0 Number (and man days)
                                o f technicians trained and
                                their degree o f
                                satisfaction with the
                                training.
                              0 Number (and man days)
                                o f farmers trained and
                                their degree of
                                satisfaction with the
                                training.
                              0 Number of public
                                 information campaigns to
                                 educate farmers
                                 (including in marketing)
                                 developed and
                                 implemeted.

:omponent 3: Market           0  Number o f agricultural             B Removal of trade
ystem development:               markets constructed                   impediments
'armers better able to take   0  Number o f agricultural               (inter-county,
dvantage o f market              markets rehabilitated                 inter-province)
lpportunities                 0  Number of appraised                 0 Sufficient numbero f
                                  rural enterprise activities.         market intermediaries
                              0   Number o f financed rural
                                  enterprise activities.
                              0   Number o f leading
                                  household enterprise
                                  activities appraised and
                                  financed
                               0  Number of functioning
                                  farmers marketing group,
                                  established.

Zomponent 4: Project           0   Number o f meetings o f            0 PLG and TAG actively
Management,Monitoring and          the PLG.                              involvedin project
Evaluation:                    0   Number o f meetings o f               implementation
3evelopand strengthenoverall       theTAG     .                       0  PMOSat all levelsare able
xoject implementationcapacity                                            to attractand maintain
)fprojectmanagementoffices     0   Number of PMO staff                   qualifiedstaff on a full time
md participatingcommunities.       trained. (project                     basis.
                                   management,                        0  Operationalsupport from
                                   procurement, financial                key govemment agencies
                                   management, etc.).                    providedto PMOS
                               0   Progress reports/annual            0  Beneficiary groups are
                                   implementation plans                  indeedallowedto have
                                   prepared on schedule.                 effectiveinputto project
                                                                          implementation,monitoring
                               0   Statistical and financial
                                   analysis carried out o f th            andevaluation.




                                                            - 36-

 results and impact.
e Budget versus Actual
  delivery o fproject inputs
  and outputs.
e Number of M&Eoutputs
  and their use in adaptive
  management.
e Number of environmental
  indicator monitoring
  reports.
e Numberoftechnical/
  economic indicators,
  reports of their
  measurement & their use
e Number and coverage of
  surveys and inventories
  carried out by scale.
e MISsystem usedas a
  management tool.
e Management changes
  resulting from monitoring
  information.




                          - 37-

                                                                                                                   I
iierarchy of Objectives
*eject Components I           puts: (budgetfor each     ,eject reports:             +om Componentsto
.Ib-components:              Imponent)                                              Iutputs)
rigation and Drainage:        SS83.17 million           b Project progress reports. 0  Timely and sufficient
   Rehabilitation and                                   I Bank supervision reports.    availability o f counterpart
   expansion o f existing                               b Disbursement and             funding.
   irrigation areas,                                      reimbursement data         0 Qualified project
   including construction of                            B Project ICR.                 management staff
   access and farm roads.                                                              assigned and maintained.
0  Training and                                                                      0 No substantial
   establishment o f W A S                                                             procurement delays and
   and WSOs.                                                                           cost overruns.

arm Prod. Improvement:        rSS45.21 million                                       0 Strong farmer interest in
e Soil fertility                                                                       project activities.
   improvement.                                                                      e Smooth cooperation with
0  Training, extension and                                                              line agencies, in
   applied research.                                                                    particular Water
e Farm production support.                                                              Resources Bureaus
e Support to Women and                                                                  including water
    Ethnic Minority Farmers

ilarket Systems Dev.:         JS$21.I million
                                    6                                                0  Management stations.
    Supportto                                                                        0  Adequate investment
    agro-enterprises and                                                                decision analysis.
    leading households.
 e Support to ag. product
    markets.
 0  Marketing assistance
    grants for promotion o f
    quality standards and
    market inf. systems.
 0  Promotiono f farmers
    marketing groups.
 0   Marketing advise.

'roject Management,          yTSS3.44 million
rlonitoring and Evaluation:
 0  Project Management
 0  Strengthening o f PMO
    system.
 0  Monitoring and
    evaluation system.
 0  Establ. o f community
     advisory groups.




                                                   - 38 -

                                 Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
                  CHINA: Jiangxi IntegratedAgricultural ModernizationProject
The Jiangxi Integrated Agricultural Modernization Project would achieve its objective through an
integrated approach o f (i)rehabilitation and extension of existing irrigation and drainage systems; (ii)
improvement of farm production; and (iii)market systems development. The activities under these
components are integrated, i.e. they are built on each other and generate a joint benefit that would not be
achievable if the individual activities were implemented separately from each other. A consequence of this
approach i s that most of the activities are closely linked to the geographical area of the irrigation schemes.
Inaddition, the integrated approachwould be achievedthrough careful planning of timing, sequencing and
combining of the various activities and components. Another important feature o f the Project i s the active
participation of beneficiaries in preparation and implementation.         This means that farmers would be
actively engagedin the design of irrigation schemes, the formation of water user associations, the choice o f
farm productionactivities, the improvement of market systems, etc.
The implementation o fthe project would be phased. While project activities are clearly defined interms of
standards, criteria and implementation procedures, only those approved for implementation inthe first year
are specified in detail in the PIM in terms of location, scale, detailed design and cost estimates. Activities
for second year implementation would be prepared and finalized during the first year, those for the third
year - inthe secondyear, and so on. This approachwould give sufficient flexibility inthe implementation
to allow for adjustments of project activities in responseto changes in the policy and market environment,
thereby contributingtowards better achieving the project objective.
By Component:

Project Component 1 US$83.17 million
                       -
Irrigation and Drainage Component.
The Irrigation and Drainage Component provides the base for modemizing agricultural undertakings in any
chosen irrigation and drainage scheme. Baseline surveys in the project counties identified inadequatewater
supply and poor drainage as the most significant constraint for improved agricultural production and
diversification. Investment is also justified because: (i)    irrigation investments benefit all farmers in the
project area, particularly the poorer farmers who are often the most disadvantaged in terms o f gaining
access to irrigation supply. Irrigation investments therefore contribute towards social stability; (ii)  Jiangxi
i s a designated rice production area and a large proportion of farming population has to produce rice to
 fulfill production quota and for own consumption.           By enhancing agricultural production capacity,
 irrigation investments contribute greatly towards food security; (iii)irrigation investments are long-term
 investments, for which IBRD loans can be utilized to advantage; (iv) the economic return to investments in
 irrigation and drainage is attractive; even with the current low agricultural prices, financial analyses
 demonstrate that the results are robust and that irrigation investments are less prone to risk compared with
 other investments inthe agricultural sector.
 The specific objectives of this component are to: (a) ensure sustainable use o f land and water resources for
 irrigated agriculture (including improving irrigation water use efficiency); (b) increase agricultural
 productivity; and (c) demonstrate a model of tertiary irrigation development and operation and maintenance
 for agriculture modemization. Active farmer's participation would be a distinct feature of the component.
 Farmers would: (i)participate in the preparation and finalizing of irrigation and drainage systems layout
 and on-farm irrigation and drainage systems; (ii)    contribute towards irrigation investment; (iii) participate
 in irrigation construction; (iv) be responsible for paying water charge; and (v) be responsible for operating
 and maintaining on-farm irrigation and drainage facilities.




                                                       -39 -

A total o f about US$83.17 million or about 55% of total project investment have been allocated to the
Component. About 70,000 ha (about 1million mu) would be covered at an estimated average unit cost of
RMB 680/mu (about RMB 10,000 or US$1,200/ha), including the establishment and operation of W A S
and WSOs, dam safety review, design and construction, and training costs. Based on an average area of
irrigated landof 4.5 muhousehold, about 230,000 householdsor one million people would benefit directly
from this component. Two sub-components can be identified:
Phvsical Works WS$81.87 million).          Would include rehabilitation and completion of irrigation and
drainage systems, provision of on-farm irrigation and drainage facilities including land smoothening, access
and farm roads. Dam safety reviews would be carried out of multi-purpose and irrigation storage dams
feeding the project irrigation works in accordance with Chinese legislation and consistent with the Bank's
guidelines on Dam Safety. Considerable emphasize would be put on a high quality design and
implementation o f the Component. A detailed design of the rehabilitation and extension of the irrigation
systems would be undertaken by a qualified institutes based on hydrological and geological data, andbased
on the demand expressedby the water users. These institutes would also be responsible for the supervision
of the works.

Institutional Support (US$1.30 million). In parallel to the physical works, the component would support
the sustainable operation and maintenance of the infrastructure through training and establishment of water
user associations and water supply organizations in line with the general concept of Self-Managed
Irrigation and Drainage Districts (SIDD) with the view to ensuring continued use of irrigation and drainage
works completed under the project. Water user's associations established in line with the concept of SIDD
would be the vehicle used for farmers' participation in the implementation o f the irrigation and drainage
component.      At the initiation of each irrigation sub-project, water user's association comprising
beneficiaries of the sub-project would be established. Reservoir management bureaus and township water
conservancy stations responsible for operation and maintenance of existing irrigation areas would also be
involved in the implementation o f irrigation sub-projects, and their functions and responsibilities would be
re-oriented as water supply organizations. Their capacity and capability would be strengthened to carry
out the functions and responsibilities of water supply organizations.


Project Component 2 US$45.21 million
                        -
FarmProductionImprovementComponent.
The Farm Production Improvement Component largely builds on the Irrigation and Drainage Component.
The improved infrastructure provides the foundation for the production of greater quantities and better
qualities of products and for the diversification of production.
The specific objective o f the Farm Production Sub-component is to support agricultural productionbased
on ,irrigated and drained land, including: (a) irrigated field crops; (b) livestock (pigs, chickens, ducks,
 geese); (c) small-scale on-farm fish production; and (d) upland crops. The Component would be targeted to
 farmers who also benefit from the Irrigation and Drainage Component, and it would include the following
 sub-components: (i)soil fertility improvement; (ii)training, extension and applied research; (iii)farm
production support, and (iv) support to women and ethnic minority farmers.
 The preliminary cost estimate (including contingencies) for the component is about US$45.37 million or
 30% o f total project investments. The number of households directly benefitingfrom the Farm Production
 Improvement Component is estimated to be 250,000, the vast majority of which would have already
 received support under the Irrigation and Drainage Component.




                                                      - 40 -

Soil Fertility Imurovement (US$2.75 million). This sub-componentaims to improve the soil fertility inthe
area of improved irrigation and drainage, mainly through one-time fertilization with lime and/or phosphate
fertilizer, About 10% of the total project area under irrigation rehabilitationwould require such treatment.
Fertilizer would be applied immediately after the irrigation and drainage of the area has been rehabilitated.
The costs are estimated to be RMB 175/mu. Farmers are expected to provide the labor to apply the
fertilizer as their counterpart contribution, and as part of a larger loan including also the irrigation and
drainage works, would repay the loanwhich finances the purchase of the fertilizer.
Training, Extension, and Applied Research (US$3.75 million). Training and extension system capacity
buildingare key interventions to develop the farmer skill base to add value to the irrigation and drainage,
and farm production investments. The activities under this sub-component are proposed to include: (a)
training of county and township technicians, farmers; (b) training of Training Program Managers in the
PMO system who will plan and implement an integrated training program, oversee the preparation o f
training manuals, training information, and develop networks of information providers and technical,
marketing and business expertise appropriate to the needs o f the project beneficiaries and project staff; (c)
training and extension equipment to improve delivery of extension services; (d) field demonstration sites;
(e) farmer activity and training centers; and(9applied on-farm research.
Approximately 200,000 households would receive technical training, including those receiving only
irrigation and drainage investments as well as those receiving investments under the Farm Production
Support Sub-component. Training activities would be timed to precede on-farm production investments.
The content of the training would be well targeted to the needs of the farmers, and include subjects such as
integrated pest management and business advise. Advise on marketing will also be integrated into the
delivery of training and extension services.

Farm Production Support (US$38.03 million).           The objective of this sub-component is to support
agricultural production based on irrigated and drained land. Production activities would include: (a)
irrigated field crops; (b) livestock (pigs, chickens, ducks, geese); (c) small-scale on-farm fish pond
development; and (d) irrigated upland crops grown. While the type of activities under this component are
defined, the final choice would be made based on community participation by farmer groups and farmers
themselves. To ensure the integrated nature of the project, only households that have invested in the
Irrigation and Drainage component would be eligible for support under this sub-component. The funds
allocated under the Farm Production Support sub-component will have to be repaid by the beneficiaries.
Households would be able to use the funds on investment items which are according to their own particular
situation and farm development strategy. An estimated 100,000 households or about 40% of all households
benefiting from the Irrigation and Drainage component would be supported under this sub-component. All
beneficiary householdswould have received training under the Extension and Training sub-component. The
average investment per household would be about RMB 3,500, with a recommended range in household
investment of about RMB 2,000-10,000.

Support to Women and Ethnic Minoritv Farmers (US$0.68 million). The objective of this sub-component
i s to ensure that women participate actively and benefit    from the project. While all activities under the
project are designed in a non-discriminatory manner, women and women-headed households, which
constitute a considerable proportion of the targeted population, might nevertheless be disadvantaged by
default. The Jiangxi Provincial Women's Federation will play the leading role in its implementation,
Provincial, county, and township level Women Development Facilitators would be appointed and trained.
The WDFs, in close cooperation with the PMOS, would work with women farmers in the project areas
ensuring that they have sufficient access to training, extension, and loans under the Farm Production
 Support sub-component, and other Project activities. Inaddition, earmarked funds would be made available
to people inthe Yaoshan village, a village inhabited by people of Yao minority.



                                                    -41 -

Project Component3 US$21.16 million
                       -
Market SystemDevelopmentComponent.
While the Irrigation and Drainage Component and the Farm Production Improvement Component would
lead to production o f more andhigher quality products, the Market SystemDevelopment Component would
provide support in connecting the farmer to the suppliers and to the markets. The Market System
Development Component will remove bottlenecks and improve skills, procedures and equipment in the
marketing system. As the market system is improved, it will provide greater opportunity for farmers to
increase their incomes as they can gain from improvedmarket opportunities, improved decision-making and
improved price formation processes. This is particularly important for the smallest farmers who will,
under the Project, be producinga marketable surplus, maybe for the first time.
The specific objective of the Market System Development Component is to increase farmers' access to
markets, add value to farm products and to ensure efficient processing and delivery of highquality products
from producers to consumers. The Component will focus on activities that add value to the investments in
irrigation and drainage as well as those inagricultural production. The Component consists of the following
sub-components: (i)long-term loans (3 - 7 years) for fixed asset investments of agro-enterprises and
leading households; (ii)    long-term loans for the construction and rehabilitation of agricultural product
markets; (iii)promotion of quality standards and improvements in market information systems; and (iv)
promotion of farmers' marketinggroups.
Proposed investments under this Component amount to about US$21.16 million or about 14% o f total
project investment. They will address participating project counties and townships with a focus on
enterprises and activities located in project areas as defined in the other two project components and/or
involving products produced by householdsparticipatinginthe other project components.

Suuuort to Agro-Enterurises (US$12.68 million). This sub-component aims at increasing farm value added
               -
-directlyorindirectly-byremovingbottlenecksandbystrengtheningdistributionandago-enterprises in
a competitive market-economy environment. Under this sub-component, successful rural entrepreneurs or
leading households in the project area, either providing farm inputs (seeds, feedstuff, chicks, piglets, fish
fry etc.) or processing and marketing farm outputs, would be able to finance investments which are both
financially and economically viable and beneficial to the targeted farmer population. Five investments out
of about fifty proposals have been screened and appraised for implementation in the first year. Future
proposals, submitted through the county PMOs, will be appraised during the course of the project by the
PPMO and decided upon by a provincial decision-making body (Investment Committee) representing
 stakeholder interests. A detailed description of the lendingand loan administration procedures are included
 in the "Enterprise LendingManual". The Manual comprises a detailed description of the lending and loan
 administration process, includinga loan application form, eligibility criteria, screening procedures, lending
 terms, appraisal and due diligence methodologies, financial forecasting applications, decision making and
 disbursement procedures, reporting and monitoring arrangements, and loan repayment and arrears
 managementprocedures. The PPMO will have an overall responsibility for managing the lending process.
 It will closely cooperatewith County PMOs, Financial Bureaus and the ABC network. The loanmaturities
 will vary between3 - 7 years (in case of agricultural product markets they can be longer) and will be tiedto
 actual project profitability and cash flow requirements. Permanent working capital increase would only be
 financed in connection with fixed asset investments. ABC has expressed its interest in financing the
 seasonal working capital requirements of the projects, and in assisting the PPMO in due diligence
 procedures.




                                                      - 42 -

Agricultural Product Markets (US$7.00 million). This sub-component aims at improving the agricultural
marketing system by renovating, upgrading and construction of agricultural product markets, and thereby
increasing farmers' access to markets. Inaddition, projects under this sub-component have to be financially
self-sufficient and economically feasible and implemented under sound institutional structures of the
investing entities. Priority will be given to rehabilitation investments and to investments in light-weight,
low-cost structures providing affordable rental space for farmers and traders o f farm products. The
markets should provide an efficiently managed and functional physical and service infrastructure for farm
households and small traders, and serve as models for other similar projects. In terms o f appraisal of
investment proposals, and decision-making, the sub-component is a window of the "enterprise lending
facility." Additional guidingprinciples specific to this sub-componenthave beenestablished.
Market Development Assistance (US$0.22 million) This sub-components aims at adding further value to
the investments made under the Market Systems Development Component by providing market
development support to various entities. Eligible activities would include (i)strategic market studies, to be
carried out by experts which could help enterprises to assess their potential on various markets; (ii)
investments into testing and grading equipment; (iii)enterprise specific training programs; (iv) quality
management and quality certification system development; and (v) the purchase of relevant equipment
needed for the market information dissemination activity.
Promotion of Farmers' Marketing Groups (US$1.27 million). A large number of farmer's groups already
exist in Jiangxi, but many of them are not of a type or status conducive to commercial gain for members.
Inaddition, organizations exist at Provincial levelthat support group marketing, althoughtheir contact with
farmers is very limited. This sub-component will support the formation of groups amongst small farm
households. This will require several years of training and technical assistance. Following formation o f
stable groups, project funds would be made available to these groups for loans for market-related
investments such as equipment for post-harvest, packaging and other value-adding treatments, transport
and storage.


Project Component4 US$3.44 million
                       -
Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation.
A total of about US3.44 million or about 2% of total project investment have been budgeted for the
Component. The objective of this Component i s to develop and strengthen the overall project
implementation capacity of project management offices and promote effective community participation in
project activities. The component includes: (a) project management; (b) strengthening of the provincial,
prefecture/city and county level PMOS (goods and training); (c) establishment of a monitoring and
evaluation system that includes environmental and social indicators (technical assistance and training); and
(d) establishment ofcommunity advisory/participation groups (technical assistance andtraining).




                                                     - 4 3 -

                                 Annex 3: Estimated ProjectCosts
               CHINA: Jiangxi IntegratedAgricultural ModernizationProject

                                                                      Local            Foreign          Total
                  Project Cost By Component                         US $million      US $million     US $million
Irrigation and Drainage                                               58.77              14.69           73.46
Farm Production Improvement                                           31.25               7.81           39.06
Market SystemsDevelopment                                              14.79              3.70           18.49
Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation                           2.59              0.65           3.24
Total Baseline Cost                                                   107.40            26.85           134.25
 Physical Contingencies                                                 6.12              1.53            7.65
  Price Contingencies                                                   8.87              2.21           11.08
                                Total Project CostsI                  122.39             30.59          152.98
                                                Front-endfee                              1.oo            1.oo
                          Total Financing Required                    122.39             31.59          153.98

                                                                      Local            Foreign           Total
                    Project Cost By Category                        US $million      US $million      US $million
 Works                                                                   97.42              24.35         121.77
 Goods                                                                     8.47              2.12           10.59
 Services                                                                  9.11              2.28           11.39
 Training                                                                  2.48              0.62            3.10
 Miscellaneous \a                                                          4.91              1.22            6.13
                                           Total Project Costs1         122.39              30.59          152.98
                                                   Front-endfee                              1.oo            1.oo
                                      Total Financing Required    I     122.39     I        31.59   1      153.98I
\a Including management budgets for woman coordinators, ethnic minority village development activities, PMO
operations, working capitaland incrementaloperatingcosts for marketandrural enterprise development.
Project base cost i s expressedin December 2002 prices and the exchange rateused to convert base cost and
physical contingencies is RMB 8.30 to US$l. Physical contingencies are basedon an average rate of 6.5%
for costs under Irrigation and Drainage component, 5% for all other costs except these under Project
Management, Monitoring and Evaluationcomponent where no physical contingencies have been applied.

Price contingencies for costs incurred in foreign exchange are estimated based on an annual international
price index of:

2003    2004     2005 2006        2007    2008
3.6%    3.7%     3.5%     2.0%    1.1%    1.6%.
Price contingencies for costs incurred in RMB are basedon an annual domestic price index of:
2003    2004     2005-2008
1.6%    2.0%     2.8%




                                                   - 44 -

Project Cost by Componentand ImplementationYear \a

                          Component                                2003    IAnnualImplementation I        by Value (`000 yuan)
                                                                               2004     I  2005   I 2006      2007     I  2008    1    Total




\a Total may not addup due to rounding.
   I
    Identifiabletaxes andduties are 0 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 153.98 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 64.94% of
   total project cost net oftaxes.




                                                                     - 45 -

                              Annex 4: Cost BenefitAnalysis Summary
                   CHINA: Jiangxi IntegratedAgricultural ModernizationProject




Summary of Benefits and Costs:
Benefits.
Direct Income Increase. The greatest direct benefits will mainly go to farm households with a lack of
efficient irrigation and drainage. I t i s expected that by improving the reliability of irrigation water supply
and drainage facilities would increase average crop yields in the project areas by 10to 30% under normal
weather conditions. It is expected that incremental increase of farm production, whether it comes through
changes incropping pattems higher yields, will be sold on local markets for cash.

Employment and Labor Productivity. Improvement of agricultural productivity and diversificationfrom
traditional rice production to higher value cash crops and integrated livestock production will result in
higher labor demand in rural areas and increased labor productivity. Diversification of farm production
activities and development of all-season production activities (Le. fish and greenhouse vegetables), would
increase labor demand in the off-season.          The project would create short-term direct employment
opportunities through hiring contractual labor for irrigation works during the off-season period. It is also
expected that the development of post-harvest and marketing services available to farmers will generate
additional employment opportunities inthe medium- and long-term.
Food Security and Risk Reduction. Farmers in the project area face threats both from drought and
flooding. The project area faced on averagethree dry years and two flood years over the last ten years, with
paddy yields reduced on average by 25% on a dry year and by 23% on a flood year. Rehabilitation of
irrigation and drainage systems would limit yield decrease to less than 10%. Moreover, diversification o f
farm production systemswould reducethe reliance on rice for farm incomes and vulnerability to grain price
fluctuations. This, combined with improved access to markets and better market information, would help
farmers to make better production decisions, that would reduce further farmers' income variability.

Environmental Benefits. The major environment benefits will result from improved water conservation,
as a result o f improved irrigation infrastructures and institutional reforms (establishment o f W A S )and
better agricultural inputs management, through the Farm Production Component. Improved water
management in existing irrigation and drainage schemes would reduce water logging and salinity threat.
The Farm Production Component would address, through extension and training of farmers, issues of soil
fertility and promote sustainable agricultural production (including Integrated Pest management), The
Marketing Component will promote quality standards inthe food chain ,including food safety, and address
the demand for "greener" products.

Social Benefits. The project will empower local communities by promoting farm households' participation
in the management of natural resources and agricultural services through supporting the establishment of
farmer-driven resource user associations ( W A S )and marketing and trade groups. The establishment of
independentand all inclusiveself managedwater user groups, will promote equal access to water resources
and improve social cohesion in rural areas. The promotion o f emerging informal farmers groups, through
support to farmers' marketing groups, will also contribute to improve farmers organization capacity and
control over the food chain. The project would promote gender equality by empowering woman who do
often the most of the farm work while men seek employment in urban areas. Women are, therefore,
 expectedto be the main beneficiaries of the project.



                                                       - 46 -

Approach of Economicand FinancialAnalysis
Economic analysis has been carried out for the Irrigation and Drainage Component and the Farm
Production Improvement Component combined. The majority of economic benefits to communities will
occur at the clearly defined irrigation area. The project economic analysis will focus thus on area analysis,
where the feasibility of the various interventions is assessed through evaluating the change in the value of
farm production from the whole irrigation area, where various project activities enter as inputs that
influence the total value of final farm output. The financial analysis would be based on farm household
and enterprise models, which integrate investments into irrigation and drainage infrastructure and farm
production improvement, and quantify then beneficiaries' expectedresponses to these interventions.
Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and Net PresentValue (NPV) were first estimated for the Irrigation and
Drainage Component only, assuming a "no change in cropping pattem" scenario, where incremental net
output value will result only from increased yields, with marginal changes in operating costs. Net output
values have been calculated for four pilot irrigation sites and for the whole project area. This represents
the conservative lower bound estimated economic benefits, which was used to analyze the robustness of
economic and financial feasibility of irrigation investments. Next, ERR and NPVs were estimated for the
combined irrigation and drainage and farm production investments using crop budgets, which integrate
mutually beneficial interactions among various activities and expected changes in cropping pattems as a
response to investments into productive on-farm infrastructure. On farm produced by-products and
intermediate products are valued at economic prices only if they are replaced by traded products. This
avoids double-counting of project benefits. Shadow prices have been calculated for the main tradable
outputs and inputs. The incremental net economic benefits are derived from comparing the "without" and
"with project" net value of production from the four pilot sites and the whole project area.

Main Assumptions:
Prices. All economic and financialprices are converted to local currency at the prevailingexchangerate of
Yuan 8.3/US$.      The analysis i s expressed in constant 2001 prices. Results and conversion factors are
presented in table (number). World market reference prices have been calculated for the major traded
products such as rice, cotton, oil crops and fertilizers. Annual average rice prices have bottomed out in
2001, representing a 50% drop since 1996. Commodity markets prospects indicate that prices should
stabilize and increase again in the coming years. The average rice price over the last five years has
therefore been usedas a conservative estimate of rice price. For all other products financial prices observed
inthe project area have beenused. For farm labor andunskilledlabor a conversion factor of 0.8 has been
applied to the average wage rate o f Yuan 15/day, which reflects the opportunity cost of labor (existence of
surplus labor) in the project areas. For irrigation water .an average charge of Yuan 20/mu has been used.
For irrigation and drainage works, a conversion factor of 1has been usedfor equipment and materials.


Crop Models and EconomicNPVs. The discount rate of 12% is used as an opportunity cost of capital
and projections are made over 20 years. The net value of production for the major crops, fruit, livestock
and fish production, is shown in budget models, presenting the inputs and outputs in physical and value
terms. Crop models have been calculated for areas with 80% ensured irrigation and drainage (Type I),
efficient irrigation and drainage systems (Type 11),andpoor irrigation and drainage systems (Type 111). At
project level (21 counties), it was assumedthat the distribution between these three categorieswas 40% for
Type I,20% for Type 11, and 40% for Type 111, based on the average observed inthe pilots schemes and
first estimates by project counties. The models reflect the differences in performance of crops and other
activities depending on irrigation and drainage conditions and production pattem as a result of,farm
production improvement investments. A total o f 11 budget models covering the major crops in irrigated


                                                     - 47 -

schemes have been prepared. In addition, 5 livestock and fish budget models covering the main livestock
and fish production systems associatedwith crops inirrigatedschemes have beenprepared.

Cropping pattern and land use. Rice represents about 66.5% of the total cropping area, oil crops 12%
(mainly rapeseed), cotton 6%, vegetables 5%. Other crops include fruit, estimated to cover 1% of the
project cropping area, watermelon (l%),    traditional medicinal plants (l%), (0.7%), lotus (0.3%).
                                                                              mulberry
Total number of pigs in the project area is estimated to be 570,000 (2 pigs per household on average),
chickens 2.8 million, ducks 1.4 million and geese 350,000. Cattle i s mainly used as draught animal and
sharedby households. Under the project, the total rice cropping area is expectedto slightly diminish (while
part of the single-crop rice areas would be converted to double-cropping), and vegetables, fruit, lotus, and
watermelon cropping areas would increase. To evaluate the combined benefits o f irrigation and on-farm
production investments, a 50% increase in cropping area over five years for vegetables, hit, watermelon,
and lotus i s assumedas a base scenario, resulting from the conversion o f less than 10%o f the rice cropping
area over five years. An increase of 10% of the rapeseed cropping area is assumed, as improved irrigation
will allow for crop intensification. Increasesintotal livestock number, resultingfrom greater availability of
feed, and increases in fish output, resultingfrom improved irrigation and drainage systems and better pond
management, is assumed. A 3% increase inpig and chicken numbersand an additional 615 ha o f fishponds
(10% increase) over five years is assumed under the baseline scenario (Table 1).
Phasing. It was assumedthat the yield increases for major crops would buildup over a three-year period
following irrigation works for areas with poor or no irrigation (Type 111) and over a two year period for
areas with efficient irrigation and drainage (Type 11) or 80% secured irrigation and drainage (Type 111).An
implementation rate of 21%, 26%, 27%, 20% and 6% respectively over five years for the irrigation and
drainage component has been assumed. It was also assumed that the adoption of improved cultivation
techniques resulting from on-farm investments would follow investments in irrigation during the cropping
season following irrigation and drainage investments. Combined with phased investments from year 1 to
year 5 for the Irrigation Component and for the Farm Production Component, this means that maximum
benefits at full development for the whole project area (21 counties) would be reachedover a 8-year period
after the start of the project.

Project costs. The analysis is based on total investment costs including physical contingencies. For the
Farm Production Component, all training and extension costs have been included, as these activities would
be essential in order to reach full benefits of on-farm production investments.The Irrigation and Drainage
Component and Farm ProductionComponent would represent over 80% of total project costs.

Benefits of Marketing and Enterprise Components. The impact of the Marketing Component on
net-benefits from the Irrigation and Drainage Component and the Farm Production Component have not
been calculated. It is expected that the implementation of the Marketing Component will have a positive
impact on net agricultural prices by reducing the transaction costs to markets, as well as on market
opportunities (shift to higher value crops) and volumes of sales. The funding criteria under the Enterprise
LendingFacility is minimumof 20% of IRRof a sub-project.

Environmental and Social Benefits. Economic analysis does not include the value of environmental and
social benefits generatedby the project.




                                                     - 48 -

Results:

Physical Impact. The overall incremental annual rice output would reach 35,521 tons after eight years,
representing an increase of 11.0% of the current output level in the schemes covered by the project. I t is
assumedthat 20% of the incremental rice output would be usedfor increasedlivestock production (15% for
pig, 5% for chicken), representing a 3.6% increase in pig production in the project area after eight years
and a 3.4% increase in chicken production. The main increases in production would be for vegetables
(+91%), fruit (+73%0), lotus (80%) and watermelon (61%). These increasesare conservative assumptions,
i.e. in absolute terms are small. Hence, the potential impact of this additional output on markets at the
provincial level, and potential negative impact on prices, is expectedto be low. The project area covers a
small proportion of the cropping area in the 21 counties (2.5% of total rice cropping area, less than 1%
vegetable area, 1.2% of total oil crop area, 1.1% o f orange and citrus area, and 3% o f pig production, 1%
of total poultry production, 1.5% of total fish production in the 21 counties), and the additional output will
representa very small percentageof total productionin those counties.




  Peanuts                       897                     990                       93                   10.4%
  Watermelon                  25,337                   40,179                   15,383                 60.7%
  Pigs                        56,500                   58,540                   2,040                    3.6%
  Chicken                      4,480                    4,633                    153                     3.4%




                                                    - 49 -

Table 2: Results of the Economic Analysis.
Baseyear :2001
 Activities


  1. Irrigation and drainagecomponent
 (US$ 83.17 million)
 Lulin                                  31%     5,729,629   31%       5,331,933
 Yaoyuan                                9%     -1,332,269   8%       -1,743,368
 Longguoqu                              21%     2,206,548   20%       1,863,707
 Datian                                 25%     6,352,347   24%       5,451,950
 21 counties                            14%    84,620,000   17%     173,633,000
 2. Farm ProductionComponent
 (USrS45.21 million)
 Lulin                                  32%     9,390,674   33%       9,459,143
 Yaoyuan                                14%     1,561,566   15%       2,173,017
 Longguoqu                              22%     3,501,716   23%       3,449,050      41.0
 Datian                                 25%     8,358,041   25%       8,196,117
 21 counties                            19%   330,878,000   21%     421,009,000
 3. Marketing Component                (20%)
 (US$ 21.16 million)                         I           I
 Total Project                        (15.8%)I                                  I

a/ Based on 12% discount rate


Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
Risks. The major risks associated with the project include: (a) Reduction o f market prices o f major crops
and livestock products; (b) Reduced benefits resulting from lower yields, resulting either from lower
irrigation systems efficiency, lower yield response to investments, delays in project implementation or
natural disasters; and (c) Increased investment and/or operation costs.

Sensitivity Analyses. Sensitivity analysis has been conducted to assess the robustness o f the benefits o f
combined irrigation and on-farm investments, which represent together more than 80% o f project funds.
The sensitivity of the project ERR has been tested against the following assumptions: (a) 10% and a 20%
output price decrease; (b) 10% and 15% decrease in expected crop yields; (c) 10% and 20% increase in
costs ; and for the 21 counties, delays in implementation, leading to implementation rates o f     lo%,  17%,
23%, 25% and 25% from project year 1to 5.
The results show that ERR for the combined irrigation and farm production investments is relatively robust
to assumed changes in project costs (Table 3). Costs would need to increase by 55% for the ERR to fall to
12%. Delays in the rate of project implementation for the 21 counties does not affect significantly the
project's ERR. However, ERR shows a greater sensitivity to changes in yield and in output prices.
Sensitivity to lower yield is relatively high, and therefore special attention will have to be given to factors
that may lower yields o fmajor crops in the project area.




                                                      - 50 -

  Scenario                     Lulin           Yaoyuan      Longquoqu           Datian       Totalproject
  1/ Prices-10% :
  ERR (%)                      28%             12%          19%            23%               17%
  NPV (12% ;Yuan)              6,932,742       -48,590      2,210,327      6,926,776         246,266,7 16
  2/ Prices -20%
  ERR("3)                      23%             9%           15%            17%               14%
  NPV (12% ;Yuan)              4,406,34 1      -2,270,197   971,603        3,200,406         75,719,600
  3/ Yields -10%
  ERR (%)                      21%             8%           14%            19%               15%




  6/ Costs + 20%                                                          I
[ ERR (%)                                      10%           17%           19%               16%
  N P V ( ~ ~;%Yuan)          I 25%
                                6,499,701    1-1,823,739   I 1,833,968    I4,770,127        I192,148,870   1
  ERR (%)                                                                                   121%




Risk Mitigation. The major risk that the project will address is lower yield response for investments.
 Special attention will be given to the quality of infrastructure works, and O&M will be a key factor to
guarantee efficiency o f the structures over time. Another key factor to reach maximum crop yields in the
project area will be appropriate crop and livestock productiontechniques, which will be channeledthrough
 supporting extension programs and farmers training inthe project area.

 The Farm Production Component will address the need to improve the quality of varieties and breeds and
 production techniques used by farmers in order to benefit from better prices for better quality products.
 Diversification o f production, combined better marketing channels and better market information should
 improve farmers' responsesto price fluctuations.

 FinancialAnalysis:
 Farm Model Analysis. Farm models analysis has been used to clarify the impact of the project on farm
 incomes, on labor, and growth in share of production sold on markets. The analysis focuses on the financial
 impact o f changes in crop budgets and cropping pattems induced by investments in irrigation and drainage
 combined with production investments. These models are only indicative and farmers would be free to
 choose the combination of activities they would invest in as long as they are within the project per
 household investments limits, have adequate income levels to meet production costs and repayment needs,
 have market opportunity for products, and follow technical norms establishedfor these activities.

 Ten different farm models have been developed, to reflect the different specialization pattems, which could
 develop as a result of different irrigation and farm production investment packages (Table 4). For all
 models, changes in cropping pattems would be accompanied by a greater share of farm production sold on



                                                     -51 -

market, whether incremental production resulting from higher yields or as a result o f diversification into
cash crops or livestock and fish production. The size o f investments inthe models varies from RMB 1,500
to of RMB 12,960 per household. The lower investments correspond to changes in cropping patterns from
rice to higher value crops (vegetables, cotton, lotus, watermelon), whereas investments infish production or
combined fish and livestock production typically requires higher levels of investments. Limited changes in
cropping pattern have been assumed in all farm models. Changes generally represent an intensification and
increase in activities already present on the farm, and no total conversion to other farming activity has been
used. Inaddition, it was assumed that family consumption, which is presently relatively high, would remain
constant over time.



Model                          Family            Cropping pattern                      Invest. (Yuan)
                                 size
                                       Without                               With
Farm 1 :                          3    2.4 muearly rice; 2.4 mulate rice;    1.5 muearly rice; 1.5 mu late
Rice - Vegetables -Pigs                0.6 muvegetables; 3 pigs              rice; 1.5 muvegetables incl. 0.5
Investing invegetables                                                       mugreenhouse; 3 pigs 2,300
                                                                                         per mu: 766
Farm 2 :                          3    2.4 muearly rice; 2.4 mulate rice;    2.4 muearly rice; 2.4 mu late
Rice-Pigs-Vegetables                   0.6 muvegetables ;3 pigs              rice; 0.6 muvegetables; 9 pigs
Investing inpigs                                                             2,730
                                                                                         Der mu: 910
Farm 3 :                          3    2.4 muearly rice; 2.4 mulate rice;    2.4 muearly rice; 2.4 mulate
Rice-Chicken-Vegetables                0.6 muvegetables; 30 chicken          rice; 0.6 muvegetables; 90
Investing inchicken                                                          chicken 5,700
                                                                                        permu: 1,628
 Farm 4 :                         3    2.4 muearly rice; 2.4 mulate rice; 0.6 2.2 muearly rice; 2.2 mu late
 Rice-Vegetables-(Rapeseed)            muvegetables; 0.5 murapeseed          rice; 2 muvegetables including I
 Investinginvegetables                                                        mugreenhouse 4,550
                                                                                        oer mu: 1.900
 Farm 5 :                         4    6 muearly rice, 6 mu late rice, 3 mu 4 mu early rice, 4 mu late rice, 5
 Rice-Fish (Crucian carp)-Pig          fishponds, 2 pigs                      mufishponds, 6 pigs 9,675
 Investing in fish-pig                                                                  per mu: 1,075
 Farm 6 :                         4    5 mu early rice, 5 mu late rice, 2 mu 3 mu early rice, 3 mu late rice, 4
 Rice-Fish-Duck                        fish ponds, 30 ducks                   mufishponds, 90 ducks 8,876
 Investinginfish-duck                                                                   per mu: 1,268
 Farm 7 :                         4    3.5 muearly rice, 3.5 mulate rice, 1   2.5 early rice, 2.5 late rice, 0.5
 Rice-Fruit-Vegetables                 muvegetable                            vegetable, 1.5 fruit 3,540
 Investing in fruit                                                                       per mu: 787
 Farm 8 :                         4    3 muearly rice, 3 mu late rice, 1 mu 2 muearly rice, 2 mulate rice,
 Rice-Cotton-(Peanuts-Vegetab          cotton, 0.8 mupeanuts, 0.2 mu          2.8 mucotton, 0.2 mu vegetables
 les), investing in cotton             vegetables                             1,500
                                                                                          per mu: 300
 Farm 9 :                         5    4 muearly rice, 4 mu late rice, 0.5 mu 3 mu early rice, 3 mu late rice,
 Rice-Lotus-Vegetables                 vegetables, 0.5 mu lotus               0.5 muvegetables, 1.5 mulotus
                                                                              2,500
                                                                                         per mu : 500
 Farm 10 :                        5    4 muearly rice, 4 mulate rice, 2 mu    3 muearly rice, 3 mulate rice, 3
 Rice-Fish (Mandarin)                  fish ponds                             mufish ponds 12,960
                                                                                        per mu : 2,160




                                                      - 52 -

The financial rate o f return (FRR) o f farm models varies from 18 to 56 percent (Table 5). Sensitivity of
farm models is presented in Table 6. The percentage of agricultural incomes in total farmer household
incomes varies from 12% to loo%, with an average of 60%. Current per capita annual incomes from
agricultural activities without the project vary from Yuan 417 to Yuan 1,583, with an average of Yuan
833. The farm models analysis demonstrates that with project, agricultural incomes would increase some
21% to 125%, and total per capita income with project would range from Yuan 503 to Yuan 3,024, with
an average of Yuan 1,537. The return to labor varies from 27 to 104 Yuan/day, well above the current
opportunity cost of labor (i.e. 15 Yuadday). While most models involve no major change inthe amount o f
labor requested, the models, which assume specialization in pig andor fish production assume full-time
farm labor involvement.




ITable6: SensitivityAnalysis for Farm Models
 Model                                [   Prices,-20% I         I Yield, - 10%I




                                                      -53-

                         Annexes
                      Unit       Financial     Economic
Output Prices
Early rice          yuanlkg              0.70         0.72
Late rice           yuanlkg               1.10        1.14
Middle rice         yuanlkg               1.10        1.14
Cotton lint         yuanlkg              8.50         8.38
Rapeseed            yuanlkg              2.00         1.20
Vegetables          yuanlkg              0.60         0.60
Peanuts             yuanlkg              2.40         1.62
Lotus               yuanlkg             18.00        18.00
Navel orange        yuanlkg              4.00         4.00
Watermelon          yuanlkg              0.30         0.30
Pork                yuanlkg              6.00         6.00
Chicken             yuanlkg             10.00        10.00
Duck                yuanlkg              5.70         5.70
Eggs
Mandarin fish       yuanlkg             35.00        35.00
Crucian Carp        yuanlkg               9.00        9.00

Input Prices
Early rice seed     yuanlkg               9.00        9.00
Late rice seed      yuanlkg             12.00        12.00
Cotton seed         yuanlkg             20.00        20.00
Rapeseed seed       yuanlkg               3.00        3.00
Vegetable seed      yuanlkg           800.00        800.00
Peanut seed         yuanlkg               3.00        3.00
Lotus seed          yuanlkg           150.00        150.00
Fruit seedlings    yuan1000 pc          75.00        75.00
Urea                yuanlkg               1.40         1.31
Phosphate           yuanlkg               0.40        0.40
Potassium chl.      yuanlkg               1.40         1.46
Compound            yuanlkg               1.40         1.40
Manure              yuanlkg               0.04        0.04
Pesticide           yuanlkg               8.00         8.00
Piglet (20 kg)      yuanlkg               6.00         6.00
Mandarin fry          piece               0.80         0.80
Crucian fry           piece               9.00         9.00

Labor               yuanlday            15.00         12.00
Animal labor        yuanlday            25.00        25.00




                           - 54 -

                                   Border Pricesfor Major Productsand Inputs
                                                      (2001 Constant Prices) a/

                                          Cotton Lint    RiceI    Peanuts    Rapeseed Com          Urea    Potassium Phosphate
                                                         Paddy                       as fodder
NetTrade Status                                         Export                                    Import      Import    Import




World MarketPrices            US$/ton          1,400         254        256       220       90        100           117
Quality correction factor                       15%
Ocean Freight                 US$/ton            45           10         25        45       20         30            30
ClFlFOB Shanghai              US$/ton          1,145         244        231       175      110         130          147
ClFlFOB Shanghai bl           Yuan/ton         9,504       2,025     1,917      1,453      913       1,079         1,220
Port Charges                  Yuanlton           70           70         70        70       70         70            70
Distributor's margincl        Yuanlton           943         196        185       138       98         115          129
Transport dl                                     42           42
-- Port to                                                               42        42       42         42            42
           Wholesaler         Yuan/ton
   Mill to Wholesaler         Yuanlton
Ex Factory Price              Yuanlton         8,448       1,718     1,621      1,202     1,123      1,306         1,461
Conversionrate                   %                          70%
Processing Costs              Yuanlton            60          60
Millgate value                Yuanlton         8,388       1,142     1,621      1,202     1,123      1,306         1,461
Transport farm to mill        Yuanlton             5           5
Economic farm gate price      Yuanlton         8,383       1,137     1,621      1,202     1,123      1,306         1,461
Financial farm gate price     Yuanlton         8,500       1,100     2,400      2,000      900       1,400         1,400      400
Conversionfactor                 %              99%        103%       68%        60%      125%        93%          104%       0%

Notes :
a/ Basic assumptionsof price projectionsare basedon the World Bank Commodity Price Data, October 2001. Price for rice
paddy refersto Thai, 5% broken,white rice, milled, f.0.b. Bangkok.
Pricefor maize refersto no. 2, yellow, f.0.b. US Gulf ports
blExchangerate of Yuan 8.3 = US$ 1.
c/lO%
dlTransport by fluvial way from Shanghai port




                                                                - 55 -

                           Unit Price           Quantity          FinancialValues (Yuan)    Economic Values (Yuan)
                                              without       Opt.       without        Opt.       without      opt.
                   Unit  Fin.   Econ.    21    22    23           21    22      23          21    22    23
utput
Rice                kg     0.7     0.7   245     285   313   360   172   200     219   252   177    206  227    261
By-products                0.1     0.1   215     250   275   316    21     25    27     32   21     25    27     32
>talOutput                                                         193   225     247   284   199    231  254    292
perating Costs
Cash Inputs
  Seed              kg      9.0    9.0    1.7    1.7    1.7   1.7 14.9   15.3   15.3   15.3 14.9   15.3  15.3   15.3
  Urea              kg      1.4     1.3  14.0   14.0  14.0  15.0  19.6   19.6   19.6   21.0 18.2   18.2  18.2   19.5
  Phosphate         kg      0.4    0.4   16.6   16.6  16.6  15.0   6.0    6.0    6.0   21.o
                                                                                        5.4  6.0    6.0  6.0    5.4
  Potassium chl. kg         1.4     1.5                     15.0                                                21.9
  Compound          kg      1.4     1.4  25.0   25.0  25.0        35.0   35.0   35.0        35.0   35.0  35.0
  Other fertilizer  kg      0.4    0.4   17.0   17.0  17.0         6.8    6.8    6.8         6.8    6.8  6.8
  Herbicide         kg      3.0    3.0                        1.o                       3.0                      3.0
  Plastic mulch     kg      8.0    8.0                        0.8                       6.4                      6.4
  Pesticide        Yuan     3.0    3.0    1.2    1.2    1.2   3.0  3.6    3.6    3.6    9.0  3.6    3.6   3.6    9.0
  Hired labor      WDs     15.0   12.0    1.o    1.o    1.0   1.1 15.2   15.2   15.2   16.5 12.1   12.1  12.1   13.2
  Transportation days      10.0 10.0      0.1    0.1    0.1        1.0    1.0    1.0    0.0  1.0    1.0   1.0    0.0
  Animal labor     Yuan    25.0   25.0    0.4    0.4    0.4   0.8 10.0   10.0   10.0   20.0 10.0   10.0  10.0   20.0
  Other            Yuan    70.0   70.0    0.3    0.3    0.3       17.5   17.5   17.5    0.0 17.5   17.5  17.5    0.0
Irrigation
  Water fee         Yuan   10.0    IO.(                           10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0
Taxes
  Tax               Yuan   12.0           1.0    1.0    1.0   1.0 12.0   12.0    12.0  12.0  0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0
Non-cash inputs
  Seed                kg   0.7      0.7   5.7    5.7    5.7        4.0    4.0    4.0         4.0    4.0   4.C
  Manure              kg   0.04     0.0 300.0 300.0 300.0 500.0    12.0  12.0    12.0  20.0  12.0   12.0 12.C   20.0
  Familylabor       WDs    15.0   12.0    5.5    5.5    5.5   6.1 82.5   02.5   82.5   91.5 66.0   66.0  66.C
otal Inputs                                                       250    250    250    251  207    207   207
et Value of Production                                             5/     -26     4     32    a     24    47

                           Unit Price            Quantity          Financial Values (Yuan)   Economic Values (Yuan)
                                              without       opt.       without         opt.      without        opt.
                    Unit Fin.   Econ.    21     22     23  I       21     22     23  I       21     22   23   II
1utput                                                     I                         I

Rice                        1.1     1.1  266.0 313.0 355.0 410.0   293    344    391    451  303    356  404     466
By-products         kg
                    kg      0.1     0.1  234   275.0 311.9 360.2    23     28     31     36   23     28   31      36
otal Output                                                        316    372    422    487   326    383  435    50;
lperating Costs
Cash Inputs
  Seed              kg     12.0    12.0   1.6     1.6   1.6    1.7 19.2   19.2   19.2   20.4 19.2   19.2  19.2   20.1
   Urea             kg       1.4     1.3 19.5    19.5  19.5  20.0  27.2   27.2   27.2   28.0 25.3   25.3  25.3   26.(
   Phosphate        kg       0.4    0.4  10.0    10.0  10.0  15.0   3.6    3.6    3.6    5.4  3.6    3.6   3.6    5.4
   Potassiumchl. kg          1.4     1.5                     15.0                       21.0                     21.!
   Compound         kg       1.4     1.4 26.5    26.5  26.5        37.1   37.1   37.1        37.1   37.1  37.1
   Other fertilizer kg       0.4    0.4   8.8     8.8   8.8         3.5    3.5    3.5         3.5    3.5   3.5
   Herbicide        kg       3.0    3.0                        1.o                       3.0                      3.(
   Plastic mulch    kg       8.0    8.0
   Pesticide        Yuan     7.0    7.0    1.3    1.3   1.3    3.0  9.3    9.3    9.3   21.0  9.3    9.3   9.2   21.r
   Hiredlabor       WDs    15.0    12.0   0.8     0.8   0.8    0.9 12.2   12.2   12.2   13.5  9.7    9.7   9.i   10.1
   Transportation days
   Animal labor     Yuan   25.0    25.0   0.3     0.3   0.3    0.6  7.0    7.0    7.0   15.0  7.0    7.0   7.C   15.1
   Other            Yuan   70.0    70.0   0.5     0.5   0.5    0.5 32.2   32.2   32.2   35.0 32.2   32.2  32.2   35.1
 Irrigation
   Water fee a/     Yuan   10.0     lo.(                           10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0
Taxes
   Tax              Yuan   12.0            1.0    1.0    1.0   1.0 12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0
 Non-cash inputs
   Manure             kg   0.04     0.01 217.0 217.0 217.01 500.01  8.7    8.7    8.71 20.01  8.7    8.7   8.7I  20.
   Family labor     WDs    15.0    12.0    6.0    6.0   6.0    6.1 90.0   90.0   90.0   91.5 72.0   72.0  72.0   73.
`otal Input                                                        272    272    272    296  228    228   228    252
let Value of Production                                             44    100    150    191   9a    156   201    251



                                                         - 56 -

                                              Vegetables (based on pepper)
                          Unit Price          Quantity           I FinancialValues (Yuan) I Economic Values(Yuan)
                                       lithout                   without
                   Unit Fin.   Econ.    21    22    23     Opt.   z1     22      23   Iwith
                                                                                       opt.   21    22     23  I
"Itput                                                   1Iwith                       I                        I Opt.
Vegetables         kg     0.6     0.6  1200 1450 1700 2000          720   870    1020   1200  720   870    1020 1200
By-products        kg     0.1     0.1    300   363   425      500   30     36      43      50  30    36     43     43
otal Output                            1500 1813 2125 2500          750   906    1063 1250    750   906    1063 1243
lperatingCosts
Cash Inputs
  Seed             kg   800.0 800.C       0.0  0.0    0.0     0.1  24.0  24.0    24.0    40.0  24.0 24.0   24.0   40.0
  Urea             kg      1.4    1.3    11.8 11.8   11.8    15.0  16.5   16.5    16.5   21.0  15.3 15.3   15.3   19.5
  Phosphate        kg      0.4    0.4    15.5 15.5   15.5    25.0   5.6    5.6    5.8    21.o
                                                                                          9.0   6.2  6.2    6.2   10.0
  Potassium chl. kg        1.4    1.5                        15.0                                                 21.9
  Compound         kg      1.4    1.4    10.5 10.5   10.5    20.0  14.6   14.6    14.E   28.0  14.6 14.6   14.6   28.0
  Other fertilizer kg      0.8    0.8     7.4  7.4    7.4           5.9    5.9    5.E           5.9  5.9    5.9
  Herbicide        kg     10.0   10.0                         1.o                        10.0                     10.0
  Plasticmulch     kg      8.0    8.0                        12.5                      100.0                     100.0
  Pesticide        Yuan    7.0    7.0     1.1  1.2    1.2     3.5   7.6    8.1     8.1   24.5   8.1  8.1    8.1   24.5
                                                         1                            I                         I
  Hired labor      WDs    15.0 12.0
  Animal labor     Yuan   25.0 25.0
Irrigation
  Water fee bl     Yuan   20.0    20.t                        1.51 20.0   20.0    20.0   37.51
                                                                                         20.0
Taxes                                                                                                             37.51

  Tax              Yuan                                             0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0   0.0  0.0    0.0    0.0
 Non-cash inputs
  Own seeds        Yuan   3.9     3.9    11.0 11.0   11.0          42.9   42.9    42.9         42.9 42.9   42.9
  Manure             kg   0.04    0.0   2000 2000   2000    1500   80.0   80.0    80.0   60.0  80.0 80.0   80.0   60.0
  Familylabor      WDs    15.0   12.0    21.3 21.3   21.3    20.0 318.8 318.8 318.8 300.0 255.0 255.0 255.0 240.0
otal Input                                                         536    536     536     671  452  452    452    591
let Value of Production                                            214    370     526     579  298  454    611    651
                                                           Cotton
                          Unit Price           Quantity             Financial Values (Yuan)    Economic Values (Yuan)
                                       rithout              Opt. without                Opt. without             opt.
                   Unit Fin.   Econ.    z1    22     23            z1     22      23           21   22     23
)utput
 Cotton            kg      8.5    8.4    50.0 58.0   65.0    90.0  425    493     553     765  419  486    545    754

'otal Output                                                        425    493    553     765   419  486    545    754
bperating
 Cash Inputs
   Seed            kg     20.0 20.0       0.9  0.9    0.9      1.0  18.4   18.4   18.4    20.0 18.4  18.4   18.4  20.0
   Urea            kg       1.4   1.3    35.0 35.0   35.0    40.0   49.0  49.0    49.0    56.0 45.5 45.5    45.5  52.0
   Phosphate       kg       0.4   0.4    28.0 28.0   28.0     50.0  10.1   10.1   10.1    18.0 10.1  10.1   10.1   18.0
   Potassiumchl. kg         1.4   1.5     0.0  0.0    0.0    20.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    28.0  0.0   0.0    0.0  29.2
   Compound        kg       1.4   1.4    35.0  35.0  35.0     25.0  49.0   49.0   49.0    35.0 49.0  49.0   49.0  35.0
   Herbicide       kg     10.0   10.0                          1.o                        10.0                     10.0
   Plasticmulch    kg       8.0   8.0                          1.5                        12.0                     12.0
   Pesticide       Yuan   12.0 12.0       4.8  4.8    4.8     50.0  58.1   58.1   58.1    50.0 58.1  58.1   58.1   50.0
   Hiredlabor      WDs    15.0   12.0     0.1  0.1    0.1     0.1    1.5    1.5    1.5     1.5  1.2   1.2    1.2    1.2
   Transportation days                                               0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0  0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0
   Animal labor    Yuan   25.0   25.0     0.2  0.2    0.2      1.0   5.3    5.3    5.3    25.0  5.3   5.3    5.3   25.0
 Irrigation
   Water fee a/    Yuan   20.0    20.c                              20.0   20.0   20.0    20.0
 Taxes
   lax             Yuan   24.0            1.0   1.0    1.0     1.0  24.0   24.0   24.0    24.0
 Non-cash inputs
   Manure            kg   0.04    0.0                        2500    0.0    0.0    0.0 100.0    0.0   0.0    0.0 100.0
   Familylabor     WDs    15.0    12.0   15.4  15.4   15.4    16.1 230.3 230.3 230.3 241.5 184.2 184.2 184.2 193.2
rota1Input                                                          466    466    466     641  372   372    372    546
let Value of Production                                              41     27     87     124   47   113    173    209




                                                       - 57 -

                                                       Peanuts
                         Unit Price Iwithout Quantity         I FinancialValues (Yuan) 1  Economic Values (Yuan)
                                                         Opt. without               Opt. without             opt.
                  Unit Fin.   Econ.   Z1     22   23   I       z1     22      23   I      z1     22    23  1
Itput                                                  I                           I
leanuts           kg     2.4     1.6 150.0 165.0 175.0 180.0    360   396     420    432   243   267   284   292

tal Output                           150.0 165.0 175.0 180.0 360.0 396.0 420.0 432.0 243.1 267.4 283.6 291.'
lerating
:ash Inputs
 Seed             kg      3.0    3.0    9.0   9.0   9.0  10.0   27.0  27.0    27.0   30.0  27.0  27.0  27.0   30.1
 Urea             kg       1.4   1.3    7.5   7.5   7.5  10.0   10.5   10.5   10.5   14.0    9.8  9.8   9.8   13.1
 Phosphate        kg      0.4    0.4    3.5   3.5   3.5    4.0   1.2    1.2    1.2    1.4    1.2  1.2   1.2    1.8
 Potassiumchl. kg          1.4   1.5    0.0   0.0   0.0          0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  0.0   0.0    0.1
 Compound         kg      1.4    1.4   30.1  30.1  30.1  32.0   42.2  42.2    42.2   44.8  42.2  42.2  42.2   44.8
 Other fertilizer kg      0.5    0.5    6.4   6.4   6.4          3.2    3.2    3.2    0.0    3.2  3.2   3.2    0.
 Herbicide        kg                          0.0
 Plasticmulch     kg      8.0    8.0                             0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  0.0   0.0    0.
 Pesticide        Yuan    6.0    6.0    0.2   0.2   0.2    0.2   1.2    1.2     1.2   0.2    1.2  1.2   1.2    1.
 Hiredlabor       WDs    15.0   12.0
Transportation days
Animal labor      Yuan   25.0 25.0      0.2   0.2   0.2    0.2   5.0    5.0     5.0   5.0    5.0  5.0   5.0    5.
rrigation
 Water fee a/     Yuan   20.0    20.0                           20.0   20.0    20.0  20.0
'axes
 Tax              Yuan   12.0            1.0  1.0   1.0    1.0   12.0  12.0    12.0  12.0    0.0  0.0   0.0    0.
ion-cash inputs
 Own seed         Yuan    2.5    2.5     1.2  1.2    1.2         3.0    3.0     3.0          3.0  3.0   3.0
 Manure             kg   0.04    0.04 300.0 300.0 300.0 315.0    12.0  12.0    12.0  12.6   12.0  12.0 12.0   12.
 Familylabor      WDs    15.0   12.0   14.0  14.0   14.0  14.0 210.0 210.0 210.0 210.0 168.0 168.0 168.0 168,
tal Input                                                       347    347     347   350    273   273  273    271
'tValue of Production                                            13     49      73    82    -30     5   11     li

                         Unit Price          Quantity            Financial Values (Yuan)   Economic Values (Yuan)
                                      (ithout            Opt. without                Opt. without            Opt
                  Unit Fin.   Econ.    z1    22    23   I       z1     22      23  I       21    22    23   I
Itput                                                   I                          I                        I
iapeseed          kg      2.0    1.2   65.0  75.0   80.0  90.0   130   150     160    180    78    90   96    10
3y-products       kg      0.1    0.1  300.0 346.2 369.2 415.4     30    35      37    42     30    35   37      3
Ita1Output                            365.0 421.2 449.2 505.4 160.0 184.6 196.9 221.5 108.1 124.8 133.1 145
Berating
:ash Inputs
 Seed             kg       3.0   3.0     0.8  0.8    0.8    1.0   2.5    2.5    2.5    3.0   2.5   2.5  2.5     3
 Urea             kg       1.4    1.3   11.3 11.3   11.3  12.0   15.8   15.8   15.8   16.8  14.7  14.7  14.7  15
 Phosphate        kg       0.4   0.4     6.8  6.8    6.8   7.0    2.4    2.4    2.4    2.5   2.4   2.4   2.4    2
 Compound         kg       1.4    1.4   13.0 13.0   13.0  13.5   18.2   18.2   18.2   18.9  18.2  18.2  18.2   18
 Other fertilizer kg       1.2    1.2    6.7  6.7    6.7   7.0    8.2    8.2    8.2    8.6   8.0   8.0   8.0    8
 Pesticide        Yuan     8.6   8.6     0.5  0.5    0.5   0.5    4.3    4.3    4.3    0.5   4.3   4.3   4.3    4
 Hiredlabor       WDs    15.0    12.0
 Animal labor     Yuan   25.0   25.0     0.3  0.3    0.3   0.3    7.5    7.5    7.5    7.5   7.5   7.5   7.5    7
rrigation
 Water fee        Yuan   10.0    lo.t                            20.0   20.0   20.0   20.0
raxes
 Tax              Yuan     2.0           1.0  1.0    1.0    1.0   2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0
Uon-cash inputs
 Own seed         Yuan    3.2     3.2    0.6  0.6    0.6          1.8    1.8    1.8    0.0    1.8  1.8   1.8
 Manure             kg   0.04     0.0 300.0 300.0 300.0 300.0    12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0  12.0  12.0  12.0   11
 Familvlabor      WDs    15.0    12.0    5.0  5.0    5.0    5.0  75.0   75.0   75.0   75.0  60.0  60.0  60.0   6C
)tal input                                                       170    170    170    167    131  131   131    I f
!t Value of Production                                            10     15     27     55    -23    7     2      1




                                                     - 5 8 -

                                                     Lotus seed
                          Unit Price         Quantity           FinancialValues (Yuan)   EconomicValues (Yuan)
                                      without            Opt. without              Opt. without           opt.




DtalOutput
perating




  Potassiumchl. kg
  Compound        kg
  Pesticide       Yuan    15.0   15.0
  Hired labor     WDs     15.0   12.0
  Animal labor    Yuan    25.0   25.0


  Water feed      Yuan    20.0    20.0
Taxes
  Tax             Yuan    11.7     %
Non-cash inputs
  Manure            kg    0.04    0.0
  Familylabor      WDs   15.0    12.0



                          Unit Price
                                      vithout            Opt. without              Opt. without            Opt.
                   Unit Fin.   Econ.    Z1   22    23  I        z1     22    23  I        z1    22   23  I
"Itput                                                 I                         I                       I
Fruits (orange)    kg     4.0     4.0  1400 1500 1600    1800 5600 6000 6400 7200 5600         6000 6400 7200

otal Output                                                     5600 6000    6400   7200  5600 6000 6400 7200
lperating
Cash Inputs
  Seedling         ooop.  75.0   75.0    1.7  1.7    1.7   2.0 123.8 123.8 123.8 150.0 123.8 123.8 123.8 150.0
  Urea             kg      1.4    1.3   15.0  15.0  15.0 90.0    21.0  21.0  21.0 126.0    19.5 19.5 19.5 117.0
  Phosphate        kg      0.4    0.4   10.0  10.0  10.0 120.0    3.6   3.6    3.6  43.2    3.6  3.6  3.6   43.2
  Potassium chl. kg        1.4    1.5                    91.0                      127.4                   132.9
  Other fertilizer kg      1.0    1.0  100.0 100.0 100.0       100.0 100.0 100.0     0.0 100.0 100.0 100.0   0.0
   Pesticide       Yuan    1.0    1.0                    237.0    0.0    0.0   0.0 237.0    0.0  0.0  0.0 237.0
   Hiredlabor      WDs    15.0    12.0                            0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0  0.0  0.0    0.0
  Animal labor     Yuan   25.0   25.0                             0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0  0.0  0.0    0.0
  Tax              Yuan   13.2     %     1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0 739.2 792.0 844.8 950.4
 Irrigation
   Water fee a/    Yuan   20.0    20.c                        I  20.0  20.0   20.0  20 0
 Non-cash inputs                                        I                         I 4                     I     I
   Manure            kg   0.04    0.0   2000 2000  20001 20001 80.0    80.0   80.01 80.01 80.0  80.0  80.01 80.01
   Familylabor     WDs    15.0    12.0  30.0  30.0  30.0  40.0 450.0 450.0 450.0 600.0 360.0 360.0 360.0 480.0
otal Input                                                       1538  1590  1643 2334     687   687  687   1240
let Value of Production                                         4062   4410 4lSl    4066   4913 5313 5713 5960




                                                     - 59 -

                                   Annex 5: Financial Summary
               CHINA: Jiangxi Integrated Agricultural Modernization Project
                                       Year Ending: 2009
                                         FinancingPlan


                    Sources                                    Implementation Period\a
                                               2004   I 2005  I2006  I 2007   I  2008  I 2009  ITotal




                        IPrefectureKity            0.05   0.09    0.10     0.09     0.05    0.02   0.40
                        /County                    1.13   2.18    2.37     2.09     1.32    0.48   9.57
             Beneficiaries                         0.83    1.61   1.76     1.55     0.97    0.36   7.07
Total ProjectFinancing                           18.99    34.81  37.96    33.48    21.05    7.69 153.98




                                              - 60 -

                    Annex 6: Procurement and DisbursementArrangements
                CHINA: Jiangxi Integrated Agricultural Modernization Project

Procurement

The Bank's Guidelines. "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" (January 1995
revised January, August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999, Guidelines) and "Guidelines:Selection
and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" (January 1997 revised September 1997,
January 1999 and May 2002, Consultant Guidelines) will be followed for all Bank-financed procurement.
Bank-approved Chinese Model BiddingDocuments (MBD) and the Standard Bid EvaluationForm will be
revised to ensure consistency with changes that have been incorporated into the Bank's SBDs. The Bank's
SBDs will be used where no relevant model document exists. To standardize procurement of small civil
works, works under force account arrangement and goods under national shopping procedures, PPMO will
prepare sample forms for the Bank's review and use during project implementation. Specialized
procurement agents will be selectedto assist inICB and NCB procurements.

Summary of Procurement Capacity Assessment.A procurement capacity assessment was carried out in
October 2001, updated in March 2003 and July 2003, and i s available inthe project files. The assessment
concluded that PPMO's performance in procurement of other Bank-financed projects i s satisfactory and
recommended the following action plan: (i)PPMO prepare a Procurement Management Manual which will
define functions of, and responsibilities between PPMO and county PMO; (ii)      prepare a procurement plan
for the first year after project appraisal based on agreed procurement procedures; (iii)PPMO organize
procurement training after project appraisal for county PMO staff and take action to strengthencapacity of
county PMOS;(iv) recruit adequate procurement staff at county level prior to project appraisal; and (v) set
up a procurement filing system. All these recommendations have been followed. Deviations between the
Bank's procurement procedures and the national laws and regulations include basically: (i)       advertising
through internet is acceptable under national rule; (ii)cost estimate is mandatory; (iii) bracketing is used
for civil works contract evaluation; (iv) merit point system (scoring system) can also be used for bid
evaluation; (v) time for preparation of bids can be 20 days; (vi) contract less than three bidders should be
rejected and needs re-bidding." All these issues have been addressed in the project's legal agreements and
through the Ministry of Finance (MOF) NCB Guidelines which are currently being prepared with the
assistance o f the Bank. The MOF NCB Guidelines will supersede the NCB procedures set out in the Law
on Tendering and Biddingo f People's Republic o f China and other local procurement regulations.

Community Participation inProcurement(CPP). It has beendetermined that community participationin
procurement is in the interest of project sustainability in order to promote participation of local
communities, increase the utilization of local know-how and materials, and employ labor-intensive and
other appropriate technologies. This arrangement isjustified given the needto ensure community ownership
and commitment to future operations and maintenance. A separate CPP Manual has been prepared in
addition to the project's Procurement Management Manual reviewedby the Bank. The main definitions are
as follows:
    Agreement. The community participation in procurement will: (a) cover activities under the Farm
    Production Improvement Component only; (b) be initially on a pilot basis involving about 10percent of
    project communities; (c) be extended to cover a wider project area during project implementation if
    desirable and mutually agreed between the Bank and the Borrower; (d) follow simplified procedures;
    (e) start in the second year of project implementation; and (f) be undertaken by implementation
    coinmittees established within local communities.




                                                   - 61 -

    Scope, Community participation procedures are suitable for works, goods and services associated with
    project activities o f soil fertility improvement, crop establishment, livestock maintenance, fish pond
    rehabilitation and construction, ethnic minority village development and agricultural demonstration
    sites. These contracts are estimated to cost less than US $100,000 equivalent each. The communities
    themselves will provide labor, materials or cash. They may choose to pay for specialized local labor
    and materials, which will be costed at prevalent local market rates.

    Eligibility. An eligible beneficiary community i s defined as a Water User's Association (WUA) which:
    (a) has been registered as a legal entity; (b) has established a project implementation committee
    consisting o f a project manager, a project procurement staff, a treasury; (c) is within the project area;
    (d) will implement the eligible project activities; and (e) meets the conditions for member participation
    and contribution in financing of the project activities.

    Responsibility. WUA's fundamental role is to implement project activities within the defined scope in
    the local project areas including formulation, preparation, execution and monitoring. The community
    has the main responsibility to implement its project activities including procurement of works and
    goods, and ensure that the works are carried out and that the goods and services supplied are as agreed
    upon. County PMO/Finance Bureau will provide managerialltechnical support to the selected
    beneficiary communities in the following areas: (a) organizational capacity; (b) technical skills; (c)
    procurement; (d) record keeping and filing skills; and (e) cost-benefit analysis. County PMOSwould
    help the communities review experiences and lessons with these pilots on a regular basis. The pilot
    would be subject to the Bank's annual review. The Bank would not be involved inthe approval process
    for every contract at community level.

    Procedures. The procurement procedures to be followed by participating communities and other
    agencies are detailed inCommunity Participation inProcurement Manual. This CPP Manual is subject
    to the Borrower's annual update for improvement,

Procurementmethods (Table A)

Procurement Arrangements. A detailed procurement plan for the first year has been discussed and
finalized in accordance with the project's phased approach arrangements and included in PIM. A complete
set o f procurement packages for the first year o f implementation have been agreed upon, and bidding
documents for these procurements are under preparation. The procurement plans for the following
implementation years have been estimatedbased on percentage distribution o f total project cost and the first
year's cost estimation. Detailed procurement plans for the following years' procurement will be submitted
for the Bank's approval on an annual basis. The anticipated procurement profile i s shown in Annex 6 Table
A. A considerable number o f NCB contracts is expected under this project. In line with the Operational
Procurement Review (OPR) recently carried out by the Bank, (i)the NCB advertisement for goods
contracts valued at US$300,000 or less and for works contracts valued at US$2 million or less will be
advertised on provincial dailies or the China Water Resource Daily and on the China Tendering web site
and (ii)any onsultant service contract below US$300,000 each will use national shortlist only.

0    Works. A total o f US$121.77 million worth o f works would be required. These works would be
     scattered over thousands o f villages in 21 project counties and carried out over a period o f six years.
     (i)International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Although not anticipated, any contract for works
        estimated to cost US$10 million equivalent or more would be procured under ICB procedures
        specified inthe Bank's Guidelines.




                                                     - 62 -

 (ii)National Competitive Bidding (NCB). Contracts for works estimated to cost less than US$10
     million equivalent may be awarded under NCB procedures acceptable to the Bank, paragraphs 3.3
     and 3.4 of the Bank's Guidelines will apply. These works, worth about US$35.20 million, comprise
     o fmedium-sized irrigation and drainage schemes.
 (iii)Small Works (SW). The project will finance about US$24.79millionworth ofminor works,
     costing less than US$200,000 equivalent per contract and consisting o f small-sized irrigation and
     drainage schemes (US$15.09 million) and agricultural market facilities and rural enterprises
     (US$9.70 million). These works would be suitable for lump-sumand fixed-price contracts awarded
     on the basis o f quotations obtained from at least three qualified domestic contractors inresponse to
     a written invitation.
  (iv) Force Account (FA). About US$50.67 million worth of works consist of access roads, on-farm
     works, and small scale establishment of crop, livestock and fisheries activities. These works are in
     small individual assignments not exceeding US$100,000 each and under Irrigation and Drainage
     Component and Farm Production Improvement Component to be carried out by county or township
     government, or line agencies that organize WUAs (communities) and farmers to do the actual work.
     The use of force account for these works isjustifiedthat works involved are very small and spread
     over numerous local villages and irrigation schemes for which qualified construction firms are
     unlikely to bid.This procurement will be financed on an output basis only.

  (v) Community Participation. About US$4.10 million worth of small scale establishment of crop,
     livestock and fisheries activities under Farm Production Improvement component is expected to be
     procurement through community participation. Paragraph 3.15 of the Bank's Procurement
     Guidelines will apply, Procedures acceptable to the Bank are detailed in the Bank reviewed CPP
     Manual.
  (vi) Non-Bank Financing (NBF). The cost for construction managementrelated expenses for irrigation
     and drainage schemes (US$6.16 million), building rehabilitation for farmer teaching centers
     (US$0.05 million) and land acquisition for market development and rural enterprises (US$0.80
     million) will be non-Bank financed.

0 Goods. A total of US$10.59 million worth of goods would be procured for the project. To the extent
  practical, contracts for goods would be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost US$500,000
  equivalent or more to attract competition.
  (i)International Competitive Bidding. All contracts for goods costing US$500,000 equivalent or more,
     would be awarded through ICB procedures. A total o f about US$0.90 million would be procured
     usingICB. A margin of preference equal to 15% o f the CIF price of imported goods or the actual
      customs duties and taxes, whichever is less, would be allowed to qualified domestic manufactures
     biddingunder ICB procedures.
  (ii)NationalCompetitiveBidding.NCBprocedureswouldbeusedforprocurementofgoodscosting
      less than US$500,000 equivalent per contract with an aggregatedamount of US$3.21million. Rural
      market equipment (US$O.90 million), small rural enterprises equipment (US$2.00 million) and
      office equipment (US0.3 1million) would be procured through NCB procedures acceptable to the
      Bank.
  (iii)National Shopping (NS).Othergoods, worthUS$5.21millionequivalent, includingagricultural
      market equipment (US0.82 million), rural enterprise equipment (US$2.15 million), farmer training
      equipment (US$0.04 million) and fattening livestock (US$2.20 million) would be procured using
      national shopping procedures with contracts under US$lOO,OOO equivalent each. They will be


                                                  - 63 -

     procured in small batches from local markets and suppliers. All national shopping contracts will
     require at least three price quotations.
  (iv) Direct Contracting (DC). Breeding livestock and fish fiys, very often obtainable from only one
     local source in a timely and dependable manner, would be procured by farmer households or local
     community groups from local markets and suppliers by direct contracting consistent with paragraph
     3.7 o f the Bank's Guidelines. Such contracts would cost less than US$50,000 each up to an
     aggregate amount of US$0.86 million. Detailed procedures including quality control measures,
     acceptable to the Bank, will be included inProcurementManagement Manual.

  (v) Comnzunity Participation. A total of about US $0.34 million worth of goods is expected to be
     procurement through community participationprocedures. These goods would include various farm
     production inputs required for small scale establishment of crop, livestock and fisheries activities
     under Farm Production Improvement component including fattening and breeding animal stocks,
     fishfrys, fertilizers, plastic mulch, farm tools and other minor inputs. Paragraph3.15 of the Bank's
     Procurement Guidelines will apply. Procedures acceptable to the Bank are detailed in the Bank
     reviewed CPP Manual.

  (vi) Non-Bank Financing (NBF,, The fumiture and teaching materials for farmer teaching centers
     (US$0.07 million) will be non-Bank financed.
  Consultant Services. A total of US$11.39 million worth of consultant services, equivalent to about
  7.4% of total project cost, would be provided. Consultants for engineering oversight and survey,
  designing, and review of design would be selected under QCBS (US6.08 million). Consultants for
  dam safety review would be selected by QBS (US$3.28 million). Consultants for other assignments,
  very small under $100,000 each, would be hired through selection process based on Consultant's
  Qualifications (US$0.96 million). A limited number of consultants are expected to be individuals
  (USSO.12 million). The individual consultants would be selectedthrough comparison of at least three
  candidates. To obtain expressions of interest, the Borrower will include a list of expected consulting
  assignments in the General Procurement Notice which will be updated annually for all outstanding
  procurement. All contracts for consulting firms will be advertised in the national gazette or a national
  newspaper and all contracts expected to cost over US $200,000 would be advertised in Development
  Business of the UnitedNations. Some consultant services (US0.95 million) for applied research for
  farm productionand marketing studies would be Non-Bank financed.

0 Training and Study Tours. A total of US$3.10 million were budgeted for training and study tours,
  equivalent to about 2.0 percent of total project cost, would be provided. This budget was made based
  on an overall plan for training and study tours prepared by the PPMOs and agreed by the Bank during
  the Project preparation. Detailed programs will be developed by the PPMOs during project
  implementation and included in Project annual work plan for Bank's review. The approved detailed
  programs will be used as the basis for reimbursement. Some training activities (US$0.30 million)
  would be Non-Bank financed.

  Miscellaneous. About US$6.13 million worth of miscellaneous costs are required for the project.
  These costs are largely related to project management activities including management budgets for
  woman coordinators (US0.20 million), project management for PMOS(US$2.57 million), working
  capital and incremental operating costs for market and rural enterprise development (US$3.34 million),
  and ethnic minority village development activities (US$0.02 million). These costs, non-Bank financed,
  would be financed by the government and extemal grants.




                                                   - 64 -

                     Table A: Project Costs by ProcurementArrangements
                                    (US$ million equivalent)


                                                  Procurement Method'
    Expenditure Category            ICB               NCB        Othe:    N.6.F.  Total Cost
1. Works                            0.00             35.20       79.56     7.01    121.77
                                   (0.00)           (24.10)     (54.73)    (0.00)  (78.83)
2. Goods                            0.90              3.21        6.41     0.07     10.59
                                   (0.90)            (3.21)      (4.80)    (0.00)   (8.91)
3. Services                         0.00              0.00       10.44      0.95    11.39
                                   (0.00)            (0.00)      (8.87)    (0.00)   (8.87)
4. TraininglStudy Tours             0.00              0.00        2.80      0.30     3.10
                                   (0.00)            (0.00)      (2.39)    (0.00)   (2.39)
5. Front-end fee                    0.00              0.00        1.oo      0.00     1.oo
                                   (0.00)            (0.00)      (1.OO)    (0.00)   (1.OO)
6. Miscellaneous 3                  0.00              0.00        0.00      6.13     6.13
                                   (0.00)            (0.00)      (0.00)    (0.00)   (0.00)
   Total                            0.90             38.41       100.21    14.46    153.98
                                   (0.90)            (27.31)     (71.79)   (0.00)  (100.00)




                                              - 65 -

                       Table AI : Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
                                          (US$ million equivalent)

                                                          Selection Method
  Consultant Services
 ExpenditureCategory        QCBS       QBS        SFB       LCS       CQ      Other      N.B.F.  Total cost(
A. Firms                     6.08      3.28       0.00      0.00      0.96     0.00       0.95      11.27
                            (5.17)    (2.78)     (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.82)   (0.00)      (0.00)    (8.77)
B. Individuals               0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00     0.12       0.00      0.12
                            (0.00)    (0.00)     (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)   (0.10)     (0.00)     (0.10)
                    Total    6.08      3.28       0.00      0.00      0.96     0.12       0.95      11.39
                            (5.17)    (2.78)     (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.82)   (0.10)      (0.00)    (8.87)


          Note:QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
                 QBS = Quality-basedSelection
                 SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
                 LCS = Least-CostSelection
                 CQ = Selection Based on Consultants'Qualifications
                 Other = Selection of individualconsultants (per SectionV of ConsultantsGuidelines),
                 Commercial Practices,etc.
                 N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
                 Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.

Prior reviewthresholds (Table B)
Prior review of the Bank would include:

0   All NCB contracts for works equal to or greater than US$800,000;
    The first Small Works contract for eachproject prefecture/city;
0   All ICB contracts for goods;
0   All NCB contracts for goods equal to or greater than US$300,000;      '

0   The first contract for goods under shopping procedures for each project prefecture/city;
0   All direct contracting contracts equal to or greater than US$lO,OOO; and
    All contracts for consultant services inexcess of US$lOO,OOO for firms andUS$50,000 for individuals.


All overseas training andstudy tour plans will be includedinproject annual workplan to be reviewed by the
Bank.
A prior review ratio of about 20% (one in every five contracts) is expected. All other contracts would be
subject to ex-post review by the Bank's supervision missions with a sampling ratio of one in five contracts.
Annex 6 Table B indicates the thresholds for prior review.




                                                    - 66 -

                 Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review

  Expenditure Category


.Works                     <10,000 and = or NCB
                           >200
                                                            each
                           <200             Small Works     The first Small Works            0.95
                                                            contract for eachproject

.Goods                                                      orefecturelcitv
                           = or >500        ICB             All ICB contracts                0.90
                           <500 and= or     NCB             All NCB contractsequalto          1.43
                           >loo                             or greater than $300,000
                                                            each
                           <loo             Shopping        The first contract for goods      0.21
                                                            undershoppingprocedures
                                                            for each project
                                                            mefecturelcitv
                           <loo             Direct          All direct contracting            0.05
                                            Contracting     contracts equal to or greater
                                                            than$10.000 each
3. Consultant Services           NIA        QCBS            All contracts=or >100,000

                                 N/A
                                                            for firms
                           <loo             Individual
                                                            for individuals
4. OverseasTraining and          N/A                        All overseas training and         0.32
                                                            study tour plans

Note:   1. NIA denotes not applicable.


Total value of contracts subject to prior review: US31.78 million, about 23% of total value of
contracts.

Overall Procurement RiskAssessment: Average

Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One at project launch, then one every six
months (includes special procurement supervision for post-review/audits).




                                                  - 67 -

Disbursement

Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
DisbursementArrangement, Disbursement arrangements for the project are summarized below in Table
C "Allocation o f Loan Proceeds." Disbursement for works would be at 68% of total expenditures. Disb
ursement for vehicles, office equipment, market and rural enterprise equipment would be at 100% of the
foreign exchange costs of imported items, 100% of the ex-factory price of locally manufactured items, and
75% of expenditures for other goods procured locally. Disbursement for sub-loans, for farm production
establishment, would be at 75% of the eligible expenditures which may include minor works, agricultural
inputs (except fattening and breeding livestock and fish frys) and related services associated with project
activities under the pilot community participation in procurement arrangement. Disbursement for
consultant services would be at 85% of eligible expenses, lower than the Standard Disbursement
Percentage for consultant services for China. The disbursement would be made at 100% for overseas
training and study tours and 85% for domestic training and study tours. The front-end fee would, be
disbursed 100%from the Loanproceedsat Loan effectiveness.
Disbursementfor Community-Based Investment.The Bank funds will be channeledto and managedby
the beneficiary communities. The transfer would be made from the project's Special Account managedby
the Provincial Finance Bureau to the project accounts of relevant project county finance bureaus and
further to local banks of the beneficiary communities. The Bank funds will be transferred basedon the list
of approved project activities of each community and on an estimated average expenditures for a
four-month period. Basic description of proceduresis as follows:

    Flow of IBRLI Funds. The first tranche would be transferred when: (a) a project implementation
    committee has been established; (b) a project account has been opened in a local bank conveniently
    located in and easily accessible by the beneficiary community; (c) an agreement with the Provincial
    Finance Bureau has been signed; and (d) the preparation of agreed project activities is well underway
    and the first project activity is expectedto be ready for implementation within a period of two months.
    Eachtransfer will provide for an average expenditure for implementation of four months.

    Procedures. Annual plan for community-based investment should be prepared by implementing
    communities and included in the project's overall annual implementation plan for the Bank's review
    and approval. After the annual plan is approved, Provincial Finance Bureau will sign an agreement
    with county finance bureau on behalf of the beneficiary community, specifying: (a) the commitment of
    the government to transfer funds and of the community to use the funds for the agreed purposes; (b)
    monitoring arrangement for project implementation and sanctions for misuse of funds; (c) on-lending
    terms and conditions; and (d) intemal auditing arrangement.

    Financid Control. The intemal audit, in addition to the normal annual financial audit of project
     accounts, will be carried out by auditors selected or appointed by county finance bureau. The auditors
     will visit each community andits bank after completion of the work or receipt o f supplies. The auditors
     will verify the appropriate use of funds by: (a) reviewing the records and supporting documentation
     related to the financial transactions made by the community; (b) certifying the eligibility o f
     expenditures; (c) observing the price comparativeness for works, goods and services with annual
     budget and other similar project activities; and (d) reviewing the process of procurement. In addition,
     county finance bureaus will provide accounting and cashiering services, and the financial management
     team in the World Bank's Office in Beijing will provide support to the Provincial Finance Bureau as
     requested. The auditors will prepare and submit a short standardized report for each community upon
     completion of each visit which will describe the output, quality, problems encountered, and suggestions
     for improvement. This report will be made available for World Bank supervision mission's review.




                                                     - 68 -

0   Forms. A set o f simple forms acceptable to the Bank are under preparation for: (a) approval o f project
    activities; (b) fund transfer; (c) cash bookhank record; (d) standard audit report; and (e) procurement
    documents. The bookkeeping system for the communities will be very simple and meet the following
    minimum requirements: (i)records all transactions (in cash or from bank account) and allow
    verification of cash and bank balances; (ii)facilitate simple cost-center accounting (separate costs for
    different components of project activities); and (iii)
                                                         provide means to retain the supporting documents
    (invoices, receipts, notes) on expenses made. A community disbursement manual is under preparation
    by ProvincialFinance Bureau.
    Reporting. Each beneficiary community will prepare and submit a financial report to Provincial
    Finance Bureauvia county finance bureau on a semi-annual basis by April 30 and October 31 of each
    year starting from the first semester following project's first disbursement. Financial reports will be
    used by the Provincial Finance Bureau for accounting settlement and replenishment of the project
    Special Account. Supporting documents, not required for financial reports or replenishment application
    for Special Account, will be retained by respective implementation committee of communities and
    made available for review by auditors and Bank supervision missions.
                                   Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds      *

L        Expenditure Category                Amount in US$million              Financing Percentage
 1. Works                                            75.75                               68%
 2. Goods                                             8.66             100%of foreign expenditures; 100%of
                                                                       local expenditures (ex-factory cost); and
                                                                        75% for other items procured locally
 3. Farm Production Sub-loans                         3.33               75% of amount of Farm Production
                                                                                  Sub-loans disbursed
 4. Consultant Services                               8.87                                85%
15. Training and Study Tours                I         2.39              100% of foreign expenditures and 85%
                                                                                 of local emenditures

 Total Project Costs                                 99.00
                            Front-end fee             1.oo                        100% of fee amount
 Total                                               100.00

Retroactive Financing. The following project activities, costing about US$7.5 million with an estimated
Bank financing o f about US$5 million (about 5 percent of the proposed Loan amount), have been requested
by PPMO and agreed by the Bank for retroactive financing by IBRD funds: (i)construction o f two
irrigation schemes; (ii)survey and design for 16 irrigation schemes; (iii)safety review of 9 dams; (iv)
establishment o f 19 SIDDs; (v) farm production activities; (vi) construction of three physical markets; (vii)
small rural enterprise, leading farmer groups and marketing groups; (viii) training activities; and (ix) office
equipment. These project activities are expected to start after October 8, 2003. Appropriate documentation
or work plan, consistent with overall project design and technical standards were reviewed by the Bank.
The relevant procurement methods applicable to these project activities would be followed.




                                                   - 69 -

 Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
SOEs will be used for disbursements against: (i)     contracts for works under US$SOO,OOO; (ii)   contracts for
goods under US$300,000; (iii)domestic and international training and study tour expenses; (iv) contracts
for consultant services under US$lOO,OOO for firms and under US$50,000 for individuals; and (v)
sub-loans for farm production establishment under community procurement. Supporting documents for
SOEs will be retained by respective PMOSand made available for review by Bank's supervision missions.
In the case o f contracts for goods, works and consultant services above these thresholds, disbursements
would be made against full documentation o f the contracts and other supporting documents.

Special account:
To facilitate disbursement, a Special Account in U S dollars to be operated by Jiangxi Provincial Finance
Bureau will be established in a bank with terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. The Provincial
Finance Bureau will be directly responsible for the management, monitoring, maintenance and
reconciliationof the special account activities o f the project. The authorized allocation o f special account is
proposed not to exceed US$7.0 million equivalent, However the authorized allocation will be limited to
US$4.8 million equivalent untilthe aggregate withdrawals and outstanding special commitments are equal
to or exceed US40.0 million. Applications for replenishment, supported by appropriate documentation,
will be submitted monthly or when the amounts withdrawn equal 50% o f the initial deposit, whichever
comes first. The project i s expected to be completed by December 31,2009 and closed on June 30,2010.

FinancialManagement
Country Issues. To date, no Country FinancialAssessment Audit (CFAA) has been performedfor China,
though dialogue with the Govemment o f China in respect o f a CFAA exercise has been initiated. The
Bank's current CFAA approach in China i s to buildon the Asian Development Bank's year 2000 study o f
Financial Management and Governance Issues in China, analyzing areas that have changed rapidly in the
past few years or that deserve further scrutiny, and over time cover all major areas usually part o f a full
CFAA exercise. Currently, for reference purpose, the Bank relies on the work conducted by the Asian
Development Bank.

Based on observations of developments in the areas o f public expenditures, accounting and auditing, and
Bank experience with China projects for the past few years, substantial achievement has been made in the
area o f public financial management, and further improvement is expected in the next few years. As
economic reform programs further unfold, the govemment has come to realize the importance of ensuring
transparency and accountability, and minimize potential fraud or corruption.
Due to rather unique arrangement in China, hnding o f Bank projects i s controlled and monitoredby MOF
 and its extensions, i.e. finance bureaus at provincial, municipal/prefecture and county level. However, due
to technical expertise required for project implementation, project activities are usually carried out by
 implementing agencies o f a specific industry or sector. This arrangement requires close coordination o f
project related work, as multi-level management o f funding and implementation mechanism often presents
 a great challenge for smoothproject implementation.

 Conclusion of Financial Management (FM) Assessment. An assessment o f the adequacy o f the project
 financial management system of the Jiangxi Integrated Agricultural Modemization Project has been
 completed and a complete FM assessment report i s available in the project files. The assessment focused
 on Jiangxi Provincial Finance Bureau, which will handle Special Account activity for the project, and the
 PPMO, which will be responsible for implementing various components o f the project.



                                                      - 70 -

The assessment, based on guidelines issued by the FinancialManagement Sector Board on June 30, 2001,
concluded that the project meets minimum Bank financial management requirements, as stipulated in
BP/OP 10.02. In the team's opinion, the project will have in place an adequate project financial
management system that can provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information on the
status o f the project inthe reportingformat agreed with the project and as requiredby the Bank.
No outstanding audits or audit issues exist with any of the implementing agencies involved inthe project.

FundsFlow. The project will be disbursing based on the traditional disbursementtechniques and will not
be usingFMR-baseddisbursements,inaccordancewith the agreementbetweenthe Bank and MOF.
Funding sources for the project include Bank loan and counterpart funds. Bank loan agreement will be
signed between the Bank and the Government of China with MOF, and an on-lending agreement will be
concluded between MOF and Jiangxi Provincial Government with Jiangxi Provincial Finance Bureau.
Lower level on-lending agreements will be concluded between upper level finance bureaus all the way to

Provincial Finance Bureau - to municipal finance bureaus and county finance bureaus - to contractors or
county level finance bureaus. Bank loan proceeds will flow to the special account to be kept at the

suppliersvia bank accountswith major commercial banks acceptable to the Bank.
Counterpart funds are estimated to 35% of total investment: 17.5% by government at different levels;
17.5% by beneficiaries' in-kindcontributions, such as labor contributions.
ImplementingEntities. Project Leading Group comprises several governmental agencies inthe province
i s chaired by the Governor of Jiangxi Province. Purpose of PLG i s to provide coordination among different
governmental agencies which may become involved in project implementation. A provincial level PMO
will assume overall implementation and coordination responsibility. Municipal and county PMOs will
carry out direct implementation of the project.

The Provincial Finance Bureau will play a major role in project implementation, including overall
monitoring, financing arrangement, procurement, financial management, etc. The Finance Bureau will be
responsible for maintaining, monitoring and reconciling the project special account. It will also be
responsible for reviewing, verifying and approving withdrawal applications prepared by county PMOs
before submission by the Provincial Finance Bureau to the Bank for disbursementprocessing. The Finance
Bureau has hadprior experience with Bank projects and is familiar with Bank's disbursementprocedures.

     Strengths. The PPMO has prior experience with project financed by the Bank and staff in the
     provincial PMO are the same as those in the PMO of another Bank project, i.e. Yangtze Flood
     Emergency Rehabilitation. The Provincial Finance Bureau also has had extensive experience from
     other projects financed by Bank and i s familiar with Bank policies, proceduresand requirements.

     Weaknesses. Some municipal and county PMOs suffered from under-staffing in previous projects
     financed by Bank or staff were found to lack required skills. Detailed and realistic staffing plans are
     critical. The PPMO should provide neededtraining to municipal and county PMOs. Project financial
     and accounting staff should be in position prior to effectiveness; training in project financial
     management should be provided by the Provincial Finance Bureau and the PPMO to all relevant staff
     before effectiveness.

     Staffing. Project accounting staff with educational background and work experience commensurate
     with the work they are expected to perform is one of the factors critical to successfulproject financial
     management. Based on discussions, observation and review of educational background and work
     experience of the staff identified for financial and accounting positions, it is the Task Team's
     assessment that the staff will be able to carry out a satisfactory work.




                                                     - 71 -

Some accounting staff inthe PPMO and the municipal PMOShave prior experience with projects financed
by the Bank, but many of the staff are new. To strengthen the financial management capacity and achieve
consistent quality o f accounting work, training will be provided prior to effectiveness to all key financial
and accounting staff o f participating municipalities and counties to ensure good understanding of Bank's
policies and procedures.
Accounting Policies and Procedures. The administration, accounting and reporting of the project will be
set up inaccordancewith the following regulations/circulars issuedby MOF:
    The "Temporary Regulations on Financial and Accounting Management for Projects Financed by the
    World Bank" (Circular #127 issued in 1993) by MOF will guide bookkeeping and preparation of
    project financial statements and management reports.             Accrual accounting and double entry
    bookkeeping basiswill be adoptedby the project.
    Circular #12: "Regulation for the Submission of Withdrawal Applications" issued in December 1996
    by MOF, which includes detailed procedures for preparing and submitting withdrawal applications and
    retention of supporting documentation.
    Circular #13: "Accounting Regulations for World Bank Financed Projects" issued in January 2000 by
    MOF. The circular provides in-depth instructions of accounting treatment of project activities and
    includes: (i)Chart of account; (ii)Detailed accounting instructions for each project account; (iii)
    Standard set o f project financial statements; and (iv) Instructions on the preparation of project financial
    statements.

    The standard set of project financial statementsmentioned above has been agreed to between the Bank
    and MOF and applies to all Bank projects appraised after July 1, 1998 and includes: (i)     Balance sheet;
    (ii)Statement of source anduse of fund; (iii)   Statement of implementation of loan agreement; and (iv)
    Statementof special account.
Both circular #127 and #13 are simplified versions of the Accounting Standards for State-owned,
Infrastructure Oriented Projects (the "Standards"), taking into consideration uniquecharacteristics of Bank
projects.  The Standards are modeled after the principles of International Accounting Standards and
provides detailed guidelines appropriate to accounting for activities of Bank projects.

Reporting and Monitoring and Format of Financial Statements.                 Each implementing agency (i.e.
municipal PMO or county PMO) will be managing, monitoring and maintaining respective project
accounting records. Original supporting documents for project activities will be retained by originating
PMO. Each PMO will prepare its financial statements, which will then be consolidated by the next
higher-level PMO. The Provincial PMO will be responsible for final consolidation o f financial statements
prepared and submitted by participating municipalities and counties, and providing consolidated project
financial statementsto the Bank for review and comment on a regular basis.
The format and content of the financial statementsrepresentthe standard project reportingpackage agreed
to between the Bank and MOF, and have been discussed and agreed with all parties concerned. The
unaudited project consolidated financial statements will be submitted as part o f the Financial Monitoring
Report to the Bank on a semi-annual basis (prior to August 15 and February 15 o f the subsequent year)
and include the following four statements: (i)Balance Sheet; (ii)Summary of Sources and Uses of Funds
by Project Component; (iii)   Statement of Implementationof Loan Agreement; and (iv) Statement of Special
Account.




                                                     - 72 -

All participating municipalities and counties will establish a computerized management information system
including a module for project financial management.
Supervision Plan. As some o f project financial and accounting staff are new to the Bank project, more
frequent supervision missions at the initial implementation stage (such as twice a year) will ensure proper
financial/accounting setup and implementation.        Such missions will also ensure proper and timely
recruitment o f project financial and accounting staff. FM/disbursement reviews will be carried out
simultaneously with procurement reviews.
Internal Audits. The Internal Audit Department o f the Provincial Finance Bureau will provide internal
audit functions for the project. The PPMO also has checking arrangement similar to internal audits.
Audit Arrangements The Bank requires that project financial statements be audited inaccordance with
standards acceptable to the Bank. In line with other Bank financed projects in China, the project will be
audited in accordance with the Government Auditing Standards o f the People's Republic o f China (1997
edition). The Jiangxi Provincial Audit Bureau has been identified as the auditors for the project. Audit
fieldwork will be carried out by the Audit Bureau and its local chapters, and audit reports will be issued,
under the guidance and supervision o f the China National Audit Office. The Bank currently accepts audit
reports issued by China National Audit Office or its local counterpart for which China National Audit
Office is ultimately responsible. Audit reports on annual consolidated financial statements will be due to the
Bank within 6 months of the end o f each calendar year, with a separate opinion on Statement o f
Expenditures and Special: Account.




                                                    - 73 -

                               Annex 7: Project ProcessingSchedule
                CHINA: Jiangxi IntegratedAgricultural Modernization Project


 Project Schedule                                            Planned                      Actual
ITime taken to prepare the project (months)      I                              I                      I
 First Bank mission (identification)                      09/06/1999                     09/06/1999
Appraisal mission departure                                11/30/2001                    10/13/2002
 Negotiations                                             09/15/2003                     09/23/2003
IPlanned Date of Effectiveness                   I        0111512004             I                     I

Prepared by:
The AgricultureForeign FundUtilizing Office inJiangxi Provincial PlanningandDevelopmentCommission

Preparation assistance:
Japanese PHRD Grant.

Bank staff who worked on the Droiect included:
                                  *   -
         Nam                                                peciality
 Sari Soderstrom                          Task Team Leader, Economist
 Derek Baker                              Agricultural Markets Specialists
 Rinda Bosker                             Communication Specialist
 Chup Lim Cheong                          Rural Infrastructure Specialist
 Garry C u m i n s                        Agricultural and ExtensionSpecialist
 FarzardDadgari                           Environmental Specialist
 Paavo Eliste                             NaturalResources Economist
 Achim Fock                               Agricultural Economist
 Marianne Grosclaude                      Rural Development Specialist
 Gregory Guldin                           Anthropologist
 Johannes Heymans                         Water Management Specialist
 Rabih Karaky                             Agricultural Economist
 Martti Lariola                           Private Sector Specialist
 NinghuiLi                                Financial Specialist
 Zong-Cheng Lin                           Social Scientist
 Matrice Mangum                           Program Assistant
 Margaret Png                             Senior Counsel
 Arlene Reyes                             ProgramAssistant
 Jinan Shi                                Procurement Specialist
 Rutger-Jan Schoen                        Communication Specialist
 Bruce Trangmar                           Agricultural Specialist
 Jianping Wu                              Animal Husbandry Specialist
 Weiguo Zhou                              Operations Officer




                                                   -74  -

                             Annex 8: Documentsin the Project File*
                CHINA: Jiangxi IntegratedAgricultural ModernizationProject


A. ProjectImplementation Plan
1. Project ImplementationManual
2. Project Management Manual
3. Financial Management Manual
4. Community Procurement FundManagement Manual
5. Procurement Management Manual
6. Community ParticipationinProcurement Manual
7. Irrigationand Drainage Component Manual
8. SIDD Manual
9. FarmProductionImprovementManual (Soil Improvement Sub-Manual)
10. Enterprise LendingManual
11. EnvironmentalMonitoring and Management Plan
12. Pest Management Plan
13. Dam Safetey Review Management Plan
14. Multi-Ethnic Groups Development Plant
15. Beneficiaries ParticipationManual
16. LandAqcuisition Framework

6. Bank StaffAssessments
 1. IdentificationAssistance Mission: Back-to-Office Report, September 1999
 2. Technical Mission: Back-to-Office Report, February-March2000
 3. Project Concept Document (PCD), April 2001
4. Peer Review Comments on the PCD, April 2001
 5. Minutes of Project Concept Document, April 2001
 6. Preparation Assistance Mission: Back-to-Office Report, May 2001
 7. Pre-appraisal Mission: Back-to-Office Report, September 2001
 8. Procurement Management Assessment Report, October 2001
 9. Financial Management Capacity Assessment Report, October 2001
10. Pre-Appraisal Aide Memoire
11. Technical Appraisal Aide Memoire,
12. Appraisal Aide Memoire
13. Project Cost Estimate

 C. Other
 1. List of PLG and TAG members, and PMO staff
 2. Baseline Household Survey and Follow-up Baseline Household Survey
 3. Statistical Annex on Project Areas
 4. Social Assessment Report
 5. Cultural Heritage Report
 6. Irrigation and Drainage Feasibility Studies for 6 Pilot Designs
 7. SIDD Development Plan
 8. WUA Pilot Site Appraisal Report
 9. SIDD Policy Advise Study


                                                    - 75 -

10. Water FeeReport
11. FarmProductionImprovementFeasibilityStudy
12. ExtensionandTrainingFeasibilityStudy
13. Market BackgroundStudy
14. MarketSystems DevelopmentReport
15. Township andVillageMarketFeasibility Study
16. FiveAppraisal Reports for Enterprise LendingFacility
17. EnvironmentalImpactAssessmentReport
18. ConsolidatedFeasibilityStudy inChinese
*including electronic files




                                                - 76 -

                                          Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
                           CHINA: Jiangxi Integrated Agricultural Modernization Project
                                                            24-Sep-2003
                                                                                                                      Difference betweenexpected
                                                                                                                               and actual
                                                                 Oriainal Amount in US$ Millions                             disbursements'
Project ID  FY    Purpose                                    IBRD         IDA                  GEF    Cancel.  Undisb.       Orig    Frm Rev'd
PO73002     2004 Basic Education in Western Areas Project     100,oo       0.00                 0.00     0.00    100.00        0.00      0.00
PO65035     2004 CN-Gansu 8, XinjiangPastoralDevelopment       66.27       0.00                 0.00     0.00    66.27         0.00      0.00
PO67337     2003 CN-2nd GEF Energy Conservation                 0.00       0.00                 26.00    0.00    28.00        13.07      0.00
P068058     2003 CN-Yixing PumpedStorage Project              145.00       0.00                  0.00     0.00   145.00        1.33       0.00
PO70191     2003 CN-SHANGHAI URB ENVMT APL1                   200.00       0.00                  0.00     0.00   200.00        0.00       0.00
PO70441     2003 CN-Hubei Xiaogan Xiangfan Hwy                250.00       0.00                  0.00     0.00   201.55        -1.78      0.00
P058847     2003 CN-3rd Xinjiang Hwy Project                  150.00       0.00                  0.00     0.00   118.95        4.79       0.00
PO40599     2003 CN-TIANJINURB DEV II                         150.00       0.00                  0.00     0.00   150.00        0.00       0.00
PO76714     2003 CN-Anhui Hwy 2                               250.00       0.00                  0.00     0.00   250.00        3.83       0.00
PO58846     2002 CN-Natl Railway Project                      160.00       0.00                  0.00     0.00    45.03        -9.14      0.00
PO60029     2002 CN-Sustain. ForestryDev(Natura1Forest)         0.00       0.00                 16.00     0.00    16.90         1.13      0.00
PO64729     2002 CN-SUSTAINABLEFORESTRY DEV. PROJECT           93.90       0.00                  0.00     0.00    88.46        3.03       0.00
PO71147     2002 CN-Tuberculosis Control Project              104.00       0.00                  0.00     0.00    93.33       -10.67      0.00
PO70459     2002 CN-Inner Mongolia Hwy Project                100.00       0.00                  0.00     0.00    94.82         3.16      0.00
PO68049     2002 CN-HubeiHydropowerDev inPoorAreas            105.00       0.00                  0.00     0.00    93.83         5.16      0.00
PO51859     2001 CN-LIAORIVER BASIN                           100.00       0.00                  0.00     0.00    80.23       23.73       0.00
PO58845     2001 Jiangxi I1Hwy                                200.00       0.00                  0.00     0.00   149.49         1.83      0.00
PO56596     2001 CN-Shijiazhuang UrbanTransport               100.00       0.00                  0.00     0.00    92.28       48.34       0.00
PO56199     2001 CN-3rd Inland Wateways                       100.00       0.00                  0.00     0.00    86.95         2.45      0.00
PO45915     2001 CN-Urumql Urban Transport                     100.00      0.00                  0.00     0.00    61.53        45.44      0.00
PO56516     2001 CN *WATER CONSERVATION                        74.00       0.00                  0.00     0.00    46.55         5.92      0.00
PO47345     2001 CN-HUAIRIVER POLLUTIONCONTROL                 105.50      0.00                  0.00     0.00    96.34        -9.16      0.00
P045264     2000 CN-SMALLHLDRCATTLEDEV                         93.50       0.00                  0.00     0.00    24.04        14.38      0.00
PO56424     2000 TONGBAI PUMPEDSTOW                           320.00       0.00                  0.00     0.00   285.19        84.92      0.00
PO45910     2000 CN-HEBEI URBAN ENVIRONMENT                    150.00      0.00                  0.00     0.00   131.29        43.29      0.00
PO64924     2000 CH-GEFBEIJING ENVMTII                          0.00       0.00                 25.00     0.00     24.71       16.34      1.54
PO64730     2000 CN .Yangtze  DikeStrengthening Project       210.00       0.00                  0.00     0.00   119.88        79.88      0.00
PO49436     2000 CN-CHONGQINGURBAN ENVMT                      200.00       0.00                  0.00     0.00   167.69        43.85      0.00
PO42109     2000 CN-BEIJING ENVIRONMENT II                     349.00      0.00                 25.00     0.00   305.84       167.41      0.00
PO58844     2000 3rd Henan Prov Hwy                            150.00      0.00                  0.00     0.00     83.45       29.12      0.00
PO58843     2000 Guangxi Highway                               200.00      0.00                  0.00     0.00   122.51        48.51      0.00
PO51856     1999 ACCOUNTINGREFORM& DEVELOPMENT                  27.40      5.60                  0.00     0.00     19.24       19.05      0.00
P043933     1999 CN-SICHUANURBAN ENVMT                         150.00      2.00                  0.00     0.00     94.61       65.50      17.35
P049665     1999 CN-ANNINGVALLEY AG,DEV                         90.00      30.00                 0.00     0.00     23.08        5.87      0.00
PO50036     1999 Anhui Provincial Hwy                          200.00       0.00                 0.00     9.60     43.79       27.39      0.00
PO46829     1999 RENEWABLEENERGY DEVELOPMENT                   100.00       0.00                 0.00     0.00     12.87       99.87      2.60
PO46564     1999 CN - Gansu& Inner MongoliaPoverty Red.         60.00     100.00                 0.00     13.30    58.56       38.63      -5.06
PO51705     1999 Fujian I1Highway                              200.00       0.00                 0.00     0.00     72.68       66.02      0.00
PO46051     1999 CN-HIGHEREDUC. REFORM                          20.00      50.00                 0.00     0.00      8.34        9.64       0.00
PO57352     1999 CN-RURALWATER IV                               16.00      30.00                 0.00     0.00     26.95       18.47       6.79
PO58308     1999 CN-PENSIONREFORM PJT                            0.00       5.00                 0.00     0.00      1.95        2.05       0.00
P003653     1999 CN-ContainerTranspolt                          71.00       0.00                  0.00    18.61     3.62       22.15       0.00
PO60270     1999 CN-ENTERPRISEREFORMLN                           0.00       5.00                  0.00    0.00      2.67        4.29       4.07
PO38121     1999 CN-GEF-RENEWABLEENERGY DEVELOPMENT              0.00       0.00                 35.00    0.00     27.64       23.10       5.75
PO41268     1999 CN-Nat Hwy4/Hubei-Hunan                       350.00       0.00                  0.00    0.00     73.18        33.18      0.00
PO42299     1999 TEC COOP CREDIT IV                             10.00      35.00                  0.00    0.00     36.46        -9.02      0.00
PO41890     1999 CN-LiaoningUrbanTransport                     150.00       0.00                  0.00    0.00     45.89       40.89       0.00
PO36953     1999 CN-HEALTH IX                                   10.00      50.00                  0.00    0.00     36.61        18.00      0.00
PO56216     1999 CN -LOESS PLATEAUII                           100.00      50.00                  0.00     0.00    45.52       43.73       0.00
PO51888     1999 CN GUANZHONGIRRIGATION
                     ~                                          80.00      20.00                  0.00     0.00    39.54        25.42      0.00
P037859     1996 CN-GEFEnergy Conservation                       0.00       0.00                 22.00     0.00     2.46        22.06      0.00
PO40185     1996 CN-SHANDONGENVIRONMENT                         95.00       0.00                  0.00     1.40    23.23        23.37      0.00
PO51736     1996 E. CHINNJIANGSU PWR                           250.00       0.00                  0.00    86.00    56.01       142.01       7.92




                                                                - 77 -

                                                                                                                         Difference behveen expected
                                                                                                                                  and actual
                                                                    Original Amount in US$ Millions                             disbursements'

  Project ID  FY    Purpose                                    IBRD          IDA                    GEF    Cancel.  Undisb.       Orig  Frm Rev'd
 PO49700      1998 CN - IAIL-2                                    300.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00    6.13        6.13       0.00
 PO36414      1998 CN-GUANGXI URBANENVMT                           72.00      20.00                 0.00      0.00   74.63       63.07       15.68
 P003566      1998 CN-BASIC HEALTH (HLTH8)                          0.00      85.00                 0.00      0.00   34.73       23.28        0.00
 P035698      1998 HUNANPOWER DEVELOP.                            300.00       0.00                 0.00    145.00   50.88      188.38      -17.70
 PO03614      1998 CN-Guangzhou City Transport                    200.00       0.00                 0.00     20.00   109.54     129.54      78.67
 PO03619      1998 CN-2nd Inland Waterways                        123.00       0.00                 0.00     17.00   45.20       58.04        0.46
 P003539      1998 CN .SUSTAINABLE COASTAL RESOURCESDE            100.00       0.00                 0.00      2.31   48.49       42.47       16.59
 PO46952      1998 CN -FOREST. DEV. POOR AR                       100,oo     100.00                 0.00      0.00   45.76      -57.54       14.42
 PO46563      1998 CN -TARIM BASINII                               90.00      60.00                 0.00      2.67   32.18       30.76        0.00
 PO45788      1998 Tri-Provincial Hwy                             230.00       0.00                  0.00     0.00   28.60        17.47       0.00
 PO03606      1998 ENERGY CONSERVATION                             63.00       0.00                 22.00     0.00   37.89        15.19       0.00
 PO36949      1998 CN-Nat HwyB-Hubei                              250.00       0.00                  0.00     0.00    21.15       14.49       0.00
 PO03643      1997 CN-2nd Xinjiang Hwy                            300.00       0.00                  0.00    60.00    7.58       67.58        7.58
 PO03590      1997 CN  .QlNBA  MOUNTAINS POVERTY REDUCTIO          30.00      150.00                 0.00     0.00    25.95       30.04      -5.25
 P003637      1997 CN-NATL RURALWATER 3                             0.00      70.00                  0.00     0.00    0.00        3.20        3.06
 PO38988      1997 CN - HEILONGJIANGADP                           120.00       0.00                  0.00     0.00     9.85       9.85        1.67
 P036405      1997 CN - WANJlAZHAl WATER TRA                      400.00       0.00                  0.00    75.00    33.40     108.40       30.06
 PO35693      1997 FUEL EFFICIENT IND.                              0.00       0.00                 32.80     0.00     7.33       32.81       0.00
 P044485      1997 SHANGHAI WAlGAOQlAO                            400.00       0.00                  0.00     0.00   100.57       64.34      30.11
 PO34081      1997 CN - XIAOLANGDIMULTI. I/                       430.00       0.00                  0.00    78.53     0.15     118.59       38.62
 PO03654      1997 Nat HwyZ/Hunan-Guangdong                       400.00       0.00                  0.00     0.00    57.59       57.59       5.89
 PO03650      1997 TUOKETUO POWEWINNER                            400.00       0.00                  0.00    102.50   40.12     136.42       13.08
 PO40513      1996 2nd HenanProv Hwy                              210.00        0.00                 0.00     0.00    35.69       35.69      17.69
 P003599      1996 CN-YUNNAN ENVMT                                125.00       25.00                 0.00     19.48   48.21       68.83       7.03
 P003602      1996 CN-HUBEI URBANENVIRONMENT                      125.00       25.00                 0.00     28.32   44.09       74.45      20.79
 PO03648      1996 CN-SHANGHAISEWERAGE II                         250.00        0.00                 0.00      0.00   57.13       57.13      18.94
 PO03649      1896 CN -SHANXI POVERTYALLEV                          0.00      100.00                 0.00      0.00    1.61       10.81       0.00
 P003589      1996 CN-DISEASE PREVENTION(HLTH7)                     0.00      100.00                 0.00      0.00    7.47       16.88       0.00
 PO34618      1996 CN-LABORMARKET DEV.                             10.00       20.00                  0.00     0.00    5.60        7.77       0.00
 PO03594      1996 CN  .GANSU     HEX1CORRIDOR                     60.00       90.00                  0.00     0.00   76.77       57.25       0.00
 PO03598      1995 CN-LIAONINGENVIRONMENT                         110.00        0.00                  0.00     8.80    0.00        8.80       0.00
 PO03571      1995 CN-7thRailways                                 400.00        0.00                  0.00   119.00   23.84      142.84      27.13
 PO03596      1995 Yangtze BasinWater ResourcesProject            100.00      110.00                  0.00     1.92    0.34        4.75       4.75
 PO36947      1995 CN-SichuanPower Transmission Project           270.00        0.00                  0.00    95.00   11.79      106.79       9.26
 PO03647      1995 China Economic Law Reform -LEGEA                 0.00       10.00                  0.00     0.00     1.77       2.17       0.00
  P003642     1995 CN-ZHEJIANGPOWER DEVT                          400.00        0.00                  0.00    33.25     1.09      39.87       0.00
- PO03639     1995 SOUTHWESTPOVERTY REDUCTIONPROJECT               47.50      200.00                  0.00     0.01     1.21      25.36       25.36
  PO03603     1995 CN-ENT HOUSING8 SSR                            275.00       75.00                  0.00    50.36   55.97      104.55       25.18
  P003540     1994 LOESS PLATEAU                                    0.00      150.00                  0.00     0.00     1.12       0.50       0.00
  PO03626     1994 Fujian Prov Highway                            140.00        0.00                  0.00    18.11     6.65      24.76       24.74
  PO03644     1994 CN - XlAOLANGDl RESETTLEMENT                     0.00      110.00                  0.00     0.00     0.04       -1.85      -1.84
  PO03632     1993 CN-ENVIRONMENTTECH ASS                           0.00       50.00                  0.00     0.00     1.11        1.73       1.41
  PO03592     1993 REF. INST'L.8 PREINV                             0.00       50.00                  0.00     0.00     1.92        2.28       2.28

                                                        Total:  13136.07     1982.60              203.80    1006.15  5523.94    3353.31     456.64




                                                                    - 78 -

                                             CHINA
                                     STATEMENTOF IFC's
                                   HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                        June 30 - 2003
                                      InMillions US Dollars

                                                       Committed                    Disbursed
                                                    IFC                           IFC
FY Approval    Company                         Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
2002103        Advantage                        0.00    0.50   0.00  0.00    0.00   0.50    0.00   0.00
2003           BCIB                             0.00    0.00  11.60  0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
1999100102     Bank of Shanghai                 0.00  24.67    0.00  0.00    0.00   24.67   0.00   0.00
1996           Beijing Home1                    1.79    0.50   0.00   0.55   1.79    0.50   0.00   0.55
2002           CDH China Fund                   0.00   19.74   0.00  0.00    0.00   4.69    0.00   0.00
1998100        CIG HoldingsPLC                  0.00    3.00   0.00  0.00    0.00    3.00   0.00   0.00
1998           ChengduHuarong                   6.73    3.20   0.00   7.82   6.73    3.20   0.00   7.82
1998           Chengxin-IBCA                    0.00    0.36   0.00  0.00    0.00    0.36   0.00   0.00
1987192194     China Bicycles                   0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00
1994           ChinaWaldenMgt                   0.00    0.01   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.01   0.00   0.00
1994           China WaldenVen                  0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00
1994           Dalian Glass                     0.00    2.40   0.00   0.00   0.00    2.40   0.00   0.00
1995           DupontSuzhou                     9.35    4.15   0.00   0.00   9.35    4.15   0.00   0.00
1994           Dynamic Fund                     0.00    8.76   0.00   0.00   0.00    7.10   0.00   0.00
2003           Great Infotech                   0.00    3.50   0.00   0.00   0.00    2.10   0.00   0.00
1999           Hansom                           0.00    0.08   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.08   0.00   0.00
2002           HuarongAMC                      31.50    3.00   0.00   0.00  22.50    0.01   0.00   0.00
2002           IEC                             20.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00  0.00
1998           LeshanScana                      5.36    1.35   0.00   0.00   3.76    1.35    0.00  0.00
2001           MaanshanCarbon                   9.00    2.00   0.00   0.00   9.00    2.00    0.00  0.00
2001           MinshengBank                     0.00   23.50   0.00   0.00   0.00   23.50    0.00  0.00
2001           NCCB                             0.00   26.58   0.00   0.00   0.00   26.46    0.00  0.00
0              NWS Holdings                     0.00    2.54   0.00   0.00   0.00    2.54    0.00  0.00
1996           Nanjing Kumho                    4.87    3.81   0.00  13.84   4.87    3.81    0.00  13.84
2001           New ChinaLife                    0.00   30.70   0.00   0.00   0.00   23.32    0.00  0.00
1995           NewbridgeInv.                    0.00    1.95   0.00   0.00   0.00    1.95    0.00  0.00
1997198        Orient Finance                   0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00  0.00
2003           PSAM                             0.00    1.93   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00  0.00
1997100        PTP Holdings                     0.00    0.03   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.03    0.00  0.00
2001           Peak Pacific                     0.00    0.00  25.00   0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00  0.00
0              Rabobank SHFC                    0.45    0.00   0.00   0.45   0.45    0.00    0.00   0.45
2000           SSIF                             0.00    6.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.89    0.00   0.00
1998           ShanghaiKrupp                   28.92    0.00   0.00  65.63   28.92   0.00    0.00  65.63
1999           ShanghaiMidway                   0.00    16.02  0.00   0.00   0.00   16.02    0.00   0.00
1999           Shanxi                          16.75    0.00   0.00   0.00   14.20   0.00    0.00   0.00
1993           Shenzhen PCCP                    3.76    0.00   0.00   0.00    3.76   0.00    0.00   0.00
               Sino Gold                        0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
2002           Sino-Forest                     25.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   20.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
2001           SuzhouPVC                        0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
1995197        WIT                              5.00    0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
1998           Wanjie Hospital                 15.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   15.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
2000           Weihai Weidongri                 1.28    0.00   0.00   0.00    1.28   0.00    0.00   0.00
1996           XACB                             0.00    19.93  0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
2003           Yantai Cement                    6.33     1.95  0.00   0.00    6.33   1.95    0.00   0.00
1993
                      Total Portfolio:        206.09 212.16    36.60  88.29  147.94 156.59    0.00 88.29




                                              - 79 -

                                              Approvals PendingCommitment
FY Approval   Company                       Loan     Equity     Quasi    Partic
2002          ASIMCO                         0.00       0.01     0.00     0.00
2003          Anjia                          0.00       0.00     0.01     0.00
2004          CCB-MS NPL                     0.03       0.00     0.00     0.00
2003          Cellon                         0.00       0.00     0.01     0.00
2002          Darong                         0.01       0.00     0.00     0.01
2002          HuarongAMC                     0.02       0.00     0.00     0.00
2002          IEC                            0.00       0.01     0.00     0.00
2002          KHIT                           0.00       0.00     0.00     0.00
2003          Peak Pacific 2                 0.00       0.00     0.01     0.00
2003          SAIC                           0.01       0.00     0.00     0.00
2002          SML                            0.00       0.00     0.00     0.00
2002          Sino Mining                    0.01       0.00     0.00     0.01
2003          Zhengye-ADC                    0.00       0.00     0.00     0.01
2002          Zhong Chen                     0.03       0.00     0.00     0.03

              Total Pending Commitment:      0.10       0.02     0.03     0.05




                                         - 80 -

                                               Annex I O : Country at a Glance
                     CHINA: Jiangxi Integrated Agricultural Modernization Project
                                                                  East   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                              Asia &  middle-
                                                         China  Pacific income    Developmentdiamond'
2002                                                                                                                          I
Population,mid-year(millions)                           1,281.o  1,838    2,411                 Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                         950     950    1,390
GNI (Atlas method, US$billions)                         1,219.1  1,740    3,352
Average annual growth, 1996-02
Population(%)                                              0.8     1.o      1.o
Laborforce (%)                                             0.9     1.2      1.2   GNI                                   Gross
                                                                                  Per                                  primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1996-02)                             capita                             nrollment
Poverty (% ofpopulation belownationalpovertylmeJ             5
Urbanpopulation(% oftotalpopulation)                        38      38       49
Lifeexpectancyat birth(years)                               71      69       69
Infantmortality (per 1,000live births)                      30      33       30
Child malnutrition(% of children under 5)                   10      15       11          Access to improvedwater source
Access to an improvedwater source (% ofpopulation)          75      76       81
Illiteracy(% ofpopulationage 15+)                           14      13       13      -
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-agepopulation)       106     106      111              China
    Male                                                   105     105      111       _ _    Lower-middle-income group
    Female                                                 I08     106      110

KEY ECONOMICRATIOS and LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                  1982    1992    2001     2002    Economicratios.
GDP (US$ billions)                                221 5  454.6  1,167.1  1,232.7
Gross domestic investmentlGDP                      33 2    36 2   38.5     41.O
Exportsof goods and serviceslGDP                                                                     Trade
                                                   34 a
                                                    8 9    19.5   25.5     29.5
GrossdomesticsavingslGDP                                   37.7   40.9     44.0
Gross nationalsavingslGDP                          35.1    38.0   40.0     43.8
Current accountbalancelGDP                          2 4     1.9     1.5     2.9    Domestic
InterestpaymentslGDP                                0 2     0.6    0.5       0.5   savings                          Investment
Total debtrGDP                                      3.8    15.9    14.6     12.6
Total debt servicelexports                          8.0     8.6    7.7       6.1                                              I
Presentvalue of debffGDP                                           14.1
Presentvalue of debffexports                                       51.8                            Indebtedness
                                       1982-92  1992-02   2001    2002  2002-06
(average annualgrowth)
GDP                                        9.7      9 0     7.5     8.0      7.5       "-China

GDP per capita                             8.1      8.0     6.7     7.2      6 6       -  -  -Lower-middle-incomegroup        I
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                                   1982   1992    2001     2002    Growth of investmentand GDP ("A)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                        33.3    21.8    15.8     14.5   20

Industry                                           45.0    43.9    50.1     51.7   15

    Manufacturing                                  37.3    33.1    34.2     44.5   10

Services                                           21.7    34.3    34.1     33.7    5
                                                                                   0
Privateconsumption                                 50.7    49.2    45.7     42.5            97     98   99     0      01   02
Generalgovernmentconsumption                       14.5    13.1    13.4     13.5
Importsof goods and services                        7.3    18.0    23.1     26.5              -GDI           -GDP


                                                1982-92 1992-02            2o02
(average annualgrowth)                                                             Growth of exports and imports ("A)

Agriculture                                         4.6     3.7     2.8      2.9   40

Industry                                           11.6    11.3     8.4      9.9   30
    Manufacturing                                  11.2    10.4     9.0      8.1   20
Services                                           11.7     8.4     8.4      7.3   10
Privateconsumption                                 11.4     8.1     2.8      1.9    0
Generalgovernmentconsumption                        9.9     8.4    10.5      7.0  -10
Gross domesticinvestment                            9.5     9.7    13.9     14.9
Importsof goods and services                                                                -Exports        -"Imports
                                                    9.7    12.8    10.8     27.5 .




                                                               -81 -

                                                                                                                        China

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                        1982    I992     2001    2002      1 Inflation (%)
Domestic prices                                                                                                              I
(% change)
Consumerprices                            6.0     6.4      0.7    -0.8
ImplicitGDP deflator                     -0.2     7.9      1.2    -2.6

Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                         22.9     14.7    17.1     17.9
Current budget balance                            2.0      1.1     0.0
Overall surplusldeficit                  -0.3    -1.o     -4.7    -3.0                  -GDP     deflator -CPI               I
TRADE                                                                                                                        I
                                        1982    1992     2001    2002
(US$ millions)                                                               Exportand Import levels (US$mill.)

Total exports (fob)                    22,321 84,940  266,155  325,565     /1Io,ooo
 Food                                   2,908  8,309   12,780   14,623
 Fuel                                  5,314   4,693    8.420    8,372      300,000
 Manufactures                          12,271 67,936  239,802  297,085
Total imports (cifl                    19,285 80,585  243,610  295,203      200,000

 Food                                  4,201   3,146    4,980    5,237
 Fuel and energy                          183  3,570   17,495   19,285      100,000
                                                                           I                                                 I
 Capitalgoods                           3,204 31,312  107,040  137,030               0

Export priceindex (1995=100)               41     85       83       78                  98  97    98     99    00    01

Importprice index (1995=100)               71     95        91      86                      EnExports          Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                  58     89        91      90                                                     O2



BALANCEof PAYMENTS                                                                                                           I
                                        1982    1992     2001    2002
(US$ millions)                                                             15;rrent     account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services          24,906 94,198  299,409  365,395
Importsof goods and services           20,555 86,752  271,325  328,013
Resource balance                        4,350  7,446    28,084  37,383
Net income                                376    249   -19,174 -14,945
Net current transfers                     486   1,155    8,492  12,984
Current accountbalance                  5,212  8,850    17,401  35,422
Financingitems (net)                     -995 -10,952   30,046  40,085
Changesin net reserves                 -4,217  2,102   -47,447 -75,507      1        96   97   98    99      00     01     021
Memo:
Reservesincludinggold (US$millions)            24,842 220,051  297,721
Conversion rate (DEC, /ocal/US$)          2.4     5.9      8.3     8.3

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCEFLOWS
                                        1982    1992     2001    2002
(US$ millions)                                                                  :omposition of 2002 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstandingand disbursed     8,358  72,428  170,110 155,676
  IBRD                                      0   3,752   11,550  12,051
  IDA                                       1  4,287     8,654   8,729                                 A: 12,051

Total debt service                      2,125   8,618   24,297  23,688                G 43

  IBRD                                      0     460    1,550   1,631
  IDA                                       0      30      151     175
Compositionof net resourceflows
  Officialgrants                           47     327      240
  Officialcreditors                       657   2,343    2,156    -839
  Private creditors                      -122   8,949   -4,017 -13,593
  Foreigndirect investment                430  11,156   44,241  49,308
  Portfolioequity                           0   1,243    3,015   2,286                          F:62,103
World Bank program
  Commitments                             330   1,865      782     563          \ IBRD                           E Bilateral
                                                                                                                   -
  Disbursements                             1   1,331    1,791   1,733          3  --IDA   D Other multilateral
                                                                                            .                    F - Private
  Principalrepayments                       0     197      904   1,157          ;-IMF                            G Short-term
                                                                                                                   -
  Netflows                                  1   1,134      887     576
  Interestpayments                          0     293      797     649
  Net transfers                             1     841       90      -73




                                                      - 82 -

                        Additional Annex 11:Summary of Social Issues
                CHINA Jiangxi Integrated Agricultural ModernizationProject

Initial Consultations. A set of Participatory Rural Appraisals (PRA) in four counties (360 farm
households in 25 villages) were carried out in the preliminary proposedproject counties in July 1999. The
objective o f these PRAs were to identify the needs and interests of possible project beneficiaries. Main
issues and needs identified by the farmers included the lack of adequate irrigation infrastructure to improve
their crop production, uncertainty over land resources, lack of marketing structure, and lack o f credit.
Findingsfrom the P U Splayedan important role inshapingthe proposedproject as it currently stands.

Social Assessment Process. Inorder to ensure effective project preparation and implementation, a social
assessment (SA) process has been establishedduringpreparation and will continue during implementation.
The overall purpose of the SA is to assist in designing and implementing the proposed project with the
support and active involvement of individuals and groups most directly affected. This participationranges
from simple one-way communication, such as information disclosed in publicity campaigns and
semi-structured and structured surveys, to more intensive interactions involving two-way discussions in
which the informant's opinion is recorded and considered in the proposed project's design and
implementation arrangements. The SA Report (SAR) prepared during project preparation was based on
participatory rural assessments (PRA), including anthropological observation and a semi-structured
questionnaire survey.
However, the SA should be viewed as a continuous process of consultation to take place throughout the
project's life cycle. The SA process will encompass a broad set of activities to be conducted during three
distinct phases of the proposed project (identificatiodpreparation, implementation, and evaluation.) These
activities involve a wide range of methodological tools reflectingthe multi-faceted nature of the issues to be
addressed. Included as SA activities are also the consultations with project beneficiaries and affected
groups and populations specifically outlined in the Beneficiary Participation Plan prepared by the
Provincial PMO and data collection efforts for the purposes of monitoring and evaluation. Any issues that
arise during the course of the proposed project as a result of the project or socio-economic developments,
that may have an adverse impact on one or more population groups, will be investigated and mitigated if
necessary.

Objectiveof the Social Assessment. The SA focuses on issues that directly and indirectly impact the key
stakeholders in the proposed project. The range of issues addressed by the SA includes, but is not limited
to: (a) affordability concerns: Can the proposed project households afford the anticipated financing terms
and other expenses, such user fees; (b) land security: Are the leasing arrangements fair and provide farmer
households with tenure security? Are leased lands and forests properly maintained from the viewpoint of
farmer households?;(c) inclusion: Are there any groups residing inside the proposed area whose needs are
not being addressed by the project or who stand to lose from one or more of the proposed project activities?
How does the proposedproject impact the poor, the elderly, and women? How are these groups involved in
the project's decision-making?; (d) access to employment, credit, irrigated water, land: Do certain groups
o f the population have lower access to employment, credit, irrigated water or land than other groups?
What is the reasonfor this differential access? Will these groups participate in the proposed project and if
 so, how is their access improved as a result o f the project?; and (e) social cohesion, community
decision-making: How are decisions made in the village? Do all residents o f the village have an equal say
 inthe matters that affect them? How are resources allocatedwithin the village? Are there any community
 development projects inthe village inwhich farm households contribute labor?




                                                     -83 -

The Social Assessment Report. During June o f 2001, 876 farmers were interviewed or participated in
focus groups, 239 questionnaires were filled in, and approximately 100 community maps and activity
charts were drafted and gathered. The SAR emphasized the feminization o f agricultural labor and the
increasing importance o f out-migration labor income to project family households. Agricultural problems
stressed included much land remaining untilled due to low agricultural prices and too many peasant tax and
fee burdens. Much dissatisfaction with the current water and irrigation service was also reported and a
corresponding highinterest inthe project's water usage improvement aspects.

The SAR also emphasized the need for the project design to recognize the varying social structure in
different project areas, particularly inthe south where clans are well-developed and village leadership tends
to be in the hands o f clan elders. Elsewhere successful entrepreneurs and government cadres are more
significant local players. The SAR reported the villagers' desires that they actually receive services for the
water fees that they already pay and that the agrotechnical stations be revamped to provide training innew
agricultural methods.
The SAR reported the following villager suggestions for the project     - that:
0   Independent thirdparties supervise project loan funds to avoid embezzlement and other problems;

0   A loan implementation group be set up ineach village;
    All loanprocedures and accounting be made public;
    Lendingformalities are kept simple;

0   No changes be allowed inthe rate o f interest andpayback period o fthe loans, once set;

0   Local groups supervise money set aside for water conservancy to ensure that it is not diverted to other
    uses; and

    Each village be allowed to tailor fit the project to its local circumstances.

The Social Assessment Team suggested:

0   A new loan contracting mode, dubbed "Company plus Farmer Households," be implemented for the
    project;

0   An integrated farm productionand marketingnetwork be set up ineach project district (city);

0   Use existing governmental agrotechnical institutions as enterprises to make agrotechnology more
    market-oriented;

0    Establish multi-purpose, locally run, farmers associations with leadership based with locally prominent
    people, whether clan elders, entrepreneurs, or cadre officials;

0    Making SIDDs fully voluntary and allow the WSO to gradually develop into free-standing independent
     entities;

0    Make training available for project beneficiaries and the project implementingteams;

0    Establish an informationfeedback system;

0    Publicize the project better;

0    Enhance traffic accessibility incommunications-poor areas such as mountain districts;

0    Give special consideration to include the poor inthe project; and

0    A separate social investigation be carried out on minorities inthe project areas.


                                                      - a4 -

Minority Nationalities in the Project Areas. Jiangxi has very few ethnic minorities, with 99% of the
population of the majority Han nationality. Nevertheless, the project area encompasses some thousands of
ethnic minorities, mostly Shi and Yao concentrated in 28 minority villages. Shi villages are located
throughout the province with the Shi people being either transmigrants from Zhejiang Province to the east
or people who recently "rediscovered" their ethnic identity and applied for minority status during the last
generation. The Shi are completely acculturated to the Han. They are mostly all farmers, living in
marginalizedlands inhilly and mountaindistricts. The Yao are concentratedin one village area of southern
Jiangxi, practicing horticulture or gathering mountain products. Both the Yao and Shi are relatively poor
communities. The Social Assessment group made the following recommendations regarding minorities in
the project areas:

1. A Multi-NationalitiesDevelopment Plan should bewritten and implemented.
2. Local Yao and Shi customs shouldbe respectedduringplan implementation and inplan design.
3. Yao and Shi villages should not be excluded from project participationdue to their relative poverty.

BeneficiaryParticipationManual. Inorder to "streamline" beneficiary participationinproject design and
later in implementation, a Beneficiary Participation Manual (BPM) has been prepared. The purpose of the
Beneficiary Participation Manual is to describe in detail and formalize the consultation and participation
process with affected groups. As such, it is a strategy for allowing stakeholders to influence and share
control over the decisions and resources that affect them. The BPM should be viewed as a working
document that is modified to reflect any changes inthe project andor inthe economic, political, and social
conditions.

The BPM: (1) identifies the project`s main stakeholder groups (beneficiaries in general, women in
particular, government leaders, researchers and scholars, and any other groups that are affected by the
proposedproject); (ii) summarizes the types of activities project households and affected groups (including
non-project households) are involved in at different points in the project life cycle for each of the
components (see table below); and (3) describes the extent of participation by households and affected
groups, and (4) the forum for participation. The BPM also contains: (a) a strategy for involving farmer
households in the development of the criteria for the selection of project villages and the actual selection of
the villages; (b) a needs assessments of the farmer households with respect to production, training, and
financing in each o f the project counties. Lastly, the BPM includes a clear set of criteria for targeting,
selecting, supervising, and monitoringand evaluation.




                                                    - 85 -

Below is a sample list of participative activities that are included in the BPM.

Component                                                Particioative Activities
     Water           Peasantsorganize WUAs and participate inthe formulation o f regulations thereof.
  conservancy        Peasantsparticipate inthe design o f location, route o f water conservancy works to be built
     w o h           and the discussion o f maintenance and budget programs o f existing damaged water
                     conservancv works.
                     Peasantsoarticioate inthe construction o f water conservancv works.
                     Peasantsparticipate inthe management o f loan funds for water conservancy works.
                     Peasantsoarticioate inthe collection of reoavments for water conservancv works.
                     Peasantsparticipate inthe maintenance and management o f water conservancy works.
                     The level of water rate have been widely discussed by peasants and fixed with reference to
                     comments from water users.
                     Peasantsare consulted o f comments and suggestions for road construction.
                     Peasantsparticipate inthe design and implementation o f whatever compensation
                     programs for land expropriation.
Improvement          Peasantsoarticioate inthe establishment and management o f "land banks".
of agricultural      Peasantsparticipate inthe determination for the contents and manner o f technical
 production          training.
                     Peasantsparticipate inthe design o f action plans as to technical popularizing activities.
                     Terms o f debit and credit o f the Project are widely discussed, peasants are involved inthe
                     discussion for conditions and course to aDdv for loan.
                     Peasants are involved inthe granting, management and recovery o f loan.
Construction         Peasants are involved inthe desien o f articles o f oeasant associations.
 of mallret          Peasantsparticipate inthe establishment and management o f marketing associations.
   system            Establishing the market information service system.
                     Constructing the production and marketing system in"company          +peasant  household"
                     mode.

                      1st stage training for social appraisal: given to managerialand appraisalpersonnel at Project
                      offices.
                     Discussion meetings with people concerned at the affected counties.
                      1st round of participative social appraisal: to understand the demand of participation of
                      villagers andvillage cadres.
                      2nd round of training for social appraisal: givento managerialand appraisalpersonnel at
                      provincial and county Project offices.
                      Furtherunderstanding of the situations of the affectedcounties andthe 2nd roundof quick
                      rural appraisal
                      Definingthe list andprogramof participant activities.
                      Project supervision: establishing information interactive networkswith the affected counties,
                      townshim and vitlaees.




                                                        - 86 -

                   AdditionalAnnex 12: Summary of Environmental Issues
                 CHINA: Jiangxi IntegratedAgricultural Modernization Project


Background.      The Jiangxi Integrated Agricultural Modemization Project (JIAMP) consists of three
components (irrigation and drainage; farm production improvement; and market system development) in
21provinces, the irrigation component beingimplemented on 70,000 ha.

Project Location Jiangxi Province, with a total area of 166,900 km2 including cultivated areas of 22,532
km2, has 11cities and 99 counties. It is located on the south bank of the middle and lower reaches of the
Yangtze River. The population of the province in 2000 was about 41,5 million, including about 32,8
million farmers.

River Catchments Except for project areas of Xunwu County that lies in Pearl River catchment of
Guangdong Province and Pengze County that lies inthe Yangtze (Changjiang) Riverwatershed, the project
areas of the other counties are situated inthe Poyang Lake watershed that lies south of the middlereach of
Yangtze River innorthem part of Jiangxi Province.
Poyang Lake, the largest fresh water lake in China, i s located in the northern part of the province. It i s a
flowing through and seasonal lake that accepts the water coming mainly from 5 river catchments (Gan, Fu,
Xinjiang, Rao, and Xiuhe Rivers). The drainage area of the Poyang Lake river system is 162,220 km2 and
occupies about 97% of the total area of Jiangxi Province.

Natural Conditions The project areas are located in the subtropical zone with a monsoon humid climate
with mean annual rainfall between 1,387-1,795 mm. The rainfall from March to June usually comprises
60% of the annual total. The mean annual temperature range between 16-2OC. The yearly mean frost-free
period is 273 days. The yearly mean sunshine is 1,970 hours.

Forest Cover and Nature Reserves Forest coverage in most of the project counties i s good, but it differs
greatly from county to county. Congyi County has the highest forest coverage with 81.6% and the counties
beside the Poyang Lake the lowest with only 11.8%. Inmost irrigation areas, forest cover is composed o f
artificial (planted) forest, while the dominant species of wildlife are rabbits and various mice, usually o f
low protection levels. Therefore, no significant effect on vegetation and wild animals is envisaged in the
project areas. Based on a desk study, a number of natural reserves are found to be either very close to the
proposed irrigation projects, or the preliminary drawings indicate sections of the proposed irrigation area
andor water conveyance and reservoir appear to be within the buffer zone of the natural reserves. Before
any construction activity starts within such areas, the project proponent should contact the respective
authorities at the Jiangxi Wildlife Protection Administration Bureau of the Jiangxi Forestry Department or
their Nationalcounterparts.

Public Participation In order to seek local support, increase transparency and accountability to the public,
reach consensus with various stakeholders, and enhance ownership of the environmental management and
the proposed project, participation of beneficiaries and other stakeholders was of crucial importance in the
environmental assessment process.
In order to keep all beneficiaries informed, the EM TOR were sent to the libraries within the affected
communities for review and comment by the interested parties. Notices were issued and were put up on
notice boards. News media including local newspapers, television and radio were also used to inform
potentialbeneficiaries and potentially affected people about the planned environmental study.

Environmental Impact Assessment Report The EIA o f JIAMP is prepared to meet the requirements o f
both the World Bank and the Government of Peoples Republic of China and Government of Jiangxi
Province environmental assessment processes. According to the EIA TOR, this report presents the results


                                                    - 87 -

of the Class B environmental impact assessment for the JIAMP based on the study of five counties
comprising of 27 irrigation schemes that were selected to represent the major topographic, social and
ecological norms that are present within the project counties. A detailed environmental analysis of the 27
irrigation districts located inthe 5 project counties of Pengze, Wuning, Hengfeng, Nancheng and Gan, each
located in a different river catchment, was carried out by the EIA team. Whenever the irrigation schemes
were in the proximity of natural reserves or ecologically sensitive areas, additional investigations were
carried out outside the project counties to ensure that the proposedproject have no significant impact on the
natural reserves, and ifneeded, propose further study programs. Inaddition, the counties for the EIA study
were selectedso that all major river catchment, flowing in or out of Poyang Lake, be presentedto dete&ne
the potential impacts of the proposed project, if any, on the Poyang Lake, a Ramsar site of international
importance. Analysis was also made for each irrigation scheme around the Poyang Lake and on the banks
o f Yangtze Rwer associatedwith the problem of Schistosomiasisbeyond the 5 typical counties.

Possible Environmental Impacts The environmental analysis of the Jiangxi Integrated Agricultural
Modemization Project indicated that the project would have no major direct negative impact on the natural
environment. The overall social impact is positive. The project, if successfully implemented, should
increase agricultural productionthrough improvement of the economic and social well beingof the farmers
o f the project area.     A reliable irrigation water supply should reduce yield reduction during drought
periods, while provision of on-farm research and extension services and adequate market system should
assist the project farmers with the technical know how and better means of obtaining maximum income
from their effort without major negative environmental impact. The proposed project, in general, should
also have a positive impact on the socio-economic conditions of the farming communities by improving
their livelihoodthrough increasedpurchasing power.

There are, however, a number of aspects of project implementation, which, ifnot properly mitigated, might
have potential adverse effects on natural andor social environment within the project areas. The identified
impacts are reversible and the magnitude of their impacts would depend on how the proposed project
specific mitigation plans are implemented.         It is believed that the successful implementation of the
mitigation plans should reducethese impacts to insignificant levels. Other environmental impacts identified
duringconstruction phase are o f temporary nature. Theses impacts include vegetation damage, temporary
land occupancy, local soil erosion, public heath deterioration, minor noise and air pollution, and water
pollution mainly due to sediment loading due to soil erosion and unintentional oil/fuel contamination by
construction equipment. The main sources for such impacts include construction of access roads,
rehabilitation or construction of main canals, soil mixing plants, labor camp, soil erosion within borrow
sites, construction areas, and fuelinghtaging areas.

Duringthe operation phase, potentialnegative environmental impacts include:

     Potential cumulative impact of increased application o f fertilizers on water quality and eutrophication
     inwater bodies includingthe PoyangLake;

     Potential impact due to potential increase in the use of highly toxic pesticides that could negatively
     impact not only the aquatic and terrestrial biota, but also the local and downstream residents;

     Social impacts of possible land acquisition and the compensation policies associated with the market
     construction in the project area;

     Potential increase in the incidents of waterborne diseases, including Schistosomiasis (Schistosoma
     japonica) implementation inthe irrigation areas (Pengze and Yongxiu Counties); and

     Social impacts of permanent loss of farmland and the compensation policies associatedwith the market
     construction inthe project area.



                                                       -88 -

The most substantial envisaged negative environmental effects of the proposed project can be expected
from a more intensiveagriculture productionduring the operation phase o f the project, which mightinvolve
higher use of fertilizer, pesticides and herbicides. The proposed project in its design will put strong
emphasis on mitigating these effects by introducingmore efficient application techniques to farmers. Most
importantly, the proposed project would support integrated pest management (IPM), including: (a)
managing pests (keeping them below economically damaging levels) rather than seeking to eradicatethem;
(b) relying,to the extent possible, on nonchemical measures to keeppestpopulations low; and (c) selecting
and applying pesticides, when they have to be used, in a way that minimizes adverse effects on beneficial
organisms, humans, and the environment.

Based on a desk study, the Fang Lake irrigation area inPengze County is close to a natural reserve, and the
Yishui irrigation area appears to potentially be located inside the buffer zone of the Yihuang South China
Tiger (Panthem tigris amoyensis) Natural Reserve. Taipingjiang irrigation area in Longnan County is
also appeared to potentially have impact on the Jiulian Mountain Natural Reserve, while the Xiaojiang
irrigation area is located in the fringe of the Yangling Natural Reserve. In addition, in recent years the
Fang and the Taibo Lake o f Pengze, the Nanbei Lake of Port Hukou, and the lakeside beach in Yugan had
become the over wintering habitats of some species of rare migratory birds. During final project design,
attention should be paid to avoiding environmental sensitive areas like natural reserves and wildlife
habitats. I t is proposed that PPMO should submit the project design documents of the sub-projects near
natural reserves and wildlife habitats to the wildlife administrative department for review and approval
before finalizing the project construction plans within such areas. Ifany project encroachthe buffer zone or
the core region of the natural reserve, the environmental screening team will reject them. In addition,
construction period within areas that are in the proximity of over wintering habitats of migratory birds
should be reduced to avoid construction duringpeak use of the over wintering habitats.

Environmental Impact Mitigation Measures Mitigation measures are proposed to preventheduce the
identified potential environmental impacts of the project development. Since the project schemes are
scattered throughout the province and involve a large area of Jiangxi, effective implementation of the
proposed mitigation measures, if not well organized, would be a major challenge to the project proponent.
In order to cope with this challenge, a detailed environmental management plan (EMP) is developed
including institutional strengthening, environmental training requirements and environmental monitoring
plan is developed, budgeted and presented in this report. The EMP recommends the development of an
independent environmental management organization (EMO) within the present project management
organization to be responsible for the implementation of the proposed mitigation measures during every
 stage of project development from pre-construction to operation to ensure the environmental sustainability
o f the proposed project.




                                                    - 89 -


