E519 Rev. V. 5
September 23, 2003
Jiangxi Integrated Agricultural Modernization Project (JIAMP)
Pest Management Manual
September 23, 2003
U 



Contents
Page
INTRODUCTION .................................................................              1
2     CURRENT PEST MANAGEMENT APPROACH IN JIANGXI .........................          .......................1
2. 1  Current and Anticipated Pest Problems .............................................I
2.2   Agricultural and Pllysical Control Methods ............................................  2
2.3   Biological Control Methods ............................................               3
2.4   Chemical Control Methods ............................................                 3
2.5   General Assessment of Current Pest Management Approach ............................................. 5
3     POLICY, REGULATORY FRAMIEWORK, AND INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY ................6
3.1   China and Jiangxi Policies on Plant Protection and [PM .........................................................6
3.2   Description and Assessment of IPM Capacity .................................................................. 6
3.3   Institutional Control of Distribution and Use of Pesticides .......................................................7
4     GENERAL APPROACH OF THE JIANIP PEST MNANAGEMENT PROGRANI .................                ..7
4.1   Objectives .................................................................7
4.2   Focus Areas of the JIAMP Pest Management Program ............................................................8
5     PROPOSED ON-FARMI PEST MIANAGEMENT PRACTICES UNDER JIAMP .................                ..8
5.1   Agricultural and Physical Control Methods .  .................................................................8
5.2   Biological Control Methods ..................................................................9
5.3   Chemical Control Methods ..................................................................9
6.    PESTICIDE MIANAGEMENT UNDER JIAMP .................................................................   10
6.1   Proposed Pesticide Use and Application of IPM ..................................     10
6.2   Type and Quantity of Pesticides to be Financed .................................. 14
6.3   Capability/Competency of End-Users to Handle Products within Acceptable Risk Margins 16
6.4   Environmental, Occupational and Health Risks ..................................      16
6.5   Project Management Measures to Reduce Specific Risks Associated with Envisaged
Pesticide Use under the Project ........................................................... 17
6.6   Selection of Pesticides Authorized for Procurement ........................................................... 18
7     STRENGTHENING PEST NIANAGEMENT CAPACITY UNDER JIAMvIP                             ..       18
7.1   Policy Issues ........................................................... 18
7.2   Infrastructure. Capacity, Institutional Arrangements and Collaboration ................................ 18
7.3   Overview of Training and Human Resource Development .................................................... 19
7.4   Training of Farmers ........................................................... 19
8     MONITORING AND EVALUATION UNDER JIANIP                        ...................................... 20
8. I  Activities Requiring Local Monitoring during Implementation .20
8.2   Activities Requiring Monitoring during Supervision .20
8.3  NMonitoring and Supervision Plan ....................... 21



Annexes
Page
Annex 1: Current Programs of Jian2xi Station of Plant Protection and Quarantine .................................. 22
Annex 3: Integrated Pest Management for Mlajor JIAMP Crops ............................................................... 23
Annex 4: Production Technology for 'Pollution-Free' Vegetables (for Trial Implementation) ................. 34
Annex 5: Draft MvIonitoring and Evaluation Indicators ....................................................................   42
Acronyms and Abbreviations
CPPQS    County Plant Protection and Quarantine Station
EDC      Ecological Demonstration County
FAO      Food and Agriculture Organization (of the United Nations)
GTZ      Gesellschaft fuer Technische Zusammenarbeit (German development assistance agency)
IPM      Integrated Pest Management
JIAMP    Jiangxi Integrated Agricultural Modernization Project
JPPQS    Jiangxi Plant Protection and Quarantine Station
Mu       667m2 (1/15d' ha)
PMP      Pest Management Plan
PPQS     Plant Protection and Quarantine Station
PRC      People's Republic of China
SEPA     State Environmental Protection Agency
WHO      World Health Organization
WUA      Water User Association
WUG      Water User Group



1    INTRODUCTION
The Jiangxi Integrated Agricultural Mtodernization Project (JIAMP) aims to improve the livelihood of the
rural households in Jiangxi through establishment of integrated, economically and environmentally
sustainable, and market-driven agricultural production systems focusing primarily on productivity and
high quality agricultural OUtpLut. The project consists of the following components:
1.   Irrigation and Drainage
2.   Farm Production Improvement
3.   Market Systems Development
4. Project NManagement, Monitoring and Evaluation.
The Farm Production Improvement component comprises the following subcomponents:
1.   Agricultural Training and Extension
2.   Farm Production Investment
3.   Soil Fertility Improvement
4.   Women Farmer and Village Development.
The Farm Production Improvement component, and particularly its Farm Production Investment
Subcomponent, will lead to more intensive agriculture production and likely increase in the use of
production inputs, such as agro-chemicals (fertilizers, pesticides and herbicides). The project will put
strong emphasis on mitigating any adverse effects of increased agro-chemical use by introducing more
efficient application techniques to farmers. The project would support integrated pest management (IPM).
including: (a) managing pests (keeping them below economically damaging levels) rather than seeking to
eradicate them; (b) relying, to the extent possible, on non chemical measures to keep pest populations
low, and (c) selecting pesticides (when they have to be used) that are less toxic, and applying them in a
way that minimizes adverse effects on beneficial organisms. human beings, and the biophysical
environment. As a result, there is a need for preparation of a Pest Management Plan.
The JIAMP Pest Management Program (PMP) will promote the use of biological and environmental
control methods for pests and diseases, which will reduce the reliance on synthetic chemical pesticides.
The Jiangxi Plant Protection and Quarantine Station (JPPQS) and its county subsidiaries already promote
IPM approaches to the control of pests and diseases in Jiangxi province (Annex 1).
2    CURRENT PEST MANAGEMIENT APPROACH [N JIANGXI
2.1 Current and Anticipated Pest Problems
The major insect pests of economic significance in the Jiangxi agriculture sector and relevant to the
project are shown in Table 1.



Table 1. Areas of Crop Production under the JIANlP
Crop                          Area                   tMajor Insect Pests in Jiangxi
mu          ha
Paddy rice             147.960       9,864   Rice stem borers. planthoppers, leaf roller,gall
midge
Field vegetables        29,857       1,990   Aphids, cabbage white butterfly, diamond-back
moth, cotton leaf worm
Greenhouse vegetables    4,139         276   Aphids, cabbage white butterfly, diamond-back
moth, cotton leaf worm
Medicinal herbs           5,174        345   No data available
Lotus                     8,312        554   Aphid, Prodenia litura. Laphygma exigua
Cotton                    3,006        200   Cotton boll worm, aphids, red spider mites
Naval orange             12.088        806   Citrus red mite, scales, citrus leaf miner
Total                  210,536      14,035
The major rice pests in the project area are rice stemn borers (Clhilo suippressalis, Tryporyz-a incertulas),
plant hoppers (Nilaparvata lutgenis, Sogarellafiurcifera), leaf rollers (Cnzaplhalocrocis iiedinalis) and rice
gall midge (Orseolia oryzae) (Table 1).
Cotton production under the project may be either irrigated new bushes or irrigation of existing cotton.
The major cotton pests are bollworm (Helicoverpa anniigera) with secondary pests including Cotton
aphid (Aphis gossypii), Agrotis ypsilonz, Lygus liucoruin, Prodenia spp., and Empoasca bigl ttiila.
Citrus (oranges) are susceptible to damage by a wide range of insects in Jiangxi. These include
Panonychuts citri McGregor, Phyllocnzistis citrella Stainton, Coccoidea sp., and Phvllocoptrnta oleivroa
Ashmead. Other species causing lesser damage include Dialeiirodes citri Ashnzea, Aplhis citricidlis
Kirk-aldy, Papiilio sp., Ceranmbycidae sp., and Conitariniia citri Banies.
Capsicum (peppers) and cabbage are two of the major vegetable species to be grown on the project. In
capsicum, Agrotis ypsilon is the main insect pest during the vegetative growth phase, while aphid,
bollworm, and Tetrantychus urticae also occur during the fruiting phase. The main insect pests on cabbage
are aphids, Laphyqmrla exi qua, Prodenia litutra, Pllutella xylostella, and cabbage caterpillars.
Lotus is the other main cash crop to be grown under the project. Major insect pests for lotus include
aphids and Prodenia lituira.
2.2 Agricultural and Physical Control M\/lethods
Agricultural and physical methods used by farmers to help control insect pests include:
*    Tillage practices, including deep tillage to bury straw and vegetative trash to prevent insect pest egg
buildup; and soil tillage in rice paddy immediately after harvesting to prevent buildup of rice stem
borers.
*    Regular rotation of dry land crops to avoid buildup of soil-borne insect pests and diseases, e.g.,
vegetables followed by beans followed by vegetables.
*    Regular rotation of dry land and water land crops to avoid buildup of soil-borne insect pests and
diseases.
*    Straw and trash control to prevent buildup of insect pests and eggs in crop straw and trash.
*    Cutting and buming of diseased or egg/insect infected leaves in vegetable crops; and branches in
cotton and citrus orchards.



*     Deep flooding practices in rice paddy to assist control of soil-borne eggs and pupae of rice pests
and other insects. e.g.. Clzilo suppressalis eggs.
*     Use of lure boxes to collect worms and caterpillars, e.g., boll worms in cotton, aphids in vegetables.
*    Light lures making use of insect phototaxis to attract pests in vegetables and lotus.
*    Handpicking of eggs, caterpillars and larvae during periods of high infestation, e.g., Laphvqnma
exiqua and Prodenia litira eggs on cabbage leaves; boll worms and larvae in cotton; and cabbage
caterpillars.
*     Use of fruit bagging in citrus orchards to prevent insects entering fruit, and also keeping chemicals
off the fruit.
2.3   Biological Control Methods
Biological and control measures used by farmers include:
*     Extension of crop varieties resistant to insect pests. Examples include cotton varieties, such as 32B,
GK22, Zhong 38Fl, Zhong298Fl that are resistant to cotton boll worm; and rice variety
KanwenqingzhanFl that is resistant to rice gall midge.
*    Intercropping of target species to attract insect pests away from the main cash crop, e.g., planting of
Ageratum conyzoides L. in citrus orchards to control mites; planting of peanuts and soybeans rather
than sweet potato in young citrus orchards to minimize damage by Noctuidae sp.; planting of
soybean on rice bunds to protect predators of rice pests.
The JPPQS is conducting research programs and surveys in progress on natural predators of some pests,
mainly rice and cotton. However, field observations and farmer interviews during project preparation did
not indicate that farmers were actually practicing predator control of crop pests yet.
2.4 Chemical Control Methods
2.4.1 Non-Pesticide Chemical Control Methods
Non-pesticide chemicals are used to control specific insect pests on some crops. These include: (i) diluted
oil emulsions to control mites on citrus (navel oranges); (ii) liming of citrus tree trunks for disease
control, Bordeaux (CuSO4) sprays for disease control on citrus; (iii) use of sugar-vinegar mixtures to
attract and trap insects in vegetable greenhouses and lotus (Prodenia lituira, Laphyqnza exiqua) and in
citrus orchards (Noctiicdce sp.); these can also be used in conjunction with lights to initially attract
insects.
2.4.2 Overall Pesticide Usage
Pesticides are the main form of chemical control of insect pests. The total application level of pesticides
in Jiangxi and in some project counties is listed in Table 2.
3



Table 2. Total Pesticide Applications in Jiangxi and some Project Counties
Year                  1990   |   1995    |   1996   |   1997    |   1998       1999
Pro ject County                                (Metric Tons)
Jiangxi Province    36,482      41.932     44.482      45,259     48.704      54,502
Wuning                174        NA*         186        218         200        200
engze               NA          NA          NA         NA          NA         521
_       _ngfeng      NA          NA         NA          NA         NA          431
ancheng              NA          NA         NA          NA          NA         336
Gan                  NA          NA         NA          NA          NA         697
HukoLu               117         455        362         322        315         372
Guangfeng           487         477        433         446        487         443
Yucan                512         527        538         549        578         592
Quannan              62          73     1   190         376        412         438
_Longnan              23          84 __50                65         47          55
Note: Data from the Statistical Book of Jiangxi Province (1990-1999). * NA: Data not available
The data in Table 2 and findings of the farm production improvement feasibility study indicate that:
1.   From 1990 to 1995, the average rate of pesticide use in Jiangxi increased by 3% per year, and by
7.5% per year from 1995 to 1999.
2.   In the project counties, the average rate of pesticide use also increased annually. However, the rates
in Wuning, Hukou, Guangfeng, Yugan, and Longnan counties showed no obvious increase from
1995 to 1999, while that in Quannan increased by 8-10% per year, possibly caused by increased
production of cash crops and vegetables.
2.4.3 Pesticide Use by Crops
Table 3 shows data on the type and application probabilities of pesticides for crops based on a survey of
70 households in 15 project counties in 2001 (Jiangxi Academy of Agricultural Sciences, 2001).
Table 3. Type and Application Probability of Pesticide Use for Crops in the Project Area
Amount
Crop                Type and Application Probability                       (kg/ha)
Early rice          Organophosphate 50%, Dimthypo 90%, herbicides 90%,     7.5
fungicides 80%
Late rice           Organophosphate 50%, Dimthypo 90%, herbicides 80%,     10.5
fungicide 100%
Cotton              Organophosphate 50%, pyrethrins 10%, herbicide 100%,
fungicide 100%
Peanut              Herbicide 70%, fungicide 100%                          1.5
Vegetable (1 crop)  Organophosphate 20%, pyrethrins 90%, fungicide 100%    7.5
Greenhouse vegetable
(1 year)            Organophosphate 20%, pyrethrins 80%, fungicide 100%    22.5
Lotus               Organophosphate 50%, pyrethrins 50%                    7.5
4



Amount
Crop                Type and Application Probability                       (kg/ha)
Mulberry             Organophosphate 60%, pyrethrins 50%                    6
Medicinal herbs      Organophosphate 20%, pyrethrins 40%, fungicide 40%     3
Fruit trees (citrus)  Insecticide 100%, herbicides 80%, fungicide 100%      45
Rapeseed            Insecticide 20%, herbicides 50%. fungicide 70%          1.5
Organophosphate pesticides account for 50-60% of total pesticide use on rice, cotton, lotus and mulberry;
and 20% on vegetables and herbs (Table 3). The wide use of organophosphate pesticides was confirmed
through field checks and farmer interviews during project preparation. Farmer interviews indicated that
many farmers knew that many organophosphate pesticides were extremely hazardous, but they continued
to use them because of their effectiveness and lack of cheap, effective, labor-efficient alternatives.
Findings from the farm production feasibility study on pesticide application indicated that:
1)   The application rates of dimthypo and organophosphate on rice exceed the limits of the State
Standard (GB4285-89), i.e., dimthypo 250 ml/mu.
2)   According to the PRC's national rules for safe use of pesticides, high toxicity pesticides have been
banned for use on vegetable, tea, fruit trees, and traditional medicine crops. However, Table 3
indicates that there is clearly a gap between the regulations and farmer practice with 20-30% of the
pesticides used on these crops being highly toxic.
3)   The rates of pesticide use on cotton, greenhouse vegetables, and fruit trees were excessively high
(Table 3).
4)   100% of farmers used herbicides, but in general don't know the effects of the herbicides on soil and
ground water.
2.4.4 Handling of Chemicals
The Regulations for Safe Use of Pesticides were publicized by the Public Health Ministry of the PRC in
1982. Field checks and farmer interviews indicated that farmers in many project areas did not practice
safe handling of chemicals or use protective clothing. In many farmer houses, it was observed that
pesticides are stored near food, on lower shelves in easy reach of children, and in bottles with caps that
are easy to unscrew by children. This also applies to many sellers of pesticides with Class I chemicals
often being stored in shops near food, and on lower shelves in the front of shops where children can easily
access them. Few farmers were observed wearing long sleeved shirts or protective face masks when
spraying. Spraying is often done in windy conditions resulting in spray drift. In most cases, farmers use
backpack sprayers although some were observed using bucket and hand pumps to spray fruit trees. In
summary, there is a need for improved handling of chemicals, spraying under appropriate weather
conditions, use of safe spray equipment, and use of protective clothing. This suggests that the State
policies and regulations are not adequately applied in the rural areas. Therefore, training on safe use of
pesticides should be strengthened.
2.5 General Assessment of Current Pest Management Approach
Studies conducted during project preparation indicated the following issues on the current pest
management approaches used in the project area:
*    Dependence on chemical control methods, especially for large areas of mono-crop species, such as
rice, cotton
5



*    Over application of pesticides
*    Use of high toxicity chemicals (Class 1, WHO)
*    Use of unregistered chemicals
*    Inappropriate handling and management of pesticides and other agricultural chemicals
*    Environmentally unsound disposal of chemicals and chemical packaging
*    Inadequate enforcement of laws and regulations on labeling and sales of agricultural chemicals
*    Low level of awareness amongst farmers, extension services and chemical resellers of 1PM.
*    Poor sense of safe use of pesticides.
3    POLICY, REGULATORY FRANIEWORK, AND INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY
3.1   China and Jiangxi Policies on Plant Protection and IPM
Relevant national and Jiangxi policies on plant protection and integrated pest management include:
*    Regulation on Management of Pesticides of PRC (Issued by the State Council and implemented on
May 8, 1997)
*    Methods for Implementing Pesticides Management Regulation (Issued by Ministry of Agriculture
on April 27, 1999)
*    Management Methods on "Pollution-Free" Farm Products issued by Ministry of Agriculture and
State Quality Supervision, Test and Quarantine Bureau in 2002
*    Standard for Safe Use of Pesticides GB4285-89
*    Standard for Safe Use of Pesticides GB8321.2-87
*    Testing on the residues of organophosphate pesticides in Food GB/T 5009.20-1996
*    Notice on prohibiting use of highly toxic pesticides (animal drugs) issued by Jiangxi Provincial
Agricultural Department (implemented in June 2002)
*    Technical Operation Norms for producing "safe' potato, chilli pepper, eggplant, bean, cucumber,
cabbage, green cabbage etc. formulated by Jiangxi Plant Protection and Quarantine Station
(JPPQS).
3.2 Description and Assessment of IPM Capacity
JPPQS and its county subsidiaries promote IPM approaches to the control of pests and diseases in Jiangxi
(Annex 1), particularly for rice, vegetable and cotton pests (Annex 2). However, it has limited technical
staff numbers (25 at the provincial level) at all levels who are able to spend time in the field promoting
IPM and training farmers in these approaches. There does not appear to be wide availability or circulation
of IPM training materials at county or township levels.
At the township level, Department of Agriculture extension staff provide pest and disease control advice.
However. many of these township technicians also sell agricultural chemicals as part of their mandate to
raise funds to finance agricultural extension. As a result, there is some conflict of interest for these staff to
promote non-chemical pest control methods as part of an 1PM approach. Removal of this conflict requires
changes in government policy and funding as it relates to agricultural extension. This has been raised as
an issue with the Jiangxi Provincial Government during project preparation.
6



There is clearly a need for:
*    Training of crop protection specialists. and extension staff at county and township levels in
improved methods of pest management and [PM
*    Training for farmers that is farmer-needs driven, using hands-on practical training approaches
*    Preparation and distribution of MPhl training materials prepared simple, local language, and well-
supported by appropriate audio-visual aids
*    Support for IPM research for priority crops/pests under the applied research activity.
Activities to address these needs are listed in Sections 7.3 and 7.4.
3.3 Institutional Control of Distribution and Use of Pesticides
Jiangxi Pesticide Test Management Institute and JPPQS at provincial, municipal and county level are
responsible for the supervision and management of pesticides.
Production, Distribution and Use of Pesticides: Pesticides are classified as dangerous chemicals. Any
company and units involved in the production, distribution and use of pesticides should obtain a business
license in accordance with the State regulations. Companies and units that can operate in the pesticide
business include:
*    Agricultural production input operation units under Supply and Marketing Cooperatives
*    Plant Protection and Quarantine Stations
*    Soil Fertility Stations
*    Agriculture and Forest Technical Extension Stations
*    Forest Pest and Disease Prevention and Control Institutions
*    Pesticides Production Enterprises
*    Other operational units specified by the State Council.
4    GENERAL APPROACH OF THE JIAMP PEST MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
4.1 Objectives
In addressing the issues listed in Section 2.5, the JIAMP Pest Management Program will aim to:
*    Prevent the use of highly toxic chemicals by farmers
*    Decrease the levels of sales of inappropriate and inadequately labeled chemicals to farmers
*    Promote the awareness, knowledge and adoption of IPM
*    Promote safe use and management of chemicals.
The project will further support the efforts of JPPQS to promote the concept of 1PM through:
*    Introduction of chemical quality standards into the procurement policy for assessing farmer loan
applications
e    Capacity building of the government extension service in IPM approaches, and
*    Education of agricultural chemical distributors and resellers in 1Pivl approaches.
7



4.2   Focus Areas of the JIAvIP Pest Management Program
The focus areas for the JIAMP Pest Management Program will be:
*    On farm - develop with farmers approaches relevant to their farm
*    Farm Production Investment Sub-component Activities - use lending guidelines to enforce
procurement of approved chemicals and to monitor application rates and usage
*    Chemical resellers - training and monitoring to ensure that all pesticides sold meet labeling laws
requirements. are approved products (Class II and below), and that IPM approaches are promoted to
farmers
*    Policy - through the JIAMP Leading Groups, influence the development of environmentally sound
policies on the sale and use of agricultural chemicals.
On Farm. IPM approaches will be incorporated into the training of project-supported extension staff who
will be responsible for training the farmers. Many extension staff are also involved in the reselling of
agricultural chemicals through input supply shops managed by township and county extension stations.
Field demonst-rations using established IPM approaches (farmer schools) will be conducted in all project
irrigation areas by extension staff in collaboration with WUAs and WUGs.
Farm Production Investment Sub-component Activities. Procurement of chemicals will be monitored
and adjusted as required through the loan assessment procedures of the Farm Production Investment
Funds to ensure that no Class I chemicals are procured or used by project beneficiaries.
Chemical Resellers, Distributors and Mlanufacturers. Chemical resellers will be provided with training
in chemical use and handling by both extension staff (many of whom are involved in chemical reselling),
and approved distributors and manufacturers.
Policy. Review and strengthening of policies and the regulatory environment to ensure the provision of
quality agricultural inputs at reasonable prices to project beneficiaries is a major focus of the project
provincial and county leading groups. Through the Provincial Leading Group, chaired by the Provincial
Governor, the project will aim to exert influence on the policy-making mechanism within Jiangxi on the
quality and use of agricultural chemicals, and the expansion of the "green" agricultural production
strategy of the province.
5    PROPOSED ON-FARNI PEST MIANAGEMENT PRACTICES UNDER JIAMP
The JIAMP Pest Management Program will promote use of a combination of crop-specific agricultural,
physical, biological, and chemical pest and disease control methods that will reduce reliance on synthetic
chemical pesticides.
5.1   Agricultural and Physical Control Methods
Agricultural and physical control methods include further extension of the practices listed in Section 2.2,
including:
*    Tillage practices. including deep tillage to bury straw and vegetative trash to prevent insect pest egg
buildup; soil tillage in rice paddy immediately after harvesting to prevent buildup of rice borer.
*    Regular rotation of dryland crops to avoid buildup of soil-borne insect pests and diseases, e.g.,
vegetables followed by beans followed by vegetables.
*    Straw and trash control to prevent buildup of insect pests and eggs in crop straw and trash.
*    Cutting and burning of diseased or egg/insect infected leaves in vegetable crops; and branches in
cotton and citrus orchards.
8



*    Deep flooding practices in rice paddy to assist control of soil-borne eggs and pupae of rice pests
and other insccts, e.g., Cliilo suppressalis eggs.
*     Use of lure boxes and light traps for relevant crops (e.g., greenhouse vegetables).
*    Light lures making use of insect phototaxis to attract pests in vegetables and lotus.
*    Hand-picking of eggs, caterpillars and larvae during periods of high infestation, e.g., Laphyvqina
e,riqua and Prodenia litiura eggs on cabbage leaves; boll worms and larvae in cotton, and cabbage
caterpillars.
*     Use of fruit bagging in citrus orchards to prevent insects entering fruit.
5.2   Biological Control Methods
Biological control methods include further extension of the practices listed in Section 2.3, such as:
*     Extension of crop varieties resistant to insect pests. Examples include cotton varieties, such as 32B,
GK22, Zhong 38F1, Zhong298Fl that are resistant to cotton boll worm; and rice variety
Kanwenqingzhan 1 that is resistant to rice gall midge.
*     Intercropping of target species to attract insect pests away from the main cash crop, e.g., planting of
Ageratuiii con yzoides L. in citrus orchards to control mites; planting of peanuts and soybeans rather
than sweet potato in young citrus orchards to minimize damage by Noctluicdae sp.; planting of
soybean on rice bunds to attract a range of insects away from the rice crop.
Duck raising in rice fields. This can control pests and wild grass in the rice field without applying
pesticides or herbicides.
*    Extension of biological pesticides. The biological pesticides usually are applied 2-3 days before
application of chemical pesticides in order to get ideal results.
*    Nurturing and protecting predators for rice pests, making good use of predators such as frogs and
spiders to control pests.
If appropriate predators for major insect pests can be identified from the research conducted by JPPQS,
then the project would assist with trial applications of these. For example, release of Phytoseiilius
persimnilis to attack mites on citrus and vegetables.
5.3 Chemical Control Methods
Chemical control methods will apply the following principles:
1.   Use of non-pesticide chemicals where these are appropriate and cost-effective in control.
2.    Use of "biological pesticides" (e.g., BT, abamectin to control rice stemborers and vegetable insect
pests), and pesticides of plant origin (e.g., nicotine to control vegetable pests) where these are cost-
effective.
3.   Application of highly effective, low toxicity, and low residue pesticides, such as imidacloprid.
4.   Extend control techniques that have low toxicity to human beings, domestic animals, and fauna;
low residues in agricultural products; and little environmental pollution. Such techniques include:
* Use of low toxicity and low residue pesticides.
*   Spraying of pesticides before transplanting.
*   Applying timely, effective low concentration pesticides to control various insect pest species
when the density of insect pests is above a critical threshold to ensure optimal effectiveness of
each pesticide application.
* Maintaining safe intervals between pesticide applications.
9



5.   Use of safe spray equipment (e.g.. backpack sprayers. optimal nozzle sizes) to increase the
efficienicy of pesticide use and control effectiveness.
6.   Extension and training in safe methods of pesticide application (e.g., correct clothing. spraying in
still conditions, application of soil-based pesticides as relevant).
7.   Safe storage of chemicals (e.g.. away from children and food, etc).
8.   Proper disposal of chemical wastes and used chemical containers (e.g., by deep burial).
6. PESTICIDE MANAGEMENT UINDER JIAMP
6.1  Proposed Pesticide Use and Application of IPM
6.1.1  IPM for MIajor Crops
(1)    Objective: a) control pests; b) reduce use of chemical pesticides
Specific Objectives
(i)    Reduce the damage caused by pests to less than 5%
(ii)   Decrease use of chemical pesticides by more than 50% within 3-5 years
(iii)  Eliminate any poisoning accident caused by unsafe management, storage and unreasonable
handling of discarded waste
(iv)   Prohibit use of highly toxic pesticides (WHO Class I) and those causing diseases (such as cancer,
etc.)
(v)    Pesticide residue in farm products will not exceed WHO and the State standards
(vi)   Maintain the biological diversity of farms and establish farm biological models.
(2)    IPNI MIeasures
Principle: Strengthen pest forecasts, apply agricultural control measures first, then choose physical and
biological control measures, and finally chemical control measures.
(i)  Strengthen forecasts of diseases and pests. County Plant Protection and Quarantine Station
(CPPQS) should provide timely disease and pest control information to farmers including control
targets, appropriate timing of control measures, technology and pesticides, etc. Such information
should be given to farmers 7-10 days ahead of implementing control measures. The CPPQS should
ensure that control measures are implemented in the neighboring counties at the same time to
improve control effectiveness.
(ii)  Agricultural control measures:
*    Choose resistant varieties: This is an important measure for improving crop resistance to
pests and reducing use of chemical pesticides.
*    Crop rotation to avoid buildup of insect pests and diseases.
*    Intercropping e.g. planting maize in tomato and pepper fields to reduce the damage by cotton
boll worm; intercropping maize and cabbage and pepper can reduce the migration of aphids.
*    Reasonable timing of the planting season to minimize crop damage from diseases and pests.
10



Tillage practices. including deep tillage to bury straw and vegetative trash to prevent insect
pest buildup; soil tillage in rice paddy immediately after harvesL to prevent buildup of rice
borer.
*    Nurturing of healthy seedlings: Sterilizing seeds and soil. Removal of poor quality seedlings
and nurturing high quality seedlings.
*    Tillage and grass control to reduce occurrence of diseases and pests.
*    Land should be deep-tilled to 26-33 cm depth after harvest of dry land crops to avoid buildup
of pests in the topsoil and to freeze pests hibernating in the soil for winter.
*    Appropriate use of fertilizers and timely implementation of irrigation and drainage.
Application of abundant base manure and limited use of nitrogen and phosphate fertilizers,
and increased use of calcium to strengthen pest resistance of crops. Sound irrigation and
drainage management will be effective in pest and disease control.
*    Improve tillage and weeding to reduce pest and disease occurrence.
*    Clean land: Removal of infected leaves and crop plants from the field to reduce diseases and
pests.
(iii) Physical control measures:
*    Use pestproof nets in vegetable and fruit cultivation to keep out pests, diseases, rain and
wind, or to keep Olt sunlight and maintain moisture as required.
*    Trap and kill pests: Use yellow boards to trap white flies and aphids; use black light lamps to
trap and kill moths, beetles and Orthopteroids; use sugar and vinegar solution to trap and kill
moths.
(iv) Biological control measures:
*    Use of biological pesticides such as Bt, Polynacfin, NPV, etc.
*    Use of natural pest enemies, such as Trichograimma.
*    Use of sex attractants to trap and kill pests, such as cotton bollworm, leafworm and beet
armyworm.
(v)  Chemical control measures:
Use of pesticides combined with other control measures is an effective and economic way to increase
control efficiency, and guarantee agricultural harvest. High quality pesticides should be used that are
effective in pest control, have no- or low-toxicity to human beings and animals, and are safe on crops.
Key pesticide control measures include:
*    Prohibit use of severe or highly toxic and high residue pesticides
*    Use different pesticides to control different pests
*    Spray pesticides at proper times based on pest occurrence
*    Spray appropriate amounts of pesticide
*    Appropriately mixed or alternative use of pesticides
*    Strictly implement safe harvest intervals (GB4285-89).
IPM measures for major crops are listed in Annex 2.
11



6.1.2 Pesticides Recommended for Use in JlAivMP
During project implementation, it will be necessary to use pesticides in conjunction with agricultural
control, physical and biological control measures. Pesticide use must follow the principles of economic.
safe and effective application. Table 4 lists pesticides recommended for JIAMP implementation. These
are existing and newly registered pesticides that are highly effective, have low toxicity, and nil or low
residues.
Table 4. Pesticides Recommended for Use in JIVIP
Crop            Main Pests                         Recommended Pesticides1
Biological          Chemical Pesticides (PRC Classification)
Pesticides            (WHO Class in parentheses)
Low Toxicity          Nledium Toxicity
Rice          Chzilo suppressalis   Bt (Bacillus   Diflubenzuron (U),    Dimthypo (11), Regent
Tryporyza incertul las  thuringiensis)  imidacloprid (II)  (II). chlorpyrifos (11)
_          ~~~~(III)
Sogatellafiircifera
Nilaparvata liigens
Cnaphalocrocis
medinialis
Orseolia orvzae
Cotton        Helicoverpa arnigera  NPV            Cascade               Springtac (II),
Pecti'oplio I(nuclear                (flufenoxuron, U),    cypermethrin (II),
recainOpie            polygon        Torque (fenbutatin    deltamethrin (II), phoxim
ragassypiella    virus) (U) of  oxide, U),            (II), thiodicarb (II),
Tetranychus           cotton boll    chlorfluazuron (U),   azacyclotin (II), amitraz
cinnatarinus          worm,          betacyfluthrin (II),  (III), benfuracarb (II)
Aphis gossypii         Polynacrin     imidacloprid (II),
(III), Bt (III)  buprofezin (U),
Emipoasca bigutttitla                propargite
Lygius licorumn                      (lII),trichlorphon (II)
Adelphocoris sutuiralis
Agrotis ypsilon
Prodenia sp.
Earias cutpreovirids
Orange        PhVllocn1istis citrella  Polynacfin  Diflubenzuron (U),    Springtac (II),
Panoizv chliscitri    (III)          Cascade                cypermethrin (11),
Plvllocoptnita oleivora              (flufenoxuron U)),     deltamethrin (II),
P.~yllocoplntta oleivora           Torque (fenbutatin    azacyclotin (II), amitraz
Coccoidea sp.(e.g.                   oxide, U),            (III), pyridaben (III).
Unaspis yanonzensis)                 chlorfluazuron (U),   chlorpyrifos (II)
Anoplophora chinensis                imidacloprid (II),
Dialeiurocles citri                   buprofezin (U),
Drooar6ite (III).



Crop           MIain Pests                        Recommended Pesticides'
Biological          Chemical Pesticides (PRC Classification)
Pesticides            (WHO Class in parentheses)
Low Toxicity        NMedium Toxicity
Aphiis citricidus                    propargite (III).
Papillo sp.                         bromopropylate (U).
Co.itciHiiia cit i             trichlophon
conltarinia Cztt                    (II),sulphur F(III)
Vegetables    Prodenia litura      Bt (III), NPV  Diflubenzuron (U),    Springtac (11). Fastac
Lapizvgma e.eiqua     (Nuclear      Cascade               (alphacypermethrin II),
Pieris rapae          polygon        (flufenoxuron U),    cyhalothrin (II),
Plutella.xylostalIa   virus) of beet  Torque (fenbutatin  cypermethrin (11),
armyworm       oxide, U),           chlorpyrifos (II), meothrin
Mvlzus persicae       (U). GV        chlorfluazuron (U),  (II), Regent (11)
Lipaphis erysiufi     (granule      imidacloprid (II).
Brevicorwye brassicae  virus) of     buprofezin (U),
Agroti ypsilon  diamond-back  propargite (III).
A grotis ypsilon      moth,          cyfluthrin (II),
Heliothis assutlta    Spinosad (U),  betacyfluthrin (II)
Polynacfin
(IlI)
Other measures for pest management of major crops are summarized in Table 5 and are fully described in
Annex 2. The main points to note are:
1)   The pest management approach for each crop contains elements of an IPM approach, but there is a
strong dependence on chemical pesticides.
2)   Non-chemical control measures are largely agriculturaUphysical measures with few biological
control measures.
Extension of tested and validated biological control 1PM techniques developed under the programs of
JPPQS (Annex 1) should be introduced into the project, where appropriate.
13



Table 5. Agricultural, Physical and Biological iMleasures for Pest Mlanagement of Mlajor Crops
Crop             Agricultural and Physical Mleasures           Biological Measures
Rice           Pest forecasting. SoilUstubble tillage. Control water  Resistant varieties. Plant soybean
levels. Remove straw and stubble.              on ridges of rice fields.
Cotton         Pest forecasting. Inter-row tillage. Remove stubble
and infested cotton leaves and branches. Irrigation.
Kill larvae by hand.
Orange         Pest forecasting. Fruit bagging. Cut and bum    Intercropping peanut or soybean.
infested branches. Shallow tillage. NIaintain soil  Use of natural pest enemies.
moisture by covering weeds. Light traps. Paint tree
trunks with lime.
Capsicum       Pest forecasting. Deep tillage. Burn infested leaves.  Crop rotation
Trap and kill aphids by yellow boards, moths by
sugar and vinegar solution or lamps.
Cabbage        Pest forecasting. Deep tillage. Burn infested leaves.
Trap and kill aphids by yellow boards, moths by
sugar and vinegar solution or lamps.
Silver lotus   Pest forecasting. Trap and kill aphids by yellow
boards, moths by sugar and vinegar solution or
lamps.
6.2 Type and Quantity of Pesticides to be Financed
Agricultural, physical (e.g., lures), biological control practices or bio-pesticides (e.g. Bt, Abamectin) that
have the same cost-effectiveness as synthetic pesticides, would be used in preference to pesticides (Tables
4 and 5). Unregistered chemicals or any that have WHO Class I active ingredients will not be financed.
Table 6 estimates the increase in the amount of pesticides used under the project, assuming:
1)   The current average rate for pesticide usage in Table I applies to the project area,
2)   The target reduction in pesticide usage for each crop (Annex 2) is achieved,
3)   One crop per year is grown, except for greenhouse vegetables for which the projection is for a full
production year. If two crops of rice or field vegetables are grown, pesticide use may be slightly
higher.
Based on these assumptions, the estimated increase (129 tonnes/year) in pesticide use under the JIAMP is
expected to be very small (0.2%) in relation to total pesticide use in Jiangxi (54,505 tonnes in 1999).
14



Table 6. Estimated Increase in Pesticide Use Under the Project
Current      Estimated                     Total
Estimated   Average Rate   Reduction2  Estimated RatePesticide/Crop
Crop                   Area (ha)     (kg/ha)'        (%)         (kg/ha)      Year (kg)
Rice                       12.416            9           -20           7.2        89,395
Cotton                       200            33           -50          16.5         3,300
Orange                       806            45           -50          22.5        18,135
Field vegetables            1,990           7.5          -30          5.25        10,448
Greenhouse vegetables        276           22.5          -30         15.75         4,347
Medicinal herbs              345             3             -             3         1.035
Lotus                        554            7.5          -40           4.5         2,493
Total                      16,587                                                129,153
1 Based on average rate of pesticide application in Table 2.
2 Based on target reduction in pesticide use for each crop listed in Annex 2.
75% of the cropping area in the JIAMP is expected to be in rice production (Table 6). Most of the benefits
from JIAMP will come through irrigation of rice land that is currently inadequately irrigated. The supply
of irrigation may result in some farmers changing their rice cropping patterns (e.g. growing both early and
late rice, while others may only grow late rice (higher quality, more profitable) rather than early or middle
rice. While changes in rice cropping patterns may occur, the total area of rice cropped per year is not
expected to increase significantly. The types of rice pests are not expected to change significantly either.
As a result, pesticide usage is not expected to increase simply through an area increase, but may do so
through more intensive management, particularly if farmers move to growing late rice. Table 6 assumes
an area increase of 12,416 ha. For the above reasons this may be an overestimate with the result that the
projected increase in pesticide use may also be over-estimated.
The areas of vegetables, herbs, lotus and orange (Table 6) are expected to replace other, less profitable
crops as a result of the benefits of irrigation. Therefore, the change in land use will result in a change in
the types of pests and diseases in these production areas. However, the area increases in all of the above
crops are relatively small compared to the total area of these crops in Jiangxi (refer Jiangxi Agricultural
Statistics Yearbook 2000). The change to more intensively managed crops may result in a higher
incidence of agro-chemical use compared to the pre-project situation in some areas.
The area increase in cotton is relatively small compared to the total area of cotton production in Jiangxi.
There is already a very large area of citrus being grown in Jiangxi, and the additional area proposed under
the project will not add significant pest problems to the existing citrus production areas.
The expected area increase in field vegetables under the project is significant and less complete pest
control is likely compared to greenhouse vegetables where the production environment (and, therefore,
pests) is more easily controlled. The project will promote production of "pollution-free" vegetables that
utilize lower pesticide inputs than is the current practice in much of Jiangxi. Specifications for production
of such vegetables are given in Annex 3.
The proposed area increase in lotus is relatively small compared to the total existing production area in
Jiangxi. The additional production area is unlikely to result in significant increases in insect pest
incidence.
In summary, the area increases in crop production under the project are relatively small compared to the
total production area for each crop in Jiangxi. As a result. the overall incidence of insect pests and
pesticide use is not expected to increase significantly if the estimated targets for reduced pesticide use are
15



achieved. The type of insect pests and pesticides used may change as a result of changes in land use on
any given piece of land in the project area.
6.3 Capability/Competency of End-Users to Handle Products within Acceptable Risk
Margins
Assessment of current practices (Section 2.4.4) indicates there is currently variable competency of
farmers and chemical resellers in handling chemical products within acceptable risk margins (i.e., safe
storage. use of safe equipment, protective clothing. safe disposal of packaging and waste chemicals). The
proposed training programs (Section 7) for both farmers and chemnical resellers will address this.
However, the local monitoring and evaluation program (Section 8.1) is designed to regularly monitor the
capability/competency of both farmers and chemical resellers in safe handling of chemical products.
Where such handling continues to be unsafe, further training would be provided.
6.4 Environmental, Occupational and Health Risks
6.4.1 Environmental Risks
The main environmental risks from pesticide use in the project include:
*    Deterioration in water quality from pesticide residues and potential for increases in pesticides in
aquatic biota (e.g., fish).
*    Contamination of water supplies resulting from spraying or chemical spills near drinking water
sources.
*    Possible impacts on non-target species (especially bees, birds, domestic animals, and natural
enemies of pests) from high toxicity pesticides.
*    Development of pest resistance from continued overuse of some pesticides (e.g. in cotton
bollworms (Annex 2)).
*    Deterioration in soil quality from pesticide residues.
Measures to mitigate the above risks include:
Awareness training of village leaders, farmers (men, women) and chemical resellers in the likely
environmental impacts of specific chemicals. and recommended spraying methods and equipment.
*    Spray monitoring to ensure that spraying of toxic chemicals is not conducted near water sources,
and working with village leaders to enforce this.
*    Procurement of approved safe spray equipment under the project.
*    Use of pesticides with low residual half-lives.
*    Minimizing use of chemical pesticides near areas with rare or endangered fauna (e.g. near wetlands,
and/or adjacent to Poyang Lake).
*    Use of a range of pest control techniques (agricultural/physical, biological, chemical) to ensure that
pest resistance to chemical pesticides does not build up.
6.4.2 Occupational/Health Risks
The main occupational/health risks from pesticide use include:
*    Sickness resulting from inhalation of pesticide fumes when handling concentrated chemicals and/or
pesticide vapor during spraying if protective masks are not used.
*    Skin damage from sprays or chemical spillage during handling if protective clothing is not worn.
16



*    Contamination of drinking water if spraying is conducted close to drinking water sources. or if
there are chemical spills near drinking water sources.
Measures to mitigate the above risks include:
*    Awareness training and demonstrations for village leaders, farmers (men, women) and chemical
resellers in:
o    Likely occupational/health impacts of specific chemicals
o    Recommended handling and spraying methods
o    Approved equipment and its use (e.g., sprayers, nozzle sizes, etc)
o    Wearing of safe clothing (long sleeve shirt, mask, hat, gloves, long trousers, footwear)
o    Spraying in still conditions
o    Safe storaae of chemicals in locked cupboards that children cannot easily access
o    Safe disposal of chemical packaging and wastes by deep burial or burning (if appropriate).
*    Monitoring of implementation of the above practices followed by refresher training if not correctly
irnplemented.
*    Implementation of the project management measures listed in Section 6.5.
6.5  Project Management M\easures to Reduce Specific Risks Associated with Envisaged
Pesticide Use under the Project
The IPM Sub-committee of the JIAMP Provincial Technical Advisory Group will periodically review
changes to the list of chemicals for use in the project area. The Sub-committee will ensure that chemicals
used by the beneficiaries are:
*    Manufactured, packaged, labeled, handled, stored, applied, and disposed of according to standards
acceptable to the World Bank
*    Not formulated products that fall in WHO Classes IA and IB, or formulations of products in Class
II whose concentration of active ingredients exceed acceptable WHO levels.
In addition, any pesticide to be procured by project beneficiaries will be assessed for:
*    The nature and degree of associated risks by proposed use and intended user
*    The proposed use and the intended users
*    The classification of pesticides and their specific formulations as in the Recommended
Classification of Pesticides by Hazard and Guidelines to Classification (Geneva: WHO 2000-01),
and its future updates.
Pesticides selected for use must meet the World Bank's OP 4.09 criteria. Such pesticides:
*    Must have negligible adverse human health effects.
*    Must be shown to be effective against the target species.
*    Must have minimal effect on non-target species and the natural environment. The methods, timing,
and frequency of pesticide application are aimed to minimize damage to natural enemies. Pesticides
used in public health programs must be demonstrated to be safe for inhabitants and domestic
animals in the treated areas, as well as for personnel applying them.
*    Their use must take into account the need to prevent the development of resistance in pests.
Additions or deletions to the recommended pesticide list in Table 4 will be authorized by the IPM Sub-
Committee of the Provincial Technical Advisory Group. The local pesticides with unknown active
ingredients listed under "Not Classified" in Table 4 will be added to the approved list of pesticides once
their active ingredients and concentrations are provided to, and approved by, the World Bank.
17



6.6 Selection of Pesticides Authorized for Procurement
No pesticides will be procured through National or International Competitive Bidding. Pesticides will be
purchased directly bv project beneficiaries with loans from the Farm Production Investment Component.
Any pesticides to be purchased by project beneficiaries will be assessed by the Loan Facilitators during
loan application processing. The Loan Facilitators will check that the pesticides are on the recommended
list of chemicals (Table 4).
7    STRENGTHENING PEST MIANAGEMENT CAPACITY UNDER JIANIP
7.1 Policy Issues
Pest management policy measures to be promoted by the Project include:
Reduce current usage rates of chemical pesticides on project activities, and enforcement of laws
against banned pesticides.
*    Pesticide regulation.
*    Banning the use of unregistered pesticides for project activities.
*    Banning the use of WHO Class I pesticides, and requiring their replacement with less toxic
alternatives for project activities.
*    Strict adherence to regulations following the:
o    FAO Code of Conduct on the Regulation, Distribution and Use of Pesticides (or Chinese
equivalent)
o    FAO Guidelines for Packaging and Storage of Pesticides (or Chinese equivalent)
o    FAO Guidelines on Good Labeling Practice for Pesticides (or Chinese equivalent)
o    FAO Guidelines for the Disposal of Waste Pesticide and Pesticide Containers on the Farm (or
Chinese equivalent).
Where Chinese equivalents to these FAO Guidelines do not exist, then such Guidelines should be
prepared for implementation by the Project.
*    Adherence to the State Environmental Protection Agency (SEPA) environmental standards on agro-
chemical use, including pesticides. For Ecological Demonstration Counties (EDC), SEPA
standards for EDCs should be followed.
*    Encourage county and township governments to promote and support 1PM approaches through
discussions and by providing examples of successful IPM programs and their benefits (particularly
long-term benefits).
*    Requiring Loan Facilitators to restrict household loans only to use of recommended, registered
pesticides (Table 4).
*    Encourage the provincial government to provide funding support to 1PM research and extension
programs.
7.2 Infrastructure, Capacity, Institutional Arrangements and Collaboration
Strengthening of the basic plant protection infrastructure and institutional control on distribution and use
of pesticides under the Project will be undertaken through:
*    Training of county crop protection specialists, township extension workers, and farmers (Section
7.3).



*    Establishment of a monitoring program (Section S) to assess pest management and application of
IPM techniques in project implementation.
*    Appointment of a PlMO staff member to have specific responsibility for overseeing agricultural pest
management and application of [PMI approaches. The JPPQS or Chinese IPNI consultant could be
funded by the Jiangxi Provincial Government to support the project in this role.
Working with the JPPQS and other institutions, such as the Jiangxi Academy of Agricultural
Sciences, in orienting their research and extension programs towards 1PNI.
*    Establishment of collaborative links with national institutions to strengthen cooperation, local
capacity and knowledge in Jiangxi of IPM techniques for project-specific crops.
*    Promoting support and collaboration of provincial. county, township. and village leaders in
promoting safe pest management measures. and IPM approaches where relevant.
*    Promoting the project approach of reduced use of toxic pesticides and encouraging IPM approaches
to the private sector. particularly the agro-chemicals sector.
7.3 Overview of Training and Human Resource Development
The project Training, Extension and Research Subcomponent provides for training of county and
township technicians, farmers, and training of trainers. It also provides for preparation of extension
materials, including audio-visual; motorcycles to enable technicians to spend more time in the field
visiting farmers; agricultural extension field demonstration sites; rehabilitation of activity and teaching
centers; provision of books, journals, and magazines on agricultural technology.
Under the Training, Extension and Research Subcomponent, the following pest management capacity-
building activities are proposed:
1)   Visits by county crop protection specialists and technicians to qualified agencies, such as the
JPPQS and Jiangxi Academy of Agricultural Sciences, to receive training in new pest control
methods, including IPM methods for specific crops/pests.
2)   Regular training courses for extension staff by county crop protection specialists on new pest
control methods, including IPM for specific crops/pests.
3)   Training of county and township extension staff to ensure effective enforcement of pesticide
regulations.
4)   Regular, tinely training of farmers in new pest control methods and IPM for specific crops/pests
conducted by township technicians using techniques such as Farmer Field School approaches. In
each of items 1-3, terms of reference should be provided for trainers, and, if necessary, training
experts should be engaged to assist with training of trainers (see Section 7.4).
5)   Preparation and distribution of IPM training materials prepared in simple language, and well
supported by appropriate audio-visual aids. These may need to be obtained from, or prepared by,
national- or provincial-level agencies, such as the JPPQS.
6)   As many women as possible should be encouraged to participate in the pest management and IPM
programs, and provided with lead roles in such programs.
7)   Conduct of farmer-need driven research towards IPM implementation under the Applied Research
activity.
7.4 Training of Farmers
The aim of farmer training is to strengthen farmers' ability to safely and cost-effectively control insect
pests (as stated in the Project Implementation Plan). This includes training farmers how to identify insect
pests, make appropriate control decisions, and take proper measures to control them.
19



Each farmer would receive 3-4 training courses (I day for 50 farmers) per year, with relevant courses
conducted during the pest control period each year. Training content would include:
*    Characteristics of insect pests
*    Damage caused by different insect pests
*    Natural enemies of each major insect pest
*    Field samnpling approaches
*    Control thresholds
*    Control measures, including IPM approaches involving agricultural, physical, biological, and
chemical control methods.
*    Safety in storage, handling, and disposal of chemical wastes and containers
*    Chemical application methods and protective clothing requirements.
Possible training providers include:
*    Leading farmers and demonstration households
*    Trained township, county and province extension services
*    Chemical resellers
*    JPPQS
*    Other providers in Jiangxi (e.g. Jiangxi Academy of Agricultural Sciences) and China
*    FAO
*    Bilateral donor programs, such as the GTZ co-funded project in Jiangxi - using ecological
approaches to cash crop production.
8    MIONITORING AND EVALUATION UNDER JIAMP
8.1 Activities Requiring Local Monitoring during Implementation
The following activities require local monitoring during project implementation:
*     5Extent of IPM adoption by farmers
*    Pesticide use pattern
*    Crop production
*    Changes to the agro-ecosystem
*    Other indicators.
A detailed list of possible monitoring indicators is provided in Annex 4.
The above monitoring should be done by County Plant Protection and Quarantine Station (CPPQS) staff
based on a sample of project households in the project area in each county. Early World Bank supervision
missions should assist the County PPQS with establishment of an appropriate monitoring system,
sampling procedure. and provide training in implementation and analysis of the monitoring system
(Annex 4).
8.2  Activities Requiring Monitoring during Supervision
The following activities require external monitoring during World Bank supervision missions:
*    Pesticide registration
20



*    Use of Class I pesticides
*    Policy issues
*    Implementation of the local monitoring program. and assistance in analyzing results.
A detailed list of possible monitoring indicators is provided in Annex 4.
Supervision mission inputs should be conducted 2 times per year, preferably during periods of high pest
control activity to observe field implementation of pest management practices. This supervision work
should be undertaken by an Agriculture Specialist with experience in agricultural pest management in
China. Supervision costs would be financed from World Bank funds.
8.3  Monitoring and Supervision Plan
* lMonitoring of pest management: The monitoring work will be done jointly by PPQS and PMO at
Provincial, municipal and county level with the participation of farmers. Once a pest is discovered,
it should be reported and handled in a timely manner.
*    Supervisioni plan: The PMO at each level will be responsible for ensuring regular supervision is
undertaken. During peak pest infestation periods, the PPQS will be responsible for supervision and
control.
    Responsibilities: The PPQS at each level will be responsible for guidance, supervision,
monitoring and training on IPM. The PMOs at each level and stakeholders have duties and
responsibilities for discovering and timely reporting of pest attacks and for implementing the IPM
plan in accordance with the requirements.
*    Professional technology required: Plant protection expertise and methods supplied by the PPQS at
each level.
-.Buidget. Pest management ivork should be listed in the daily management work of PMOs
at each level, and the budgets should be included in the overheads of the PPQS and PMOs
at each level.
21



Annex 1: Current Programs of Jiangxi Station of Plant Protection and Quarantine
Programs current undertaken by JPPQS include:
*   FAO inter-country rice IPM program
*  China Korea Rice Hopper Monitoring Program
*   Base line surveys of natural predators of rice and cotton pests
*   Long and mid term forecasting of rice stem borers populations
*   Rice variety resistance to Pyricutlaria orvzae
*   Climate-crop pest monitoring and early warning program
*   Integrated control techniques of Phytoplhthora capsici
* Research on occurrence and control of Phom2opsis asparagi
*   Research on control effects of Phytoseiu/lus persimtilis to tetranychids on vegetables
*  Studies on damage and control thresholds of Chilo siuppressalis
*   IPM programs for rice pests, Orseolia oryzae, and vegetable leaf miner
*   Middle school training programs in IPM for rice pests
*   Extension of application techniques of imidacloprid
*   Forecast standards of cotton insect pests
*   Research and extension of "no-pollution" vegetable production.
In addition, Jiangxi Academy of Agricultural Science and Jiangxi Agricultural University are engaging in
research in this field.
22



Annex 2: Integrated Pest Management for Major JIANIP Crops
1.     Rice
The major pests are rice stem borers (Chlilo suppressalis and Tiyporylza inicertiilas), leaf roller
(Ctiaphalocrocis iniecdinalis), and planthoppers (Nilapan'ata liugens and Sogatellafitrciftra), and rice gall
midge (Orseolia oryzae).
The aim of rice pest control is to:
*   Keep yield loss caused by pests under less than 5%,
*   Decrease chemical pesticide use by more than 20% by limiting pesticide applications to 2 to 2.5
times in a growing season.
*   Avoid accidents arising from unsafe use,
*   Ensure safe storage of pesticides and pesticide-related waste disposal,
*   Increase population of natural enemies of rice pests (i.e. spiders and frogs).
1.1    IPM Measures
Pest Forecasts. A key role of the County PPQS will be to improve forecasts of the occurrence and
outbreak of rice pests. The CPPQS will also advise farmers when and how to control rice pests at least 3
times per growing season. This should be done 7 to 10 days in advance of the likely pest occurrence.
Varietal Sclection. Appropriate high quality pest resistant varieties that are suitable for each location
should be selected. Specific varieties should be decided by seeking advice from the County PPQS and
Seed Management Stations.
Field Management. Rice fields that do not have winter crops should have the soil turned over in winter.
Rice fields with winter crops should also have the soil turned over before 20" April in northern Jiangxi,
and 15"' April in southern Jiangxi. Remaining rice straw should be removed from the fields or tilled into
the soil.
Land for early rice, middle rice and rice seedling beds must be allocated to avoid the situation of field
fragmentation where land belonging to one type of rice is enclosed in that of another. If the latter occurs,
consistent and effective pest management is difficult.
Planting of soybeans on the rice field bunds will be encouraged to attract natural predators of rice insect
pests, and also add to farmer financial return.
Rice seedlings should be sprayed once 3 to 5 days prior to transplanting. It is recommended to use 18%
Dimthypo AS*at 200 ml/667m2.
In the second 10 days of May to the first 10 days of June, Bt AS* at 200 ml/667m2 is used to control first
generation of Chilo suppressalis, and 5% Regent SC (fipronil) at 15-20 ml/667m2 is used to control the
second and third generation of this pest. In areas where bees and shrimps are raised, Regent SC should
not be used.
Deep irrigation can be used to kill Chilo slippressalis. At the beginning of the peak of egg hatching, there
should be less than 3 cm depth of water in rice fields. After the peak and at the end of egg hatching, 12 to
15 cm water depth should be maintained for 3 days to drown the rice leaf sheath. Before the beginning of
the pupa stage, the field should be drained to 3 cm water depth, and after the main period of pupa
development, rice fields should again be irrigated to 12 to 15 cm depth for 3 days.
During the last 10 days of May to mid-June, 18% Dimthypo AS* at 200 ml/667m2 should be evenly
sprayed when the number of Cntaphalocrocis medinialis on 100 rice plants is above 30. In the areas where
silkworms are raised, dimthypo cannot be used, and it is recommended to use 48% chlorpyrifos.
23



If the number of planthoppers on 100 rice plants exceeds 1,000 during rice tillering stage. and/or 1,500
during tasselling stage. 10% Imidacloprid WP should be sprayed evenly at a rate of 15 g/667m2.
When harvested. rice should be cut near the mud and rice straw should be bundled and removed from the
fields. After harvest of early rice, the soil should be tilled immediately to kill the stubble and rice
stemborers.
During the last 10 days of August to mid-September. caseworm and planthoppers on late rice should be
controlled using the same methods for early and middle rice.
The timing of control measures for fourth generation Chilo sluppressalis and Trvporvza inzcertuilas should
be based on the egg density, the peak time of egg hatching, and the heading stage of rice. Regent SC in
the same quantities and spraying methods is recommended.
Chemical pesticides should not be used to control pests in 30 days before harvest.
After rice harvest, the paddy must be dried in the sun, winnowed to make it clean of straw and fumigated
to prevent pest damage.
2.     Cotton
The main cotton pests are bollworm (Helicoverpa arnmigera) and pink bollworm (Pectinoplhora
gassypiella). There are more than 10 species of secondary pests, such as Agrotis ypsilon, Aphis gossypii,
Lygvgs lucoru,nm Prodenia sp., Entipoasca bigittula. These secondary pests are important in some years.
The aim of the cotton pest control program is to control insect pests, and decrease the quantities of
chemicals used over a 3-5 year period. Specific targets are to:
* Decrease the number of times chemicals are used by 20% yearly
*   Decrease the annual quantities of chemicals used by 50%
* Increase the density of natural predators of cotton pests on 100 plants above 100 (i.e., average of
one predator per plant)
*   Ensure careful handling of chemicals
* Safe disposal of package and chemical wastes.
2.1    IPM Mcasures
At different stages of the cotton plant's growth, different measures should be taken to control different
pests. There are three main stages:
2.1.1  Scedbed Stage (from the first 10 days of April to the second 10 days of May)
The aim is to ensure good seedlings for planting. The main pests are Agrotis ypsilon and Adelphocoris
suttiralis, and secondary pests are Aphis gossypii , Thrips tabaci and Tetranychus ciinnatarinuis.
Treatment of cotton seeds: Mix 1.2 kg/667 m2 of 5% benfuracarb GR evenly with cotton seeds and then
plant into nutrition bags. Benfuracarb is effective on all the above seed pests for 40 days. In some seed
beds where occurrence of some seedling pests may be serious, the following additional remedial measures
may be used:
(i)    Seedbeds with serious infestations of Agrotis vpsilon: Dissolve 50 g of 90% solid trichlorphon in
0.5 kg water and spray it on 667m2 seed bed in the evening. One application should be adequate
to control Agrotis ypsilont.
(ii)   Seedbeds with serious snail infestations: Snail pests often occur seriously in northern Jiangxi.
They can be controlled by spraying 8% Morex GR (a class II pesticide that is specifically
effective on snails) at 2 kg/667m2 on seedbeds.
24



(iii)  Seedbeds with serious infestations of Aleilphocoris suitliralis: After planting in the seed bed, spray
2000 ppm 2.5%deltamethrin EC to kill it.
(iv)   Seedbeds where Tetraniivchlis cinnlataritiaius is serious: M>titicides should be sprayed on infestation
sites rather than on the whole seedbeds.
2.1.2  Transplanting to Bud Formation Stage (the last 10 days of May to the second 10 days of
June)
The aim is to protect the crown of cotton plants and control leaf pests such as Lygus Ilicorurn, Tlhrips
tabaci, Ea rias clipreoviridis. Aphis gossypii, Tetranzvlchuis ciinnataritnias.
While transplanting, 1.2 kg/667rn benfuracarb GR should be mixed with fertilizer and sprayed together
into planting holes. This can be effective on the above pests for 30 days. To control serious occurrence of
Lyguis lticorutm, Thrips tabaci or Earias clipreoiridis, 100 ppm solution of phoxim should be applied in
drops onto leaves and on the crown of cotton plants. Only 3 to 4 drops should be applied per plant,
because more than that will cause damage to cotton plants.
Farmers are encouraged to use agricultural control measures such as inter-row tillage and earthing up
around plants to kill straw and stubble during the last 10 days of May. These measures can kill about 30%
of the pupa of first generation bollworm and decrease the occurrence of second-generation.
2.1.3  Cotton Boll-forming Stage (Last 10 days of June to late September)
The aim is to decrease pest damage to buds, flowers, cotton boll and protect cotton yield. The main pests
are Helicoverpa arinigera, Tetranzvchius cinniiatarinuiis, Aplhis gossypii, Prodentia lituira, Earias
cupreoviridis, Emtpoasca biglittiula, and Pectiniophora gassypiella of the second to fifth generation in July
and August.
Agricultural control measures include regularly cutting the top, side and surplus cotton crowns; and
carrying infected buds and leaves out of cotton fields followed by deep burial. These measures aim to
decrease the food supply for pests, and also carry eggs away. Irrigation during drought periods is also
used to kill the pupa of the third generation bollworm during late July to early August.
Bollworm lure boxes will be used in many areas during August to September. The sex bait is placed in
colored lure boxes that are spaced at a density of 15 boxes per hectare. The bait is replaced once per
month to maintain effectiveness.
1% calcium superphosphate solution is sprayed 1-2 times from about mid-July to mid-September to
decrease the quantities of bollworm eggs.
Emphasis will be given on hand-killing the remaining larvae in late July and August in some cotton fields
that have a high density of old larvae. The purpose of this is to decrease the occurrence of subsequent
generations.
25



2.2    Chemical Control NIcasures
Spray Frequency. The project will aim to encourage use of cotton varieties with resistance to bollworm.
This would reduce spray frequency to 5-6 times, i.e., no spray on second-generation. I spray on the third
generation on or about i Sth July. 2 sprays with an interval of 7 days on the fourth generation during 15-25
August, 3 sprays on the fifth generation in high-yield cotton fields (2 times in low-yield cotton fields)
during mid-late September. If TerranYchus cinnlatarinuis is also a pest, miticides(see Table 4) should also
be used.
2.3    Key Practices
2.3.1  Choose Appropriate Chemicals and Spray Alternately
Selection of appropriate chemicals (e.g. Bt , NPV) or chemical mixes is the first step in good control of
bollworms. The chemicals to be used are based on the number of bollworm eggs and larvae in different
stages (generations). Chemicals (e.g. phoxim. see Table 4) which mainly kill eggs are normally used on
the early stage of each generation. In the middle stages, chemicals that kill both eggs and young larvae
should be used. On the last stage. chemicals that are most effective against old larvae. The same chemical
pesticide can only be used once on every generation and should only be used once per year to prevent the
build up of pest resistance to pesticides.
2.3.2  Spray Pesticides on Time
To optimize control effectiveness and chemical use, it is most important to spray pesticides on timze. The
most appropriate time to control bollworm is at the 2nd stage of larva or earlier because young bollworm
larvae do not have chemical resistance and can be easily killed. In contrast, 4h stage larvae have strong
chemical resistance and pesticides are less effective on them.
2.3.3  Increase Spray Efficiency
Measures to improve the efficiency of spraying chemicals include: a) promote use of highly efficient
sprayers such as "weisi" brand hand sprayer, "Dongfanghong" brand engine-driven sprayer; and b) use
appropriate amounts of chemical/water solution. For example, to control the third generation bollworm in
July. 50 kg/667m2 chemical/water solution is sufficient for a 667m2 cotton field; to control fourth
generation bollworm in August, at least 60 kg chemical/water solution is needed; and c) spray chemicals
after 4 p.m.
3.     Orange
Many insect pests attack oranges. Damage is caused mainly by Panonychllis citri McGregor, Phyllocnistis
citrella Stain ton, Coccoilea sp. and Phyllocoptruta oleivora Ashmnead. In addition, Dialeurodes citri
Ashmlead, Aphis citriciduis Kirkaldly, Papiilio sp., Anoplophora chinensis Forst . , and Contarinia citri
Barnes also cause losses occasionally.
The following targets should be attained at the project orchards:
*  Extend use of bio-pesticides and reduce the quantity of chemical pesticides used in orchards by
more than 50%.
*  Reduce chemical pesticide applications to 3-5 times a year, with no prohibited pesticides being
used.
*  Fruit loss caused by insect damage is less than 5%.
*   Pesticide residues in orange fruits are lower than the national standards.
26



3.1    Control Mleasures
3.1.1  Build Eco-Orchard
By planting peanut. soybean, etc in orange orchards, an environment will be established that will provide
good conditions for the survival of natural predators of orange insect pests. Measures for protection and
introduction of natural enemies of orchard insect pests, such as ladybirds and predator mites, will
maintain the bio-diversity and reduce pest incidence in the orange orchards.
3.1.2  Extend Use of Fruit Bagging
Oranges on trees should be bagged before they begin to expand in size. This can keep pests and pesticides
away from the fruit. The bagged fruits are also usually of better size and color, resulting in better sale
price.
3.1.3  Use Bio-Pesticides and Effective Chemical Pesticides with Low Toxicity and Low Residues
Polynacfin, oil emulsion should be used to control mites; fenbutatin oxide to control Phzyllocoptrnta
oleiv ora Ashmiiead; imidacloprid, BT to control Phvllocrmiistis citrella Stainiton; oil emulsion and
buprofezin to control Coccoidea sp. and Aleltrocantthits spiniifertis Quiaintantce; imidacloprid to control
Aphis citricidus Kirktaldy.
3.1.4  Strictly Implement Safe Intervals of Pesticide Use
No pesticides should be applied for a month before harvest. If pest control is necessary during this time,
only bio-pesticides can be used. The regulations on application of pesticides should be strictly adhered to.
3.2    Pest Forecasts and Control Tliresholds for Major Pests
Pest forecasts are an important measure to guarantee prompt pest control. Trained persons (extension staff
or leading farmers) should conduct pest forecasts at each project orchard. Control thresholds for major
pests are:
*   PanIoIzychuts citri McGregor: More than 5 per leaf in early spring, or more than 15 per leaf before
the end of spring, or more than 10 per leaf before mid-fall.
*   Plhyllocoptruta oleivora Ashmnead: The ratio of leaves or fruits on which there are pests is higher
than 20%, or more than 2-3 pests per leaf (fruit) on average.
*   Phlyllocnistis citrella Stainton: More than 10% of the tender leaves have pest damage.
*   Coccoiclea sp.: One or more adult pests per over-winter spring branch.
3.3    IPNI Measures
According to the occurrence of pests in different periods, the following integrated measures are adopted:
3.3.1  Period from Sprouting of Spring Branclhes to Flowering (Early February to late April)
Main pests are: Panzonvchus citri McGregor, Aphis citricidus Kirkaldy, Coccoidea sp., and Dialeutrodes
citri Ashmttea. Control methods include:
* Spray 1.3 Baume degrees of lime sulfur on all trees in the orchard
* Integrated management measures: Cut branches damaged seriously by pests and take them out of
the orchards to be burned so as to minimize the pest population. Plant in the orchards to establish
a feed source for pest predators.
* Control the newly infested trees: When the spring branches are 2-3 cm long. spray pesticide (1-2
applications) on the trees which are seriously affected by Panonvyclnus citri McGregor. Spraying
27



the whole orchard is not necessary at this time. The pesticides can be chosen from Bt, 50%
sulphur F. and 10% imidacloprid WP.
* Control of Aphis citricidus Kirkakldy Dialeutrodes citri Ashinea: Imidacloprid can be used.
*  Control of Coccoidlea sp.. Dialeiirodes citri Ashmlea, Panonvchlus citri McGregor and
Pizvllocoprruta oleivora Ashz,nead: After the first physiological fruit fall, spray solution of
Cascade (flufenoxuran), cypermethrin, buprofezin or oil emulsion and imidacloprid.
3.3.2  Period from Shooting of Summer Branches to Physiological Fruit Fall (Mlay to mid-July)
The principal pests are Panionvchus citri McGregor, Phyllocoptruta oleivora Ashmnead and 4noplophora
chiinensis Forst.
Control methods include:
* Establish a suitable pest control environment: Plant peanut and soybean in young orchards to
minimize damage caused by Noctlidae sp., sweet potato should. not be planted in or around
orchards. When the dry season sets in, shallow ploughing and spreading hay around the trunks of
trees are effective methods to fight drought and maintain soil moisture.
*  Control of Anzoplophora chinensis Forst: During the main egg hatching period, flick away the
earth around the base of the trees. Spread clay on the base of the trunk to prevent the pest laying
eggs and to minimize the number of the eggs. At the same time check on the trunk for adult pest,
larva and eggs.
*  Control of Plyllocoptruta oleivora Ashmead and Panonvchlis citri McGregor: These pests cause
significant damage in summer. Cutting branches of seriously damaged trees is the normal
method, but when the whole orchard is affected, pesticides such as Bt, amitraz should be sprayed
all over the orchard.
*  Control of Phyllocmnistis citrella Stainiton: Plucking of buds and removing the head of summer
branches to reduce pest food supply are the main control measures.
3.2.3  Period from Shooting of Early Fall Branches to Inflation of Fruit (From late July to early
September)
The principal pests are Phyllocoptritta oleivora Ashmizead, Phylloctnistis citrella Stainton and Panonychus
citri McGregor.
Control methods include:
* Extend use of fruit bags: Fruit should be bagged promptly when the fruit begin to inflate.
*  Control of Phvllocoptritta oleivora Ashmlead and Tortricidae sp., Cie: Spray oil emulsion,
trichlorphon or pyridaben on trees, especially on the fruit.
*  Control of Phvllocmlistis citrella Stainton and Coccoidea sp.: First spray of pesticides should be
done when the new branches are 5 cm long and about 20% of bud shooting occurs. Pesticide
should then be sprayed 2-3 times every 5-7 days, especially on the outside of the tree cap and
damaged branches. The following pesticides may be used: chlorpyrifos, BT etc.
*  Control of Phyllocoptrita oleivora Ashnzead, Panonychuts citri McGregor and Coccoidea sp.,
Dialeiurocles citri Ashmea: Pyridaben, chlorpyrifos, BT are appropriate pesticides.
28



3.3.4  Period from Shooting of late Fall Branches to Fruits Ripening (Mid-September to mid-
December)
The main pests are Noctiddae sp.. Phyllocinistis citrella Staintoni, Panonvchus citri McGregor and
Plhvllocoptruita oleivora Ashinneadl.
Control methods include:
*   Control of Noctnlidae sp.: Hang mothballs on trees to keep pests away. Use "Jiaduo" brand
frequency variation lights or black lights to trap and kill pests. If lights cannot be afforded. sugar-
vinegar mixture can be used. These methods should be applied earlier in the season in orchards
with early ripening species. Fruit bagging can prevent damage to fruit by insect pests.
*   Control of Panonz vch us citri McGregor, Phyllocinistis citrella Stain tonl and Phvllocoptruita
oleivora Ashmzead: Cut late fall and winter branches until the middle of December to reduce pest
food supply.
* Control of Coccoiclea sp.: Orchards with adult trees generally have higher frequency of this pest.
Spray Cascade or amitraz on infected trees.
* Prevent damage caused by storeroom pests: Spray 0.3 Baume degrees of lime sulfur solution or
thiophanate-methyl solution diluted 1,000 times.
3.3.5  Period from Winter Resting to Blossom Bud Differentiation (late December to middle
February)
The aim of tree management during this period is to clean vegetative trash and close the orchard.
Control measures include:
* Control of mites, scales: After harvest, spray oil solution diluted 80 times.
* Smear the trunk with lime and bury the trunk base with soil (which will be flicked away in
spring) to protect the tree against low temperature, sun damage, and pest damage.
* Clean and close the orchard for the winter: Spray 0.5-1 Baume degrees of lime sulfur solution to
clean the orchard. Spread 375 kg lime per ha after ploughing.
4.     Capsicum
The common pests that damage capsicum seedlings planted in spring and autumn are mainly aphid,
Agrotis ypsilon, Tetranychus uirticae, Heliothis assuilta and Helicoverpa arinigera. These vary by season.
Capsicum planted in spring: The main pest during planting and emergence is Agrotis ypsilon, while aphid,
boll worm, and Tetranzvchu(s uirticae are the main pests during the emergence to fruit formation period.
Capsicum planted in autumn: The main pests are aphid, boll worm, and Tetranychius urticae during the
emergence to flowering period.
Control targets for the main pests are:
* Aphid: less than 5 per plant on average
*   Heliothis assutlta, Agrotis ypsilon, Tetranychuis urticae: Plants having the pest are less than 2%.
29



4.1    Control LMletlhods
The main control methods are:
4.1.1  Agricultural Control Iveasures
Agricultural control measures include:
* Crop rotation of different vegetable species being grown on a particular piece of land during the
wet and dry seasons to prevent soil build up of insect pest eggs, larvae, etc. Intercropping to
increase crop diversity with different insect pests (e.g. beans, cabbage).
* Deep tillage of the soil to IS to 24 cm, allowing the tilled soil to dry for 10 to 15 days, collection
and burning of diseased leaves.
*   Excision of Laplhyqnta exiqua and Prodenia litura eggs from leaves.
4.1.2  Physical Control Measures
Physical control measures include:
*   Yellow board aphid lures: 15 to 20 solid yellow lure boards are used per 667m2 of cabbage field.
The boards are 30 cm wide, and are covered with oil to trap the aphids.
*   Use of sugar and vinegar liquid lures to attract and kill Prodenia lituira and Laplh'vqta exiqua.
This makes use of the pest chemical taxis during the main period of insect occurrence. A mixture
of sugar, wine and vinegar is prepared. I%o trichlorphon is added to the mixture which is put into
a 20 cm wide box. The box is placed in the field in the evening so that it is 10 cm higher than the
cabbage plants. The adult insects are collected in the morning, and the box stored during the day
with a lid placed on it to prevent evaporation of the liquid.
* Make use of pest phototaxis to attract insect pests. One horse lamp or black lamp per 1/3 ha of
vegetable field is lit. A plate containing water and oil is placed under the lamp. The method is the
same as that of sugar and vinegar liquid lures. Either of these methods can be used to lure adult
pests and decrease the quantities of eggs in the field.
* Promote use of 7 mm radius spray nozzles to provide more accurate spray and decrease the
quantity of chemicals used.
4.1.3  Chemical Control Measures
The pest management approach aims to stop use of highly toxic, high residue chemicals. The
recommended approach is to use biological chemicals, followed by highly effective, low toxicity, and low
residue chemicals to control pests. This approach will also protect non-target species, and help retain
biological diversity in the vegetable field.
Recommended control measures are:
* Agrotis ypsilont: When the number of 1st or 2nd stage larvae exceed the control threshold in the
field, apply cotton powders with trichlorphon added to produce poison baits to kill the larvae.
Poison baits should be sprayed before hoeing the land or following rain.
*   Prodeenia litiura and Laplhyqma exiqua: Before larvae of these pests hatch, spray NPV3#,
diflubenzuron, Springtac (Nabam), chlorfluazuron or Cascade during the main period of egg
hatching.
* Aphid: Spray imidacloprid.
*   Tetranvcizuis turticae: Spray Polynacfin in the evening during the first insect growth stage.
*   Heliothis assuhlta, Helicoverpa armigera: It is important to control these pests during the
flowering and fruit formation stages. Spray Bt. NPV 3#, cyhalothrin, or cypermethrin in the
evening on I or 2 stage larvae.
30



Any one of the above chemicals can be used. The exact quantities of chemicals to be used per 667m2 can
be determined by the size and density of the plants. In general. about 30 to 50 kg water/chemical solution
is used per 667m2, with the chemicals sprayed evenly on both sides of the leaves.
Capsicum is harvested regularly, with the first and middle harvest period (Nlay to June) coinciding with
the main period of pest occurrence. The following strategies should be followed when spraying:
* Spray after fruit is harvested
*   Stop spraying highly toxic pesticides during the 7 days prior to harvest
* Harvest during safe periods after spraying chemicals.
5.     Cabbage
Cabbage pests depend on the period when tile crop is planted:
* January to March: Major insect pest is aphid.
* April to June: Spring planting in open land, with aphid again being the main pest.
* July to September: Major insect pest is Laphyqman exiqua.
* October to December: Aphid is the major insect pest.
The pest management targets for cabbage are:
* Use of chemical pesticides should decrease 30%.
* The remaining quantities of chemicals in cabbages should not be above GB.
* Chemical poisoning accidents must be prevented.
* Crop diversity must be maintained in the vegetable fields to reduce pest numbers.
5.1    Control Targets
Control targets for the major pest species are:
*   Plutella xylostella: 30 per hundred plants
* Aphid: 5 per plant
*   Laphyqmza eriqua and Prodenia litiura: Less than 10% of plants are damaged
* Cabbage caterpillar: 25 per hundred plants.
5.2    Integrated Pest NManagement Measures
The County PPQS must strengthen pest forecasting. and advise farmers when to apply control measures
to achieve the control targets.
5.2.1. Agricultural Control Mleasures
These measures include:
* Crop rotation of different vegetable species being grown on a particular piece of land during the
wet and dry seasons to prevent soil build up of insect pest eggs, larvae, etc. Intercropping to
increase crop diversity with different insect pests (e.g. beans, cabbage).
* Deep tillage of the soil to 18 to 24 cm, allowing the tilled soil to dry for 10 to 15 days, collection
and burning of diseased leaves.
*   Excision of Laphvqmiia exiqua and Pro(leniia litura eggs from leaves, and leaves damaged by
Plutella xvlostella. The eggs and leaves are then burnt.
31



5.2.2  Physical Control MIeasures
Physical control measures include:
* Yellow board aphid lures: 15 to 20 solid yellow lure boards are used per 667m2 of cabbage field.
The boards are 30 cm wide, and are covered with oil to trap the aphids.
*   Use of sugar and vinegar liquid lures to attract and kill Prodlenia litlira and Laphyqnma exiqua.
This makes use of the pest chemical taxis during the main period of insect occurrence. A mixture
of sugar, wine and vinegar is prepared. I7% trichlorphon is added to the liquid which is put into a
20 cm wide box. The box is placed in the field in the evening so that it is 10 cm higher than the
cabbage plants. The adult insects are collected in the morning. and the box stored during the day
with a lid placed on it to prevent evaporation of the liquid.
*   Make use of pest phototaxis to attract insect pests. One horse lamp or black lamp per 1/3 ha of
vegetable field is lit. A plate containing water and oil is placed under the lamp. The method is the
same as that of sugar and vinegar liquid lures. Either of these methods can be used to lure adult
pests and decrease the quantities of eggs in the field.
*   Promotion of the use of 7 mm raditIs spray nozzles to provide more accurate spraying and
decrease the quantity of chemicals used.
5.2.3  Chemical Control Nleasures
The pest management approach aims to stop use of highly toxic, high residue chemicals. The
recommended approach is to use biological chemicals, followed by highly effective, low toxicity, and low
residue chemicals to control pests. This approach will also protect non-target species, and help retain
biological diversity in the vegetable field.
Recomrnended chemical control measures are:
* Control larvae of Prodeniia lituira and Laphvqina exiqua: Spray NPV 3#, diflubenzuron,
Springtac, chlorfluazuron or Cascade during the main period of egg hatching.
* Control of Plttella vylostella: Spray Cascade, Regent.
*   For the egg stage of the above insects, spray chlorfluazuron.
*   Control of cabbage caterpillar: Spray Bt.
* Control of Aphid: Spray Bt, imidacloprid. cypermethrin.
Any of the above chemicals can be used. The exact quantities of chemicals to be used per 667m2 can be
determined by the size and density of the plants. In general, about 30 to 50 kg water/chemical solution is
used per 667m2, with the chemicals sprayed evenly on both sides of the leaves.
The growth period of cabbage is short, and pest damage can be serious. Spraying must be done regularly
to achieve good control. Spraying must be carefully timed to allow safe harvesting.
6.     Silver Lotus
The main period of aphid occurrence is during the last 10 days of May to early June. Early and mid-June
is the main period of Prodeniia lituira occurrence.
The main control targets are:
* The chemical residues in silver lotus cannot be above GB
* The quantities of chemical pesticides used should decrease by 40%
* The number of plants damaged by pests must be less than 5%
* Crop diversity must be maintained in the vegetable fields to reduce pest numbers.
32



6.1    Control Nleasures
6.1.1  Physical Control Measures
Physical control measures include:
*  Yellow board aphid lures: 15 to 20 solid yellow lure boards are used per mu of cabbage field. The
boards are 30 cm wide, and are covered with oil to trap the aphids.
*  Use of sugar and vinegar liquid lures to attract and kill Prodenia litiura and Laphyq;na exiqua.
This makes use of the pest chemical taxix during the main period of insect occurrence. A mixture
of sugar, wine and vinegar is prepared. I7co trichlorphon is added to the liquid which is put into a
20 cm wide box. The box is placed in the field in the evening so that it is 10 cm higher than the
cabbage plants. The adult insects are collected in the morning, and the box stored during the day
with a lid placed on it to prevent evaporation of the liquid.
*  Make use of pest phototaxis to attract insect pests. One horse lamp or black lamp per 5 mu of
vegetable field is lit. A plate containing water and oil is placed under the lamp. The method is the
same as that of sugar and vinegar liquid lures. Either of these methods can be used to lure adult
pests and decrease the quantities of eggs in the field.
*  Promotion of the use of 7 mm radius spray nozzles to provide more accurate spraying and
decrease the quantity of chemicals used.
6.1.2  Chemical Control Measures
The pest management approach aims to stop use of highly toxic, high residue chemicals. The
recommended approach is to use biological chemicals, followed by highly effective, low toxicity, and low
residue chemicals to control pests. This approach will also protect non-target species, and help retain
biological diversity in the vegetable field.
Before larvae of Procleniia litira and Laphyqma exiqua hatch, spray NPV 3#, chlorfluazuron during the
main period of egg hatching.
To control aphids, spray imidacloprid.
Any of the above chemicals can be used. The exact quantities of chemicals to be used per 667m2 can be
determined by the size and density of the plants. In general, about 30 to 50 kg water/chemical solution is
used per 667m2, with the chemicals sprayed evenly on both sides of the leaves.
33



Annex 3: Production Technology for 'Pollution-Free' Vegetables (for Trial
Implementation)
The production of 'pollution-free' vegetables is a systematic approach that deals with a wide range of
disciplines, departments and technologies. 'Pollution-free' vegetables must be safe, high quality, and
nutritious with residues of pesticides, nitrate and other harmful substances lower than the allowable level.
To produce pollution-free vegetables that conform to the said requirements, a full set of production and
management measures shall be adopted to minimize contaminants from the air. water, soil, fertilizers and
pesticides.
Rules for production of pollution-free vegetables in Jiangxi province:
1.     Production Base Construction
Sites for producing pollution-free vegetables must be free from contaminants (including air, water, soil
pollution and industrial "three-wastes"); free from pollutants such as urban rubbish, wastes, sludge and
dust; free from acid rain and other pollutants. Large scale bases for pollution-free vegetable production
shall be constructed at locations that are 50-100 m away from major traffic roads and where there is a
relatively large stretch of land with groundwater level of at least 80 cm.
The limit content of pollutants in various kinds of soil for pollution-free vegetable production bases is
listed in Table 1.
The limit concentration of pollutants in irrigation water for pollution-free vegetable production bases is
listed in Table 2.
The limit concentration of pollutants in the atmosphere over pollution-free vegetable production bases is
listed in Table 3.
Sites that don't conform to the above limits require amelioration measures so that pollutant concentrations
are reduced to the required levels. Only those sites that meet the requirements after treatment shall be
allowed for pollution-free vegetable production.
2.     Agricultural Mleasures
To reduce use of agricultural chemicals, it is very important to adopt crop production and management
measures that enhance vegetable resistance to pests and diseases, reduce pest and disease damage as well
as the application of fertilizers and pesticides.
2.1 Cultivate high-quality resistant varieties. High-yielding and high-quality vegetable varieties with
strong resistance to adverse conditions and pests, but with good commercial value shall be selected for
cultivation. Cultivars appropriate to the local ecological conditions and resistant to diseases and insect
pests will be used. Major efforts will be devoted to growing new kinds of pollution-free vegetables, such
as bud or seedling vegetables and wild vegetables. Laws and regulations of China on plant quarantine
shall be strictly implemented.
2.2 Disinfect seedbeds and seeds to reduce the occurrence of diseases and pesticides use.
Disinfect seedbeds by drying seedbeds in the sun, freezing soil or applying nonharmful agrochemicals.
Disinfect seeds. Pick out pest-infected, mouldy, rotted and blighted seeds. Reduce seed-borne fungi on
seeds by hot water treatment, dry and hot sterilization, fungicide seed dressing or soaking. Promote use of
seeds coated with agrochemicals.
2.3 Sow at the correct time. The occurrence of vegetable diseases and insect pests is closely related to the
sowing period. Choosing the proper time to sow vegetable seeds based on local meteorological forecasts
and varietal characteristics is a good way to minimize pest damage. For example, slightly earlier field
planting may make tomato enter the growth period with resistance to virus diseases and avoid the
34



occurrence of Alternariai solaniii. Later seeding of Chinese cabbage may significantly reduce the
occurrence of three major diseases.
'.4 Cultivate healthy seedlings by using nutrition trough or grafting.
Healthy seedlings should have good vegetative growth (thick branches and leaves), free from damage and
pest infestation, with short nodes and petioles. They should also have a strong root system and flourishing
lateral roots. Only healthy seedlings shall be planted.
During the seedling period. it is necessary to strengthen management of fertilizer, water, light.
temperature and ventilation conditions to reduce air humidity and pest infestation on seedbeds. To prevent
seedlings from root rot, avoid too much watering when it is cloudy and drizzly. Clear away disease-
infested seedlings or spray fungicides (such as Chlorothalonil) whenever disease-infested seedlings are
found. Seedling strengthening practices and field planting at the proper seedling stage should be
implemented.
2.5 Strengthen management. Improve soil structure by deep ploughing, summer drying and winter
freezing. Extend high and nar-row ridge cultivation to form a complete set of "three furrows", i.e. ridge
furTow, middle furTow, and encircling furrow. Ridges shall be aligned properly to prevent water logging.
Conduct close planting and plant thinning to let in air and sunlight. Strengthen management of fertilizer
and water; remove old and pest-infested leaves, branches and fruit, making the field environment
favorable to vegetable growth and unfavorable to pest occurrence.
2.6 Improve cultivation technologies. Adopt greenhouse or screen cultivation to reduce deposition of
airborne dust and acid substances on vegetables. Develop organic soilless culture. Extend vegetable
grafting technologies to enhance resistance to diseases.
2.7 Implement crop rotation, intercropping and interplanting. Avoid continuous cropping by adopting
water-dryland crop rotation or other methods of rotation to promote vegetable growth and enhance its
resistance to adverse conditions. Encourage intercropping and interplanting onion or garlic to reduce pest
occurrence and pesticide use.
3.     Integrated Pest Control
3.1    Biological Control
Biological control methods include:
*   Use of predators and parasites, such as seven spot ladybird, Trichogrammsla, to control insect
pests.
*   Use of bacteria, fungi and viruses, such as Bacilliis tilzuringienisis, Beaiiveria bassiania, to control
insect pests.
*   Use of insect hormone attractants to trap and kill insects.
3.2    Physical Control
Manage light, temperature, humidity and use appliances to control pests. For example, use silver grey
film or yellow stick boards to trap aphids and white flies, or prevent them from damaging vegetables. Use
black light lamps or insect prevention nets to trap or keep out insect pests. Conduct soil disinfection by
ridge freezing in winter and hot fumigation in summer.
3.3    Chemical Control
Prohibit application of highly toxic and residual chemical pesticides listed in Annex 3, Table 4. Strictly
implement the Standards of People's Republic of China on safe use of pesticides. Carry out the plant
protection strategy of "putting prevention first and integrated control". Apply chemical pesticides
classified as "high effect, low toxicity and low residue" based on pest forecasts to delay pesticide
35



resistance of pests. Encourage use of a complementary range of pesticides and micro-spraying to increase
control effects and broaden the pest control spectrum.
3.4    Safe Interval of Pesticide Use
Prohibit pesticide use before harvesting commercial vegetables. The safe interval between the last
application of pesticides and harvest of vegetables differs for different pesticides and vegetables.
Generally, it is 5-7 days in autumn and 7-12 days in spring and winter (Tables 5, 6).
3.5    Pesticides prohibited from use for Pollution-free Vegetable Production
Isocarbophos. Methamidophos, Parathion-methyl, Isofenphos-methyl, Phosphamidon, Fonofos,
Omethoate, Methidathion, Carbonfuran, Methomyl, Aldicarb, Dicofol. Organophosphorus (phorate),
Sulfotep, Demeton, GC-3583, Aphidan, Carbophenothion, Zinc phosphide, Aluminium phosphide,
Cyanidum, Fluoroacetamide. Arsenic oxide, Chlordimeform, Ethylmercury chloride, Phenylmercury
acetate, Kuiyangjin, Sodium pentaclilorophenate, Chloropicrin. DBCP, Ethylene dibromide, Chlordane,
Dikusuang, Cyhexatin, Guazatine. Coumaphos, NMercurials, Endosulfan, Ethoprophos, Temik, Suprathin.
Wanlingling, synergic Methamidophos, Quinalphos. highly osmotic Quinalphos.
4.     Rational Use of Fertilizers
4.1    Application of Organic Fertilizer
Farm manure shall be fermented under high temperature to kill eggs of various parasites and pathogens
and make it conform to required hygiene standards. The following organic fertilizers are permitted for
use:
Farm AIManure. Farm manure refers to fertilizers that contain a high proportion of biological substances or
biological wastes. It includes remains and excrements of animals and plants, compost, wet compost,
barnyard manure, methane manure, crop stalks, sludge and cake fertilizer.
Commercial Fertilizer: Commercial fertilizer includes commercial organic fertilizer, humic acid
fertilizer, micro-organic fertilizer, organic compound fertilizer, inorganic fertilizer and foliar fertilizer.
Urban Waste: Urban waste may be used in small quantities only if its quality conforms to the national
standard after treatment to remove contaminants. Application rates using urban waste for fertilizer shall
not be more than 45,000 kg/ha for clay soils and 30,000 kg/ha for sandy soils.
4.2    Scientific and Rational Use of Chemical Fertilizer
Prohibit use of nitrate nitrogen, and promote mixed use of nitrogen, phosphate and potassium fertilizers.
Chemical fertilizers shall be used in conjunction with organic fertilizers. Organic fertilizer use should be
at least equal to inorganic fertilizer use, i.e. applying 1000 kg high-quality barnyard manure as a basal
fertilizer and topdressing with 10 kg urea.
Methods for Fertilizer Use: In general. it is adequate to incorporate nitrogen fertilizer into the soil.
Topdressing of nitrogen fertilizers on to the surface of the soil may place nitrogen in direct contact with
air causing it to volatilize if the soil is dry. It may also be converted into nitrate that may be leached
quickly through the soil (especially in sandy soils) and causing groundwater pollution. Topdressing of
nitrogen fertilizers shall be prohibited for these reasons even though it increases yield and income.
Shallow application of non-volatile fertilizers shall be conducted on shallow-rooting vegetables and deep
application of volatile fertilizers on deep-rooting vegetables.
Timiig of Fertilizer Applications: To prevent vegetables from contamination induced by chemical
fertilizers and micro-organisms, the last topdressing of fertilizers shall be carried out 30 days before
harvest of vegetables.
36



5.     Harvest and Post-harvest Management Measures
Vegetables should be harvested on time. Appropriate hiarvest and post-harvest measures include
preventing fruit vegetables from handling damage; clearing away yellow, old leaves and soil on leaf
vegetables; and washing vegetables immediately with good quality water. Encourage grading, packing
and use of decomposable packing materials permitted by the People's Republic of China. Adopt
pollution-preventive measures during transportation and marketing.
Table 1. The Limit Content of Pollutants in Soil; in mg/kg.
Cultivation Condition              Dry land2                   Paddy field
pH                                 <6.5  6.5-7.5  >7.5           <6.5 6.5-7.5 >7.5
Cadmium (Cd)                       0.30   0.30   0.40             0.30 0.30  0.40
Mercury (H)                        0.25   0.30   0.35             0.30 0.40  0.40
rsenic (As)                         25    20   20                 20  20    15
ead (Pb)                            50    50    50                50   50   50
hromium (Cr)                       120    120   120              120  120   120
opper (Cu)'                         50    60   60                 50  60    60
Notes: 1. The limit content of Cu in orchard soil is two times that in dry land soil. 2. The limit content of
pollutants in soil for rotation of dry land crops and water crops shall be the lower limit of that for dry land
and paddy field.
Table 2. The Limit Concentration of Pollutants in Irrigation Water; in mg/I.
Item                                        Limit Concentration
pH                                                5.5-8.5
Total Hg                                          0.001
Total Cd                                          0.005
Total As                                           0.05
rotal Pb                                           0.1
Total Cr                                           0.1
Fluoride                                            2
Dung colon bacteria                               10000/1
Note: Dung colon bacteria in surface water for irrigating vegetable gardens shall be tested.
Table 3. The Limit Concentration of Pollutants in the Atmosphere; in mg/m3(standard condition).
Item                                             Limit concentration
Average per day"3             Average per hour:'23
Total suspension particles (TSP)       0.3
So2                                   0.15                           0.5
ox                                   0.1                           0.15
Fluoride (F)4                7 (tg/rmn), 1.8 [ptg/(dm2d)]        20 (pg/m3)
Note: 1. Average limit concentration per day means average limit concentration of any day. 2. Average
limit concentration per hour means average limit concentration of any hour. 3. Samples are taken for
three days continuously and 3 times (morning, noon. evening) per day. 4. Sample for fluoride may be
taken by way of dynamic sampling filter film or lime filter on the basis of the limit concentration of each
other. Lime filter- shall be placed for 7 days.
37



Table 4. Pesticides Prohibited from use for Pollution-free Vegetable Production.
'I'v   of Pesticide  Common name of Pesticide    Prohibited-usc on crops  Reasons for Prohibition
Organochloride    DT, BHC, Gamma. Methoxychlor, All crops                Highly-residual
insecticide       ndosulfan
Organochloride   Dicofol                        Vegetables, fruit trees, tea  Its industrial product
miticide                                                                 contains DDT
rganophosphate  Organophosphorus (phorate),    All crops               Violently toxic, highly toxic
insecticide      Disulfoton, Monocrotophos,
arathion, Parathion-methyl,
vlethamidophos, Isofenphos-methyl,
ulfotep. Omethoate, Phosphamidon,
onofos. Ethoprophos. Isocarbophos,
sazofos, Cadusafos. NMethidathion
Terbufos, Sebufos, Phosfolan-methyl
arbamate         AIdicarb. Carbonfuran, hlethomyl,  All crops            Violently toxic, highly toxic
insecticide       arbosulfan, Benfuracarb                                or its metabolite is highly
toxic
Dimethamidine    Chlordimeform-hydrochloride     All crops               Chronic toxicity,
insecticide                                                              cancerigenic
Pyrethroid       Ali kinds of pyrethroid insecticides  Rice and other water crops  Too toxic for aquatic
insecticide                                                              organisms
Frumigation      Ethylene dibromide, Ethylene oxide, All crops           Highly toxic, cancerigenic
insecticide      DBCP, Methyl bromide                                    and deformity-induced
Abemectin                                        Vegetables. fruit trees  Highly toxic
Propargite                                       Vegetables, fruit trees  Chronic toxicity
Organoarsenic    Zinc methanearsonate, Calcium   All crops               Highly residual
fungicide        methanearsonate, MAFA, Urbacid,
Asomate
Organotin fungicide entin acetate. Fentin chloride,  All crops           Highly residual, chronic
Fentin                                                 toxicity
Organomercury    Ethylmercury chloride,          All crops               Violently toxic, highly
Fungicide        Phenylmercury acetate                                   residual
Organophosphate  EBP. Iprobenfos                Rice                     Strong smell
fungicide
Aromatic fungicide Quintozene, Blastin           All crops               Cancerigenic, highly
residual
2,4-D compound   Herbicides or plant growth regulators All crops         Foreign matter cancerigenic
Dibenzoether     Nitrofen, Chlomitrofen          AlI crops               Chronic toxicity
herbicide
Plant growth     Organic synthesized plant growth  All crops
egulator         egulator
-lerbicide       All types of herbicides        Vegetable growth period
(usable for soil disinfection
nd pre-emergence
reatment)
The above is a list of pesticides currently prohibited from, or limited for, use. The list shall be revised
according to new regulations of the People's Republic of China as they are developed.
38



Table 5. Standards for Safe Use of some Pesticides.
Common dosa-e M                           Maxi-
per hctare(k per hetr (go    Appli-   mum        Safe interval (days  Maximlum
Crop        Pesticide     psicid mfnl) and dilution  pe and dlta (n ora  cation  times of  between last application  stipuelaed b mplementation statements
peti       fae        ) nddluiorate   Method    appli-       and harvest)        A/l1
Dosage    Rate  Dosage    Rate            cation                          FAO/WI-IO
Grcen       Dimethoate    40OY%EC    0.75   2,000     1.5     800    Spray     6            > 7 days                     8 days in aultumn & winter
vegetables  1'Irichlorlon  90 X%KP   0.75   2,000     1.5     800    Spray     5              7 days                     8 days in autunin & winter
Acephate       40%YsEC   1.875   1,000   3.75     500    Spray     2            > 7 days                     9 days in auLumliln & winter
Per-methrin    I O%EC    90     1,000   0.36    2,500   Spray     3            2 2 days
Chinese     Dimethoate    40%) EC    0.75   2,000     1.5     800    Spray     4            2 10 days                    8 days in autumn & winter
cabbage     Trichlorfon   90%YXKP    0.75   2,000     1.5     800    Spray     5            > 7 days                     8 days in autumn & winter
Acephate       40%EC     1.875   1,000   3.75     500    Spray     2            > 7 days                     9 days in autumin & winier
Permethrin     I 0%EC    90     1,000    0.36    2,500   Spray     3            > 2 days
13eans      Dimethoate    40%XXEC    0.75   2,000     1.5     800    Spray                  > S days. 3 days in summer for beans
Carrot      )imethoate    40%EC      0.75   2,000     1.5     800    Spray     6            2 5 days                     ) days if' leaves are for- eating
Cucumber     imethoate    40%YVEC    0.75   2,000     1.5     800    Spray                  > 2 days
Foliar      Cypermethrin   I0 '%EC   375             0.75            Spray     3            2-5 days           I mg/kg   Green vegetables in southern
vegetables                                                                                                                iangxi, Chiniese cabbage in
northern Jiangxi
Deltamethrin  2.5/bEC    300              0.6            Spray     3             2 days           0.2 mg/kg  Green vegetables in southern
iangxi, Chinese cabba-e in
northern Jiangxi
Cypermethrin   20'Y.,EC  225-375          0.6            Spray     3      For green vegetables, 5  1 mg/kg     reen vegetables in southern
days in summer & 12 days             iangxi, Chinese cabbage in
in autumn & winter               iorthern Jianoxi
Quinalfos      25%kEC    900              1.5            Spray    2-Jan  9 days for lapplication, 24  0.2 mg/kg  Wild cabbage andl Chiniese
days for 2 sprays        c_abbage
irimicar-b   50%WP      375             0.75            Spray    3-Jan  6 days tor Ispray, I1 days  I mg/kg  Wild cabbage
_   _--                                                          for 3 sprays
39



Table 6. Pesticides that may be applied in limited amounts for Pollution-free Vegetable Production.
Pivethod and
Maximum                                   Common dosage per    maximum
residue level  Days betwveen last application  hectare(kg or 1) and  times of
Pesticides  Toxicity   (mg/kg)'            and harvest2         common dilution rate  application
Dimethoate    ledium       0.5 (1)    egetables 15 (9) days      40%EC 0.75-1.5          1 Sprav
Green vegetables. Chinese    0%EC 0.75-1.5. 2000-
Phoxim       Low         0.05 (0.05)  cabbage. cucumber 2 10 (7)days 500                 I Spray
Trichlorfon  Low          0.1 (0.2)  Green vegetables 10 (7-8) days  90%KP 1.5. 1000-500  1 Spray
Pirimicarb   Medium        0.5 (1)   Foliar vegetables 10 (6) days  50%WP 0. 15-0.45     1 Spray
10%EC 0.3-0.45
Cvpermethrin  Medium   0.5 (1). O.2 (0.5) Foliar vegetables 7 (2-5) davs  25%EC 0.18-0.24  1 Spray
Tomato 5 (1) days. Green     0%EC 0.225-0.6
Deltamethrin  Medium      0.2 (0.5)  vegetables 7 (2) days        0%EC 0.45-0.6          1 Sprav
0.2 (0.5),  Green vegetables 7 (2) days,
Fenvelerate  Medium       0.1 (0.2)  Tomato 10 (3) days          2.5%EC 0.3-0.6          1 Spray
Chlorfluazuron Low        0.2 (0.5)  12 (7) days                  %EC 0.6-1.2            I Spray
Chlorthalonil  Low          I (1)     omato 30 (23) days         75%WP 1.5-3             1 Spray
Metalaxyl     ow          0.2 (0.5)  Cucumber                    50%WP 1.125-1.8         1 Spray
Carbendazim  Low          0.2 (0.5)  Cucumber 10 (7) days        25%WP 1000-500          I Spray
Procymidone  Low            1 (2)    Cucumber 5 (1) days          0%WP 0.6-0.75          I Spray
0.1 (0.2),  Apple, chilli, tomato, cucumber 7-
rriadimefon  Low          0.1 (0.2)  10 (5) days                  0i%WP 1000-500         1 Spray
Note: I.The number of maximum residue level in the parentheses is taken from national or international
standards. 2. The number of days between last application and harvest in the parentheses is taken from
national or international standards.
Table 7. Hygiene Requirements for High Temperature Compost.
No. Iten                          Hygiene Requirements
I   Temperature for compost      Maximum 50-55uC, 5-7 days
2   Mortality of roundworm eggs  95-100%
3   Dung colon bacteria           10-1-10-2
Flies shall be effectively controlled, there are no living maggots,
4    Flies                       pupae and newly emerging adult flies around compost.
40



Table 8. Hvgiene Requirements for M11 ethane-Fermented Fertilizer.
No.              Item                              Hygiene requirements
I   Sealed storage period        30 days
Temperature for methane
2   fermentation               532C, 2 days
3   Drop rate of parasite eggs  2 95%
Eggs of blood fluke and    Living eggs of blood fluke and hookworm are not permitted in the
4   hookworm                    ung liquid for use.
Common methane fermentation 10-1, high temperature methane
5   Dung colon bacteria        fermentation 10-1-10-2
Mosquitoes and flies should be effectively controlled, there are no
wrigglers in dung liquid and no living maggots, pupae and newly
6   Mosquitoes and flies        mergin adult flies around methane-generating pits.
emains in methane-generating Remains in methane-generating pit shall be used only after
7   pit                        disinfection.
41



Annex 4: Draft Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators
1.     Indicators to be MXlonitored Locally
Extent of Adoption of Non-Pesticide or 1PM Control Measures:
* Number of farmers per sample adopting non-pesticide or IPM control measures
*  Total area of farms adopting non-pesticide or 1PiMv control measures
*   Number of farmers using pest resistant varieties
* Number of farmers able to recognize natural pest enemies
*  Number of farmers involved in community action programs related to IPM
Pesticide Use Pattern:
* Number of pesticide applications per crop/haJcropping season
* Types/quantity/volume of pesticides used per crop/ha/cropping season (checking for use of WHO
Class I or non-registered chemicals)
* Cost of pesticide applications per crop/ha/cropping season
* Amount of any pesticide subsidies
* Number of farmers practicing safe pesticide handling and application procedures (e.g. safe
storage, use of protective clothing, etc)
* Incidence of excessive pesticide residues on crop produce
* Number of complaints on pesticide residues on crop produce
* Number of trade rejections because of pesticide residues on crop produce (e.g. oranges)
* Incidence of pest resistance
* Incidence of pesticide poisoning in humans
*   Incidence of other forms of envi-onmental poisoning or contamination in domestic animals,
wildlife, honey bees, water pollution, soil pollution, other.
Crop Production:
* Crop yields per hectare, fluctuation in crop yields from season to season
* Profit per hectare, profit fluctuation from season to season.
Agro-ecosystem:
* Number and type of pest outbreaks per crop/year
* Number of insect predators, parasitoids per unit per sampling area
* Abundance of beneficial insects (e.g. honeybees per unit sampling area) in terms of numbers and
diversity
Other Indicators:
* Frequency of visits of agro-chemical salespersons to the project area
* Frequency of media (TV, radio, newspaper) agro-chemical advertisements
* Number of pesticide brands on display in retailer outlets in the project area
* Number of acceptable types of pesticides on display
* Number of small-scale businesses related to pesticide sales or 1PM (e.g. production of natural
enemies, etc)
* Number of business operations dependant on clean environment (e.g. fish, eel production).
The above monitoring should be done by County PPQS staff on a sample of project households in the
project area in each county. Early supervision missions should assist the County PPQS to establish an
appropriate monitoring system, sampling procedure, and provide training in implementation and analysis
of the monitoring system. Once the monitoring system has been fully designed in collaboration with the
JPPQS and county stations, a detailed budget, work plan, and responsibilities should be prepared.
42



2.     Activities Requiring MNionitoring during Supervision
Pesticide Registration:
* Spot checks of chemical supply stores and project farmers pesticide cupboards to determine if
unregistered pesticides are being sold/used in project areas
* Inspection of pesticide registration lists to check on new pesticides being registered.
Use of Class I Pesticides:
* Spot checks of chemical supply stores and project farmers pesticide cupboards to determine if
WHO Class I pesticides are being sold/used in project areas
Policy Issues:
* Extent of government subsidies (if any) for pesticides
* Assessment of effectiveness of household loan application system in controlling use of non-
approved pesticides.
* Provincial and local government policies and regulations on pesticide use and promotion of IPM
approaches.
Implementation of the local monitoring program:
* Assessment of the implementation of the local monitoring program in counties visited by the
supervision mission
* Assist county staff to resolve any implementation problems with the local monitoring program
* Provide on-going training to county staff in monitoring procedures, data analysis, and
interpretation of results in terms of project actions to be taken to rectify unsatisfactory pest
management practices.
Supervision mission inputs should be conducted 2 times per year, preferably during periods of high pest
control activity to observe field implementation of pest management practices. This supervision work
should be undertaken by an Agriculture Specialist with experience in agricultural pest management in
China.
43



