Report No. 414b-DO                                                                       wT 
Appraisal of the
Puerto Plata Tourism Project
Dominican Republic
October 10, 1974
Tourism Projects Department
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Croup. It may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
APPRAISAL OF THE PUERTO PLATA TOURISM PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Dominican ReDublic Peso (DR$)
US$1.00      - DR$1.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES EQUIVALENTS
1 meter (m)       2                             3.28 feet (ft)
1 square meter (m )                  =          10.76 square feet (ft2)
1 kilometer (km,)      2                        0.62 miles (mi)          2
1 square kilometer (km )             =          0.39 square miles (sq.mi )
1 hectare (ha)                       =          2.47 acres (ac)
1 cubic meter (m3)                   =          35.29 cubic feet (ft3)
1 cubic meter per day (m3,1d)        =          264 gallons per day
1 kilogram (kg)                      =          2.205 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (m ton)                 =          2.205 pounds (lb)
1 liter (1)                          =          0.22 British gallons (gal)
1 liter per second (1/sec)           =          22,800 gallons per day
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAA        =  Com-ision Administrativa Aeroportuaria
CDE        =  Corporacion Dominicana de Electricidad
CDT        =  Compania Dominicana de Telefonos
FIDE       =  Fondo de Inversiones para el Desarrollo Economico
INFRATUR   -  Departamento para el Desarrollo de la Infra-
estructura Turistica
INAPA         Instituto Nacional de Aguas Potables y
Alcantarillado
INVI           Instituto Nacional de Vivienda
UCMM       =  Universidad Catolica Madre y Maestra
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
APPRAISAL OF THE PUERTO PLATA TOURISM PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No7.
SUMMARY          .....                                       1-i............i-iii
1.   INTRODUCTION .................................... .             1
2. BACKGROUND ...
A. The Economy                 ....
B.   The Tourism Sector ....        ........ ...                2
3. THE PROJECT                       ..... 5
A.   Background ................................                5
B.  Physical Planning and Environmental Aspects                6
C. Project Description.                                        8
D.   Cost Estimates .................                         11
E.   Amount of Loan and Lending Arrangements ........    13
F.   Procurement ................   ...................       13
C.   Disbursements ..................       ..O               14
H. Project Execution.                                          14
I. Organization for Operation   .             .15
4. JUSTIFICATION..   18
A.   Accomnmodation Development.                               18
B. Market Demand.                                             19
C. Financial Aspects.                                         2
(i) Financial Objectives          ...22
(ii) Financial Forecasts .....     ..................    22
D. Economic Justification               ....                  25
(i)  Economic Rates of Return        . . .25
(ii) Balance of Payments Effect ............... 0        27
(iii)Employment Effect           ....27
(iv) Budgetary Position  . .                             28
(v)  Distribution of Benefits        . . .28
5. SOCIAL IMPACT .....  29
6.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS         ..              29
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission consisting
of Messrs. Menezes, Vera, Assimakopoulos, Bauer, Christie, Jacob and van
Gent. The water supply, sewerage, solid waste disposal and environmental
sanitation components were evaluated by Mr. J. Freedman, and the airport by
Mr. Ewing. Legal aspects were reviewed in the field by Mr. Cabezas.
Mr. Sharpston assisted the mission on the economic aspects of the project.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
LIST OF ANNEXES, CHARTS & MAPS
ANNEXES
I    -    S'tatistica:L Appendix on the Tourism Sector
IT    -    F'roject Description and Cost Estimates
III    -    Water SuppLy, Severage and Solid Waste Disposal
IV    -    Electric Power Supply
V    -    Airport
-VI    -    The Construiction Industry
VII    -    INFRATUR
VIII    -    M.arket Dezmarnd
IX    -    H'otels and Resort Facilities
X    -    Rate of Return Computation
CHARTS
1    -    Implementation, Expend4tures and Disbursement Schedule
WB 83662 (R)
MAPS/
1 -The Dom' -Ini4a -Republic   Location of Project Areas  IBRD 10758
2    -    The, ?aertc Pata   icRLBED W0759
3    -    Playa Dorada/Bergantin Land Use Plan                     IBRD 10760
Ls -    P?laya Grande Lai d Use Plan                               IBRW 10761
5    -    Puerto Plat:a International Airport Master Plan          IBRD 11037
1/   All maps are assigneo the IBPiD and WB reference number respectively.
The numbering indicated here and in the text refers only to the order
in which they appear in this report.



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
APPRAISAL OF THE PUERTO PLATA TOURISM PROJECT
SUMMARY
i.        This report appraises a project to provide infrastructure and
common resort facilities for tourism development at Playa Dorada and Playa
Grande, on the North Coast of the Dominican Republic. The infrastructure
would consist of site preparation, internal roads, water supply and sewerage
systems, electric power, telecommunications, solid waste disposal and en-
vironmental sanitation. The resort facilities would include a shopping center,
restaurants and sport facilities. These works would support a first-phase
development of 1,900 hotel rooms to be built by private investors. The pro-
ject also includes water, sewerage and solid waste disposal systems in the
village of Rio San Juan, near Playa Grande, and site works for 200 housing units
for hotel staff near Playa Dorada; a terminal building and ancillary facilities
for the partially completed Puerto Plata international airport; and a hotel
training program.
ii.       The Dominican Republic and Haiti share the island of Hispaniola,
which was described by its discoverer, Columbus as "the fairest land my eyes
have ever beheld".  Although in the past five years a number of modern hotels
have been constructed and tourist arrivals have begun to increase, the Re-
public's wealth of tourism resources is still largely untapped. In 1973
accommodation of international standard amounted to 1,600 rooms (as against
9,000 in neighboring Puerto Rico) and tourist arrivals numbered 134,000,
iii.      Recently, the Dominican Government accorded tourism high priority,
created the National Tourism Directorate, enacted a tourism incentives law
and put the Central Bank in charge of preparing and implementing tourism
infrastructure projects. Several factors still hamper the growth of the
sector, however. Tourism promotion, hotel credit, investment incentives and
hotel training are inadequate in scope.
iv.       The UNDP-financed studies which served as a basis for appraisal
are well conceived. They are environmentally-oriented and are based on a form
of nucleus development which makes good use of infrastructure investments and
provides hotels with the benefits of shared common facilities. Development
in Playa Dorada would focus on a family vacation village, catering to middle-
income tourists, whereas development in Playa Grande would consist of hotels
and cabanas designed for higher-income tourists. Strict building codes and
zoning ordinances would ensure protection of the environment not only in the
project areas, but also in the surrounding region.
v.        The project is estimated to cost about US$36 million, including
contingencies. The proposed loan of US$21 million would cover the foreign
exchange component of the project. The balance of the funds required to
finance the project and any cost overruns would be provided by the Central
Bank.



- ii -
vi.        Maior civil works and equipment contracts would be awarded under
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines. A
contract for dynamlic soil consolidation, however, for an estimated total of
US$2 million would be negotiated directly with a "specialist-contractor" firm.
In evaluating international bids for equipment contracts, Dominican manufacturers
would be allowed a prefereantial margin of the lower of 15% of the CIF costs of
competing imports or the prevailing customs duties.
vi4i      The Central Bank, one of the more efficient agencies of the government,
with experience in handling complex development schemes, would be in charge
of implementing the projezt in cooperation with other government agencies.
At the onerational stage, the Central Bank would retain ownership of the land
and of the resort fac41ities, whereas operational responsibilities for the
main income-producing infrastructure components, would be turned over to
various specialized technical agencies.  All agencies would adhere to sounT1
financial principles iI the operation of the facilities.  Charges and leases
would be adequat:e to ensuwe a reasonable financial return on each major com-
ponent and or. the project's overall investment costs.
vli-i.    The justification for the proposed project is the expectation that
investors would build accortmodation in the project areas, that tourists
would be attracted to these areas ar. that their expenditures would result
in adequate ecornomic iberef.'ts at both national (e.g. increase in foreign
exchange earnings) and regional  .    reduction of regional unemployment)
levels.  To stimulate hotel investors' interest, the Dominican Government
would rationali-2.e the tour4Sr -incsntive law and hotel credit conditions.
To attract touri:st r'Jows, it wo-,d undertake promotional campaignrs aimed
at internationral tourism mark ets,
ix.       Thns '-'._r.                   Ecir-tet,-f  ou    .cu. on attracting middle-income
fanllIv traffXc to Plava Dlorrada an.d 11ghler-irc-me visitors to Playa Grande,
mTainly  zrorn ltLe unJite  States,-2. ; ,y e oner,_ost-related slowdown in the
e-,x.'nJa.ts-io;;.2L'.5 ;T-a5.   t. U S. t,urlsn -ml'vket is likely to affect least the
Caribbean-bounid s.are. o         r:' r.arket      traveh trade expects -- and first-
quarter 19.'74 st.'"t'     "' z's b h.a     's out :- that w.it1h continuee high fuel prices,
an increasin,l r'umber oz Ji.S  -our^ists would substitute air travel. to nearby
destinations slich as the iar-iobeaan, for bot-h do-.estfi destinations requiring
extensive automobile travel and faraway foreign destinations.
x,      ~The econcm.c -ate o-f return is esrtimated at 1.5.,%I.  "hen fully
operati,nal in  %986, the pro'Iect vill eipoloy about 3,90C workers in hotels
and other tourism facilities.  An additional 4,000 jobs would be generated
in handicrafts. agriculture, local trarnsnortation, and for a decade at least,
in construction.  Net foreign excthange earnings are estimated to amount to
US$1.2 million in 1977 and to aboett USI19.0 million ner year from 1986
onwardsi.  These Figures ccmpare favotralv with the estimated foreign exchange
requireme.nt olf tl-e infrast;ructiire prolect (1>S^9  milliion) and the estimated
forei,n exchange requirement of the hotel and other tourism facilities
(UJS$25 mi.llion) . I'n a1ddition to the net inc.ome from government-owned facil-
ities, the Government iS expected to receive tax revenues of USSO.4 million
i.n 1977, US$2.4 million in 1986 and US$4.7 million in 1943.



- iii -
xi.       The Republics northern region has ample agricultural resources
which have been only partially exploited. The balanced expansion of the
agriculture and tourism sectors could be a key element of successful regional
development.
xii.      The project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$21 million equiv-
alent, to the Central Bank, with a guarantee from the Dominican Republic,
for a term of 30 years including a grace period of 10 years.



DO MINICAN REPUBLIC
APPRAISAL OF THE PUERTO PLATA TOURISM PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.0'i     In 1970, the Domninican Government requested Bank assistance to
provide infrastructure for developing tourism in one of four priority regions
which had beer selected on the basis of a UNESCO-financed study. Subsequent
Bank project identification missions singled out, in consultation with the
Government, the economically depressed but scenically attractive Puerto Plata
region on the North Coast as offering the best prospects for international
tourism development.
1.02      Tn September 1971, with the assistance of a UNDP grant for which
the Bank was executing agency, the Government retained consultants to identify
the areas most suited for first-phase tourism development in the Puerto Plata
region and to carry out the necessary feasibility and technical studies. The
project proposal emerging from these studies was submitted for consideration
by the Bank in the fall of 1973.
1.03      This would be the first Bank loan for tourism in the Dominican
Republic.
2. BACKGROIUND
A. The Economy
2.01      Although well endowed with natural resources, the Dominican Republic
is one of the poorest island countries in the Caribbean. Thus far, it has
not tapped its considerable tourism assets to any significant extent and has
only recently started to exploit some of its mineral wealth. In 1972 agri-
culture, with sugar cane the main crop, accounted for about 20% of GDP, 80%
of exports and 60% of total employment. During the period 1960-1968, poli-
tical disturbances and drought kept the annual growth of GDP per capita below
1% in real terms. Since 1969, however, the Republic's economic performance
has been among the best in the Western hemisphere. With improved weather
conditions, heightened international demand for sugar and increased public
and private investment, GDP per capita has growfn at more than 10% per annum.
2.02      If current economic growth rates are to be maintained, or at least
not allowed to slow down significantly, a growing demand for imports will
have to be met. The long-term prospects are for limited increases in the
production of sugar, coffee, cocoa, bauxite and ferronickel, which presently
account for over 85% of total commodity export earnings (Annex I, Table 1).
Tourism may thus become increasingly important as an additional source of
foreign exchange.



2. J3      UnemDlovmiient anOl underemployment are still widesxread.  T. is prob-
lem is felt less in the aiore developed areas around the capital city of
Santo Domingo than in the nooorer rural regions.  Since the country's tourism
potential tends to be concentrated in the latter, development of the tourism
sector vill be instrumental in reducino regional imbalances in employment
and income.
2.04       Wfork has started on a US.39 million agricultural project in the
Rio Yacue del Norte Valley, one of the Rlepublic's most fertile areas some
60 lio south of Puerto Pla ,a.  The project, co-financed by IDB and IDA (Credit
352-DO)1 will brirg 13,5001 na of new  land under irrigation and boost the
regin' 1s production of rice, tobacco and vegetables.  This agricuitural schem-,e
and the proposed tourism development at Puerto Plata would be mutually b ene-
ficial.  Hotels caterirng f-or international ronr½sm wvou'ld have a conven-ient
source of- t-foodstuffs, and would constitute a ready. llmarket for quaity food.
produced by l3cal farmers. Tourism arnd agricultural development eculd thus
co-imbine to improve substantially the economic conditions of the Rep'ubli& is
northern region.
33.  The Tour ism Sector
2 05      TZhe Dcmiic   Re ublii  offers consiclerabl¾e turzsm  attractions.
nns climate is >leasan  -Y v-an  vea--round   its coastl1ne -includes over   ,000
Im, of beautiful sandy beaCh e; > its landsca-  e features gr_en pastures alter-
nati>nn wvith tro,icall Lfrui: orc.hards and rice fields, rollingr hills and moun-
taTh iaranges.  css eul,c   .. `-e.ritage is enriched, u-,y rmany treasures of early
Spanish ecloni al  c'itecture, includingf the beauti+-ully lrestcred residencr
of ColumbusV'  fwilqn 5t
2.3-       The Rerpui c ' s comara.        .-tv ,alanta:es visx-a-vis acst otihsr £ar'bbean
toaurist clestrn.g- ens ineh 4e its nrcxin-ity to the 0<5,, the major tourism
generatir,g msa. aket' for the Caribbean;, a l arae agricult3tura, case xutich eould
easlt; -ra-Et:    reu 'rements of, the Din:irican tousm  ind-ustry; a-id a rela-
ivre,. lOT'z .level or f:aces.  Other important assets are the Dominica,n peopl.e is
natural sense o` hospitality and favorable disposition toward foreign
visi tors
2.- 0?     N-evertheless, the countrv did niot participate in the Caribbean
e.our.ism boor of the first part of the 1960's.  Un to 1968 thle Republic's
acccr-mmodation capaci tv  largesy government-owned, amounted to about I ,000
rcoms, catering in the main to business traffic,  In recent years, however.
cith increasing political stability and an improved investment climate,
private investors have undertaken the construction of several hotels (Annex
I; Table 2), such as the Gulf and Wqestern-sponsored development of La Romana
on the Southern Coast,  Ir. 1973, hotel accommodation suitable for inter-
national tourism amounted to 1,600 rooms as against 9,000 rooms in neigh-
boring Puerto Rico and 6,600 in Jamaica,  The average size of Dominican



-3-
hotels is small. Only four of the 36 existing hotels have more than 100
rooms, and all four are located in Santo Domingo. Yearly room occupancy
levels of existing hotels average about 65%, providing adequate profitability.
2.08      Over the period 1968-1973, foreign tourist arrivals rose from
57,000 to 134,000, an annual growth rate of 19%. Cruise visitors to the
ports of Santo Domingo and Puerto Plata also increased rapidly in the last
five years, reaching 48,000 in 1973 (Annex I, Tables 3 & 4). The U.S. con-
stitutes the major source of tourist traffic to the Dominican Republic. In
1973, 86% of foreign tourists were U.S. nationals, 60% coming from the main-
land (particularly from the East Coast) and the remainder from Puerto Rico
(Annex I, Table 5). Most tourists arrive by air at Las Americas airport
near Santo Domingo, the Republic's only international airport. lihile vacation
traffic to the Republic has increased in importance, the majority (about 60%)
of foreign visitors are still business-motivated.
2.09      Although tourism traffic to the Dominican Republic in 1972
accounted for less than 3% of the Caribbean total, the economic value of
tourism to the Dominican Republic is significant.  Foreign exchange earnings
from tourism are the Republic's fourth most important source of foreign
exchange (after sugar, ferronickel and coffee). In 1973 they amounted to
about US$38.0 million, excluding visitor transportation cost. The sector
employs an estimated 6,000 persons not counting those employed in the
construction of accommodation.
2.10      Aside froml its hotel-building activities, the Government has in
the past attached little importance to tourism.  In 1968. however, recogniz-
ing the favorable impact that an expanded tourism sector could ha-',ve, on the
island's economy, the Govermment pronulgated a law declaring tourism of
high national priority. This law provides inter alia the legal basis for
expropriating land for tourism develoDment purposes.
2.11      In 1968, a National Tourism Directorate attache6lto  h `e President's
Office was created to formulate tourism policies and carry out promotional
campaigns directed at foreign visitor markets.  In 1979 the Government
assigned the task of preparing and implementing tourism infrastructure pro-
jects (such as Puerto Plata on the North Coast and Baca Chica on the South
Coast) to the Central Bank, one of the most efficient governmnent agencies
which had expanded its traditional role to include a variety of developmental
activities.  To carry out this new functions the Central Bank created a
Tourism Infrastructure Department (INFRATUR). INF RTUR was also assigned
the task of channeling funds for hotel financing through existing lending
institutions. Until that time, this task had been the exclusive responsi-
bility of another branch of the Central Bank - the Fondo de Inversiones para
el Desarrollo Economico (FIDE). In 1968, the Government also established
the Corporacion Nacional de Fomento de la Industria Hotelera y Desarrollo del
Turismo to administer all public-owned hotels (which still account for about
half of the Republic's total accommodation capacity).



- 4 -
2.12      In 1971, these institutional measures were complemented by the
enactment of an incentive law designed to encourage private investment in
the tourism industry. Under this law, hotel investors may benefit from:
(a) ten-year exemption from income tax (if Dominicans own
more than 50% of capital stock, this exemption period
will be extendec to 15 years), and exemption from taxes
on construction, incorporation and capital increases;
(b)  duty-free import of any equipment or material not competi-
tively produced locally;
(c) guaranteed availability of foreign exchange needed for
importing goods and services required by hotel projects;
(d)  guaranteed repatriation of capital and profits in the
case of foreign investments: and
(e) purchase or lease of improved land - including such land
as the Government may expropriate for this purpose - at
reasonable prices or ground rents.
2.13      In 1971, the Government also began to build near Puerto Plata
an international airport intended to meet the needs of both domestic and
international air traffic in the northern part of the Republic.
2.14      These measures, however well intended, were adopted at random,
rat`er !`lar, integrrated within the L"ramework of a comprehensive, cohesive
Ian ttLr tourism developmeat.  The Dominican authorities have not yet geared
their strategies to reaping full economic benefits from the tourism sector.
The7 have done little, for instance, to promote the marketing of agricultural
or industrial output to the tourist industry: the two largest hotels catering
for international tourists in the Republic still import most of the goods
required for their operations.  Some of the incentives accorded to hotel
investors, such as the 10 to 15-year exemption from income tax, appear too
generous --- and 't'hus too burdensome for the Government -- when compared to
LhC ~ncent4Ae practices of other Caribbean countries.  Also, loans to hotel
investors have been made recently by government agencies on quite different
terms,  Thle incentive legislation has to-date had scant applications.  The
vaguLa terminology of this law and the case-by-case method used to apply it
have discouraged some potential investors from requesting benefits. With
tnsufficient funds and a lack of experienced staff, the National Tourism
Directorate is unable to eEficiently promote the countryts tourism
lmage abroad,  Hotel investors must, therefore, still rely on their own
promotional efforts to fill their rooms.  Another potential problem for
investors is the shortage of trained hotel personnel. The country's only



-5
hotel training facility (located in Santo Domingo) is inadequate -- with a
yearly output of 15 graduates - to meet even present requirements for
trained personnel.
2.15      Current development plans include, in addition to the Puerto Plata
and Boca Chica projects (the latter is presently being considered by IDB),
a number of private hotel investments in various parts of the Republic. If
these plans are implemented, a total of 12,000 hotel rooms would be available
by 1985. To support this capacity, international tourism demand would have
to grow to an estimated 600,000 tourists (or by 14% annually). Both accommo-
dation and demand targets appear reasonable when viewed against the Republic's
tourism potential. However, the Government recognizes that the realization
of these targets requires removal of the obstacles described in the foregoing
paragraph. It has, therefore, agreed to the adoption of a number of measures
to rationalize the tourism sector in general and permit the successful imple-
mentation of the proposed project.
3. THE PROJECT
A. Background
3.01      The Puerto Plata region, as defined by the Government for tourism
development purposes extends for approximately 125 kcm between Luperon and
Cabrera on the North Coast. The overall impression of the regioni is one of
simple but dramatically contrasting elements. The climate is pl asant, the
ocean waters warm and limpid, the vegetation lush and green. The attractive-
ness of the beach area is greatly enhanced by the rural character of the
hinterland, set against a backdrop of low mountains.
3.02      Puerto Plata (pop. 33,000) is the only urban center of an5y size
within the region.  Located some 200 km north of Santo Domingo, -'e town
has grown around a small natural harbor that was for many years the country's
principal port. A Spanish fort set within imposing walls guards the en-
trance to the harbor. The Government is carefully restoring the old part
of Puerto Plata to maintain its traditional attnosphere and at the same time
provide tourist attractions of cLllttural interest.  The standards of urban
services are being improved, in part witn the assistance of an IDB loan.
The region also includes a few small coastal settlemients, One OIL these is
the village of Rio San Juan, whose pictturesque lagoon is attracting lncreaslna
numbers of visitors.  This village, however, is poor and lacks essential
public services.  Another settlement is Sosua where a colony of World War rI
refugees is engaged in cattle raising and dairy farming.
3.03      A good paved road, recently improved, runs from Santo Dorniingo via
Santiago to Puerto Plata and continues east along the coast to provide easy
access to the beach areas. As for air access, a grass runway near Puerto
Plata now accommodates small aircraft. Air services to the region will
improve considerably wvhen the Puerto Plata international airport is completed
(para. 2.13). Water supply, with the excention of Puerto Plata proper and



- 6 -
Sosua wqhose requirements are met by a newly established water supply and
distribution system, is eit:her inadequate or non-existent. A new sewerage
facility, which includes st:abilization ponds and a collection network, has
just been completed in Puerto Plata. Elsewhere in the region, waste disposal
is via individual septic t.nks or soakage pits.
3.04      Tourism. development has thus far by-passed the region, despite its
natural attractions. Only one hotel, the 50-room Montemar in Puerto Plata
proper, is suitable for international tourism. Week-end travel to the region
has picked up, however, since the access road from Santo Domingo and Santiago
has improved. Residents oi- those cities, in increasing numbers, are building
vacation homes along the coast.
3.05      Two areas in the Puerto Plata region, Playa Dorada and Playa Grande,
stand out for their natural attractions.  Located directly east of Puerto
Plata, Playa Dorada (Map 31 includes 172 ha of flat land.  Its 2.0 km long
beach is of average qualityr but is protected for swimming by a coral reef.
Small tropical trees growing near the waterline can provide shade for bathers.
About 10 Ion inland, the 800-meter high Isabel de Torres motntain, overlooking
Puerto Plata and the harbor, is an excursion point of great scenic interest
for visitors to the region. Playa Grande (Map 4), situated about 80 Ian from
Puerto Plata, comprises 270 ha of sloping coconut palm-covered land of which
50 ha in the shape of an amphitheater have been set aside for hotel develop-
ment. With an unusually wide 1.5 km long beach of fine, white sand enclosed
within imposing rock format:ions reaching into the sea, Playa Grande is
undoubtedly one of the besi: tourism sites in the Caribbean.
7>.06     Both areas are considered suitable for tourism development.  (Agri-
cultural activities will continue in some sections of the area set aside as
green zones), A series of soi'l investigations, however, has identified the
Playa Dorada site. as potenl:ially subject to soil mechanics problems during
intensive earthquakes. Ext:ensive Bank staff research, assisted by consultants
retained specifically for t:his task, has revealed that by using mechanical
methods (e.g. dyrnamic soil consolidation through heavy tamping) both the density
and bearing capacity of the soil can be increased to overcome these problems.
These methods have been successfully applied in a number of countries during
the past five years in soi:L conditions similar to those at Playa Dorada.
B. PhysicL Planning and Environmental Aspects
3,071     The preparatory studies include outline land-use plans at a scale
1:50,000, coverinIg the entire Puerto Plata region (para. 3.01). These plans
are well conceivecd.  The a:Llocation of land and the alignment of major infra-
stru_tures correspond to prospective economic activities in the region (e.g.
urban, agriculture, industry, recreation and tourism). Furthermore, both
land-use plans artd ancillary development controls and regulations reflect
genuine concern for the regional environment and landscape.



-7-
3.08      Prospective accommodation and related facilities would be concentra-
ted in specific areas (or nuclei), rather than spread out along the coastline
in "ribbon" development fashion. The proposed nucleus approach, which has
found increasingly successful application worldwide, has several advantages.
By restricting construction to the nucleus, and by directing bathers toward
the beaches bordering the nucleus, the impact of the development on the
environment is minimized, and use of the beach area, one of the scarce
resources in beach-based tourism developments, will be optimized. The nucleus
approach also entails substantial economies since it minimizes infrastructure
requirements and ensures full utilization of the infrastructure once it is
built. Further, clustering hotels in well-defined areas will enable hotel
investors to enjoy the benefits which derive from shared comMon facilities,
such as shopping centers, sports and recreational facilities.
3.09      The application of the nucleus concept to the Puerto Plata region
has led to the concentration of all proposed first-phase accommodation caDa-
city in the two areas of Playa Dorada and Playa Grande (henceforth referred
to as the project areas). Development in Playa Dorada will focus on a 900-
room vacation village consisting of a group of low-rise buildings surrounding
a central plaza.  A commercial center will house a convention hall, cinema
and shops, interconnected by covered arcades. Two sub-areas have been set
aside for the construction of conventional hotels to provide for an additional
500 rooms. Playa Dorada's accommodation capacity will be complemented by
condominium apartments and individual villas.  A golf course, tennis courts,
swimming pools and riding stables will meet recreational and svorts require-
ments of visitors. Accommodation development in Playa Grande will consist
of 500 rooms in two hotels and cabanas. This development will also include
a condominium building and a clubhouse-restaurant and will offer recreational
and sports facilities similar to those planned for Playa Dorada.
3.10      The preparatory studies recommend that developed s4t-es within
the project areas be separated by green spaces. Individual clusters of
accommodations would thus be visually separated and develop their oiv-n image
and character. The studies also recommend that the height and voll,jXme of the
proposed buildings and their spatial distribution be in harmony with the
surrounding environment in order to provide pleasant views toward the sea,
hills and mountain. In the particular case of Playa Grande proposed archi-
tecture would play on the relief of the terrain, placing taller build-ings in
low-lying areas and lower buildings in the higher reaches. Furthermore,
since bhiilding heights would in no case surpass those of the surrounding
palms, all structures in Playa Grande would be integrated Into the greenery
and would be hidden from view both from the road and the sea.
3.11      With the assistance of consultants, the Central Bank is currently
engaged in refining and detailing the land-use and development regulations for
the region as a whole and for the two project areas themselves. The Central
Bank's objective is to arrive at precise development regulations which would
prescribe land subdivision density patterns, bulk and height of buildings,
area coverage and minimal distance between building structures.  These
regulations will be submitted to the Bank for apDroval. Legislation putting
them into effect would be a condition of loan effectiveness.



- 8 -
C. Project Description
3.12      The project would consist of the following elements:
(a)  infrastructure and other facilities for the Playa Dorada
project area;
(b)  infrastructure and other facilities for the Playa Grande
project area:
(c) site works for a :Low-income housing program near Playa
Dorada;
(d) water supply and sewerage systems for the village of Rio
San Juan. near Plavra Grande;
(e) an access road, a terminal building, navigational equipment
and other facilit:Les for the partially completed international
airport near Puerl:o Plata;
(f) hotel training facilities; and
(g) technical assistance and study funds.
3el3      The infrastructure and other facilities for the Playa Dorada and
Playa Grande projetct areas wTould consist of:
-    site preparation
-    roads, trails and storm water drainage
-    water supply and sewerage systems
-    solid waste disposal and environmental sanitation
-    electric power, lighting and telecomnunications
-    earthworks, landscaping and beach imDrovements
-    golf course, clubhouse, stables and riding schools
-    shopping area and public beach facilities.
3 14      Site nDreparation at Plava Dorada would include dynamic soil conso-
lidatiom whiCh cornSists bas:Lcally of dropning weights of 8 to 30 tons from
a heiight of  up to 25 m on the site.  This tamning process will continue to
be aDnlied until certain pre-agreed and measurable ground pressure and bearing
capacity criteria have been achieved. This would allow superstructures to
be erected without expensive foundations.
3.15      Roads and streets totalling 10 km will connect the project areas
with the existin.g highway and will provide for internal circulation within
each project area.  Storm water drainage along all the roads to be constructed
is also included in the project.



-9-
3.16      Playa Dorada and Playa Grande will be served by separate water
supply and sewerage systems. Water supply to each area would be from
nearby groundwater sources. Preliminary test borings indicate that adequate
water of good quality is available. Since the main water supply for the town
of Puerto Plata (whose capacity is insufficient to supply the Playa Dorada
project area with adequate water) crosses the main supply line for Playa
Dorada, a connection between the two systems wqill be made for emergency use.
Similarly, separate sewerage systems will be constructed for each area. Given
the availability of land and the climatic conditions prevailing, stabilization
ponds provide an effective and inexpensive solution for treating the sewage.
If an acceptable nearby site for stabilization ponds is not identified, the
Playa Dorada sewer system would be connected to the treatment plant recently
constructed for the town of Puerto Plata (para 3.03) which has adequate
capacity to cater to the needs of both the town and the projected development
at Playa Dorada. The water supply and sewerage system component of the
proposed project is reviewed in more detail in Annex IIT.
3.17      Solid waste disposal for the resort areas would be handled by the
existing municipal systems, strengthened by new equipment provided under the
proposed loan. Trucks and tractors would be used for the collection, trans-
portation and disposal of solid wastes in sanitary land fills at sites near
the town of Puerto Plata and the village of Rio San Juan. Environmental
sanitation measures include the control of mosquitoes and other insects near
beaches and tourist areas by the application of larvicides and insecticides,
as well as limited natural methods, such as the removal of certain types of
vegetal undergrowth. Funds are also provided for the purchase of the equipment
necessary for the treatment of the effluent from the government-owned Monte
Llano sugar mill which currently pollutes tracts of the beach near Playa
Dorada. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that, within nine
months from the signing of the loan, the Government w4ll complete a study
of the measures to be taken to eliminate pollution from the sugar mill and
that these measures will be executed in a manner satisfactory to the Bank
within the following 24 months.
3.18      The source of electric power for both project areas will be the
regional grid system of the Corporacion Dominicana de Electricidad (CDTE), a
government-owned company. CDE will deliver power up to tlie limits of those
areas. The powerline for Playa Dorada is already in place,  whereas that for
Playa Grande is under construction.  The undergroune distribution networks,
including street and trail lighting within the Drolect areas are included as
part of the project. The electric power supply component of the proposed
project is reviewed in more detail in Annex TIV.
3.19      Telephone service will be provided by the Compania Dominicana de
Telefonos (CDT) a private company with a monopoly on telephone service in the
Dominican Republic. CDT has telecommunication facilities in the town of
Puerto Plata that could be linked to the project areas.  It is this comparnys
practice to provide all overhead telephone facilities to the consumers. To
meet aesthetic requirements, telephone lines within the project areas would
be underground. The project provides funds to cover the extra cost of burying
the telephone cables.



- 10 -
3.20      Earthworks provLded for in the project consist mainly of filling
low-lying areas at Playa Dorada. Beach works will include the cleaning and
widening of beaches in certain areas.
3.21      The site and service works for the development of 200 low-income
houses near Playa Dorada ior persons employed in the hotels have been included
in the project, as well as a small seaside park. The construction of the
houses themselves would be financed by the Instituto Nacional de Vivienda
(INVI). During negotiations, assurances were obtained that financing for
the houses wqould be forthcoming. The project also calls for the provision
of water supply and sewerage facilities for the village of Rio San Juan
(para 3.02) where most of the personnel of Playa Grande hotels would be
residing.
3.22      The international airport under construction (para. 2.13) is
located at a site 15 km east of Puerto Plata. The airport runway (3,020 m.
long and 46 m. wide), which is suitable for all types of jet aircraft pre-
sently flying, is near completion.  In addition to providing foreign visitors
with direct access to the project areas, the airport will serve the passenger
and cargo traffic needs of the town of Puerto Plata and the city of Santiago,
second largest in the Republic, located 60 km away. The nroject includes
the construction of a terminal building, an access road and the provision of
navigational aids and other facilities needed to make the airport operational.
3.23      The airport feasibility study reconmends a modular formula for the
terminal building which wou-ld allow for future expansion.  The present design
provides for a covered area of some 8,000 sq. meters which appears to be
out of proportion with traffic projections. The Dominican authorities have
agreed that the covered area be reduced to about 5,000 sq. meters (this
figure was used for calculating the cost estimates for the terminal building
shown in this report). The Central Bank has given assurances that the
final design of the airport terminal building would be carried out on this
basis.
3.24      To bridge the wi6lening gap between hotel requirements and the
availlability of trained nersonnel in the Dominican Penublic gererally and in
Ih-le North (.oast in particular, thle orolect calls for the construction of a
hotel training school complete with furniture and teaching equipment, to be
lccatd2 in Puerto Plata.  DesiRned to accommodate an annual outnut of 250
Sraciuazes, the school- will cover vocational training for basic hotel staff
suc'i. as waiters and chambermaids.  The school will use the facilities of
the existing 50-r-oom government-owned Hotel T^wontemar (para. 3.04) for
Dractical training.  The project would nrovide funds for technical assistance
for the hotel school in the initial years of its oneration.
3.25      The Droject also provides funds for a varietv of consulting services
including topographic, water resources and soil survevs, final engineering
designs and the supervision of project implementation, and for the undertaking
of two studies.  The first of these would be a comprehensive sector study



- 11 -
aimed at providing the Government with sound guidelines for improving its
overall tourism development strategies. The study would: (i) examine means
of increasing the return from the tourism industry to the Dominican economy
(e.g. maximum utilization of local materials and products, encouragement of
Dominican enterprise); (ii) review the present hotel credit system with a
view to setting adequate and uniform. terms for hotel loans; (iii) assess the
appropriateness of current tourism incentives legislation, determining whether
the overall amount of the incentives package and/or its individual components
are economically justified, while proposing a set of criteria for graduating
incentives to encourage selected locations and types of hotel projects;
(iv) recommend measures to simplify administrative procedures, to clarify
the language of the incentives law, and to ensure that hotel investments
which meet pre-determined criteria would be granted incentives on a fairly
automatic and objective basis; and (v) examine the social impact of tourism
development in the country, and suggest measures designed to avoid possible
adverse social effects of tourism on the Dominican population. During nego-
tiations, assurances were obtained that the Central Bank would submit terms
of reference for this study for Bank approval within six months of loan sign-
ing, and would complete the study within 24 months of this date. Assurances
were also obtained that the Government would establish appropriate incentives
for investments in the tourism sector, and that the Centrai Banlk would im-
prove its hotel credit policies, according to the recommendations of the
proposed study.
3.26      The second study would be designed to prepare a subsequent tourism
project in the Dominican Republic which would further develop the countryt S
tourism resources.
D. Cost Estimates
3.27      The detailed cost estimates and the foreign exchange components
of the project elements are given in Annex II and are summarized In Table I
below:



- 12 -
TABLE I
Cost Estimates
RD Pesos/US Dollars
(000)
% of Base     For. Exch.
Local    Foreign      Total    Line Cost       Comp. %
Playa Dorada Tourism Area         5,355      6,447      11,802       47.9           54.6
Land Acquisition               1,589        -         1,589        6.5             -
Civil Works                    3,388      3,878       7,266       29.5           53.4
Equipment                          68     1,673       1,741        7.0           96.1
Professional Services            310        896       1,206        4.9           74.3
Playa Grande Tourism Area          3,255     2,110       5,365       21.8           39.3
Land Acquisition               2,062        -        2,062         8.4             -
Civil Works                    1,052      1,163      2,215         9.0           52.5
Equipment                          33       755         788        3.2           95.8
Professional Services             108       192         300        1.2           64.0
Airport                            1,665     3,016       4,681        19.0          64.4
Civil Works                    1,438      2,064      3,502        14.2           58.9
Equipment                          75       678         753        3.1           90.0
Professional Services             152       274         426        1.7           64.3
Hotel Training School                179       287         466         1.9          61.6
Land Acquisition                   20       -            20        0.1             -
Civil Works                       114       135         249        1.0           54.2
Equipment                          31       126         157        0.6           80.3
Professional Serviceis            14         26          40        0.2           65.0
Investment Promotion                  54       479         533        2.2           89.9
Project Administration               149        25         174        0.7           14.4
Technical Assistance                 525     1,075       1,600        6.5           67.2
Base Line Cost:                   ].1,182    13,439     24,621      100.0           54.6
Contingencies:                     3,985     7,387      11,372       46.2           65.0
Physical Increase (10.2%)        930      1,571      2,501        10.2           62.0
Price Increase (32.7%)         3,055      5,816      8,871        36.0           65.6
TOTAL PROJECT COST               15,167    20,826       35,993      146.2           57.9
(rounded figures)               (15,000)  (21,000)   (36,000)          -           (58.0)



- 13 -
3.28      An allowance of 10.2% of base line costs (11.9% of base line costs
excluding land), has been made to cover physical contingencies. This allowance
is reasonable since most of the cost estimates are based on preliminary engi-
neering data. Before 1973, construction costs in the Dominican Republic re-
mained relatively stable, with annual increases limited to 2-3%. During 1973,
however, costs of materials rose considerably. Taking into account the price
levels in the Republic and the likely impact of worldwide inflation on inter-
national labor, materials and equipment costs, provision has been made for
a 12 to 18% price increase per year for civil works and 7.5-14% for equipment,
resulting in a price increase of 32.7% of base line costs plus physical
contingencies. The details of the allowances made for both price and physical
contingencies are shown in Annex II, Table 1.9. The overall contingency
provision amounts to 46.2% of base line costs.
3.29      Most building materials needed for project implementation are pro-
duced locally, while most of the equiprment will have to be imported. Assum-
ing, as is likely, that Dominican contractors would Win about 50% of the bids
(in value terms) for roads, sewerage and water works, the foreign exchange
component of the total project cost would be 58% or US$21 million.
E.  Amount of Loan and Lending Arran ements
3.30      The pronosed loan of US$21 million would cover the estimated
foreign exc1hange component of the project. Since UoDP funding for the
preparatory stucly was liLited and the Government had to assume a considerablIe
share of the project preparation costs, it is proposed that a nart of the
foreign exchange expendittures for professional services, amounting to
US$775,000 or 2,2% of total project cost, be financed retroactively from
the proposed Bank loan. This retroactive financing would cover t:he exnen-
diture incurred for water, soil and topographical surveys, airport studies
and consultants' services after October 1, 1972.
3.31      The proposed loan would be made to the Central lank a,xd woluld be
guaranteed by the Government,  During negotiations assurances were obtain&e
that t-he Government will nrovide to the C entral Bank such funds as shall be
required for the efficient carrying out of the proj-ct, wleneer thera is
reasonable cause to believe that the funds available to the Central Ba-ck Will
be inadequiate to meet the estimated expenditures.  Tbe Central Bank ,ould b.d
responsible for debt service on the Bank loan.
F.  Procurement
3.32      Major civil works (except soil consolidation) and equinment contracts
would be awarded after international competitive bidding inl accordance with
Bank guidelines. In order to encourage such competitive bidding, project items
would be grouped to the extent possible. The proposed project is within the
capacity of the Dominican construction industry to implement (Annex VI). In
order to permit smaller local contractors to tender for works of a size within



- 14 -
their capabilities and also to attract foreign bidders, contracts for civil
works would be tendered either individually or combined into bidding groups,
at the bidders option. A contract for dynamic soil consolidation, for an
estimated total of about US$2.0 million would be negotiated directly with the
"ispecialist-contractor" firTn (or one of its licencees) which introduced
this method some six years ago and which is the only firm known to have
experience with this method (the Groupe Menard).
3.33      Imported equipment, material and supplies for the project would
be exempted from customs dut:ies. In evaluating international bids for equip-
ment contracts, Dominican manufacturers would be allowed a preferential margin
of 15% of the CIF costs of competing imports or the prevailing level of customs
duties, whichever is lower.
G. Disbursements
3.34      The proposed loan would finance 58% of total project cost, which
is the estimated foreign exchange component of the project.  Disbursements
would cover the foreign costs of professional services, 100% of the CIF
value of imported equipment,, 100% of the ex-works value of domestically
manufactured equipment, 100, of the foreign exchange costs and 30% of local
costs of civil works contracts. The latter percentage would be adjusted,
if necessary, during the implementation period of the project in order that
withdrawals from the loan would continue pro rata with remaining expenditures.
H. Project Execution
3.35      The Central Bank t:hrough INFRATUR (Annex VII) would have the primary
responsibility for executing the project. It would thus be in charge of com-
pleting land acquisition in the project areas, advertising requests for tenders,
evaluating bids and enteringr into contracts for all project components. The
Central Bank appears suitable to carry out these complex tasks. With consid-
erable prestige within the Government and a close association with the Office
of the President of the Republic, this institution has proven its managerial
skills in a variety of developmental activities.  Various technical agencies
such as INAPA for water supply and sewerage, CDE for electricity, CDT for
telecomounications, and Comision Administrativa Aeroportuaria (CAA) for the
airport would cooperate closlely with INFRATUR during the design and implemen-
tation stages of various project components.
3.36      The Central Bank has recently established within INFRATUR a unit
specifically in charge of the Puerto Plata project and has retained the
consulting firm which prepared the feasibility study to provide technical
assistance to this unit. Currently operating with a skeleton staff, the
Project Unit would be expanced as project execution progresses. Prior to
loan effectiveness, the Central Bank wotuld retain consultants acceptable to
the Bank who would be responsible for the final design and supervision of
the implementation of all project works.



- 15 -
3.37      With the assistance of an IM mission, for which funds are included
i-n the project, the Central Bank wyould complete preparation of the proposed
hotel training program. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that
the proposed curriculum, schedules of accommodation, teacher requirements and
method of selecting trainees will be submitted for apnroval of the Bank within
six months of loan signing.
3.3F      To provide that implementation proceeds on scheduile and in a coor-
dinated fashion, assurances were obtained during negotiations that a critical
path network for the execution of all works would be prenared within six
months of the signing of the loan agreement, that such a plan would be re-
viewed at least every three months, and that the results of the review would
be communicated to the Bank on a quarterlv basis,
I. Organization for Operation
3.39      During and after appraisal, the Dominican authorities made clear
their determination that the Central Bank would continue to be directly in
charge of the essential aspects of the Puerto Plata tourisr, development,
after construction of the nroposed facilities has been comnleted. The
proposed organizational arrangement has merit inasmuch as the Central Bank's
participation in the Puerto Plata project at the operational stage would
ensure continuity in applying basic develonment concepts.
3.40      Under the proposed approach, the Central Bank would remain pro-
prietor of:  land acquired in the project areas: environmental sanitation
facilities; roads, trails, parking, storm water drainage, street and trail
lighting, solid waste disposal and fire-fighting facilities: shopping and
recreational facilities (e.g. golf course); and the hotel training school.
3.41      The Central Bank's malor operational tasks would include:
(i)  developing and applying policies for leasing land to hotel
investors and the resort facilities to firms or individuals
interested in their operation: and
(ii) enforcing proposed zoning and building regulations,
These tasks will be performed within the Central Bank by the Puerto Plata
Project Unit (para. 3.36) whose personnel structure will be modified as
required to ensure smooth transition between the implementation and opera-
tional stages. During negotiations assurances were obtained that appointments
and/or replacements of the Puerto Plata Project Unit's director and his
deputy at both implementation and operational stages will be made in consulta-
tion with the Bank. Appointment of the Puerto Plata Project IJnit's director
and his deputy would be a condition of effectiveness.



- 16 -
3.42       It is proposed that the airnort facilities at Puerto Plata be owned,
operated and maintained by CAA. Present immigration procedures at the Las
Americas airport are lengthy and cause unnecessary delays. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that the Government will use its best efforts
to expedite the processing of passengers and their effects at its international
airports,
3.43   Tr7e Universidad Catolica Madre  taestra of Santiago (TIJC.T)  an i-
stitution experienced in vocational training, would be responsible for tne
administratlion of the hotel trainine program at the proposed sc,hool in Puerto
Plata.  Financial responsibility for this program would rest with the Central
Bank.  During the first two years of operation of the school, UC.M will re
assistec' by teachers provided by IT.f&  Funds for this assistance have been
included in the project.
3.44       Tie municinal governments of- Puerto Plata and 'Plo San J;lar wuld
onerate and mal-,t. an an conformity -ith appropriate ademTinstrati. e  f n.,ac i"
and en-ineerin- ?ractices, the internal roadis and streets, narkinsr areas,
storm water drainage systers, street lihting, solid. wasto collection and dis-
posal, and fire Fi,ghting facilities to be built in the Prn4ect areas.  1i order
o assist such municinalities in carr-ingr our t'ese conritruents, the Central
BaA,'K would provide, prom-ptly7 as needed, the funds, facilitiles and other resources
reqliired for the purpose.  "he municipalities would en7age the services of
anpropriate personnel.
3.45       Ownership, operating and 2tainter.ance resoonsibility for the eleltric
?ower Sunply, the telecormupicat4orns and water sunply/seweri-ge co-nonents vill
devolve on CTE, Cn' an7d INAPA, resDectively, -wihereas operatinpg anid maintenance
rasnonsibsilit- for environmenta` s;nitationT ecuipment would be assumed by thne
Minisrrv of }aEth.  All a£er.e7s are w.-el-l esta blisie  ancl coalsid1ered adecruately
staffed to ad7inister the relevant facilities.  A more Oetailed description of
t'rhese agencies is given in t:he Annexes relating to, the individual proiect
comnonent-s
3.46       Table II belowr r2capitulates the various agrenciese whicTch willl I    in-
volveO,. 4.n ownersh-n*, maintenance and oneration of the Dronosed facilities:



- 17 -
Table II
Responsibility for
Project Com eOwnership_                                    OMaintenance
Airport                    Comision Administrativa                  CAA
Aeroportuaria (CAA)
IJater Supply & Sewerage  Instituto Nacional de Aguas               INAPA
Potables y Alcantarillado
(INAPA)
Electric Power Supply    Corporacion Dominicana de                  CDE
Electricidad (CDE)
Telecommunications         Compania Dominicana de                   CDT
Telefonos (CDT)
Environmental Sanitation Central Bank                      Ministry of Health
Roads, trails, parking,  Central Bank                      Local Municipalities
storm water drainage,
street and trail, light-
ing, solid waste dis-
posal and fire-fighting
facilities
Hotel School               Central Bank                    Universidad Catolica
Madre y J>faestra (UCOT)
Shopping Center and        Central Barnk                   Central Bank,
recreational facil-
ities in Playa Dorada
& Playa Grande
3.47      All the agencies which woul.d operate andt. maintain an  of the proposed
facilities would have to enter into agreements with the Central. Bank. These
agreements would define the agencies' administrative and technical ressonsi-
bilities and required staffing as well as all relevant financial interrelationships.
Conclusion of such agreements with CAA, CDT, CDR, and INAPA in a form acceptable
to the Bank would be a condition of effectiveness. In addition, the Central
Bank would cause UCMM and the Management of the Montemar Hotel in Puerto Plata
to enter into an agreement satisfactory to the Bank, to define their respective
responsibilities as regards the practical training of students at the piroposed
hotel school (para. 3.24).



- 18 -
4. JUSTIFICATION
A. Accommodation Development
4.01      The Central Bank projects a gradual build-up of hotel and apartment-
room capacity in the project areas as follows:
Table III
Year                 Hotel Rooms             Apiartment Rooms
1974                       -
1977                      440
1979                    1,000                         _
1981                    1,500                        375
1984                   1,900                         375
Playa Dorada would have 1,400 rooms, comprising a 900-room, economy-priced,
family vacation village and two medium-priced hotel.s with a combined total of
500 rooms; in add:Ltion it would have 150 rooms in apartment complexes.  Playa
Grande wvould have 500 rooms in two hotels and 225 rooms in apartments and would
cater to the more traditional luxury Caribbean market.
4.02      The Central Bank proposes to lease the land needed for hotels and
the touirism village on a long-term basis (20 years, renewqable). Land for the
apartment buildings, on the other hand, would be sold.  The Central Bank has
already entered into possession of all the land required for the project.
This allows the Central Bank to initiate negotiations with hotel. investors
as well as to proceed expeditiotusly with the site preparation and infrastruc-
ture works. During negotiations assurances were obtained that within two
years from the date of loan signing full ownership title of all the land
required for the project will be obtained.
4.03      Constructlon of hotels and apartments in Plava Dorada and Playa
Grande will require investmrnt of about US$38 million over the Deriod 1977-1986.
Assuming 60% of debt financing, loan canital requirements would be US$22.8
million or about U3S$2.5 million per annum iwith a peak of UIS$6.6 million in
1978. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that were loan funds
from other channels to fall short of requirements, the Central Bank would
provide all necessary comnl2mentary financing.
4.04      As stated above (para. 3.25). one of the objectives of the sector
study will be to set criteria for graduating incentives to encourage desired
locations and types of hotel investments. The geographic criteria should
favor the concentration of investors' interest on nriority areas stuch as Playa
Dorada and Playa Grande.  To ensure the continuing appeal of the project areas
to the investment community, incentives granted to investors in these areas,
pending completion of the ancommodation build-up described in para. 4.01,



19 -
should not be less favorable than those accorded to investors in any other re-
gion of the Republic. Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotia-
tions.
4.05      To advertise the investment conditions existing in the project areas
to both national and international investors, an investment promotion campaign
should be launched. Funds are included in the project for financing this cam-
paign. During negotiatons, assurances were obtained that within six months
from the signing of the loan, the Goverinment would submit for the approval of
the Bank, a timetable of all steps to be taken to implement the proposed
promotion campaign.
4.06      Although investor interest in Puerto Plata has already been evidenced
both locally and abroad, no binding commitments have yet been made.  It is
likely that these commitments will be obtained after construction of the infra-
structure facilities has actually begun and the measures described in paras.
4.03, 4.04 and 4.05 have been adopted. The Dominican Republic's political
stabillty in the last several years, the favorable outlook for continuing
international tourism demand for the Caribbean region (Section 4 B below) and
the profitability of hotels already built in the Republic provide a favorable
context for hotel investment in the country. Within this context, the project
areas have a privileged position. Hotel investors there would enjoy the ad-
vantages inherent in resort areas developed within an integrated and carefully
planned physical framework: they would be provided with long-term ground
leases; they would be able to count on efficient utility services; they would
benefit from the presence of community shopping and recreational facilities,
without the burden of having to administer them; and, last but not least,
they would be ensured that the environment in which they are making their
investment will not be downgraded.
4.07      The advantages particular to Puerto Plata notwithstanding, the risk
remains that hotel investment might not be forthcoming. In order to avoid
the possibility that the project might remain incomplete after the infra-
structure investment had been made, the Central Bank would undertake to build,
if the private sector does not, sufficient hotel rooms to attain acceptable
rates of return on infrastructure outlays. Calculations show that the con-
struction of 1,500 rooms (about 80%/ of the scheduled total) would ensure an
economic rate of return of 12% which is considered the minimum acceptable for
the Dominican Republic. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the
Central Bank would take steps to ensure that 80% of the scheduled number of
rooms be in operation by December 1986, provided that the Central Bank and the
Bank agree that'a potential market for these rooms exists.
B. Market Demand
4.08      The Caribbean has long been a leading tourist destination, attract-
ing an estimated 5.5 million visitors in 1972. Of all regional destinations
competing for North American visitors, the Caribbean has shown one of the
fastest overall growth rates. Total arrivals almost quadrupled from 1,048



- 20 -
thousand in 1960 to 3,859 zhousand in 1972 (excluding visitors on cruises).
The growth was irnterrupted in 1970 owing to an economic recession in the
u.S. and increased competilcion from European destinations which resulted
from lower group and incenti,ive air fares over the North Atlantic.  In 1971
and 1972, growth resumed al: rates of 12% and 11% respectively (Annex VIII).
4.r09      -  .The ma'or tourism market f-or the Caribbean has been the Eastern
part of North America.  In 1972, Americans accounted for 70% of total arri-vals
in the Caribbean. Most visitors to the islands are on vacation and are prin-
cipally seeking beach hol-iclays in a nearby ioreign destination, especially -n
winter. An added attraction is that within a small geographical area, there
is a diversity of cultural assets deriving from the Dutch, English, Spanish
and French influence in the region.
4.10       The traditional C:aribbean hotel industry is composed of smnall luxury
hotels and these have continued to thrive largely because they appeal to high-
tfncome markets and have a high rate of repeat business. More recentlY, however,
large hotels cateri.ng to a middle-class mnarket have sprung up but they have had
problems from  the start.  First, many are verY poorly planned and lack charm and
local atmosphere, Equally important, although cheaper than luxury hotels, they
have failed to capture the bulk of the middle-class market because their rates
are still too high.
4, .1      At the and of the 1960's, confronted with heightening European com-
petiticn, the Caribbean islands were compelled to take stock of the situation
and to look for alternative strategies to maintain the buoyant rates Of growth
they have experienced in thie past.  The Dominican Republic is well placed as
it enters the tourismi market and it can formulate its development strategy
Laking advantage of past mistakes .1iade Jn t,he region.  As revards the Puerto
Plata oroject, the strategy will focus O. e  (a) attracting middle-income 1/
vlsitors with all-inclusive family vacation package tours to Playa Dorada;
and (b) attracting the traditional high-income 2/ visitors to the Caribbean
to Playa Grande.
4., 2      Sugas Td r.-ackages -for P laya Lorada would 4nclude four-day, seven-day
anc eve.  ',-day vacatlonS to be m,r :ated through wholesale and retail travel
outlets. At the "'vacation village" a typical eight-day/seven-night package on
iNLUP basis (Modified American Plan i .e. room, breakfast and one meal) has been
costed at US$173 3/' in summer and US$218 3/ in winter, excluding air fare and
personal expenses,  The package is priced well below the cost of comparable
packages at many other Garibbean destinations and the US$28 3/ average daily
expenditure is much lower than average daily expenditures in the Caribbean
hich are estimated at between JUS$4Ci-50 ,/ daily.  For the first time the
Caribbean will have a complete resort facility catering especially Lor
iiddle-income families.
"/  IUS$13-115,000 per year I(in 1971 prices ).
2/   Over US$15,000 per year- (in 1971 prices).
3/   All- figures in 1973 prices.



- 21 --
4.13      The Playa Grande development, accounting for about one fourth of
planned accommodation, will be aimed at attracting the American high-income
market. These hotels would compete with the traditional Caribbean destinations
and would offer MAP rates of $27-30 1/ per person per day in summer and
$38-40 1/ in winter.
4.14      The markets for Playa Dorada and Playa Grande will be mainly from the
Eastern part of the U.S. and will be promoted year-round although it is expected
that summer business will be slower from this market following the Caribbean
seasonal pattern. A nearby secondary market would comprise visitors from
Puerto Rico (population 2.5 million) who have strong cultural and language
ties with the Dominican Republic.
4.15      Hotels in the project areas have been assumed to reach 707 room
occupancy in 1985, nine years after the commencement of operations.  At Playa
Dorada, the vacation village is estimated to build up its occunancy from 45%
in its first full year of operation to 70% after 10 years of operation. At
Playa Grande, the hotels are expected to reach 70% occupancy by 1982, the
sixth year of operation. Double occunancy has been estimated at between 1.7
and 1.9 and the length of stay has been conservatively estimated at six ni-hts.
Occupancy assumptions are reasonable in light of the proposed marketing strategy,
and are consistent with experience in the Caribbean. Based on these assumptions
and on projected land leases, capital costs and operating ratios, the after-tax
internal rate of return on overall investment in hotels and apartments would
be 11.7% (Annex IX).
4.16      The projected numbers of tourists to Puerto Plata (150,000 in 1986)
are reasonable in the context of likely growth patterns of visitors to the
Caribbean region.  On the assumntion that the demand for Caribbean travel
doubles by 1985 from its 1972 figure of 3.9 million, arrivals at Puerto Plata
would represent less than 2% of total Caribbean arrivals.  Tf Caribbean ar-
rivals triple by 1985 (equivalent to a growth rate sAehtlv lower than the
current 10% rate), arrivals at Puerto Plata would renresent about 1% of all
Caribbean arrivals.
4.17      Studies conducted before the outset of the energy crisis predicted
that by 1985 more than 73% (or 48.8 million) of all U.S. families would earn
$10,000 or more per year, in constant 1971 prices.  Bank  research indicates
that the impact on U.S. visitor traffic to the Caribbean of an energv-costs-
related slowdown in U.S. income growth would be more than compensated by m,a-or
changes in U.S. vacation travel patterns.  Rising fuel costs will most ad-
versely affect long-haul foreign travel by air and autormobile travel withini
the U.S. For an increasing share of U.S. nationals, these modes of travel
will give way to air travel to nearby foreign destinations, such as the
Caribbean.
1/ All figures in 1973 prices.



- 22 -
4.18      Most foreign tourLsts will travel by air to and from Puerto Plata.
The Government intends to enter into the necessary agreements to make the
Puerto Plata airport a co-terminal with the Las Americas airport serving
Santo Domingo. In addition, the Government intends to declare an "open
skies" policy at Puerto Plata with respect to non-scheduled flights which
would enable charter flights to land on 48 hours' notice. The Government
has given the Bank assurances during negotiations that such steps would be
taken within three years of loan signing.
4.19      The Dominican Republic must create a positive image for itself as a
vacation destination. The ]National Directorate of Tourism is charged with this
task but so far, mainly because of a small budget, it has had limited success
(para. 2.11).  A marketing ?rogram must now be created to establish and main-
tain the Dominican Republic as a destination which can compete favorably with
other leading destinations. During negotiations, assurances were obtained
from the Dominican authorities that recommendations on an appropriate tourism
promotion program and a timetable for implementation would be submitted to
the Bank for approval within 12 months of loan signing and that funds to
implement the recommended program would be made available by the Government.
C. Financial Aspects
(i) Financial Objectives
4.20      The Government would be expected to recover the investment in the
facilities provided by the project, including a reasonable rate of return,
from charges to the beneficiaries, The achievement of this objective in re-
spect of the project areas necessarily depends on the ability of the Central
Bank to charge the hotels and other facilities with the full capital and oper-
ating costs of infrastructure without endangering their profitability, which
is the prerequisite for continued operation of the hotels.
4.21      Water supply, sewerage, electricity and telephone user charges would
be designed to meet the conventional objectives of providing the utility en-
tities with reasonable rates of return and of ensuring continuing financial
viability of the entities providing such services through the maintenance of
satisfactory debt service coverage.
(ii) Financial Forecasts
4.22      Electricity and telecommunication services would be provided by
CDE and CDT, respectively, inder normal contract arrangements directly to the
ultimate users in the two project areas.  The facilities to be constructed
under the project would be handed over by the Central Bank to CDE and CDT.
The Central Bank would recovrer this investment by including a surcharge in
its calculation of ground rents, sale prices for developed lots, rents from
property leases an,d service charges for common facilities. CDE and CDT are
operating under sound public utility regulations and earn reasonable rates



_ 23 _
of return on their assets. Inasmuch as the electricitv suipply cenmoonent of
the project is a material part of the infrastructure investment, a detailed
analysis of CDE's financial position is included in Annex IV7.
4.23      FinancilI forecasts for the water supply and sewerage operations
are included in Annex III. These forecasts indicate that water sunply and
sewerage services can be provided to the two proiect areas and to the commu-
nity of Rio San Juan, at acceptable rates leading to a rate of return on
gross fixed assets in operation of 9% from 1984 onwards. 1 i This wou-Ld ensure
full recovery of all capital and operating costs as we__i as debt service.
In order for INAPA to achieve this financial objective in t he  n itial years
cf operation as well - without subsidies and without excessive direct user
charges - the Central Bank would make annual payments to supplement INNAPA's
revenues from tuser cnarges in the 1977-1983 period.  These prepayments would
be treated as deferred charges and would be amortized within a reasonable
period against revenue from hotels and other establishments in the project
areas after operations have reached the full development stage in 1984.
The corresponding financial arrangement between the Central Bank and INAPA
should be included in the interagency agreement (para. 3.47) to be concluded
between these two entities, prior to loan effectiveness.  In view of the
financial situation of INAPA (Annex III), the interagency agreement should
stipulate that a separate commercial system of accounts would be established
and maintained for the water supply and sewerage facilities under the pro-
ject and that separate cash accounts should be maintained by INAPA.
4.24      Financial forecasts for the airport operations are included in Annex
V. The forecasts are based on the level of user charg,es now in effect at Las
Americas Airport which, particularly as regarjs landiniig fees, are considerably
low\er than those of most other Caribbean airports.  They indicate that during
the first two years of operation (1977-1973) cash operating expenses at Puerto
Plata would exceed revenue from landing fees, departure taxes, concession fees
and space rentals,  Although from 1970 onwards these revenues would increase
substantially, they would still be insulfficient to ensure debt service coverage
and a satisfactory operating ratio (operating expenses including depreciation
as a percentage of total revenue). To improve the airport's financial outlook,
the landing fees. space rentals, concession fees and direct user charges should
be increased substantially. To keep the two Dominican international airports
equally competitive, user charges at Las Americas would have to be increased
correspondingly. Desirable financial objectives would be the achievement
of full coverage of cash operating expenses from 1979 onwards, and an
operating ratio of 100% by 1984. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained that CAA assisted by accounting consultants would: (i) prepare
a proposal for revised user charges which would meet the abovementioned objec-
tives; and (ii) establish an accounting system which would permit subsequent
11 A rate of return on gross fixed assets, reasonably valued to take into
account changes in price level, was used rather than a rate of return
on net fixed -assets because of the self-contained nature of the project,
as explained in Annex III.



- 24 -
periodic revision of the charges and preparation of annual financial state-
ments.  The proposled new charges and the accounting system should be submitted
to the Bank within one year of the signing of the loan and the accounting
system be adopted within two years of this date. Assurances were also obtained
that the Government 1/ would provide CAA with funds to cover cash deficits in
operating expenses and debt service as well as asset replacement as the need arises,
4.25      Financial projections for the project facilities operated by the
Central Bank through the Puerto Plata project unit indicate that the Central
Bank would attain an annual rate of return of 10% on gross assets by the time
the project is in full operation (1986).
4.26      The Central Bank's revenues will include:  (a) ground rent from hotel
operators; (b) rerntal inrcome from property leases; (c) proceeds from sale of
land for private homes and apartments; and (d) service charges to hotel operators
for operating and maintaining the common resort facilities.
4.27      Pro'ect operating costs include maintenance, promotion, administra-
tion and payroll, depreciation on the assets operated by the Central Bank and
amortization of the capital and consumer contributions for electricity, tele-
conmSunications, water and sewerage, and capitalized pre-opening expenses.
Assumptions on revrenue and expenses are given in Annex VII.
4.28      The financial results of the overall infrastructure (including the
airport) are assessed in te-ms of a consolidated rate of return.  Assuming a
30-year operating period, the consolidated financial rate cf return on the
infrastructure uoulrd be about 9-.  A consciidated funds statement for the
Puerto Plata Projec4tw Unit within the Central Bank is shoxw  in Annex VII.
The projected revenues accr'Ai,-e to this unaiit are expected to enable it to
meet the debt serri7ce rec uirement for the resort facilities 'n every year
of the project's operation, assuming successful development of the hotel
complex.
4.29      The reso t onerations cannct 'e regulate& by specific financial
standards of performance covenants.  Tn adopting and applying policies related
to ground rent, viroper-v leases, selhing prices and service charges the Central
Bank should aim at obtaining revenues sufficient to produce a consolidated
rate of return on overall project investments in fixed assets (including those
wjhich would remain the property of the Central Bank and those which might be
ultim.ately transferred to other agencies) of 9% over a period of 30 years.
During negotiationas, agreement was reached with the Central Bank on acceptable
methods for calcu:lating and applying ground rent, property leases, selling
prices and service charges.
I/   Since the airport also serves the traffic needs of the Puerto Plata and
the Santiago regions, the Government rather than the Central Bank will
provide the necessary financial assistance to CAA.



- 25 -
4.30      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Puerto Plata
Project Unit wjould install a system of commercial accounts acceptable to the
Bank which would be maintained by the Central Bank. The accounting system
should be installed within six months of the signing of the loan.
4.31      During negotiations, assurances were also obtained that audit reports
of the accounts of INTFRATUR, of the Puerto Plata Project Unit and of those of
INAPA and CAA relating to the water/sewerage and airport commonents respec-
tively, be submitted to the Bank not later than four months after the close
of their fiscal years. The Superintendent of Banks would audit the accounts
in the Central Bank. The accounts of INAPA and CAA would be audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
D. Economic Justification
(i) Economic Rates of Return
4.32      The gross benefits to the economy resulting from the project would
be the expenditure of tourists attracted to the Playa Grande and Playa Dorada
areas. Although a portion of the net revenues of international transportation
of visitors is properly attributable to the project, it has not been taken
into account in the calculation of project rates of return. The net revenues
generated by the rental of apartments and condominia have also been excluded
from the calculations. Since the proposed development of resort apartments
and condominia would be a new experience in the Dominican Republic, no data
were available on which to base the quantification of these benefits.  Sim-
ilarly, quantification difficulties have prevented inclusion in the rates of
return of benefits associated with developing the Puerto Plata region on a
planned and integrated basis -- which will help avoid environmental deteriora-
tion in the region. The relevant costs are the capital and operating costs
of the infrastructure provided under the proposed project, and those of the
hotel and related superstructure facilities to be built in the two project
areas, plus the estimated capital and operating costs of producing the goods
and services to be consumed by visitors outside the project area.
4.33      Revenue assumptions have been based on a composite daily expenditure
per visitor to Playa Dorada and Playa Grande of about US$40.00, including ac-
commodation, food and beverage (US$30.50), shopping (US$4.00), sport and enter-
tainment (US$3.00), local transport and other items (1JSA2.50),(Annex X).
EHotel revenues assume an average length of stay of six days, a double occupancy
factor of 1.8 persons per room and an annual composite room occupancy of 46%
in the first year, rising to about 70% by the tenth year of operation. Gross
operating profits of hotels and other superstructure facilities have heen es-
timated on the basis of the experience of similar facilities now in operation
in the Dominican Republic and in other Caribbean destinations. Gross revenues
and operating costs of the utilities have heen based on projected consumption
by the hotels and other superstructure facilities, while the operating costs
of non-revenue earning infrastructure (such as streets and street lighting)
have been imputed to the gross operating profits of INFRATUR.



- 26 -
4.34      Total capital costs associated with the project amount to about
US$88 million - i.e. investments in infrastructure including the completion
of the airport (US$36 million), hotels and other superstructure facilities
in the project areas (US$50 million) and superstructure facilities outside
these areas (US$2 million).
4.35      With an estimated. economic life of the project of 30 years, the
economic rate of return on the investment in the Puerto Plata tourism devel-
opment would be 15.2% without shadow pricing labor, land or foreign exchange.
Given the extent of unemployment and underemployment existing in the
Dominican Republic, particularly in the areas away from the capital city
of Santo Domingo, the opportunity cost of labor is likely to be lower thar
wages received by employees in the project areas. The economic costs of
unskilled labor has thus been assumed to be equal to 75% of its monetary
cost in one sensitivity test. Since the project plans have become known
in the Puerto Plata region, prices for land have increased significantly.
in one of the sensitivity tests land has been priced 30% below acquisition
costs. The difference in the U.S. dollar/Dominican peso exchange rates be-
tween the official and parallel markets ranges from 6% to 12%, depending on
the time of the year. Foreign exchange has thus been priced 10% below par
value in one of the sensitivity tests.  Separate rates of return have been
computed for each of the project areas. The rate of return on the Playa
Dorada development is 15.02 and on the Playa Grande development is 16.0%.
4,36      The sensitivity of the rate of return to changes in key variables
is listed below:
Sensitivity Testil                                  Resultant Rate of Return (%)
Best estimate                                                  15.2
Investment cost           + 10X                                13.9
Gross Operating Profit   + 25%                                 18.4
+ 10%                                16.5
- 25%                                13.6
- 10%                                13e8
Two years delay in opening of hotels                           12.0
25% shadow pricing of unskilled labor                          16.7
30% shadow pricing of land                                     15.6
10% shadow pricing of foreign exchange                         15.6
4.37      Assuming that about half of the equity and debt capital for hotel
investments would come from abroad and that half of the hotels would be foreign
managed, the rate of return on the national investment outlays (including the
IBRD loan, but excluding both the foreign private investment and the net repay-
ment, and other reaturns accruing to foreigners) would be 16.2%. This rate is
higher than the project's overall return for two reasons.  Firstly, foreign
hotel investors would not share the benefits arising from tourist expenditures
outside the hotels. Secondly, their after-tax return would be somewhat lower
than the project's overall rate of return, with the result that the rate of
return accruing to national capital (including the IBRD loan) is increased.



- 27 -
Since the returns both on the overall project and on the Dominican funds in it
(including the IBRD loan) are quite satisfactory, the project is acceptable
under any reasonable assumption about its impact on foreign capital inflow
into the economy (para. 13, Annex X).
4.38      Among the facilities provided, the project includes investment in
water supply, sewerage and solid waste disposal systems to improve living
conditions in the village of Rio San Juan. These benefits have been taken
into account in the calculation of the return on the utilities' investment
and in the calculation of the project's rate of return to the extent that
they are reflected in water and sewerage charges. Due to quantiLication
difficulties, benefits resulting from dlecreased public health hazards have
been omitted from the calculations as have those derived from likely land
value increases.
4.39      Although development of the project areas beyond the 1,900 hotel
rooms planned under the project will require some additional infrastructure
investment, it will make use of some of the infrastructure provided under the
project (such as main power and water lines, streets and airport).  Thus a
share of the benefits resulting from develonment of the Puerto Plata areas
beyond 1986 would be properly attributahb.e to the present project. These
benefits have not been included in the rate of return computations, however,
since it is impossible to estimate tnem in a meaningful manner.
(ii) Balance of Payments Effect
4.40      The proposed project is expected to increase -ross foreign exchange
earnings bv about US84.1 million in 1977 when the first hotel one-as and by
about US$29 million per year from 1986 on, when all planned accomodation wil-
have become fully operational.  This compares with US38 million ^;ross foreign
exchange receipts from tourism in 1973.  Hotel income has been calculated on
the basis of net tour onerator prices for grounp tours.  Forei'n exchang,e rev-
enues accruinlg to Doriinican airlines fror internatlonal a-i'r tr.nvel> however,
have been excluded from the estimated gross foreign excbar.qe es
4.41      Forei;-,n exchange outflouls resultin' fr'0w vM   rf,   woul \JOP±    l
thle i-rport com,sponenL (ab.iout 15%) oF onTeratin.- costs  rt se-ice on fore-'ir',
hotel loans, management fees and div. dend naivn-.-; no fore-I.gn na.a"ement frms
and hotel investors, and debt service on the TTP"f)    n    -hI totai ou ,fIo w o
foreign exchange is est'mated to amount to Uq"XG'I.  7ilLion in 1977 risi-r- tc
US$10.0 million in 19S6.  This calculation doea  not take into account th£
increnmental imports likely to ensue frmr incre-seed vages for labor emploved
in the project.  The net foreign excharge earnings generated by the proiecr
would amount to about US$1.2 million in 1977, and about TJS.A19.0 million in
1986 and annually thereafter.
(iii) Employment Effect
4.42      Assumin-, a ratio of 1.8 employees per room, the hotels in the Puerto
Plata tourism areas would generate 3,400 new jobs bv 1986. Addlitional jobs
created in restaurants, shons, tour agencies, entertainment and recreational



- 28 -
facilities would amount to about 500. Indirect employment generated in con-
struction, handicrafts, agriculture, transportation and other services is
likely to account for 4,000 additional jobs.
(iv)   Budgetary Position
4.43       The current budgetary expenditures due to the project would include
the cost of government services at the Puerto Plata airport and the share of
the Government's touarism promotion expenditures attributable to the Puerto
Plata tourism development. These expenditures would increase from US$0.9
million in 1977 to 1JS$1.4 million by 1986. Budgetary receipts deriving from
the project would comprise proceeds from sales of tourist cards to foreign
visitors; sales taxes collected on room, beverage, food and other sales; and
income taxes on saliaries and profits. Sales taxes would increase from US$0.3
million in 1977 to US$2.1 million by 1986. Income tax returns will increase
from US$0.1 million in 1977 to US$0.3 million in 1986 and US$2.6 million in
1993.
4.44       In 1977, the project would involve a net budgetary cost of US$0.5
million. Small net budgetary receipts would appear in 1979. These net re-
ceipts would increase to USS1.2 million in 1986 and to US$3.5 million in 1993.
Taking into account the net budgetary receipts and the net operating income
of the government-owned entities, the internal financial rate of return to
governmrent on the investment at Puerto Plata would be 10.9%.
(v) Distribution of Benefits
4.45       The following table illustrates the distribution of benefits which
will be directly generated by the proposed project:
Table IV
Share of       Share of Operating   Rates of Return
Investment        Profit (1986)         (Disc.Cash Flow)
%                      %
INFRATUR and public utility
agencies operations               41                  20                     9.0
Hotel operations                    48                   46                   11.7
Other superstructure
facilities operations             11                  13                    15.8
Total |100                                         79
4.46       The remaining share of Gross Operating Profits (21%) is associated
with:  (i) operatiorns which will be established or expanded outside the resort
areas to meet visitor requirements for handicrafts, taxi services, recreation



- 29 -
services (e.g. restaurants, bar, sightseeing); voluntary tips and the compulsorv
service charge collected in hotels and restaurants both within and outside the
resort areas; (ii) collection by the Government of room taxes and taxes on the
issuance of tourist cards. These operations, which require relatively small
amounts of investm.ents and which will mainly benefit the local people, are
likely to be highly remunerative.  The economic rate of return on the overall
investment for the project (15.2%) is the resultant of the comparatively low
rates of return on infrastructure and hotel investments, and the high rate
of returrs On other-than-hotel operations.
5.  SOCIAL IMIPACT
5.00      The project's social impact on the Puerto Plata region resulting
from the influx of large numbers of visitors in a traditionally isolated region
is expected to be, on balance, favorable. Dominicans are hospitable and cour-
teous and their contacts with the tourists should offer possibilities of mutual
cultural enrichment.  Opportunity for invidiouis comparisons will be minimized
by the location of the two project areas.  iligher-income tourists will be
attracted to Plava Grande, which is relatively isolated from population centers,
while Playa Dorada, wqhich will be near Puerto Plata, will cater to middle-income
tourists. The increase in economic activity in the region will result in higher
standards of living for the population of the North Coast.
5.01      Paradoxically, however, a wave of prosperity in this chronically de-
pressed area, characterized by un- or underemployment and by emigration towards
Santiago and Santo Domingo, might create economic and social problems. The
prospect of the higher wages available to hotel employees would attract labor
to Puerto Plata.  There is a risk that this drift away from the land might
result in the springing up, near the project areas, of shanty towns which would
endanger the very assets wqhich the project intends to develop. Sizeable Gov-
ernment expenditures could be required to cope with the problems which immig-
rant flows would raise. Some of these potential ill effects would be reduced
if the benefits from tourism developments were evenly spread over the region
(e.g., if the marketing of agricultural products were organized in such a way
as to give farmers the ftull benefit from sales of foodstuiffs to hotels) and if
locally-based ancillary activities (such as small family hotels, light industry
and handicrafts) were encouraged. The proposed study of the tourism sector
(para. 3.25) is expected to provide INFRATUR with appropriate guidelines to
monitor the project's impact on the social fabric of the Puerto Plata region.
6.  AGREEa4NTS REACHED AND RECOM4ENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached and assurances were
obtained from the Government and the Central Bank with respect to the following:



30 -
(a)  completion of a study, within nine months from the signing
of the loan, of measures to elimiinate pollution by the
effluent of the Ronte Llano sugar mill and execution of
these mneasures in a manner satisfactory to the Bank within
the following 24 months (para 3.17);
(b)  provis:Lon of adequate financing for 200 low-income houses
near Playa Dorada by TliVI (para. 3.21);
(c)  submission for Bank approval of terms of reference for the
comprehensive sector study within six months of loan signing
and completio n of the study within 24 months of loan signing
(para. 3.25);
(d)  establishment oL adequate incentives for investment in the tourism
sector according to the recommendations of the sector study
(para. 3.25);
(e)  inproverment of hotel credit policies by the Central Bank
as recommended by the sector study (para. 3.25);
'f)  provs: o-n by the Govern-ment to the Central Bank of such funds
as shall be required for the efficient carrying out of the pro-
ject, wh.enever there is reasonable cause to believe that the
funds available to the Cer.tral Bank will be inadequate to meet
the estimated expenditures (para. 3.31);
(g)  submi-4's.son t tha ln1c.  ourir-clum, schedules of accommodation
and teacher requiremnnts and method of selecting trainees for
the holtel schools, w, thio six mentha of loan signing (para. 3.37);
kh)  preparatl°on ot a cr t.ical parth nerwork for the execution of
all  rork]s  ,1ithin six months of tne signing of the loan;
peri\ d:i c rev     of this plan, and comnmlunication of the results
{o the, Bank an a quarterly basis (para. 3.38);
(i)  appoint7ments and/or replacETieriets of the Puerto Plata Project
Un4t s 3-_ reot or and hi,s deput-t  at both implementation and
operational stages in consultation with the Ban> (para. 3.41);
(j )  undertaking by t.ie Covernment to use  its best e3fforts to expedite
the processing of passengers and their effects at the international
airports (para. 342);
(k)  undertaking by the Central Bank to uise its best efforts to cause
UCTM and the >anagement of the Montemar Hotel in Puerto Plata
to enter into an agreemeint satisfactorv to the Bank defining
their respective responsibilities as regards the practical
training of students at the proposed hotel school (para. 3.47);



- 31 -
(1) obtaining of full ownership title by the Central Bank of all
the land required for the project within two years of loan
signing (para 4.02).
(m)  provision by the Central Bank of all necessary complementary
financing for hotel development in the project areas, should
loan funds from other channels fall short of requirements
(para. 4.03);
(n) provision of incentives to investors in the project area not
less favorable than those granted for similar investments in
the tourism sector in any other part of the Dominican Republic
pending completion of the accommodation build-up (para. 4.04);
(o) submission, within six months of loan signing, of a timetable
of all steps to be taken in connection with the proposed hotel
investment promotion campaign (para. 4.05);
(P) commitment by the Central Bank to take steps, if necessary, to
ensure that 80% of the scheduled number of rooms are in opera-
tion by December, 1986, provided that the Central Bank and the
Bank agree on the existence of a potential market for these
rooms (para. 4.07);
(q)  undertaking by Government to use its best efforts to enter
into the necessary agreements to make the Puerto Plata Airport
co-terminal with the Las Americas airport serving Santo Domingo
and declaration within 3 years of loan signing of an onen skies
policy at Puerto Plata with respect to non-scheduled flights
(para. 4.18)
(r)  submission for Bank approval of a tourism promotion program
and of a timetable for implementation within one year of
loan signing, and adequate funding of the program by the
Government (para. 4.19);
(s)  preparation by CAA, assisted by consultants of a proposal for
revised airport user charges, and installation of an accounting
system to permit periodic review of these charges; submission
of these proposals to the Bank within one year of loan signing
and adoption of the accounting system within two years of loan
signing (para. 4.24);
(t)  provision by the Government to CAA of funds to cover casn
deficits and debt service as well as asset replacement as
the need arises (para. 4.24);
(u) adoption of methods for calculating and applying ground rents,
property leases, selling prices and service charges, acceptable
to the Bank (para. 4.29);



- 32 -
(v)  installation of a system of commercial accounts for the
Puerto Plata Project Unit acceptable to the Bank, within
six months of the signing of the loan, to he maintained by
the Central Bank (para. 4.30);
(w)  auditing of accounts of INTRATJR and the Puerto Plata Project
Unit by the Superintendent of Banks and. submission to the Bank
of the audit repcrts, not later than four months after the
close of the fiscal year (para. 4.31); and
(x)  auditing of the accounts in INTAPA and CAA relating to the
water/sewerage and airport components respectively, by inde-
pendent auditors acceptable to the Bank and submission of the
audit report to the Bank not later than four months after the
close of the fiscal year (para. 4.31).
6.02       The followin.g wou.ld be conditions of effectiveness of the proposed
loan:
(a)  approval by the Bank of the land-use and. develonment
regulations for t:he Puerto Plata region and the project
areas and issuance of legislation putting them into effect
(para. 3.11);
(b)  retention of consultants, acceptable to the Bank, for the
final design and supervision of the implementation of all
project works upon terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank (para. :l .36);
(c)  appointment, in consultation with the Bank, of the Puerto Plata
Project Unit's director and of his deputy (para. 3.41); and
(d)  conclusion of agreements acceptable to the Bank, between the
Central Bank and the agencies (C-AA, CDT, CDE and INAPA)
responsible for operating and maintaining the project components,
defining the administrative and technical responsibilities
and required staffing as well as their financial interrela-
tionships (para. 3.47).
6, 3       lHaving regar(d to the agreements reached during negotiations, the
project is suitable for a Bank loan of USS21 million equivalent.



ANNEX I
Table 1
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
Paerto Plata Tourism Project
Main Ecports (1971-1978)
(US$ million)
A c t u a l                  P r o j e c t e d
1971    1972    1973    1974    1975    1976    1977    1978
Raw Sugar       133.9  159.7   187.1   420.0  390.0   378.0  420.0  458.0
Coffee           22.1    25.1    39.7   42.9    51.2    58.7    61.4   63.6
Cocoa            13.0   16.0    19.5   30.9   30.2    36.0    37.4   35.6
Tobacco          20.8    28.6    29.8   32.0   33.0   34.0   35-.   36.0
Red Meat          3.0     6.7    10.1   13Q1    16.6   18.4    21.0    24.4
Bauxite          16.0    14.9    14.8    22.9    27.8    32.5    37.7    43.5
Ferronickel       0.5    47.0    83.5   82.5    83.6    84.8   86.1    87.4
Gold and Silver   -                               48.o    48.o    48.o    48.o
Tourism          21.4   32.9    37.9    43.5   50.0    57.5   66.2    76.1
Source: Volume data from Updating Report on the Economy of
the Dominican Republic (IBRD Report No 62a-DO, April 16, 1973)
and revised price projections.



DOMINICAN RD'BLIC
Puerto Plata Tourism Project
Accommodation ExcistIng in the Republica/
(July 31,, 1973)
Nuimber of Rooms                     Ownership                       Location
Public             Private       Santo Domi go      Other
Rooms       5       Rooms      -      Rooms          Rooms
Opened before 1961                  1,.057            1,017       96       40          4     806       76    251      24
Opened between 1968-JuIr 1973                           112       20      4,34        80     210       38    336      62
TOTAL xisting                       1,603             1,,129      71      474         29   1,016       63    587      37
To be (,opened by 1975              1,171               409       35      762         65     903       77    268      23
a/ Suitable for international tourism.
Notes No rooms were opened between 1961 and 1968
Sources INFRATUR and National Tourism Directorate
H 



ANNEX I
Table 3
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
Puerto Plata Tourism Project
Growth of Foreign and Domestic Visitors to the Dominican Republic (1968-197:3)
Year    Foreignersl      Index    Domestic   Index    Total       Index
Visitors-2
1968      60,200           81       8,3003'      n.a.     -         -
1969      74.,200         100       19,500       100    93,700     100
1970      67,600           91      22,200        114    88,800      96
1971     106,500          144      31,000        159   137,500     146
1972     135,100          182      48,200       247   183,300     195
1973     182,000          245      44,600        229   2266o00     242
1/ Including cruisers
2/ Dominicans residing abroad
/ Five months (August-December)
Source: National Tourism Directorate



ANNEX I
Table 4
DCO4INICAN REPUBLIC
Puerto Plata Tourism Project
Distribution of Foreign Arrivals by Means of Transportation (1968-1973)
At    Airports                       At     Seaports]!      TOTAL
Year        Number         %  of  Total  Number           %  of  Total
1968         57,000             94.7       3,200             5.3          60,200
1969         69,1100            93.1       5,100             6.9          74,200
1970         63,000             93.3       4,600             6.7          67,600
1971         89,100             83.7      17,,400           16.3         106,500
1972        113,100             83.7      22,000            16.3         135,100
1973        134,100              73.7     47,900            26.3         182,000
1/ Cruisers
Source: National Tourism Directorate



ANNEX I
Table 5
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
Puerto Plata Tourism Project
Foreign Visitors by Nationality (1968-1973)
(percentages)
Nationality             1968      1969     1970    1971     1972      1973
U.S.                    80.6      76.8     81.0    84.1      85.9      86.o
of which: Mainland      33.0    30.5       41.6    49.0     48.9      51.7
Puerto Rico   47.6    46.3      39.4    35.1      37.0      34.3
Venezuela                1.9      3.1       1.7     1.5      1.8       1.8
Cuba                     2.1      1.9       1.2     0.7      0.7        1.6
Haiti                    0J4      0.3       0.4     0.3      0.2        0.3
Other                   15.0     17.9      15.7    13.4     11.3      10.3
TOTAL                  100.0    100.0    100.0   100.0    100.0      100.0
Source: National Tourism Directorate



ANEXE I
Table 6
DCMTIJNICN_ RErUrLTIC
Puerto Plata Tourisr  Project
Se0sonality of Tourfrift  Arrivals
(1968-1972)
Average   Percent-
Month                    1 968      1969       1970       1971       1972   1273   1968-73   age
January                  3,200      5,300     7,003      6,400    11,800  11,800   7,50o        7.2
February                 3,800      5,403     5,900      7,100    11,600  10,500   7,500         7.2
March                    3,400      5,900      5,900      8,10G)    11,303  11,500   7,500       7.2
April                    4,200      5,600      3,100     8,600      9,100  14,000   7A400        7.1
Vlay                     4,500      6,400      3,200     8,200      8,200  13,200   7,400        7.1
Juene                    6,100      5,900     4,800      8,900    10,300  15,000   8,500         8.1
July,                    7,100      9,300     7,900    14, 500    16,209  22,400  12,900    12.4
Aug.:st                  6,800      6,800      6,300     9,800    13,200  19,400  10,400    10.0
September               4,000      4,300      5,200      6,900      8,4CC  13,4QQ.  7,100       6.8
Octob,er                 4,300      5,300     5,300      7,000      9,700  13,700  *7, °0        7.2
November                 6,200     4,900      5,700      8,500      9,°,00  15,QQ0   8,300       7.9
Deccmber               _6,600      9_100      8 3C0    12 500    15,40  22,100  12,300    11.8
To:.al               60200    74200    67            106.500   135,0_0 182,000 1            100.0
Source:     National Tourism Directorate



ANNEX II
Page 1
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
APPRAISAL OF THE PUERTO PLATA TOURISM PROJECT
Project Description
The project consists of the following elements:
A. Playa Dorada
-  site preparation
- roads, scenic trail and storm water drainage
- water supply and sewerage systems
-  solid waste disposal, environmental sanitation and
control of effluent from sugar mill
- electric power, lighting and telecommunications
-  earthworks, landscaping and beach improvements
- golf course, clubhouse, stables and riding school
- shopping and public beach facilities
- fire-fighting facilities
B. Playa Grande
- roads and storm water drainage
- water supply and sewerage systems
- solid waste disposal and environmental sanitation
- electric power, lighting and telecommunications
- landscaping and beach improvement
- golf course, clubhouse, stables and riding school
- public beach facilities
-  fire-fighting facilities
C. Site works for low-income housing program, seaside park and road
near Playa Dorada
D. Water supply and sewerage systems for the village of Rio San Juan
near Playa Grande
E. Access road, terminal building, navigational equipment and other
facilities for the partially built international airport near
Puerto Plata.



ANNEX II
Page 2
F. Hotel training facilities at Puerto Plata.
G. Consulting services for:
-  topographic, water resources and soil surveys
-  final design and supervision
- project coordinat,ion and implementation
- investment promotion
- preparation of second tourism infrastructure project
- technical assistance to the hotel school
- sector study.



ANNEX II
Page 3
Statistical Appendix to Annex II
Project Cost Estimates
1.   General Cost Estimates (including contingencies)
Table 1.1  - Breakdown of Total Project Cost
Table 1.2  - Breakdown of Costs by Year
Table 1.3  -  Cost Estimates:  Playa Dorada (Summary)
Table 1.4  - Cost Estimates:  Playa Grande (Summary)
Table 1.5  -  Cost Estimates:. Airport and Hotel Training School (Summary)
Table 1.6  -  Cost Estimates:  Promotion, Administration
and Technical Assistance
Table 1.7  -  Schedule of Expenditures by Project Component - Quarterly
Table 1.8  - Forecast of Disbursements
Table 1.9  -  Contingency Allowances
Table 1.10 -  Cost Estimates by Project Component - Summary
2.   Detailed Cost Estimates (excluding contingencies)
Table 2.1  - Playa Dorada
-  Cost of Earthworks
- Cost of Storm Water Drainage
- Cost of Roads and Scenic Trail
- Cost of Water Supply
- Cost of Sewerage
Table 2.2  - Playa Dorada
- Cost of Solid Waste Disposal
- Cost of Environmental Sanitation
- Cost of Electricity, Road and Trail Lighting
- Cost of Telecommunications
- Cost of Landscaping and Beach Improvement
Table 2.3  - Playa Dorada
- Cost of Fire-Fighting Facilities
- Cost of Shopping Facilities
- Cost of Golf Course and Clubhouse
- Cost of Stables and Riding School
- Cost of Beach Facilities and Restaurant
Table 2.4  -  Playa Dorada
-  Cost of Soil Consolidation
-  Cost of Site Works for 200 Low Cost Houses
-  Cost of Seaside Park and Road



ANNEX II
Page 4
Table 2.5  - Playa Grande
- Cost of Storm Water Drainage
- Cost of Roads
- Cost of Water Supply
- Cost of Sewerage
- Cost of Solid Waste Disposal
Table 2.6  -  Playa Grande
- Cost of Environmental Sanitation
- Cost of Electricity, Road and Trail Lighting
- Cost of Telecommunications
- Cost of Landscaping and Beach Improvement
- Cost of Fire-Fighting Facilities
Table 2.7  -  Playa Grande
- Cost of Golf Course and Clubhouse
-  Cost of Stables and Riding School
-  Cost of Beach Facilities and Restaurants
Table 2.8  -  Cost of Rio San Juan - Water Supply
-  Cost of Rio San Juan - Sewerage
Table 2.9  -  Cost of Airport
Table 2.10 -  Cost of Hotel Training School
Table 2.11 -  Cost of Investment Promotion
-  Cost of Project Administration
- Cos3t of Technical Assistance



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC:  PUERTO PLATA TOURISM PROJECT
Breakdown of Total Project Cost
(RD$ 000)
Exchange Rate: US$1.00 = RD$1.00
Land          Civil                       Professional      Total Phy.       Investment             Project         Tecinical            Total
Code                                              Acquisition       Works       Equipment         Services        Facilities        Promotion        Administration       Assistanice      Project Cost
1.0            Playa Dorada                           1,589         7,266          1,741            1,206            11,802             357                 87                 500             12,746  -
2.0            Playa Grande                           2,062         2,215            788              300             5,365             176                 44                 250              5,835
3.0            Airport                                   -          3,502            753              426             4,681              -                  40                 230              4,951
4.0            Hotel Training School                     20           249            157                40              466              -                   3                 220                689
7.3            Special Studies                           -              -             -                 -                -               -                   -                 400                400
Base Line Cost                        3.671         13,232         3.439             1,972           22,314             533                 174               1,600            24,621
Contingencies:
Physical Increase                   -          1,985            516                -             2,501              -                   -                  -               2,501
Price Increase                     -           5,884          1.759               746            8,389             114                 45                 323              8,871
Total Contingencies                 -          7,869          2,275              746            10,890             114                 45                 323             11,372      e3
TOTAL PROJECT COST                    3,671         21,101         5,714             2,718            33,204             647                219               1,923             35,993      -.
Foreign Exchange Component:
Percentage                          -           55%            95%              70%               57%              90%                15%                 67%               58%
Amount                              -         11,572          5,445             1,904           18,921             581                  32                 1,292          20,826
OCTOBER 1974



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC: PUERT'O PLATA TOURISM PROJECT
Breakdown of Costs by Year
(RD$ 000)
Exchange Rate: US$1.00 = RD$1.OO
a/
Civil                                        Professional           Lanid        Total        Foreign
Code                                                        Works      Equiptpoent    Contingencies         Services        Acquisition       Cost      Each. Co.p.       Year 1       Year II    Year III    Year IV
1 1 -1 16  PlIyc ner-da T.-ri-m ABre                        6 873        1,733             . ,957             1,516             1,589        18,968        1,597            1,300       J2
1.16-1.17  Puerto Plata Site Works & Seaside Park             393             8              278                 62                -            741           530              31          281           331          98
Total - Playa Dorada                      7,266        1,741            5,235               1,578             1,589        17,409       10,117            1,939       5,536         5,768        2,577
2.1 -2.13  Playa Grande Tourism Area                        2,065           639           1,873                 416             2,062         7,055         3,187             208        1,098        2,753          934
2.14-2.15  Rio San Juan Water Supply & Sewerage               150           149              184                 44                 -           527           338              22          180           272          53
Total - Playa Grande                      2,215           788           2,057                 460             2,062         7,582         3,525             230        1,278        3,025          987
3.0         Airport                                         3,502           753           2,628                 624                 -         7,507        4,838              912        2,739        3,429          427
4.0         Hotel Trainiog School                             249           157              224                  56                20          706           441              28          516           142           -
5.0         Investment Promotion                               -             -               114                533                 -           647           581             194          219           234           -
6.0         Project Administration                             -             -                45                174                 _           219            32              43           69            76           31
7.0         Technical Assistance c/                            -             _               323              1,600                 -         1,923         1,292             880          424           399         220      -j a
TO'TAL PROJECT COST                           13,232         3,439           10,626               5,025             3,671       35,993        20,626            4,226      10,781        13,073        4,242      n
a/ Ineludes Project Administration and all Consulting Services.
h/ Of which US$775,000 will be retroactively financed.
c/ Includes Funds for Special Services.
JULY 1974



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC:  PUERTO PLATA TOURISM PROJECT
Cost Estimates: Playa Dorada (Summary)
Exchange Rate: US$1.00 = RD$1.00
For. Exch.
Code                                                       Civil Works        Equipment    Total Cost          Comp.       Year I    Year IT    Year III    Year IV
RD$ 000          RD$ 000       RD$ 000         RD$ 000       RD$ 000   RD$ 000    RD5 000          RD$ 000
1.1       Earthworks                                            412                -            412             309             -        288          124             -
1.2       Storm Water Drainage                                  182                 -           182             127             -        109           55            18
1.3       Roads and Scenic Trail                              1,133               50          1,183             828             -        658          259          266
1.4       Water Supply                                          728              974          1,702          1,129              -        684          688          330
1.5       Sewerage                                              298              178            476             298             -        126          282           68
1.6       Solid Waste Disposal                                    -               45             45              41             -          -           45             -
1.7       Environmental Sanitation                               45               18             63              18             -         27           18            18
1.8       Electricity and Road Lighting                         378              166            539             404             -        134          290           115
1.9       Telecommsunications                                   165               21            186             139             -         66           99            21
1.10      Landscaping and Beach Improvement                     405               20            425             276             -        105          193           127
1.11      Fire-Fighting Facilities                               15               40             55              38             -           -          55             -
1.12      Shopping Facilities                                   270               70            340             204             -          -          272            68
1.13      Colf Course and Clubhouse                             708               91            799             479             -        142          485           172
1.14      Stables and Riding School                              61                6             67              40             -           -          49            18
1.15      Beach Facilities and Restaurants                      128               54            182             109             -           -         146            36
Subtotal before Contingencies                 4,923            1,733          6,656           4,439             -      2,339        3,060         1,257
Contingencies:                                     (3,329)          (1,171)        (4,500)         (3,002)            -    (1,247)       (2,140)      (1,113)
Physical Increase                               738              260            998             666             -        351          458           189
Price Increase                                2,591              911          3,502           2,336             -        896        1,682           924
Professional Services:                                   -                -        (1,016)           (678)         (508)      (162)        (237)         (109)
Final Design                                       -                -           508             339           508           -            -
Supervision                                                         -           508           _339              -         162         237           109
TOTAL COST                                              -                -         12,172           8,119           508      3,748       5,437         2,479
1.16      Soil Consolidation                                  1,950                 -         1,950             825         1,000         950           -             -
Contingencies:                                       (457)                -          (457)           (193)         (150)      (307)
Physical Increase                                293                -           293              124          150         143
Price Increase                                   164                -            164              69             -        164
Professional Services:                                   -                -          (500)           (450)         (250)       (250)
Geotechnical Control                               -                -           500             450           250         250
TOTAL COST                                              -                 -         2,907           1,468         1,400      1,507            -             -
1.17      Site Works for 200 Low Cost Houses                    147                 -           147             110              -        105          42             -
1.18      Seaside Park and Road                                  246                8           254              177             -         67          139           48
Subtotal before Contingencies                    393                8           401              287             -        172          181           48
Contingencies:                                       (273)              (5)          (278)           (199)             -        (97)       (135)          (46)
Physical Increase                                 59                1             60              43             -         26           27             7
Price Increase                                   214                4            218             156             -         71          108            39
Professional Services:                                   -                -           (62)            (44)          (31)        (12)         (15)          (4) !
Final Design                                       -                -             31              22            31           -           -             -        H
Supervision                                        _                _             31              22             -         12           15             4     . H
TOTAL COST                                               -                -           741             530            31         281          331           98
GRAND TOTAL - Playa Dorada                                                         15820           10,117         1,939       5,536       5,768         2,577
JULY 1974



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC: PUERTO PLATA TOURISM PROJECT
Cost Estimates:  Playa Grande (SummarY)
Exchange Rate: US$1.00 = RD$1.00
For. Exch.
Code                                                     Civil Works       Equipment    Total Cost       _o__L        Yoar I    Year II    Year III    Year IV
RD$ 000         RD$ 000       RD$ 000        RD$ 000       RD$ 000   RD$ 000    RD$ 000        RD$ 000
2.1      Storm Water Drainage                                122                -           122             85             -         74          36           12
2.2      Roads                                               159                -           159            lll             -         95          34           30
2.3      Water Supply                                        224              197           421            269             -        132         248           41
2.4      Sewerage                                            136               64           200            132             -         73         106           21
2.5      Solid Waste Disposal                                   -              15            45             41             -          -          45            -
2.6      Environmental Sanitation                             45               18            63              18            -         27          18           18
2.7      Electricity and Road Lighting                        140              57           197             148            -         66        11            30
2.8      Tel ecimuni- tion                                     54               9            63             47             -         91         3'             0
2.9      Landscaping and Beach Improvement                   193               16           209            136             -         54          93           62
2.10     Fire-Fighting Facilities                              15              40            55             38             -          -          55            -
2.11     Golf Course and Clubhouse                           708               91           799            479             -        142         485          172
2.12     Stables and Riding School                            61                6            67             40             -          -          49           18
2.13     Beach Facilities and Restaurants                    208               96           304            182             -         -_        _243           61
Subtotal before Contingencies               2,065              639         2,704          1,726             -       6814       1,547         703
Contingencies:                                   (1,425)           (448)       (1,873)         (1,195)           _       (367)    (1,086)         (420)
Physical Increase                             310               96           406            259             -        103         232           71
Price Increase                              1,115              352         1,467            936             -        264         854          349
Professional Services:                                _                -          (416)          (266)        (208)       (47)       (120)          (41)
Final Design                                     -               -           208             133          208          -           -             -
Supervision                                      -               -           208            133           _           47         120           41
TOTAL COST                                            -                -        4,993           3,187          208      1,098       2,753          934
2.14     Rio San Juan - Water Supply                           62             112           174             122            -         63          94           17
2.15     Rio San Juan - Sewerage                               88              37           125              70            -         51          63           11
Subtotal before Contingencies                 150              149           299            192             -        114         157           28
Contingencies;                                      (92)             (92)         (184)          (118)           -        (58)       (103)          (23)
Physical Increase                               23              22            45              29            -         17          24            4
Price Increase                                  69              70           139              89            -         41          79           19    > 
Professional Services:                                -                -           (44)           (28)         (22)         (8)       (12)           (2)    - H
Final Design                                     -               -            22              14           22          -           -             -
Supervision                                      -               -            22              14            -          8          12            2
TOTAL COST                                            -                -           527            338           22        180         272            53
GRAND TOTAL - Playa Grande                            -                -        5,520           3,525          230      1 278       3 025           ___
JULY 1974



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC: PUERTO PLATA TOURISM PROJECT
Cost Estimates: Airport and Hotel Training School (Summary)
Exchange Rate:  US$1.00 = RD$1.00
For. Exch.
Code                                                       Civil Works       Equipment    Total Cost         Comp.        Year I    Year II    Year III    Year IV
RD$ 000         RD$ 000        RD$ 000         RD$ 000      RD$ 000   RD$ 000    RD$ 000          RD$ 000
3.0      Airport                                             3,502              753         4,255           2,742           426      1,701        1,914           214
Contingencies:                                    (2,157)            (471)        (2,628)        (1,694)         (149)       (920)     (1,365)         (194)
Physical Increase                               525              113           638             411            64        255          287           32
Price Increase                                1,632              358         1,990           1,283            85        665       1,078           162
Professional Services:                                  -                -          (624)           (402)        (337)       (118)       (150)          (19)
Final Design                                                       -           312             201           312           -           -             -
Supervision                                                        -           312             201            25        118          150           19
TOTAL COST                                              -                -         7,507          4,838           912      2,739        3,429           427
4.0      Hotel Training School                                 249              157            406             261             -        325          81             -
Contingencies:                                       (136)            (88)          (224)           (144)            -       (169)         (55)           _
Physical Increase                                37               24             61             39             -         49           12             -
Price Increase                                   99               64           163             105             -        120           43             -
Professional Services:                                  -                -           (56)            (36)          (28)       (22)          (6)           -        H
Final Design                                                       -             28              18           28           -           -             -
Supervision                                                        -             28             18             -         22            6             -
TOTAL COST                                                               -           686             441            28        516          142             -
JULY 1974



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC:   PUERTO PLATA TOURISM PROJECT
Cost Estimates:   Promotion, Adminiistration and Technical Assistance
Exchange Rate: US$1.00 = RD$1.00
Codc                                                                          totai Cost           For. Exch. Comp.            Year I           Year II           Year III           Year IV
RD$ 000                  RD$ 000               RD$ 000           RD$ 000           RD$ 000           RD$ 000
5.0              Investment Promotion                                            533                      479                    176              181                176                 -
Contingencies:
Price Tncrease (10% per year)                              114                      102                     13               38                58
TOTAL COST                                                      647                      581                    194              219                234                 _
6.0              Project Administration                                          174                        25                    39                57                57                 21
Contingencies:
Price Increase (10% per year)                               45                        7                      4               12                19                 10
TOTAL COST                                                      219                       32                     43               69                 76                31         >
7,0              Technical Assistance                                          1,600                    1,075                    800              350                300               150      ,.
Contingencies:
Price Increase (10% per year)                              323                      217                     80               74                99                 70
TOTAL COST                                                    1,923                    1,292                    880              424                399               220
JULY 1974



DOYINICAN REPUBLIC: PUJERTO PLATO TOCURISM PROJECT
Uoed,ole of Eoe-dOr-ee  by Frojeot CopnnLMUatnl                                                                         OE  II
Table 1.7
(REQ 000)
Uo-Ih-ge Rot.:  LIUOR0   00RD1.00
Cyde                                                            9-1       02       23      41        (5       9       2        9         99       TO        991      01       013        1         10      516      T.91.1
1.1  -  .15  Playo Dorada Te... I   Aro                          03      130       135       510     470       TAO    1,200    1,300    1,430    1,400   1,330    1,257         052       610      473       044     15,0T9
1.10            I    otllno                                      -        -        700     7100      700       703      107        -        -         -        -        -         -        -         -        -       2,907
,l7-1O,.roloo izaOorlkoao-Aool-ieta P                            -        -         11i      20       -          2       91    _130        125        73       70       61        59       -         -        40         741
Tolo,1 - Plan  Vo-da  (Qaotre1 y)           65      130       846      000    7,17U    1,533    1,300    1,430    1,575   1,475    1,400    1,310    R,U10           613      473       CR4     15,820
T-ta   -YUta  0                                                 1,930
Total    Y-Ta  ITT                                                                                                                         3,700
Tole     Y-Ue  70                                                                                                                                                                2,377
Totl   oooalr%e                                                 1.930                                7,475                                13,243                                15,807
7.1   -1.13  Playa Otno'de TSoorIt  Ant                          33       33        R0       03       00       110      350       530      000      710       683      363       350      205       172      203      4,993
7.14 - 2.15  RIo la-anBaon0071  0 Sa--a-                         -        -         10       12        -        -        60       BO       100       05L      -50       42                L2         33      -           3120
Total - Pleye Irande  (Q-o-ely)             33       7         70       13       00       110      430      658       900      000       730      005      350       225      203       207      5,320
Tolal    Y-Sa  B                                                  730
Tota   -YSan III                                                                                                                           3,023
Totl --Tna  IC                                                                                                                                                                987
Total (Atono,olaRlnel                            ~~~~~230                            1,000                                4,533                                 5,520
3.0            Aitpo~t
Total by Q-art-                                  130       53      270       342      360      440       BOO   1,369    1,405    1,030         050      300       174       90       83        00      7,500
Coral  -  Seat II                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2,030
Ur... I   - Sa  1-I                                                                                                                        3,420
Total (A--1-lalne                                                910                                3.651                                 3,0O0                                 7,507
4.0           HNote1 Or-iln   Orbohal
tota  by Q-at-e                                    0       15        -         7       s3       BSC      110      002        02       32        17       11        -        -         -        -          686
Tonl.     YIa   -7                                                                                      316
Tota I    -  a  ITl                                                                                                                          142
Tonal    Y-  a  IV
Tonal CInon-1-oi-                                                  20                                   544                                  686                                   6866
T.,.,yqoonao                                      L        43        51-      55       53        33       55        54       00       OR        90       34        -        -         -        -          647
Total      Y--OceI                                                109
Total1     Teor 70                                                                                      210
ToRI       Y-  o  1V
T-1lUooaaSo)104                                                                                         413                                  047                                   047
6.0            Projent AdmnOi,inrt-tn
T.n_albypQoa..t-                                  10       10        00       13       15        10       17        02       20       20        20       16        16       13                 -          219
Coa "I      na                                                     43
T-nl      Veer if                                                                                        60
Tota   -     at TV                                                                                                                                                                  31
Ttl(A-onola -re                                                 43                                  11259                                                                       210
7.0            TehobroltAlonl-t-t
Total by Q-ottt                                  323      210      110       140      iII       110      1CC       0  100            BOO  100  c         99       10        70       70        -       1,923
Total     YVeT E                                                                                        424
Ttl-       Teat OIII30
Tnoal      Year IV                                                                                                                            3920
De-I lAoonanoo                                                     O                                  1,304                                1,003                                 1,023
TOTAL PROJECT COOT                               646      610   1,460    1,510    1,040   2,370    3,028   3,043   4,217    3,507    2,030    2,4172    1,030    1,010              831       771     32,320/
Ler                                                             4,226
Tear BE0,78l
UaeIII                                                                                                                                    1,0
Year PT                                                                             ______ ~~~~~~~~                        -4.242
TataB  OooA- oatin-)                                            4,220                               05,007                                21,013                                32,322
&  -onldes Land A.btq    itloo   130$ 3.671,0001.
4/1.ltlodes Fords Eft SptIal Stndi-s
JU$? 1904



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC: PUERTO PLATA TOURISM PROJECT
Forecast of Disbursements
Implementation Quarter                                         DISBURSEMENTS                            UNDISBURSED BALANCE
Quarterlv       %       Cumulative      %              Ouarterlv      _ 
(US$ 000)                (US$ 000)                     (US$ 000)
First Year          Q1                                      -           -                 -               21,000        100.0
Q2                              450         9-9         4L5         2 929 ,40                       97 8
Q3                              450         2.2          900        4.2               20,000        95.7
Q4                               950       4.5         1,850        8.8               19,050        91e1
Second Year         Q5                             1,000        4.8        2,850       13.6               18,050         86.4
Q6                            1,200         5.7       4,050        19.4               16,850        80.6
Q7                            1,500         7.2        5,550       26.6               15,350        73.4
Q8                            1,900         9.1        7,450       35.6               13,450        64.4
Third Year          Q9                             2,300       11.0        9,750       46.7               11,150         53.3
Q10                           2,700        12.9       12,450       59.6                8,450        40.4
Qll                           2,200       10.5       14,650        70.1                6,250        29.9
Q12                           1,800         8.6       16,450       78.7                4,450        21.3    X M
Fourth Year         Q13                            1,600        7.7       18,050       86.4                 2,850        13.6
Q14                           1,000         4.8       19,050       91.1                1,850         8.9
Q15                              700        3.3       19,750       94.5                1,150         5.5    m
Q16                              650        3.1       20,400       97.6                  600         2.4
Fifth Year          Q17                              600        2.4       21,000       100.0               ___
Total                                    21,000       100.0          -          _
OCTOBER 1974



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC:  PIUERTO PJIAT  TOURISM PROJECT
Contingency Allowances
(RDS COO)
Exchange Rate: UIS$l.5D 0 RD$1.00
LAND ACQUI51TION              CTVII WORKS0    _           UUIP1ENT           PROFESSIONAL SERVICES   INVESTMENT PROMOTION    PRCo   AIOATSETDEIOQN   TVCIICAL ASSESTANEC                       TOTAL EOsr
Local  F-ci     Eel               F.0.. V Loca   Total.   Local  F-eUin   ToRl  Local  Vocei01   Toitx   Local  Votelx   Total  L               ocal -     t      ot al   cln   TotalLa   F-Eo   Total
Eocel Pealedt Cxci inaladlnn Cencinneocinl                                3,671      -      3,671  5,992       7,240  13,232   207    3,232   3,439    584         1,388    1,972      54      479      533      149       25      174      525     1,075    1,600  11,182  13,439   24,621
Percent of Total                                                      100      -         100T     45O      55T      lI0lT    67.      9 4       E  100    307    70%         %   I%        90S     100      85I,'     15T.    lSt,    O337        67SA    100lT,     45L      557     SOO(T
Contiangncies:
(e) Phypi-el Inirnase:
Percentag1 -                                                                 -         SOT      1ST      lT    lT          SOT      l--                                                                                     -        -         -          8        i2       10%
Amount                                                                                899   1,086    1,985         31     485      516     -                                                                                                   -          o30   1,571    2,501
Percentage (4 yeca-)                                       -        -        -        43S       46T      45%  5A,          51i'     51%   40%        37%       38%    22%      21%       21'h    26%      287I      26%     20%       206       20%TC    27% 4CL.           36A
Amoant                                                     -        -         -    2,563   3,321   5,884    105         1,654    1,759   231        515       A46     12      102       114      38         7       45     106        217      323   3,055   5,816    8,871         t
(c)  Tactl Cntin-lencie-
Pe-eeeage_                                                                             58%      61X       59'    66%       66S .    - SO.             37% 3O     %   22%       21'T      21%     267 .    28TT O    26%     20T        20%      20T       36%      55T      46SIT
A-o-oc                                                     -        -              3 3,462   4,407   7,869   136       2,139   2,275    231          515      746     12      102       114      38        7        4O     106        217      323   3,985   7,387  11,372
Prcenc eEi   Cal                                           -        -         -        SOT 44%   56%      100%    6'''     94%     100%    312        692    1OOT    11%       8 91     100%     84%       16%     100E     33X        67% T   IO0',      35O/,    65%    lO0T
Vocal Penmt Coac loaladlai  Calontingencit                               03,671             3,60/1  9,454  11,647  21,101    343    5,371    5,714   815           1,903   2,718    66         581       647     187       32       219    631      1,292    1,923  15,167  20,826  35,993
Pe-cnc of  ToLal                                           100l     -         TOOL    45        55%     100S A 6OET        94%     100%     30%       70%     10TL    10%      90%      1007D    85'      157      100%     33% 6O7 %           01)2     42%       58OI    EITOY
JULY 1974



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC: PUERTO PLATA 'OURISM PROJECT
Cost Estimates by Project ComponenL - Summary
Exchange Rate: US$1.00 = RD$1.00
a/              a/b/
Code                                                                         Civil Works        Equipment      Total Cost       For. Exch. Coup.       Year I        Year TI      Year III       Year IV
RD$ 000          RD$ 000          RD$ 000            RD$ 000            RD$ 000      RD$ 000       RD$ 000       RD$ 000
1.1 - 1.15    Playa Dorada Tourism Area                                       89752              2,904          12,172               ,110                            3,748        ,,43
1.16           Soil Consolidation                                              2,407                -            2,907              1,468              1,400         1,507           -
1.17- 1.18    SiLe Works and Seaside Park                                        666                13              741               530                  31          281          331             98
Total - Playa Dorada                                     11,325             2,917           15,820            10,117              1,939         5,536        5,768          2,577
2.1 - 2.13    Playa Grande Tourism Area                                        3,490             1,087           4,993              3,187                 208        1,098        2,753            934
2.14- 2.15    Rio San Juani Water Supply and Sewerage                            242               241              527                338                 22          180           272            53
Total - Playa Grande                                      3,732             1,328            5,520              3,525                230        1,278         3,025           987
3.0            Airport                                                         5,659             1,224           7,507              4,838                 912        2,739        3,429            427
4.0            Hotel Training School                                             385               245              686                441                 28          516           142            -       ' v
5.0            Investment Promotion                                               -                 -               647                581                194          219           234            -
6.0            Project Administration                                             -                                 219                 32                 43           69            76            31
7.0            Technical Assistance c/                                            -                 -             1,923             1,292                 880          424           399           220     '
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                              21,101            5,714          32,322             20,826              4,226        1(0,781      13,073          4,242
a/ Excludes Professional Services.
b/ Excludes Land Acquisition (RD$ 3,671,000).
c/ Includes FPnds for Special Studies.
OCTOBER 1974



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC: PUERTO PLATA TOURISM PROJECT
Cost Estimates: Playa Dorada
Exchange Rate: US$1.00 = RD$1.00
Code                                                                        Civil Works        Equipuent      Total Cost       For. Exch. Comp.       Year I        Year II      Year III       Year IV
RD$ 000          RD$ 000          RD$ 000            RD$ 000            RD$ 000       RD$ 000      RD$ 000        RD$ 000
1.1            Earthworks
Fill to Low Lying Areas ( = 98,000 m3)                            412                -               412                309                 -           288           124
Total before Contingencies                                  412                 -              412                309                 -            288          124
1.2            Storm Water Drainage
Drainage beside Roads (6,580 m)                                   132                -              132                  -                  -            79            40            13
Main Drainage Ditch (840 m)                                        50                -                50                 -                  -            30            15             -5
Total before Contingencies                                   182                -              182                127                 -            109           55             18
1.3            Roads and Scenic Trail
Excavation and Fill (4,400 m3)                                    158                -               158                 -                  -            95            31            32
Road Construction (6,580 m)                                       776                _               776                 -                  -           466           155           155
Two Bridges                                                        89                _                89                 -                  -            53            18             18
Scenic Trail (5,400 am)                                           110                -               110                 -                  -            44            55            11
Vehicles and Carriages                                             -                 50               50                 -                  -             -            -              50
Total before Contingencies                                1,133                 50           1,183                828                 -            658          259            266
1.4            Water Supply
Wells, Pumps, Controls                                              20               62               82                 66                 -             24           34             24
Booster, Pumping Station                                           30                63               93                 69                 -             63           30
Collecting Tank                                                    25                -                25                 15                 -             12           13
Supply and Transmission                                           583               750            1,333                866                 -           500           590            243
Distribution Network                                               70                98              168                112                 -             85           20             63
Chlorinator                                                        -                                   1                  1                 -             -             1             -
Total before Contingencies                                   728               974           1,702              1,129                  -           684          688            330
1.5            Sewerage
Treatment Works and Outfall                                       100                 6              106                 46                 -             45           50             11
Pumping Station                                                     8                27               35                 29                 -             11           20              4
Force Main                                                          10               15               25                 18                  -            10            12             3
Collection Network                                                100               110              210                140                 -             60          100             50
Sugar Factory Effluent Treatment                                   80                20              100                 65                 -             -           100
Total before Contingencies                                   298               178             476                 298                 -           126           282            68
JULY 1974



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC: PUERTO PLATA TOURISM PROJECT
Cost Estimates:  Playa Dorada (Cont'd,)
Exchange Rates: US$1.00 = RD$1.00
Code                                                                           Civil Works        Equ1ipment      Total Cost        F'or. Exch. Coamp.      Year I        Year II        Year iii    Year IV
RD$ 000           RDO$ 000         RD$ 000             RD$ 000            R$ o000                                     RD$ 000  RB) 000  RD$ 000
1.6             Solid Waste Disposal
Collection Trucks (2)                                                 -                30               30                  27                 -             -              30
Bulldozer                                                             -                15               15                  14                 _             _               15
Total before Contingencies                                      -                45               45                  41                  -             -              45
1.7             Environmental Sanitation
Trucks (1)                                                            -                 6                6                   6                  -              6             -
Spraying EquipmenL                                                    -                 3                3                   3                  -              3             -
Insecticides (3 years)                                                -                 9                9                   9                  -              3              3             3
Labor (7 i man-year)                                                  45               -                45                  -                   -             15             i5            15
Total before Contingencies                                      45               18               63                  18                  -             27             18            18
1.8             Electricity, Road and Trail Lightinig
Substation                                                            11               70               81                  75                  -             32             41             8
Distribution System                                                 210                44              254                 176                  -           102             127            25
Road and Trail Lighting                                              152               52              204                 153                  -             -             122            82
Total betore Contingentcies                                    373              166              539                 404                  -            134            290           115
1.9             Telecommunications
Ditches for Cables (6580 m)                                          107               -               107                  -                   -            43              53            11
Manholes (100)                                                        47               -                47                  _                   -             19             23             5
Registers (200)                                                       -                21               21                                                    -              17             4
Excavation                                                            11               -                11                  _                  _               4              6             1
Total before Contingencies                                     165               21               186                139                  -             66             99            21
1.10            Landscaping and Beach Improvement
Landscaping                                                          330               20              350                  -                   -            105            140           105
Beach Improvement                                                     75               -                75                  -                                 -              53            22
Total before Contingencies                                     405               20              425                 276                  -            105            193           127
JULY 1974



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC: PUERTO PLATA TOURISM PROJECT
Cost Estimates: Playa Dorada (Cont'd.)
Exchange Rate: US$1.00 = RD$1.00
Code                                                                         Civil Works       Equipment      Total Cost       For. Exch. Cotap.      Year I        Year II       Year III    Year IV
RD$ 000         RD$ 000          RD$ 000            RD$ 000            RD$0 000     RD$ 000        RD$ 000      RD$ 000
1.11           Fire-Fighting Facilities
Fire Engine (1)                                                     -               18              18                 18                   -            -             18            -
Ambulance (1)                                                       -               14               14                14                   -            -             14
Equipment                                                           -                8               8                  6                   -            -             8             -
Fire Station                                                       15                -               15                  -                  -            -             15            -
Total before Contingencies                                    15              40               55                 38                  -             -            55
1.12           Shopping Facilities
Site Works and Landscaping                                         60                -              60                 29                   -            -            48            12
Buildings (1,400 m2)                                              210                -              210                105                  -            -            168           42
Equipment                                                           -               70              70                 70                   -            -             56           14
Total before Contingencies                                  270               70              340                204                  -             -           272            68
1.13           Golf Course and Clubhouse
19-Hole Golf Course                                               630                -             630                   -                  -          126            378          126
Maintenance Building (200 m2)                                       16               -               16                  -                  -             3            10             3
Maintenance Equipment                                                -              60               60                  -                  -             -            60             -
Site Works for Clubhouse                                           13                -               13                  -                  -            3              8            2
Clubhouse (350 m2)                                                 49                -               49                  -                  -           10             29           10
Clubhouse Equipment                                                 -               31               31                  -                  -             -             -            31
Total before Contingencies                                   708               91             799                479                   -          142           485           172
1.14           Stables and Riding School
Site Works and Lands5aping                                         14                -               14                  -                  -             -            11             3
Buildings (2:4,500 m )                                             47                -               47                  -                  -             -            38             9
Equipment                                                            -               6                6                 _                   -             -             -             6
Total before Contingencies                                    61                6              67                 40                   -            -            49            18      H
1.15           Beach Facilities and Restaurant
Cabins, Showers and Bar (480 m2)                                   48               12               60                 36                  -             -            48            12        F
Beach Restaurants (320 m2)                                         68               42              110                 66                  -             -            88            22
Public Parking (60 places)                                          12               -               12                  7                  -             -            10             2
Total before Contingencies                                   128               54             182                109                   -            -            146           36
JULY 1974



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC:  PUERTO PLATA TOURiSM PROJECT
Cost Estimates: Playa Dorada (Cont'd.)
Exchange Rate: US$1.00 = RD$l.00
Code                                                                          Civil Works        Equipment      Total Cost       For. Exch. Comp.        Year I        Year II        Year flI     Year IV
RD$ 000          RDS 000         RD$ 000             RD$ 000            RD$ 000       RED  000       iDS 000      RD$ 000
1.16           Soil Consolidation
Mobilization of Equipmnent                                         150                 -             150                 125                100            50              -            -
Consolidation of Buildable Areas (20 ha.)                          850                -              850                450                 4?5          425
Consolidationi of Infrastructure Areas (20 ha.)                    350                -              350                200                 175           175
Earth Fill (150,000 m3)                                            600                -              600                 50                300           300               -            -
Total before Contingencies                                 1,950                 -           1,950                 825              1,000           950
1.17           Site Works for 200 Low Cost lHouses
Earthworks                                                          20                -               20                   -                  -            20              -            -
Roads                                                               46                 -              46                   -                  -            37              9            -
Water and Sewerage                                                  57                 -              57                   -                  -            34             23
Electricity                                                         24                -               24                   -                  -            14             lo            -
Total before Contingencies                                    147                -              147                110                   -          105             42
1.18           Seaside Park and Road                                                                                                                                                                            E,
Roads and Foot Paths (1,350 m)                                     122                -              122                   -                  -            37             61           24         ' 
Road Lighting                                                       24                8               32                   -                  -             -             28            4        4
Park Landscaping                                                   100                 -             100                 _                   _             30             50           20
Total before Contingencies                                    246                8              254                177                   _           67            139            48
JULY 1974



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC: PUERTO PLATA TOURISM PROJECT
Cost Estimates: Playa Grande
Exchange Rate: US$1.00 = RD$1.00
Code                                                                            Civil Works       Equipment       Total Cost       For. Exch. Comp.         Year I        Year II        Year III    Year IV
RD$ 000          RD$ 000          RD$ 000             RD$ 000             RD$ 000       RD$ 000        RD$ 000       RD$ 000
2.1            Storm Water Drainage
Drainage beside Roads (2,580 m)                                       51                -               51                   -                   -            31             15             5
Main Drainage Ditch (Stream Diversion)                                71                -               71                   -                   -            43             21             7
Total before Contingencies                                     122                -              122                  85                   -            74             36            12
2.2            Roads
Road Construction (1,350 m)                                          159                -              159                 111                   -            95             34            30
Total before Contingencies                                     159                -              159                 111                   -            95             34            30
2.3            Water Supply
Wells, Pumps, Controls                                                32              100              132                 106                   -            36             83            13
Collecting Tank                                                       15                -               15                  10                   -            15              -
Transmission Mains                                                    30               45               75                  51                   -            22             45             8
Reservoir                                                            100                -              100                  42                   -            30             60            10
Distribution Network                                                  47               51               98                  59                   -            29             59            10
Chlorinator                                                                              1               1                  1                  _              _              1
Total before Contingencies                                     224              197              421                 269                   -           132            248            41
2.4             Sewerage
Treatment Works and Outfall                                          100                5              105                  45                   -            45             49            11
Pumping Station                                                       18               37                55                 59                   -            14             35             6
Force Main                                                             6                 9               15                 11                   -             5              9              1
Collection Network                                                    12               13               25                  17                   -             9             13             3
Total before Contingencies                                     136               64               200                132                   -            73            106             21        >
2.5             Solid Waste Disposal
Collection Trucks (2)                                                  -               30                30                 27                   -             -             30
Bulldozer                                                              -               15                15                 14                   _             _             15
Total before Contingencies                                       -               45                45                 41                    -             -            45
JULY 1974



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC: PUERTO PLATA TOURISM PROJECT
Cost Estimates: Playa Grande (Cont'd.)
Exchange Rate:  US$1.00 = RD$1.00
Code                                                                            Civil Works       Equipment       Total Cost        For. Exch. Comp.        Year I        Year IT        Year ITIT     Year IV
RD$ 000          RD$ 000          RDO  000            RD$ 000            RD$ 000       RD$ 000        RD$ 000       RD$ 000
2.6             Environmental Sanitation
Trucks (1)                                                             -                6                6                   6                   -             6              -             -
Spraying Equipment                                                     _                3                3                   3                                                -             -
Insecticides (3 years)                                                 -                9                9                   9                   _             3              3             3
Labor (7% man-year)                                                   45                -               45                   _- _1                                            51 5_1
Total before Contingencies                                      45               18                63                 18                   -            27             18            18
2.7             Electricitv, Road and Trail Lightine
Substation                                                             5               21               26                  23                   -           10              13             3
Distribution System                                                  111               28              139                 101                   -            56             69            14
Road Lighting                                                         24                8               32                  24                   -             -             19            L3
Total before Contingencies                                     1lT0              57               197                148                   -            66             lO0           30
2.8             Telecommunications
Ditches for Cables (2,550 m)                                          36                -                36                  -                                14             18             4
Manholes (30)                                                         13                -                13                  -                   -             5              7             1
Registers (60)                                                         -                9                 9                  -                   -             -              7             2
Excavation                                                             5                -                5                   -                   -             2              2             1
Total before Contingencies                                      54                9                63                 47                   -            21             34             8
2.9            Landscaping and Beach Improvement
Landscaping                                                          162               16              178                   -                   -            54             71            53
Beach Improvement                                                     31                -                31                 _                    -             -             22             9
Total before Coutingencies                                     193               16               209                136                   -            54             93            62
2.10           Fire-Fighting Facilities                                                                                                                                                                           ,M
Fire Engine (1)                                                        -               18                18                 18                   -             -             18             -
Ambulance (1)                                                          -               14                14                 14                   -             -             14             -
Equipment                                                              -                8                 8                  6                   -             -              8             -
Fire Station                                                          15                -                15                   -                  -             -             15             -
Total before Contingencies                                      15               40                55                 38                    -             -            55-
JULY 1974



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC: PUERTO PLATA TOURISM PROJECT
Cost Estimates: Playa Grande (Cont'd.)
Exchange Rate: US$1.00 = RD$1.00
Code                                                                           Civil Works       Equipment        Total Cost   For. Exch. Camp.            Year I        Year II        Year III    Year IV
RD$ 000          RD$ 000          RD$ 000             RD$ 000            RD$ 000       RD$ 000         RD$ 000       RD$ 000
2.11           Golf Course and Clubhouse
19-hole Golf Course                                                 630                 -              630                   -                   -          126             378           126
Maintenance Building (200 m2)                                         16                -                16                  -                   -             3             10             3
Maintenance Equipment                                                  -               60                60                   -                  -             -             60             -
Site Works for Clubhouse                                              13                -               13                   -                   -             3              8             2
Clubhouse (350 m2)                                                    49                -               49                   -                   -            10             29            10
Clubhouse Equipment                                                                    31               31                                       -             -              -            31
Total before Contingencies                                     708               91              799                 479                   -           142            485           172
2.12           Stables and Riding School
Site Works and Landscaping                                            14                -               14                   -                   -             -             11             3
Buildings (2:4,500 m2)                                                47                -               47                   -                   _             _             38             9
Equipment                                                              -                6                 6                  -                   -             -              _             6
Total before Contingencies                                      61                 6               67                 40                    -            -             49            18
2.13           Beach Facilities and Restaurants                                                                                                                                                                    crw
Cabins, Showers and Bar (480 m2)                                      48               12                60                 36                   -             -             48            12      * H
Beach Restaurants (2 x 320 i2)                                       136               84               220                132                   -             -            176            44
Public Parking (120 places)                                           24                 -               24                 14                   -             -             19              5
Total before Contingencies                                     208               96               304                182                    -             -           243             61
JULY 1974



DOMINICANf REPUBLIC:  PUERTO PLATA AOURISH PROJECT
Cost Estimates: Playa Grande (Cont'd.)
Exchange Rate; US$1.00 = RD$1.00
Code                                                                            Civil Works        Equipment         Total Cost   For. Exch. Comp.           Year I        Year Il       Year Ill       Year TV
RD$ 000           RD$ 000          RD$ 000             RD$ 000             RD$ 000       RD$ 000       ROE 000        RD$ 000
2.14             Rio San Juan - Water Supply
Pumps, Controls, Infiltration Callery                                 1                 8                9                   8                   -             8             1
Wells, Pumps, Controls                                                3                22               25                  20                   -            11            11              3
Supply and Transmission Mains                                       30                 51               81                  57                   -           29            44               8
Distribution Network                                                24                 22               46                  27                   -           15             26              5
House Connections and Meters                                          4                 8               12                   9                   -             -            11              I
Chlorinator                                                           -                 1                i                   1                  _            _               1
Total before Contingencies                                     62               112               174                122                   -           631            94             17
2.15             Rio San Juan - Sewerage
Treatment Works and Outfall                                         60                  2               62                  26                   -            28            28              6
Pumping Station                                                       8                12               20                  14                   -            12             6              2
Force Main                                                            2                 3                 5                  4                   -             -             5
Collection Network                                                   16                18               34                  23                   -            11            20              3
House Connections                                                     2                 2                4                   3                   -             -             4              -
Total before Contingencies                                     88                37               125                 70                   -            51            63             11
JULY 1974



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC: PUERTO PLATA TOURISM PROJECT
Cost Estimates:   Airport
Exchange Rate:  US$ 1.00   RD$ 1.00
Code                                                          Civil Works         Equipment          Total Cost         For. Exch. Comp.           Year I          Year II          Year III         Year IV
RD$ 000            RD$ 000            RD$ 000                RD$ 000               RD$ 000         RD$ 000          RD$ 000          RD$ 000
3.0       Airport
3.1       Grading, Paving, Aprons, Roads
and Parking                                            2071                   -              2071                   1227                   412             1141             518
3.2       Utilities                                                72                  321              393                    341                     14             140             239                 -      v|
3.3       Navigational Aids                                        67                  280              347                    312                     -               -              300                47
3.4       Terminal Building                                      1292                  152             1444                    862                     -              420             857               167
Total before Contingencies                       3502                  753             4255                   2742                    426            1701            1914               214
JULY 1974



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC: PUERTO PLATA TOURISM PROJECT
Cost Estimates:   iotel Training School
Exchange Rate,   lS$ iAIH = RDS l QO
Code                                                      Civil Works          Equipment         Total Cost         For. Exch. Comp.          Year I          Year II         Year III         Year IV
l)R$ 000           DR$ 000           DR$ 000               DR$ 000               DR$ 000         DR$ 000         DR$ 000          DR$ 000
4.0      Hotel Training School
4.1      Site Improvements                                      27                  -                27                     20                     -               -               -                -
4.2      Classrooms (5: 280 m2)                                 35                 24                59                     36                     -               -
4.3      Kitchen Workshop )128 m2)                              26                 39                65                     49                     -               -
4.4      Front Office Workshop (56 m2)                           7                 13                20                     14                                     -
4.5     Language Laboratory (95 m2)                             13                 33                46                     34
4.6      Library (12 m2)                                        16                 14                30                     18                     _               _                                _
4.7      Offices (220 m2)                                       35                 30                65                     39                     -                       -         _
4.8      Rest Boim/Locker/Shower                                53                  -                53                     29                     -               -               _
4.9      Storage Room (2: 20 m2)                                15                  4                19                     10                     -               -               _                _
4.10    General Circulation (180 m2)l                           22                  -                22                     12                                                    -
Total before Contingencies                       249                157               406                    261                     -            325               81
JULY 1974



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC: PUERTO PLATA TOURISM PROJECT
Cost Estimates: Promotion, Administration and Technical Assistance
Exchange Rate: US$1.00 = RD$1.00
Code                                                                         Total Cost           For. Exch. Comp.           Year I           Year II          Year III           Year IV
RD$ 000                RD$ 000                RD$ 000          RD$ 000          RD$ 000            RD$ 000
5.0           Investment Promotion
5.1           Salaries                                                           150                       _                    50               50                50                 _
5.2           Promotion Materials                                                110                       -                    50               40                20                 -
5.3           Advertising                                                        120                       _                    30               40                50                 _
5.4           Travel and Subsistence                                              90                       -                    25               30                35                 -
5.5           Miscellaneous Items                                                 63                                            21               21                21                 _
Total before Contingencies                                  533                     479                    176              181               176                  -
6.o           Project Administration
6.1           Accountants (1)                                                     52                       _                    15                15               15                 7
6.2           Administrative Officers (2)                                         66                                            12                24               24                  6
6.3           Secretaries (1)                                                     14                       -                     4                 4                4                  2
6.4           Offices and Transportation                                          42                      25                     8                14               14                  6
Total before Contingencies                                   174                     25                     39               57                57                21
7.0           Technical Assistance
7.1           Water Sub-soil and Airport Investigations                          450                     200                   450                 -                -                  -
7.2           Consultants to INFRATUR  a/                                        750                     600                   300               200              100                 50
7.3           Special Studies b/                                                 400                     275                    50               150              100                100
Total before Contingencies                                 1,600                  1,075                    800              350               300               150
a/ Includes also US$200,000 for 2 teachers during 3 years (ILO assistanice in HTS teachinig).
b/ Includes also US$100,000 for incentives study.
OCTOBER 1974



ANNEX III
Page 1
DOMI\T\ ICA1 REPU3LIC
APRAISAL OF TEE PUERTO PLATA TOURISM PROJECT
Water Supply, Sewerage, Solid Waste Disposal and
Insect Control Components
A. Scope of the Project
1.       Provision of uninterrupted service af adequate quantities of safe,
potable water is of crucial -mportance to the tourist sector.  An adequate
sewerage and solid waste disposal is equally important, particularly in view
of the need to keep the environment clean and the beaches and sea water free
from pollution. At Playa Dorada, initially the water supply demands and
services for sewerage of 1,4j)0 rooms and several private residences would have
to be met. In addition, investment in Playa Dorada will trigger development in
and around the town of Puerto Plata.  Similarly, the initial development of 500
hotel rooms and private residences at Playa Grande will affect water consumption
and sewerage needs in the arEa, including that of the nearby village of Rio San
Juan.
2.       The proposed project would meet the initial needs for water supply,
sewerage services and solid waste disposal of the two project areas.  The project
would also include facilities designed to serve the low income housing project
near Playa Dorada with similar services, and provide 70 percent of the population
of Rio San Juan with -water and 50 percent of the population with sewTerage services.
Equipment for the collection and disposal of solid wastes are part of the project.
Harmful and nuisance insects would be controlled by the application of larvicides
and insecticides, as well as by limited natural methods. Equipment and
materials for the purpose have been included in the project.
B. Description of the Proet
Water Supply - Playa Dorada
3.       Playa Dorada will obtain its warter from wells to be located some 4 kms
to the south of the resort area.  Some exploration drillLng has been done out the
results are insufficient to decide on the exact location of the well field.
Further test and production wells are being drilled to determine the final
location of the weil field.
4.       The transmission mail from the well field to the distribution reservoir
therefore cannot yet be definted. A length of 8 Ioms has been assumed in
estimating costs.  The distribution network in the resort area will follow the
planned layout of hotel sites, houses and other facilities.  The water supply
system for Playa Dorada is designed to provide 3500 m3 per day by 1980, and
facilities include the transmission and distribution lines, collecting tank
and service reservoir, chlorirnator, controls and electrical supplies.



ANNEX III
Page 2
5.       The water supply system that serves the town of Puerto Plata does
not have sufficient capacity to also serve the development at Playa Dorada.
The system's water supply main, however, crosses the main planned for Playa
Dorada and a connection between the tw systems will be made. The connection
will only be used in case of emergencies.
Sewerage System - Plaza Dorada
6.       The consultants proposals called for sewage to be collected from the
Playa Dorada hotels, residtnces, recreational and service areas and to be pumped
into the Puerto Plata system which has sufficient capacity in its treatment plant
(aerated stablization ponds), to handle the additional load.
,        In view of the long pumping main and large pumps required, however, it
is recommended that an alternative less expensive solution be studied, which
would call for a separate stabilization pond for Playa Dorada.  The co.nnection
to the Puerto Plata system could then be deferred until a later stage
Polluation Control - Playa_Dorada
8.       The Montellano sugar factory, located some 5 km to the so- raeast of the
Playa Dorada project area discharges, mainly during the mllirg seaso         ove-er
to April), an effluent comprising wash water of a very high orga-ge- -   orter andc
cooling water, containing caustic soda and hydrochloric acid. 7hi.. eff½1ent
which is released into the El Cono creek which flows into the sea some 3N Tzn
of Playa Dorada, causes considerable pollution of the ceek a.nds al-- of a
portion of the sea.  A study to determine the type of effluent  -re me Ii. need ed
is to be initiated and construction of the treatment f±acilit-Lik7
of the project.
Solid Wastes - Playa Dorada
9.       The municipal government of Puerto Plata hba an efficient soli  waStse
collection system and a large disposal site wlhich i-s easily accessib;le, T:o
final disposal, however, is by segregation of bottles and other wastes and
by open burning. This is not satisfactory, and landfill practices need to be
introduced.  Since the resort area of Playa Dorada ia within the Jurisdctin,.
of the municipality of Puerto Plata, the municipality will also be responsible
for the collection and disposal of solid wastes at P31aya Dorad&.  It does not.
however, have the equipment to do so,
10.      Accordingly, the proposed project vill provide the necessary addition-
al equipment required, which will include two covered trucks, and a mrIall bull-
dozer for the daily compaction and burial of the refuse.  The Hinistry of Health
has agreed to advise the city of Puerto Plata on the correct operation o-f a
sanitary landfill.



ANNEX III
Page 3
Water Supply - Playa Grande
11.      The water system planned for this area will obtain its water from
nearby wells. The tourist area is located at the foot of an escarpment of
limestone formation.  Some e)loration drilling inland on the escarpment has
been done and a well with a moderate yield has been tested. But the area is
so close to the sea, that there is danger of salt water intrusion.  Results
of the test well, however, and the existence of small springs and local wells
with drinking water, indicate beyond doubt that adequate supplies of water can
be obtained nearby.
12.      The transmission main from the well field to the distribution reservoir
may vary in length somewhat, but the line from the reservoir to the distribution
network and the distribution network itself are in accordance with the planned
layout and demand projections for the tourist area. The water system provided
for the Playa GrandLe tourist zone is designed to provide a peak demand of
J$50 m3 per day in 1980.  In addition to transmission and distribution lines,
project facilities include a collecting tank, service reservoir, surge
suppressor, chlorination equiLpment, controls and electrical supplies.
Sewerage - Playa Grande
13.      Sewage from the hotels, recreational, commercial and residential areas
will be collected and conducted to two sewage pumping stations, from where it
would be pumped across the coastal highway to a stabilization pond.  The treated
effluent will be used to water the golf course.
14.      Preliminary layouts contemplated a treatment plant of the contact
stabilization type, This wou'Ld require skilled operators, a stock of spare parts
and tools, and the consumption of a fair amount of electric power. After
discussions in the field, the use of simpler stablization ponds for treatment
of the sewage was agreed upoIn. Several sites were identified and detailed topo-
graphic work will be done to determine the exact location of the site that would
satisfy the present and future needs of the project area. Sewage facilities
would include a sewage collection network with manholes, pumping stations, force
mains, the stablization ponds themselves and an outfall line.
Solid Wastes - Rio San Juan a3nd Playa Grande
15.      The municipality of Rio San Juan, which has jurisdiction over the
Playa Grande area would colleact and dispose of the solid wastes in a sanitary
fill at a selected site near the town of Rio San Juan. The present equipment of
Rio San Juan is not adequate for the purpose and hence new equipment consisting
of two covered trucks and a tractor would be purchased under the project. The
disposal would be on municipal lands.



ANNE( III
Page 4
Water Supply - RJo San Juan
16.      Rio Smn Juan has an antiquated and deficient water system that needs
to be rebuilt and expanded. Built some 20 years ago, it provldes at present
intermittent service for a few hours per day.
17.      The village of Rio San Juan has an estimated population of 3,000 with
approximately 700 buLildings and dwellings.  Of these, 205 are connected to the
water system.  The rest are served by standpipes or use rain wvater.  The present
average -water charges are RD$ 1.00 per month. The municipal authorities
consider that a future charge of RD$ 2.00 is possible if service is good, and
that water meters would be necessary.  In some areas public faucets (standpipes)
would continue to be used and t,he municipality is prepared to pay for th5esc.
18.      In a small conmunity like Rio San Juan, it is unlikely that more than
70% of the people will connect to the water system. The community of course,
will be affected by the tourist development close by and by generating its
own visitor traffic, so that within a few years the effects of population
growth and higher per capita consumption may double the demand. The initial
system for the coamunity would start with 225 connections and six strategically
located standpipes.
19.      The new water supply system for the town of Rio San Juan would
incorporate the existing inf iltration gallery, pumphousep and distribution
reservoir.  New trarsmission mains and a distribution network 7w.ould be built.
If the yield of the infiltration gallery is insufficientS a production well
would be drilled at a site nearby that has yet to be selected. To ensure that
the cost estimate covers this contingency, an allowance has been made for the
construction and connection of this well, if in fact it is required,
Sewerage - Rio San Juan
20.      The community does not have a sewage system.  It is estimated that
less than 20% of the houses have plumbing installation and these dispose of
the wastewater in soakage pits.
21,      Near the center of the town, there is a fresh water spring that
empties into a small lagoon. This lagoon serves as a swimming and docking
area for small boats. It is connected with the ocean by a canal through man-
grove swamps. It is a local recreation area and tourist attraction and shoulid
be protected from pollution presently caused by the disposal of wastewater of
the community.



ANNEX IIr
Page 5
22.       The sewer system to be built wou'ld serve the central area, protect
the lagoon, and be designed to receive sewage from the proposed future develop-
ment for Rio San Juan,,  It would consist of a collection system, street laterals,
pumping station, force main, stabilization pond and cutfall, located orn
mUCMicipal land,
Al! Areas - Insect Control
23.       The iiinistry of Health is in general responsible -F'or the cont,rol of
insect vectors.  Traditionally it has given. emphasis t-o the GOnt-<Oz of maaJr'a
through its special olffice, the Natiat cl Service cr the Lradioi  o:               -
This office has the acl-visor  servIces of the .Pan A:meri' can Heal .,h 0-gan-
At the present ti-me, it suffers from brdget l.Limitations anr. r.eedr'
to undertake the control of harfnj  and bit-ing insectsq in :*n  'U,Lo 33
Playa Grande end Puerto  lata - a Playa Io-rada areas0
24.       The -work inaludes thoe identificat-ion and use of pl yzical and che7micalt
rethods to cor.trol the inseDcts prevai7 ing in the area ,  Titia          i lnfornatIon
will be collected that wzould provi de the basis for the ex9cuTtion of the insect-
control program.  The physiceal -ont-r-oi -will be achie7ed byj the removl o'
certain types of vegetation  in t   tou-ri-st areas3 end of rottung vegetat 0n
The chemical control wtill cons i  t osi f t' .he applic<ati on cf  oil-ompoune to
destro-! larvae, chemical fo`giha :- 9l the ircect   and the acolation of
residual insecticides,,
2.        The proposed pro,ect will prov.ode for the init2a3l eeqip.pe-at anid
materials to be used d'MYing the construction period ofz the project.  Trhe Hns -try
of Health. will be in charge of the prograr'       ib oeuant to the construct`iOr
period, the Central Ban;k should p-rovi-de a7.se uatoe :J     for tthie c On tR.iyna at,    W C 
this program  on a regular basis,
C10  Cost Estimates
26,      The est:mated costs of vTater supply and sewerage are sxm;iarized in
Annex !I, Tables 143, 1.4, 2,1. 2.5 and 238, and are based on designs prepared by tile
consultiLg engineers employed by the Central Bank,  A review of alternative
solutions for sewage treatment and water suLpPoply during the detailed desigr
otage nay result in socme cost savings   IThp. co t estimates are based on
contractor bids for similar -Rorks3  Designr  nd -Spervision costs are estimated
at 10 percent of constMaction costs.  The estLmated costs of the solid waste disposal
and insect control are based on  erelnik  ry estimates made in consultation
with the Ministry of Health and. uRT7-H,  The costs are derived fromX exerience
in the National Malaria Eradication Frog'ran, and the recent purchase of similar
equipment by the Ministry.



ANNEX III
Page 6
D, Project Execution and Procurement
27.      The Central Bank, with the assistance of qualified consultants, will
be responsible for the execution of the above project components.  INAPA, the
national agency that would eventually own, operate and maintain the water supply
and sewerage systems, will closely collaborate with the Central Bank at alt
stages of project execution0
28.      Contracts for civil works and for the supply of equipment for water
supply, sewerage and solid waste disposal would be subject to intentational
competitive bidding,  Contracts for the two project a:reas and for .io San Juan
would be combined, and Tould be sufficiently large to attract  international
contractors.
E. Institutional Aspects
29.      As stated previously, the water supply and sewerage systen for the
Puerto Plata/Playa Grande project areas would be constructed by                Pake entral. Bar:k
which would assume full financial responsibility during the ccnotio pan
Upon completion of the facilities, the national water and saAierag.,e
Instituto Nacional de Aguas Potables y A3cantarillados (IN PAA)  r    i
responsible for sinilar facilities throughout the co-antry, woulod  ecome th'e owoer
of the systems and would be given the responsibility for oper-at-:iO  -.n.#J =,inten;nrced
30.      IAPA at present operates the water and sewerage systemns ithe
Of Puerto Plata and Traintains an office there,  This office  Pln hyave to be
expanded however to enable it to efficiently handle tn-ea neYrT systens envisagged
under the project.  Furthermore, while :D\APA is 'echnicall  .1; tooperate
and maintain the water supply and sewerage facilities for thie    prcn r.ct area..
its financial position is very weak, A s7urary of operating a. fin.alnocl-
statistics is given in Table 1,  These statistics show thnat the Goverrnmnent ha.
contributed about RD$ 1 million annually in 1971 and 1972 to meet >urrent operar ng
costs, because direct revenue from customer charges provided onl, a.bout 34i7 2
total operating expenses, including depreciation5  In addition, the Goverrment
provided about RD$ 260 thousand and RD$ 200 thousand respectivlely in these t-,.To
years to cover repayments of loans to the Inter-American Development Bank (Tn3 
31.      The deficiencies of INAPA's financial position were noted in IDB's
appraisal report for the Puerto Plata Water Supply and Sewerage Project (Febnuary
13, 1967) and attributed to estimated water losses of about 301%, inadequate
consumer metering and inadequate water rates. The current financial
information indicates that, in spite of appreciable improvements in the level
of direct revenue from user charges since 1967, INAPA is still unable to cover
its operating costs and to meet debt service requirements, without substantial
Government subsidies.



ANNEX III
Page 7
32.      In view of this situation the institutional arrangements for operation
of the tourisn water supply and sewerage system by INAPA should include
provisions satisfactory to the Bank regarding the establishment and
maintenance of water and sewerage charges, and the establishment and maintenance
of separate accounts, including the separation of cash from other operations of
INAPA.
33.      The municipalities of Rio San Juan and Puerto Plata are operating their
own services for the collection and disposal of solid wastes.  Certain advisory
assistance is required, however, to improve the final disposition of solid waste
and extend the services to the Playa Dorada and Playa Grande areas. The
advisory assistance will be furnished by the Ministry of Health and the Pan
American Health Organization.
34.      Nhile the Ministry of Health has capable professional staff with
experience in the 'type of insect control program required, additional operating
personnel will have to be recruited to man the equipment and carry out the
program.  To ensure that an adequate insect control program is initiated, the
Central Bank will enter into a suitable agreement with the Ministry of Health,
which will be subject to Ban:k approval. This agreement would require that
the proposed program would be executed on a regular basis.
F. Financial Aspects
Financing Plan
35.      The financing plan (1974-77) for the water supply and sewerage component
of the project, which would be part of the Central Bank's capital requirements, can
be summarized as follows:
Rtequements_
UI tS$
Playa Dorada:                                 Thousands
- Water supply                 2,997
- Sewerage                       869            3,866
Playa Grande:
- Water supply                   746
- Sewerage                       EL.            1,120
Rio San Juan:
- Water supply                   316
- Sewerage                       _23i
5,534
Interest during construction                      6-5
6,1814
Sources of bnds:
Proceeds of IBRD loan                           3,608
Central Bank contribution                       2,576



ANNEX III
Page 8
Fiture Financial Results
36.      A nrojection of the financial results of the water supply and sewerage
operations (see Tables I - 3) indicates that services could be provided in the
to     0 tourism areas and the town of Rio San Juan at acceptable utillty rates,
which would procace satisfactory rates of return. The charges -would also
generate sufficient internal cash to adequately cover the debt service reqyire-
ments on the proportionate share of the proceeds of the Bank loan attributable
to the water supply and sewerage components of the project.  The financial
projections are based on a number of assumptions which are listed in the Notes
to Tables 1 - 3.
37.      One of the main assumptior.ns is the rate structure for water and
sewTerage services in the two tourisim areas and in the town of Rio San juan.
The financial results shown in the attached tables are based on suggested
rates of RX .20 per m3 for hotel water supply and RD$ .10 per m3 surcharge
for sewerage<. These rates would result in costs for water supply and sewerage
for hotels of between RD$ .75 and RD$ 1013 per occupied room per day. In the town of
Rio San Juan a combined water and sewerage rate of RD$ .10 per m3 for up to
100 lcd (liters per consumer per day.or 15 m3 per month per household) was used.
This latter rate would burden the average household in Rio San Juan with a monthly
charge of about RD$ 1.50 for its basic water consumption, which is conside:ed
acceptable. Water used in excess of this would be charged at RD$ .20 per- m) and
would be equal to the rate for the residential dwellings in the tourism zone.
385      The annual development contribution from the Central Bank included in
the financial projections for the water supply and sewerage operations, represents
the amounts required to achieve a satisfactory rate of return during the develop-
ment period, when provision of water and sewerage services in the resort areas
would not yield sufficient direct revenue without excessively high charges to
the hotels. The direct user charges were therefore designed in accordance with
the demand expected at full development of the resort areas. In the interim the
Central Bank would accrue as deferred charges its payments made in lieu of
additional direot user charges.
39.      The amount of prepayments would later be recovered as part of the
charges by the Central Bank to the hotels. This arrangement, which would avoid
any Governm.ent subsidies for tourism infrastructure facilities during the
development period, was confirmed during negotiations.



AN N'  III
Page 9
40:.       The assuned 1future utility charges (including the development con-
tribution by the C;entral Bank) would produce overall rates of return on gross
fixed assets in operation oI' about 9%. 1/   Water supply and sewerage opera-
tions would eacalaly contribute io this satisfactory fEinancial performance.
Debt service on tL-e proceedo of the Bank loan could be adequately covered,
provided that t'he C-entral Bank wouild make i-ts development contribution during
the period 1977-83.
41.        InvestmTent in the solid waste disposaL facilities and in the equipTnent
and material reouired for the irnsect cortrol program, would be recovered through
annual charges to hotels anr  other customers, from  lease rents and from sale
of developed lots.
Financial Covenant=s
42.        T               -e-fornance o- ct-  -water s. ,p-iy and sewera-e operatiions
should be controlled o  t: followin- financial covenants to ensure that utility
cnarges would cover opa- tn---g costs (Including adequate depreciation) and
produce a reasonablae rate oi- returnf on gross fixed. assets in operation:
(i)  water a-Ee 7erage rates shoul`  be dete>^-ncd in
< orsu_ta-lo_ th - `the Bank to allow iN-APA to
e arn aor.        :C.vt.a  s   oc recurn of 9% oni- gross
a a.sets    operation, suitaabIy adjusted for
chanages in tne general price level.
( ii1)  -1_.e  '-'t    a      .Uld be rea; red s-o make
-f e-ea-ean-wlonnt contributiOns to
'e.evlpnmt eaeri. c- reach.>
tira rate -cf retulrn,
'   Becausa £;f- Cthe eetf. conta.ne(d nature cf t-he pr7oject_  a rate of+ ret.urn orn
cross fi-xd asets rather thlan net fixed ae-sets w.as Calculated,  This
provides a stl-,rdard o" ijerform-ance better conttrollable than- the conventional
rate of ra_t-rn on, nat  i:>xed assets -wich impilipes conastanc reinvestment in
new, addeU. .-al assets, s  co-ndltd,on not existing here,  The gross fixed
assets woul1 bL e revaluedi periodical.Ly to take into accounit changes in
price level.  The revenue requ.i-rement would thus automatically be adjusted
to produce suf-ficient ravenue in real terms.  A declining net fixed asset
base for the rate o.f return covenant would not provide such automatic
adjustment iLn this case because of the lack of constant new investment.



ANNEX !II
Page 1
Notes to Tables
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC PUERTO PLATA/PLAYA GRANDE TOURISM PROJECT
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SYSTEM
AssuMtions for Financial Projections
Cash Flow
1.       It has been assumed that INFRATUR would be responsible for construction
of the Water Supply and Sewerage Components and that all capital expenditures
during the construction period would be made by the Central Bank. The cash
flow projections during the construction period are therefore part of the
financial statements of INFRATUR in the Central Bank (see Annex VIII). It has
further been assumed that interest during construction would be capitalized.
2.       It has been assumed that the proceeds of the IBRD loan would be repaid
with 8% interest in level semi-annual installments over a period of 20 years
starting five years after the date of signing of the loan.
3.       No repayment of or interest on the Central Bank contribution has been
assumed, except on the part representing interest during construction.
4.       In calculating the debt service coverage (Table 3) constant price
projections of cash generated have been converted to current price levels using
an assumed annual rate of inflation of 8% for the period 1974-1977 and 4%
annually from 1978 through 1986.
Income Statements
5.       The projection of water consumption is based on the following average
daily consumption for the various classes of consumers:
(i) Playa Dorada
-  Hotels                     2 m3/guest night including staff use,
laundry, swimming pool and
irrigation.
- Apartments and villas       1 m3/occupied day.
(ii) Playa Grande
- Hotels                      2.5 m3/guest night including staff
use, laundry, swimming pool
and irrigation.
- Apartments and villas       1.0 m3/occupied day.
(iii) Rio San Juan
-  House connections          400 m3 connection/year = 215 lcd
-  Public hydrants            100% of total house connection volume



ANiNEX II I
P ag o, I
Notes tJO Tab)les
6.     aI projectins: revenule the follo-weing rates (empressed i-n 1974 prices)
have been used:
Wlater     Seeae         Total
(i)r Paya Dorada
- Hotels                          220        J            JO
- Apartments and Villas            J0$                     20
- Other
(ii)  Playa GraLide
-0otels                          0 ty                  27
- Apartset                        C2 F iO
O ther                            27         2. 31
(iii)  R:io Sar Juan
H ouse conetiue      r             0              /        l
- Public Tytr-                                  - .
i/  Consunption- abo&:,e Irt 'of (71$ i?  a * p- houe.hold) wolti .be char-gced  at u 201
2/  Nc rates h ave aen T'-LO       r             Lou:; rate, e.2u 5r      5, O  r a -
rats, shoul5.d '£e aop Sr.
7.>   BA  overati al navaz e n       !     .. s  . do Thu iacolted r2veur ez
due to non-payment of b            o tu./or *rean.a.eor o.nssrito%
9.      The development contribrU ion to be paid by the Central Bank during
1977-1983 represenrt,-s annual am:cnrt'Vs requ" ree to -t.rodlrce together With -th.e
direct user charges  net re-venue suaficient to e     a2kt -leastf 9; rate of
return on gross fixed assetfks  ' o,pe eration,  T,hese oaImeute -'r `lneu. of
addi-tional direct user charges wvoiald be treated as defelred charges by tase
Cernral Bank and would eventuatt2-y be aeort:sed again   revenue  rom tlhe
hotels in the form  cf:X lease rento, prwceeds f-or I    t- ae  of developed lo'ts,
etc.



ANNEX III
Page 3
Notes to Tables
9.        Production costs for water and processing costs for sewerage have
been estimated as follows:
(i) Water Production:
Wastage:
- Rio San Juan                               45-35%
- Hotels                                      20%
Production Cost in                          $ per 100 m 3
-  Electricity                                9.40
-  Chemicals                                  1.20
- Materials                                   3.20
- Labor at $6500 for first 345,000 m3 and $2,000 for
each additional block of 345,000 m3 of production.
(ii) Sewerage Processing:
Processing Cost in        $1,000 m3 of water production:
-  Electricity                                9.70
- Materials                                   3.20
-  Labor at $11500 for first 345,000 m3 and $2,000 for
each additional block of 345,000 m3 of water pro-
duction.
10.      Depreciation has been calculated at 4% on a straight-line basis.
11.      Accumulated cash would be more than adequate to provide working
capital for financing of outstanding bills.



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
PUERTO PLATA/PLAYA GFANDE TOURISM PROJEUT
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERlAGE SYSTEM
PROFORMA INCOME STATEME NTS
1977 - 1986
Years ending December 31                           1971          1918          1979         1980         1981         1982          19d3         19314        lyd5          19 36
WATER SUPPLY OPEihATING DATA
PLAYA DORADA
Number of guest nights at hotels                           111,690       2140,900     284,700      281,700       474,500      539,500      569,600       66l6,300     664,300      bL6,30J
Hotel water consumption (in '000 Sm3)                          223           462           569          569          949        1,079        1,139         1,329        1,32)         1,329
Number of ocnunn ad anprtmpn-.t                                 1 5            30           52           7,          2,0          269          '             235          30v           3Ju
Apartment water consumption (in  000 m3)                         5            11            19           27           i]           97           102          1D8          110           110
Other water consumption (in  000 m3)                            75            75            75           75           80           85            90           95          100           105
Total water consumption (in  000 m3)                           303           566           663          671        1 1,120      1,261         1,331        1,532        1,939         1,544
Wastage (in %)                                                  20             20           20           20           20            20           20           20            20           20
Total water production (in '000 m3)                            379           710           829          839        1,400        1,576        1,666         1,919        1,917         1,31d
PLAYA GRANDE
Number of guest nights at hotels                            32,850       150,562      189,800      237,250       237,250      237,250      237,250       237,250      237,250      237,250
Hotel water consumption (in '000 a3)                            82           376           475         5993           993         593           5Y3          593           593          593
Niumber of occupied apartrents                                  50           325           375          425          475          500           500          900           500          500
Apartment water consumption (in  000 m3)                        18           119           137          155          173          183           183          183           183          133
Other water consumption (in  000 m3)                            21            21            21           21           25           30            30)          35            35           35
Total water consumption (in '000 m3)                           121           516           633          769          791           806          8D6          311           d1l          611
Wastage (in %)                                                  20             20           20           20           20            20           20           20            20           20
Total water production (in 000 m3)                             151           645           791          961          989        1,007         1,001        1,016        1,014         1,016
RIO SAN JUAN
Total population
% served by house connection
Population served by house connection                        1,125         1,200        1,275         1,350        1,6;00       1,450         1,500        1,900         1,500        1,500
Number of water connections                                    225           2160          255          270          280           290          3(0          30o           300          300
Water consumption by house connection (in '000 m3)              90             96          102          108           112          116          120          120           120           120
Public water consumption (in '000 m3)                           9A             96          100          100          100           105          105          105           110          110       , >
Total water consumption (in 'OO m3)                           184            192          196          208          212           221          229          225           230          230       a 7<
Wastage (in %)                                                  45             95          460           6             4°           35           35            35           35            35      -
Total water production  (in 'O0J m3)                           335            350          334          347           353          340          346           350          350           350
Water consumption grand total  (in  000 m3)                    608         1,276         1,492        1,648        2,123         2,288        2,362        2,568         2,580        2,585
Water production grand total  (in '0)0 m3)                     865          1,705        1,95L        2,147        2,742         2,923        3,017        3,279         3,281         3,282



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
PUERTO PLATA/PLAYA GRANDE TOURISM PRO2JECT
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SYSTEM
PROFORMA INCOME STATEMENTS
1977 - 1986
Years ending December 31                                      1977         1978        1979         1980        1981         1982        1983         1984        1985         1986
REVENUE                                                                                    (in '000 DR$)
- expressed in 1974 prices -
Playa Dorada
Hotels                                                      67.0         145.0       170.0        170.0       285.0        324.0       342.0        410.0       410.0        410.0
Apartments                                                    1.0          2.0         4.0          5.0        18.0         19.0        20.0         22.0         22.0        22.0
Other                                                       19.0          19.0        19.0         19.0        20.0         21.0        22.0         24.0        25.0         26.o
Subtotal                                                 87.0         166.0       193.0        194.0       323.0        364.0       3814.o 40                 457.0        5.
Playa Grande
Hotels                                                      30.0         139.0       175.0        220.0       220.0        220.0       220.0        228.0       228.0        228.0
Apartments                                                    4.0         28.0        33.0         37.0        42.0         44.o        44.0         44.0         44.0        44.0
Other                                                         6.5          6.5         6.5          6.5         7.5          9.0         9.0         11.0         11.0        11.0
Subtotal                                                 40.5         173.5       214.5        263.5       269.5        273.0       273.0        283.0       283.0        283.0
Rio San Juan
House connections                                             9.0         10.0         10.0        11.0        11.0         12.0         12.0        12.0         12.0        12.0
Public hydrants                                              9.0           9.0         9.0          9.0         9.0         10.0        11.0         11.0         11.0        11.0
Subtotal                                                  18.0         19.0        19.0         20.0        20.0         22.0        23.0         23.0         23.0        23.0
Total Revenue                                               145.5        358.5       426.5        477.5       612.5        659.0       680.0        762.0        763.0       764.0
less allowance for uncollected revenue (20%)                   29.0         72.0        85.0         95.0       122.0        132.0       136.0        149.0       1149.0       150.0
Total Net Revenue                                          116.5         286.5      3341.5        382.5       490.5        527.0       5144-0       613.0        614.0       614.0
OPERATING COSTS
Playa Dorada
Water supply                                                 14.0         22.0         26.0        27.0         38.0        i..           l                                      .4)
Sewerage                                                     19.0         27.0)        31.0        31.0        32~.0        37.0         42.0        32.0         90).0        30.0
Subtotal                                                  33,0         O9.0         57.0        5.0          30.0        21.0         94.0        90             .          9 .0
Playa Grande
Water supply                                                  6.o         18.0         21.0        26.0         27.0        28.0         29.0         29.0        30.0         30.(
Sewerage                                                     13.5         23.0         26.0        30.0         31.0        32.0         34.0        34.0         35.0         35.-
Subtotal                                                  19.5         41.0         47.0        56.o         58.0        60.0         63.o        63.0         65.0         659.
Rio San Juan
Water supply                                                  8.o          8.0          8.5         8.5          9.0          9.0       l1.0          11.0        11.0         11.0
Sewerage                                                      7.0          7.0          7.5         7.5          8.0         8.0          8.5         9.0          9.0          9.0
Subtotal                                                  15.0         15.0         16.0        16.0         17.0        17.0         18.9         20.0        20.0         20.0
Total operating costs (before depreciation)                  67.5        105.0        120.0       130.0        15590       168.0        175-5        178.0       132.0        182.0
OPERATING INCOME                                                  49.0        181.5        241.5       252.5        335.5        359.0       36d.8        435.0        432.0       432.0
Infratur Development Contribution                           390.0        250.0        190.0       180.0        100.0         15.0        70.0          -           -             -  -5
NET INCOME (before depreciation and interest)               439,0        431.5        431.5       432.5        435.5       434.0        338.5        435.0       432.0        332.0 2    T
Adjustment to 1977 price level (26% of 19714 prices)        114.0        112.5        112.5       112.5        113.5        113.0       113.5        113.0        112.0       112.0
Adjusted net income (before depreciation and interest)    553.0          544.0        544.0      595.0         549.0        547.0       552.0        54d.0       544.0        544.0
Gross fixed assets in operation (1977 price level)         6184.0       6184.0       6184.0      6184.0       6184.0       6184.0      6184.0       6184.0       6184.0      6184.0
Rate of return (in %)                                         8.9          8.8          8.8         8.8          8.9          8.8         8.9          8.9          8.8         8.8



DOMI)11ICAN REPUBLIC
PUERTO PLATA/PLAYA GRANDE TOUR,ISM PROJECT
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SYSTEM
PROFORMA FIN1ANCIAL STATEMENTS
1)77-1986
Years ending Dccember 31                                     19/7        1)78            ) D$         19)b         1)31         1)6        ld3           16A          1)353        1,36
(irn I OC Dl-$) 1
in current price ../
NET INCOME (before depreciation S interest)                                SS3.0        544.0         544.0         545.3        543.1        547.-         55. J        S4V.J         IL 9        544.v
Annual price level adjustment (4%)                                                     22.9          446.          66.0         )3.0        113.0         146.1        173.1        J0..         3'.-
ADJUSTED NET INCOME (before depreciation 1 interest)                       553.0        566.6         588.9         613.1        642.0        663.1         693.0 J11.1               745.         (114J
Depreciation (in 1977 prices)                                              247.0         7I.0        2?47 93        L7.°         247.0        24/L.)        24l(.J          . 4?0 -i.              247.
Adjusted depreciation                                                      247.0        257.(         267.0         276.0        239.1        311.1         313.3        325.J        33d.v        351.1
NET INCOME (before interest)                                               306.0        306.0                       335-0        353-v         3b4.9-       365.o        396.            7.7 92i.9
Interest                                                                   3460.0       340.0         34 )0         338.1        333.)        323.1         317.0        3vd .        2 )60    -    6 7 '
NEr PROFIT/LOSS                                                           ( 34-0)       (34.0)        (19.0)         (3-0)        20.0          33.3         66.0         i3.1        1093.         136.0
NET CASH GENEIATED                                                         553.0        366.0         563.,)        613.)        646.0        0653.1 J6d.1               721.J        74 3.         774.0
DEBT SERVICE                                                               349 .        340.1         34600         133.         463).0        .30.1        431.1       )i30.)        439.J         4 33.1
NET CASH AFTER DEBT SERVICE                                                213..'                                    1           212.0        235.0         263.,J       2)1.9        3153.         344-9 _
ACCUMULATED CASH SURPLUS                                                   ?13.9        4 3'J         637.1         170.0      1il 2.9      1,317.-)      1, 3S.'      1 1376.1      1,11.0      2 533.0  3'
DEBT SERVICE COVERAGE                                                        1.6          1.7           1.7           1.4           1.5          1            I.e          1.            1.7          1.D  i 
1/ Current price level projection assumes 4% annual inflation



ANNT  iV
Page 1
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
APPRAISAL OF THE PUERTO PLATA TOURISM PROJECT
Electricity Supply Component
A. Scope of the Project
1.        The electricity supply facilities to be provided as part of the
proposed project would meet the power demands of hotels, the airport
terminal building and other related facilities and provide for public
lighting of streets and trails within the project areas and the airport,
as well as meet other needs, such as those of water supply and sewerage
pumps which lie outside the actual project areas.
2.        Electric power for public use in the Dominican Republic is provided
by the Corporacion Dominicana de Electricidad (CDE), a Government-owned
entity which operates the national electricity sybtem.  In 1972, CDE had a
generating capacity of 2h9 megawatts, which it plans to increase to 760
megawatts by 1980.  In that year, the Puerto Plata tourism program would
require some 8 megawatts, which would constitute only a marginal increment
to the total system demand.
R. Description of the Project
3.        The two areas planned for tourist developmnent and the airport are
already or will be soon within reach of CDE's main transmission system.
Hence the only requirement to bring electricity to the areas will be to
make the necessary extensions and provide for substations and transformers.
4.        For the Playa Dorada resort area and the airport, substations will
be constructed that -would tap the existing 7200/12470 volt transmission line
between Puerto Plata and the village of Sosua. Supply lines within the
development area would be by way of underground cables. Transformers will
reduce the voltage to 120/240 volts. The Playa Grande area, which will use
the 7200/12470 volt transmission line presently under construction along the
coastal road,will be similarly served.
C. Cost Estimates
5.        It is estimated that the total cost of the electric power component,
including the lighting of streets and trails, would be RD$1,345,000   of which
the foreign exchange cost would be about RD$ 1,014,000.These estimates, pre-
pared by CDE, are based on CDE's unit costs for similar systems, and appear to
be reasonable. Design and supervision costs are estimated at lO of con-
struction costs. Detailed cost estimates are given in Annex II,Table* 2.1 and
2.6.



ANTNEX IV
Page 2
D.  Execution and' Procuremjent
6.         It -s (CT)iCE', standard practice to supply electric power to the
boundary of a Cdevelopment area.  The pcT,wer facilities from-  the transmission
line onm,ards and- within the limits of the developmuent area have to be provided
by the develo-er.  in- the case of> t'he Puerto Pla.ta tourism project, the Central
Bar  wi-l1 pot,idr- for (,he required  ''acilities within the project areas and with
the assistanc-_  :if qual ified consultaants, be responsible for the execution of
this corponent.  CDE. wrho i,,ro-Lad own aal operate the facilities once con-
structed, TwI. cl osely collaborate -ri.th the Cerntr-A  Bank at al! stages of
project execution, incl uding re-v-ieTing the fina.l designs, before bidding
documients are isiued.  Construct-Lon and procureme-nt of equipment wculd be
subject to irnteraational competitive bidding.
7S ice -he ~elepohone comn-o;, "DT, -h-cih ucnla4ke GDE, prov-des all
.,he telephone f       c ve eo ureds - u-       a d-re   ie    a  a,i n           - no  preparedt
to bear the cost   ;,    g ay-- unidEcrg-c *.ua   -l.  -   c o ,t act's a  - frh   co; -
structDior. c' tre i- U-r 'Lty netw-=-k       X  i n   de the c-oSt of the- laying of
underground  e` eieohoe cables; and, `-c  "o n-'struction of -Tarncles and registers
fcL house conn-zect olno1  Thl8 w*oulo  ea` n tDrt ona,L  one tbrench needs to be dug
for both facilities, w-. hn would save Dn coroction cocovS
E.  Adinis>t-io   1c nancial ar c=aL-entzs¢
3   Ii-l, r e         1-,gn,  vid :  _nco tr    on d  haee, the C entrall Baik's
ac2U                      ",C) Zl'he e-_                      -nt would be subject
t          by Dj,.    eV T-                    r-  -.-'' -D-~':     he Central BaaLk
as                                  D.£ dC  I 'I')' C'.t  `c-11.ybe YLmor-,Ortizsd against
revYef..1c -frn oICj  O      7 i. ULe for-     U cf aLnnuai charges cYio lease rents, cr
-1-*i c         -r-e a? -C. 'o  v  D  C .G r I   C r,  0 n
" J ` -v' e       o, uj.,: asirg5 s  l respon*-si
o'Dr '' r~2     --o-n~-l                -';'e   coveievD  of'' thlen procorti cnate shar<e
-.±1h- se ni< 'Ian,  'FXE    not a' 9swme ,ny o bligationl for repaycient of the
~e r-c e     n - an   `m---, c~ arges on, t-e Lon
. ,, -,.in-a oun`,,a    n- 7co2 .n    Q 7) 7    o r te eI  v          c, 4,,  c upo e nt o  the
rvY2oj,ie'.mS af.nio wll Ts-ould` be part of the Central Bank's capital requ-re-ments, can
be s-me-marized as follow,s:



ANNEX IV
Page 3
RD$ = US$
thousands
Requirements
Total capital expenditures for
electricity component                    1 L96.0
Source of Funds
Proceeds of IBRD Loan                          800.0
Government contribution                       396.0
Total Source of Funds                          _1196.0
11.       CDE would provide service to hotels and other consumers in the
two project areas plus the airport in accordance with its general service
rules (Regulation No. 900 of June 2, 1955 as published in the Official
Gazette No. 7843 of June 10, 1955).
12.       Hotels would be charged at an average rate of RD$ .04 per kwh
according to CDEts tariff schedule. This would be roughly equivalent to
RD$ 2.00 per occupied hotel room per day. Total consumption of electricity
in the resort areas would represent approximately 1% of CDEis total sales.
F. Financial Positios of CDE
13.       Although CDE1s financial position would not be directly relevant
to the financing of the electricity supply component of the project, its
capacity to finance future expansion of electricity generating facilities,
which would also supply the resort areas, and its level of tariffs, which
should reflect the full cost of supplying electricity to its consumers,
are important considerations in the appraisal of the project. A suimmary of
operating and financial data on the corporation is given in Table 1.
14.       CDE's 10-year development plan (1970-80) foresees an increase in
electricity sales from 684 Gwh (1970) to 2580 Gwh (1980). The increase in
capacity that is p:lanned would be mainly provided by development of
additional thermal plants which capacity is expected to represent about
74% of total capacity by 1980.
15.       During the 10-year period from 1971 through 1980 CDE expects to
invest about RD$ 200 million in new generating, transmission and distribution
facilities. More than 90% of these capital requirements are expected to be
met from internally generated funds, while the balance would be provided from
external sources, possibly in the form of long-term loans.



ANNEX IV
Page 4
16.       CDE has consistently earned a rate of return of better than 8% on
its net fixed assets in operation. The rate of return on its rate base
(total net fixed assets plus working capital) has varied from 6.5% to 9.6%
and is expected to increase) to 14.7¶q by 1980, in line with more efficient
utilization of total capacity. CDE does not expect to require any increase
in electricity tariffs to achieve these results, which are based on projected
average revenue of about .03 RD$/kwh.



ANNEX IV
Table 1
Page 1
Statistical Summary of Dominican Electricity Company (CDE)
I. )OPERATING STATISTICS
1. Existing Facilities (1972)
Installed generating capacity in MW
Hydro              15
Thermal           208
Diesel             26
249
2.  Develo-pment Plan, 1970-80
Increase in generating capacity to: 768 RT
3. Power Sales:               1970       1973       1977      1980
(in mil. kwh)             684      1,053      1,837      2,580
II.  FINANCIAL STATISTICS
1.  Balance Sheet as of December 31, 1972               (Mill. RD$)
Assets
Gross fixed assets                                102.1
Accumulated depreciation                           25.3
Net fixed assets                                   76.8
Investments                                        13.9
Total Net Fixed Assets                            90.7
Current Assets and Deferred Charges               16.4
Total Assets                                107.1
Liabilities
Common Stock                                       37.0
Capital Surplus                                     1.0
Earned Surplus                                     37.3
Total Equity                                       75.3
Long-term Debt                                     17.7
Current Liabilities and Deferred Credits           14.1
Total Liabilities                           107.1



ANNEX IV
Table 1
Page 2
2. Summarized Income Statement for Year Ended December 31,_1972
(mill. -.,n$ '
Revenue from El.ectricit_Sales:                          29-
Operating Expenses:
Cost cf Operations                14,2
Maintenance and Repairs            2 C
Depreci4aJlon                      3,0         `9_3
Net Operatig Income                                 ' .8
Incerest on Long-term Debt                        .
Other Income D.dlotions
Net Incomae                                         7.8
3.  Financial RatLc!   sof Dec=em_ber 31,2972
Debt:   Equity Ratio                                     19: 81
Rate of Return on Average Net Fi xed Assets
-n Service                                        3.
Interest Coverage                                        7 times
Debt Service Coverage                                  3.6 times



ANNE V
Page 1
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
APPRAISAL OF THE PUERTO PLATA TOURISM PROJECT
Airport Component
A. Background
1.        Direct air access will be of crucial importance to the develop-
ment of tourism in the Puerto Plata area. Since the existing airfield
at Puerto Plata (see Map 2), is unacceptable for any but light aircraft$
and since it is not possible to use the site for the development of an
international airport, the project plans to take advantage of a partially
built airport on the north coast, located 13 km east of the Puerto Plata
town, and in the center of the tourism zone. Technically speaking, the
airport could have been sited at a better location, but with present day
aids to navigation, approaches to the airport are considered adequate.
2.        The runway now nearing completion will be 3,050 m by 46 m,of
plain portland cement concrete,built on an alignment of 08-26 magnetic.
The runway length will suffice for non-weight restricted operation of
present day aircraft, non-stop to most potential North American torist
source cities. Operations to Europe would entail some weight penalty.
Weight restrictions may be necessary to some degree, owing to the load
capacity of the concrete pavement. Investigations have been undertaken
to ascertain whether a strengthening and smoothing overlay of the runway
may be required. The conclusions of this study are not yet available.
B. Description of the Project
3.        The airport project will provide final field grading and
site drainage; an aircraft taxiway and apron; a terminal building with
access road and parking lot; water, sewerage and power supply; control
tower with communications equipment; electronic navigational aids;
field lighting and visual approach aids; crash/fire proteetion; fencing
and provision of sites for cargo and fuel storage.
a. Airside Facilities
4.        To render the runway serviceable,final grading of the side
slopes, blast protection of the shoulders, turning buttons at each end
and overshoot areas (stopways) will be provided. Some improvements to
the drainage system are also required.
5.        A right angle taxiway will be constructed from the runway to
the parking apron. The aircraft parking apron will be designed to
accept large wide bodied aircraft expected on scheduled service, although
the aircraft mix will be predominantly smaller charter aircraft (727,
DC-9, 707, DC-8, etc.).



ANNEX V
Page 2
6.        Medium intensity runway edge lighting for the runway, taxiway
and apron, and flood lighting on the apron will be supplied.
7.        Visual approach slope indicator lights (VASIS) will be installed
at each end of the runway, as well as runway end identification lights (REILS).
8.        A Very High Frequency (ni Range/Distance Measuring Equipment (VOR/DME)
-mit will be installed as an aircraft approach and enroute aid.
9.        A control room on the terminal building with air to ground and
ground point-to-point communi.cations will be provided.  Standard meteoro-
logical facilities will be incaluded for routine aviation weather informa-
tion.
10.       A crash/fire/rescue unit is included and will be housed initially
in a shelter adjacent to the terminal building.
11.       An operations area will be provided with road access and power
for fuel storage and cargo facilities.  Fuel storage and distribution
(by fuel truck), will not be financed under the project.
b.   Ground Side Facilities
(i)   Terminal BuiIdine
12.       A terminal buildinig designed to handle international tourist
charter groups, international scheduled airline passengers and domestic
passengers will be included as part of the project. The design will
stress function and flexibility in the initial phase and allow for
modular growth to meet future traffic demands. The airport feasibility
study has adopted a modular formula for the terminal building in order
to allow for future expansio:a and has provided reasnablp cost
estimates based on minimum requirements. Before final design is under-
taken, however, the feasibility study should be further refined to pro-
vide a more linear layout of the terminal building and more precise
traffic projections.
13.       Access to the airport will be via an existing two-lane highway
paralleling the _coast. A short two-lane road will be provided from the
highway to the terminal operations area and parking lot.
(ii)   Utilities
14.       A water line will be brought from an existing water main near
the highway to the terminal area. The water is of good quality. A small
reservoir will be constructed to provide a fire-fighting reserve.
15.       Sewage disposal will be through a package sewage treatment
plant. International wastes will be treated to neutralize the antiseptic
solutions used in aircraft sanitary systems.



ANNE V
Page 3
16.       Solid wastes will be incinerated in accordance with inter-
national standards in a smoke free incinerator.
17.       3lectrical power will be provided from the national power
supply. A high voltage supply will be brought from the highwav to the
main power substation and field electrical center. A distribution
system will be installed from the electrical center to the load centers.
Stand-by emergency plants will be provided for the airsidde ligihtig,
navigation aids and communications and essential services in the
terminal.
C. Oerational Considerations
18.       A study is near completion to detemine appropriate aircraft
approach and departure procedures and the navrigation aids reqTiired. Hills
in the area of the normal approach path make this a matter of pr°ie im&
portance. No problems are anticipated.
19.       Communications equipment and facilities for air traffic control
will be provided to service the mixed traffic expected. most of which
will be unfamiliar with the area. it is proposed that the Direccion de
Aeronautica Civil will operate and maintain both navigation and co. municEa-
tions facilities.
20.       The airport site is on a point of land, most of which has
little arable value. TEhe terminal area will encroach somewhat on a sugar
cane field, but on most of it production will continue
21.       Aircraft noise is a matter of some concern in a tourist area and
to the existing resident population.  The normal approach path from the
west is over land that is sparsely populated now and there would be little
or no effect on the coastal development. Noise due to take-offs will
affect the village of Sosua and any development in that vicinity. Noise
levels near Arroyo La Punta, for exaile, could be high but no development
is foreseen for this area. While the number of flights initially probably
would not be a cause for alarm, in the long term the noise could be
objectionable. Therefore, any large scale development in the airport vicinity
should be very carefully examined. Noise abatement procedures will be investi-
gated (e.g., a high speed climbing t%un to the north) and utilzed where
possible. An adequate zoning ordinance is required to control construction
in the flight path and airport area.
22.       The runway lc ation and orientation present sone difficulties with
respect to approach procedures and noise. The alternative would be to
abandon the site and relocate elsewhere. The investment in land and in
the present runway plus the cost of purchasing new land and building a
new runway can be evaluated against the cost of navigational aids and
reduced development at Sosua. A new site would also mean reduced or
restricted development elsewhere. On balance, it is preferable to
utilize the present site to relocatirg elsewhere.



ANNEX V
Page 4
D.  Cost Estimates
23.         It is estimated that the total cost of the ai^rport facilities
required would be about RDr 7a5 million, of which tne foreign exchange
cost would be about RD$ 4.3 million.  These estimates do not include the
cost of land and the runway.  Professional fees and supervision amount to
10% of construction costs.  These estimates are based on preliminary designs
and surveys.  Det:ails of the cost estimates are g-ven in Ann-ex II  Tables
1.5 and 2.9,
E. Execution and Procurement
24.         The Central Bank would assume algl responsibility for the execU,.lcn
of the airport component ard would be assisted by the Cc-m'IS.on Ainistrata
Aeroportuaria (U.A). Al contracts for civil works ane r t@ Dhe Sunpcl'J Of
equipment would be subject to international con.petitive ai6.ring in accordance
with the Bank's gu-delines for orocurements,.
F. Administration Arrangements
25.         Upon comple-tion oi construct-ion, the airport facilities wil  be
turned over to C   for ope:-a-stion and mraintenance,
26.         During negotiatIons assurances were obtained-
(i)  Thnat an agreement bDe miade betnween CAA and the
Central Bari indclatiLn  clearl-y7 tlnheir respective
responsibilitties   Deleineation of re5pon5i;  ities
s.hould be dAetailed enough Co ascertain w hnas
day-to-day operational respnsibility for s4ecific
functions. from whzich soarcas, operational expenses
are to be  et-  and how the individual ent.tties wil1
account- for thei.r pert of the activities -.oth during
neriod of constr-uiction and cperaticn.e
(ii)  That the Government will use its best efforts to
expedite the processing of passengers anTd tenr
effects at the internazional airports.
(iii)  T'hat within three years of loarn signing, an
lopen skies" policy in t-he operation of the Puerto
Plata airport will be declared with respect to non-
scheduled flights and that the Government will use
'ts best etffots to enter ilnto te necessary
agreements to make the airport co-terminal with
with Las Aiaericas airport serving Santo Domingo.



ANNE V
Page 5
G. Financial Aspects
(a)  General
27.        The capital requirement for completion of the airport
facilities is estimated to be RD$ 7,507,000.  This does not include
the costJ of land and the estimated RD$ 3.5 milli-on already spent by thie
Goverrnnent for the construction of the rumway. For purposes of financial pro-
jections in terms of 1974 price levels, capital expendituers O RD$ 5,5-17,000
plus interest during construction of RD$ 568,000 have been used on -ich
8.7% depreciation equivaler/ntu to RD$ 530,000 p.a. have beeAn calcilated.
(b)  Future Financial Results
28.        Since the Government has not yet indicated what landing charges
and other user charges would be applied at the Puerto Kfata airport, the
financial projections merely attempt to show  -at the lHwest possible
level of revenue would be if existing rates at Las Airiericas were applied at
Puerto Plata.
29.        These financial results are projected in Table   U in terms of 1974
price levels based on the assumptions listed in the attached -notes. The main
assumption is a landing fee of about RD$ e30 per 10  lbe. mraxidm   gross
weight equivalent to about RD$ .50 per passenger. In ad tion, a dearture
tax of RD$ 3.00 per international passenger was assumed to be harged.
30.        Together with the revenue from space rentals and fuel concessions,
the airport operating entity is expected to fully covJer from revenue thus
provided its cash operating expenses from 1979 onwTards. DiLring the first
two years of operation, however, deficiencies in meeting cash operating expenses
would have to be covered by Government subsidies estimated to t otal about
RD$ 230, 000.
31.        In terms of full operating costs, including 8e7% depreciation on
a straight-line basis, the operating results to be achieved with the application
of the rates naw in effect at Las Amtericas would be as followfs:
1978         1981         1986
Operating ratio in %          248          138          118
To reach a more acceptable level of 100% in 1984  and to enable CAA to cover
debt service after 1980, an increase of 1974 landing fees by ultimately 200%
in real terms would be required (100% by 1979, plus 100% in 1981),



ANNEX V
Page 6
(c) Financial Covenants
32.         The following specific financial objectives should be acaievedo
(i)  full coverage of cash requirements for operatior
of the a-'rport from airport revenues froam 1979
onwards;
(ii) gradual :Lmprovement of the operating ratio to
reach a :Level of  i00% in 1984,
To achieve this objective the Govermnent agreed to conmmit itself to a
review of present airpor.t user charges and submissionr of s?ecifif 7 ->-OSa.is
to the Bank Tw,itht  1z months from the si-g nin>g r  of the -n 
33.         Under the pro:Dosed institutional arrangemen-ts control of the
future financial performance of tlhe airport operati.ons 4n accordance with
these objectives should 'e exerciscd as followse
(i)  The CAA -rould be required to establish la:nding
fees, space rentals, concession fees and other
direct uiser charges at a level suffi c I. e nt to
achieve in 1984-' an operating rat4o o' at least
(ii)  The Goverr.nm.-en_ should also be required to provide
CAA withto fund.s to cover deficits in meeTring cash
operating exoDenses and in coveri.Lng debt service,
as well as ir asset repiacement0
(iii)  Accouniz11ng conSultlants, acceptable to the Bank,
should be engaged to assist CAA in7 the reNv ieT
ot user charaes and to establish an accountincg
system to perm-Lit: perLodic assessment of t.e
structu,re a7nd- veel of user charges,



ANNEX V
Notes to Table I
Page 1
Assumptions for Financial Projections
1.         The projection of tourist traffic is based on the occupancy
projections for hotels in the two resort areas and the vacation village
and further assumes that tourist traffic will essentially result from
charter flights of groups of about 250 tourists. In addition to hotel
tourists a projection of apartment occupants has been made. It is assued
that these will be partly foreign air travellers (30%), partly local air
travellers (30%), and partly other local occupants (40%). Otlher local
traffic has been assumed at 7-9% of hotel tourists. In addition., it has
been assumed that about 1.5% of the Puerto Plata area popu:Llation would be
travelling on international flights from or to Puerto Plata., This estiiriate
is based on a consultants' study of likely international traffic of Dominicans.
2.         Aircraft landing fees for charter flights are based on an assumed
rate of RD$ .50 per tourist, or RD$ 125 per plane, which is roughly RD$ 0.25
to 0.30 per 1000 lbs. maximum gross takeoff -weight.  The rate at, las .mericas
airport is RD$ 0.30 per 1000 lbs.
3.         For other traffic a rate of RD$ 0.25 per traveller has been assumed.
The exact formula for determining this rate would, however, depend on the kind
of landing fee arrangements to be made between the two airports i:, the
Dominican Republic to take into account the desired traffic patterns.
4.         Departure taxes have been assumed at RD$ 3.00 per foreign departure,
based on the departure tax now applied at Las Americas airport in Santo Domingo.
5.         Commercial revenue, mostly from space rentals, has been assumed to
be lower, relative to the tourist traffic, than at Las Americas airport, because
it does not seem likely that duty free facilities, as existing at Las Americas
airport in Santo Domingo, would be feasible in Puerto Plata. The average
rental revenue assumed is RD$ 1.00 per arriving traveller (the rate in Las
Americas is about RD$ 1.60).
6.         Fuel concession fees have been assumed at 30% of landing fees
which is comparable to the revenue now received from this source at Las
Americas airport.
7.         Operating expenses have been based on the consultants' estimate
which assumes an initial staff level of 50 persons, rising gradually to 85
persons at the end of the forecast period. The estimate includes a 3% annual
increase for salary adjustments other than inflationary adjustments. Personnel
costs cover only normal airport staff not including customs, health and
immigration processing and not including functions regularly handled by airline
personnel.



ANNEX V
Notes to Table 1
Page 2
8.         Costs of' maintenance and utilities have been based on the con-
sultants' estimates which were derived from actual data pertaining to
costs at the Las Americas airport.
9.         Costs of' maintenance and operation of navigational aids have
been estimated separately at 5% of the capital cost of equipnent which is
considered adequate.
lo.        The following annulal rates of straight-line depreciation were
used:
Runway and other civil works       -   5%    )
Terminal building                  -    6.66%  ) composite rate - 8.7%
Navigational aids and other                    )
equipment                       -   10%    )



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
PUERTO PLATA TOURISM PROJECT - ATRPOPT OPERATIONS
PROFORMA INCOME STATEIMENTS 1977-1986
Yeais elnding December 31                               1977           1978          1979           1980          1981           1982        1703             1))l        1)85          1986
Aipr trffic
Hotel tourists (foreign)                                      23,200       56,730          69,200        33,000       108,400        112,000         129,300 99     448,0 13d,130               15O,2OJ
Apartment tourists (foreign)                                   1,770        9,600          11,400        13,500         19,59900      20,2700                21,609  2      1,60) 1 6            21,600
Other international traffic                                   10,o00       10,100        i 1 600         13,403         13 4u0        15,200          17,0()3 _    18,00          1) 190        21 X0
Subtotal                                                 34,T970       76,40          92,200        109,90N,303                    T900 3       I177,009 ,3 7 )00            d  730' -  1         > T1,8
Apartmernt tourists (local)                                    1,770        9,600          11,400        13,500         19,500        20,700          21,900        21,600        21,630         9 1,60
Other local traffic                                          - 2000         4,800           5,90) 69699                  9,200       19,930 0,,200                 1  10           1,1
Subtotal                                                  3,770        1,00             ,320,100                   28,700         30,700          31,200       32,700         32,77)         3 , 7
Total airport traffic                                    38,740        90,800        109,50)        130,000       170,000        185,600         198,200      216,6()9       221,0J9           5,9  
(in '000 RD$)
- in 1974 prices -
REVENUE
Aircraft landing fees - charter flights                              13           33             '0            48              64             70             75           33             a5              6
- regular fli-ghts                           3             6              7              8            10             11              12           13             13             13
1 6          39              7             56            7            57T9          6    7           96
Departure tax                                                      105           229            277            330           428            465             501          c52      _        566         57
Subtotal                                                     121          268             328                          8             546 --7-677                                 75
Space rentals                                                        39           91            110            130            170           186             1i)          217            221           122
Fuel concession fees                                                  5           12              14            17             22            24              26            29            30             3
Subtotal                                                     T            103             124           147            192           210             224           246            2571-
Total operating revenue                                      165          371             448           533            6y0 756                        7            8)0           91             )29_
OPERATING COSTS
Salaries and wages                                                  176          181             187           192            198           241             248           256           263            271
Utilities and maintenance                                           176          181             187           192            193           241             248           256            263           271
Operation and maintenance navigational aids                          27           27              27            27             21             27             27            21             27            27
Cash operating expenses                                      379          389             401           411            423            509            523           539            553           569
OPERATING INCOME/LOSS (before depreciation)                        (214)         (18)             47           122            267           287             239           355            362           360
Depreciation                                                       (530)        (530)          (530)          (530)          (530)          (530)          (39)          (530' 53')                    539)
NET OPERATING INCOME/LOSS                                          (744)        (548)          (483)          (808)          (263)          (2 f3)         (28 1)        (17            (16 180
Operating ratio (in %)                                              551          248            209             177           138            137             130          120            l18            118
JY9
JULY 1974



ANNEX VI
Page 1
tormYF_N FFPIJBLIC
A!PA'RiSkL CF TINH  'E70-,1 PL, A TA TXTI4 P R   EOJC T
The  ronstruc-iorT1ndustry
A. Nature of Labor Force
1.        Unlike Ln a-Li3  carne cutting operations in the Republic, the vast
majority of workers in the construction industry are Dominicans.  Despite
the outstanding          ofl-I th  cai yorker to adopt the skills required in
the constructior. 4_. `us ory, :rnpl2'r_-es from the level of foreman upwards are
frequently ir.por-ted fIo  ,he SO for nlajcr contracts.  Under the law govern-
ing employment- of al ens , n  less than 70 percent of all workers must be
Dominicans, and payment rEree.Ted by Dominican workers must constitute no
less than 70 percent- of .,she  ta Tage bJil of an enterprise.  Persons with
special scientf ,'   or tecnrical knowledge involved in the management of
enterprises are eim pr-P om this law.
2.        There is at present no shortage of unskilled or semi-skilled labor
in the construct o ,  inndr-Lgy  Somne firms experience, however, shortages
in the availabilitv of workers at and. above the level of skilled draftsmen
and technicians such as electricians. plLumbers, pipe fitters, mechanics
and equipment operators. TIhere appear to be no labor problems and labor-
management rela-ions are good, vJith i; sputes resulting in strikes being rare.
3T In the absence of any data or formal trade classification, it is
difficult to assess exact:ly the  -ont`ent of the labor force in terms of
skilled, semo-sulled and unski_`edf workers.  Very roughly, the breakdown
appears to be ia t'-he order of 15_ -oeroer  skilled workers, 20 percent semi-
skilled (includ:ng heluers to skilled workers), and 65 percent unskilled labor.
B.  Methods of -!mployrent and Rates. o.f. Pment
4.        Dominican labor costs account for approximately 25 to 40 percent of
the total const:ruction costss  Fourly rates range from RD$ 0.31 per hour for
an unskilled laborer to RDFl  l.50 pe  hour for a skilled and specialized
worker.  There are three :-r.ethods oc: employment and payment of labor commonly
used in the construction Lndustry in the Republic: a) direct employment with
payment methods maGe schnoury, dail, -eekly, or in some cases by work done;
b) unofficial subcointrac- tc 1_aDor teans with payments based on the work
done and c) subcontrtat, either la-br cnly or labor and material with pay-
ments made accordLn- to a schedule of rates.  In the building industry, 30%
on the average -se the syste.m ontl-ned under (a), 601 use (b) and lio  use
(c).  In gener--   c-,l  L en-zneer-.ng and infrastructure contracts, lt averages
at 60" for (a) 1,  fur ('b) and 5 icr (c)



kNNEX VT
Page 2
C. Construction Materials
5.        The Dominican Republic produces a wide range of materials required
in the local construction industry.  Present production of these materials,
however, satisfies only 30 to 40% of the total national demand:, with the
balance imported from other countries in Latin America, the United States,
Japan and -West Germany.
6.        Materials produced in the Republic include cement, reinforcement
bars milled from imported steel and local scrap, nails, concrete and clay
blocks, floor tiles, aluminium windows extruded locally from im ported
aluminium, sand, gravel, paint mixed locally from imported materials, electrical
Niring, plastic pipes, galvanized pipes, casings for electric fittings, doors and
other types of woodirwork from imported timber, asbestos cemrent products and
clay roofing tiles.
7.        The output of the only cement factory in Santo Domingo (Fabrica
Dominicana de Cemento) is no longer able to supply the needs of the Republic
and cement is imported from Colombia, Puerto Rico and Venezuela.  Addi-tional
cement factories are planned or under construction in the Cibao Re-;on (1977),
San Pedro de Macoris, (1975) and Barahona (1978).
8.        The Dominican Republic used to produce its own timber, but increase
in demand endangered the growth of timber forests.  In the interest of con-
servation, the Government purchased and closed down all the sawmills. It mav
be long before the Government feels that the country's stocks of timber are
sufficient to reintroduce controlled cutting.  Timber is  Gow imported from
Central America, Brazil and the United States.
D. Construction Equipment
9.        All construction equipment is imported from overseas, primarily from
the United States, Japan and West Germany. Construction equipment is used
quite commonly on civil engineering works, including the use of some rather
sophisticated machinery. Very little equipment, however, appeared to be
used on general construction work.
E. Contract Procedures
10.       Competitive bidding in the Republic is rare and only about 10-15io of
contracts are placed in this manner now. These contracts are generally
financed through foreign sources, who require such competition. A system of
competition on a design and build basis is sometimes employed when major works
are to be completed within a short time.
11.       Contracts not subject to competition are normally placed by negotiation.
A firm is invited to submit a price for the job, and this proposal is then
subject to negotiation. This procedure has lead to a situation where contractors



ANNEX VI
Page 3--
need to have contacts with persons at hi gh levels in the Government
ln order to be concidered for such works.
12.        A further method of obtaining contracts especially for major projects,
is by Tpropositiont.  A flra Twill produce a scheme and a price for a con-
struction project, which it considers is needed and might int.erest the Govern-
ment.  This is then submitted (through a senior member of the Government) to
the Presiden.  TIf the scheTme is approved, it is impl emented at the subma itted
price.
13.       The Public Works Department awards contracts on the basis of a
selected tender method, where compaies are nomina7taed to rarticiDate in con-
tract competition based on their cqu2l Lf-icatioLns and a ratina list prepared by
the depart.ment.  Public. utility companies use the open com.petitfve tender
method, and dependi ng on the type and maignitude of the cract  they occasion-
ally may require international compe-tition.
F.  Contractors - Constr'uctionapabilitv-
14.        There are a nrTfber of small Dominican desigr and construction 1firms
which mainly undertake minor projects.  Wlore substantia]L pi-ojects are handled
by six major contracting fir,-s establ shed -r Santo Domingo   Be tieen theria
they have the abili4y -   as 4-ey  asas the ecupmrent, to execute G'St civil ergineer-
ing works, such as steel and concretfle structoures and bridges* .ater wores,
roads, hotels, res-dential and inndustrial developrme.ntc.s et-c   1 .owever. foreeign
expertise is needed folr ....t-  spec-alized c   e.;  such at ;anE, rower ari
industrial plaits te,ecomnc         . '   reattema and arpor-t  r
15.        The Public Works Department emnploy-es technical sta.1  aand a laoor force
which i s used alrrost entirely oll na lntenance wOrkzs.  Somtie-i=es, however, `-hiS.
force is used to compr-ce rrolects, which a contractor ha-r r.-omn` eted,
Pub-Lic Ttilitv com,-Dani,2S al;'o emrnp ny t,*echnic a  staff and  -a.no. cut the d'egree
of use made of thai varie9 3eperctatg or the ty-joe and comple-      O  tne wora.
16.        At tne present, it appears that approxLmately 659- of the buildinlg
and civil engineering work is performed. by > irri ate coniy-.=-.es and 15% by n.blilc
agencies with their own staff" anld .Lbcr force.
17.        In surmnary-, the production of materials in the Renub-lic will for some-
time meet only a part of the needs of the construction industry.  LmTports on
wnich there a;^e generally nc restrictions, will ha.ve to cover the rest of the
recuirements of the industry.  In this respect, the Puerto Plata region is
°wel served, since it has a port that could han le the imports and reduce
transportation costs.  In addition, the completed Santiago-Puerto Plata high-
way facilitates dist-ribuntio.n from internal sources.  As long as local firms
continue to expand their production anid foreign exchange is readily available,
the supply of materials will not be a limiting factor on the construction
capability in the tRepublic.  The construction capability in the project area
in the future will strongly depend on the availability of labor, particularly
skilled labor, and on the availability of technical experts to supervise work.



ANNEX VII
Page 1
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
APPRAISAL OF THE PUERTO PLATA TOURISM PROJECT
Department for the Development of Tourism Infrastructure
(INFRATUR)
A. Purpose and Scope of Responsibility
1.      The Department for the Development of Tourism Infrastructure
(INFRATUR) of the Central Bank of the Dominican Republic was created by
action of the Monetary Board on September 16, 1971, and a special fund
for INFRATUR of RD$ 5 million for stimulating tourism development in the
country was approved on July 6, 1972. INFRATUTR has no legal status as an
entity separate from the Central Bank. In broad terms, the objectives of
INFRATUR are:
(a) promotion and realization of infrastructure projects
for the development of tourism in the country;
(b) inducing private investment as a necessary comple-
ment to the above investments in infrastructure; and
(c) cooperation with the National Directorate of Tourism
to foster development of the entire tourism industry.
2.      INFRATUR's governing body is the Administrative Committee which
is composed of the Governor of the Central Bank (Chairman) and the follow-
ing Central Bank Officials - the manager, the legal counsel, the director
of economic studies, director of the department of international conventions
and the director of INFRATUR (ex officio). The Administrative Committee
reports to the Monetary Board and is responsible for all policy matters.
3.      INFRATUR will be responsible firstly for the design and construc-
tion of all infrastructure facilities in project areas. For the Puerto
Plata project, a project unit will be created with responsibility only
for that project.  Secondly, INFRATUR will be responsible for overall
management of the operational phase of the Puerto Plata project, operating
some of the installations itself and supervising the operation of others
entrusted to agencies with appropriate competence under management contract
arrangements.
4.      In addition to the special fund, sources of INFRATUR's funds can
includet (i) the State in the form of cash or land or other assets;
(ii) the Central Bank; (iii) international organizations; (iv) private
capital markets; and (v) any other source authorized by the Monetary Board.



ANNEX VII
Page 2
5.      INFRATUR will not have autonomy in its financial affairs.  The
Monetary Board voted in August 1973 to create a financial department within
the Central Bank which will manage and control all the Central Bank's
financial operations, including those of INFRATTUR. Thus INFRLTUR will have
responsibility technically but not financially for its operations. Separate
accounts for INFRATER's opera-tions will be kept and, in accordance with the
Central Bank's existing role as a development institution, INFRATUR will be
required to recover all its capital and operating expenses.
B. Organization and Operation
6.      The operations in which INFRATUR can engage, consistent with its
objectives, include carrying Dut technical and economic feasibility studies
for tourism infrastructure, acquiring land subject to tourism development
and other assets; entering into chattel and real estate mortgages; and
managing assets developed as a result of investing the monies from the special
fund. In addition, INFRATUR can develop, sell and rent real estate under con-
ditions set by the Monetary BDard. INFRATUR's organization is based on these
legally permitted operations. Its organization chart is presented at the
back of this Annex and explained in the following paragraphs.
7.      INFRATUR is managed by a Director reporting to the Administrative
Committee, a deputy director, legal counsel and the financial department of
the Central Bank. The coordinating committee is composed of all heads of
departments within INFRATUR. INFRATUR will retain consultants to perform
special services.
8.      The Puerto Plata Project Unit will be responsible for planning and
execution of the project. It will be responsible for the development of all
plans, programs and projects and the preparation of designs and specifications
and the execution of all engineering works. The unit will include consultants
hired to provide technical assistance.   In the operational phase of the project,
the unit will be responsible for administration, operation and maintenance of
project areas. Its functions then will be: (a) to establish land prices,
ground rents and property rental fees; (b) to manage Central Bank-owned
facilities; and (c) to control and maintain Central Bank-owned developments,
to enforce zoning alnd building regulations as well as supervise standards and
quality in privately owned and operated facilities. This unit will have the
assistance of the legal department and the investment promotion unit of the
Central Bank.!/
9.      Other departments of INFRATUR include the Technical Department which
will be responsible for planning and execution of other infrastructure projects;
the Administrative Department; the General Servises Department which will
process credit applications for FIDE investments- handle special stamp issues
and develop a national program to stimulate local folk handicrafts.
1/ The investment promotion unit will be responsible for preparing investment
promotion programs, identifying investors and assisting in negotiating cnn-
tractual arrangements with investors.
2/ This function may later be transferred to the financial department.



ANNEX VII
Page 3
C. Relationship with Other Agencies
10.        The relationship between INFRATUR and local municipalities (Puerto
Plata, Rio San Juan) is that the municipality would provide maintenance service
for internal roads, tracks and streets, parking, storm water drainage, street
and track lighting, solid waste disposal and fire-fighting facilities. The
airport is to be operated by CAA; the water supply and sewerage systems by
INAPA; electrical power supply by CDE; telecommunications by CDT; environmental
sanitation by the Ministry of Health; the hotel school by the Catholic University
of Santiago, shopping, restaurant and beach facilities, golf courses and club-
houses, riding stables, and landscaping and beach development will all be
operated and maintained by INFRATUR. However, INFRATUR will be responsible
for the overall quality control in project areas and would work out contractual
agreements between the Central Bank and each participating agency and authority
to ensure an integrated development of the Puerto Plata project.
D. Financial Aspects
Financing Plan
11.        The total project cost is estimated at US$36.0 million equivalent,
plus US$3.6 interest during construction. The Bank loan is to cover the
foreign exchange component, or 58% of total project cost. Based on these
assumptions, the following is a summary financial plan for the Puerto Plata
project, excluding working capital:
Estimated           Sources of Funds
Project Component            Cost       Bank Loan      Central Bank
Land                         3.7             _             3.7
Water and sewerage           5.5            3.6             1.9
Airport                      7.5            4.8             2.7
Resort facilities           17.0           11.0             6.0
Project administration
and other pre-
opening expenses        2.3            1.6            0.7
Project cost                36.0           21.0            15.0
Interest during
construction            3.6             -             3.6
T o t a l              39.6           21.0           18.6



ANNEX VII
Page 4
The IBRD loan is assumed tc) be at 8% interest for 30 years, including a ten-
year grace period.  It has been assumed that the Central Bank contribution would
be in the form of equity, except for interest during construction which would be
lent on the same terms as the Bank loan. There are three main components of the
project:  the water and sewerage, the airport and the resort facilities.  The
resort facilities will be omned by the Central Bank (paras. 11-17); the water
and sewerage and the airport components will be owned, operated and maintained
respectively by INTAPA (Annex III) and CAA (Annex V).  These two agencies will be
responsible to the Central Bank for deb, service on their respective portions of
the Bank loan. In the case of INAPA, cash advances (capitalized and amortized)
will be necessary from INFRITUR to enable that agency to meet its 9% rate of
return criterion.  Irn the case of CA., the Government wotiould make good to the
Central Bank any shortfall  i cash required to meet the eebt service on. the Bank
loan in the early years of operation.
I/
Financial Results - INFRATUR
11.       A pro forma statement of income and expense for INFRATTJR's operations
is presented in Table 1.  These projections include only th.e tourism facilities
(defined as total project cost, less the airport, water, sewerage and solid
waste disposal components), to be managed and operated by  =F.ATUR anr  are based
on the following plan:
$ million
Requirements
Ccst (including land)                               26,6
Irterest during construction                         2e9
Total                                          29.5
Sources of Initial Funds
IBE) loan                                           -  9
Central Bank loan                                    2.9
Central Bank equity                                 12.7
Total                                          29.5
12,        INFRATUR will derixVe revenue from the following four major sources:
the leasing of hotel sites; :he leasing of other properties including shops,
restaurants, golf courses and other recreational facillities: the provision
of certain services relating to the maintenance of central facill-tes and
amenities; and t1he sale of viLl1a sites for building hoTmes. All rents and
selling prices have been based on the criterion of recovery of allI invest-
ments in improvements plus anl adequate return, Ground re-nt for hotel sites
has been calculated at US$20'0 per room per year for the hotels at Playa
Dorada and US$260 per roomr, per year for the hotels at Playa Grande. Other
lease charges were based on aP percentage of estimated sales (10-10% depending
1/  (a)  The term IIINFRATJR" is used in the following text to indicate the "Central
Bank" as far as concerns i'ts operations in the Tourism Sector, which are
handled by INFRkTUR; and (b) All projections in 1974 prices.



ANNEX VII
Page 5
on the facility).  Annual service charges levied for hotels only were
estimated at US$ 300 per hotel room per year to cover the cost of pro-viding
basic services plus maintenance of the project area. Land prices (based on
the total cost of improved land and on market prices in the Puerto Plata
region) were set at US$ 14 per square meter in Playa Dorada (developed) and
US$ 6 per square meter in Playa Grande (mdeveloped).
14.      Operating costs include maintenance of the amenity infrastructure
(such as beach improvement) in the resort complex, promotional and adminis-
trative (including payroll) activities and the coe. oL land sold as vila
sites. Maintenance cost was set at 1% of depreciable items in the amenity
infrastructure. Promotional expenses are noininal and complement the invest-
ment promotion program which is planned for the pre-operatming period.
Administration expense was calculated on the basis of a budgetary forecast.
15.      Depreciation and amortization of deferred charges were calculated
at 4% per year. Depreciation was calculated on the buildLngs and equipment
(e.g., shopping center) in the complex and improvements in the project area
(e.g., beach development); amortization was based on the capital contributimn
(electricity and telecommunication components) ,consumer contribution (2IAPA)
promotional costs, project administration and financial charges during con-
struction,
16.      The projected income statement indicates that IfFRATUR would maintai
a rate of return of about 10% on gross assets. INFRATUR is expected to be
able to generate sufficient internal funds to meet its debt ser-ice requirements
for the resort facilities and to retain adequate reserve f-rnds,
Financial Covenants
17.      Because of the nature of INFRATUR's operations the financial projections
for these operations do not represent standards of performance which can be
regulated by strict financial covenants. In adopting and applying policies
related to ground rent, property leases, selling prices and service charges the
Central Banlc should aim at obtaining revenues, sufficient to produce a consoli-
dated rate of return on overall project investments in fixed assets (including
those which would remain the property of the Central Bank and those which might
be ultimately transferred to other agencies) of not less than 9% over a period
of 30 years.  INFRATTJR would formulate on this basis and in agreement with the
Bank, a method for calculating ground rent, property leases, selling prices
and service charges.
18.      INFRATUR should install a system of commercial accounts, acceptable to
the Bank, which would be maintained by the Central Bank. These accounts would
be audited by the Superintendent of Banks and audit reports should be submitted
to the Bank within three months after the close of the fiscal year.



ANNNEX VII
Page 6
Consolidated Cash Flow
19.       The overall financial plan for the project as shown above calls
for a Bank loar of US$21eO million to cover foreign exchange cost, Central
Bank equity of USOL5 million and a loan of US$3.6 miIlion to cover interest
during construction, for a total Droject cost of US$3?26 million.
20.       The consolidated sources and application of funds is shown In
Table 2. The transfer of assets refers to the water and sewage component
and to the airport component which are transferred at the begining of opera-
tions in 1977.  Thne payment to INAPA is a consumner contrl.,ution, capi'alized-
and amortized against income to enable t1hat agency to meet its rate of:E ret'ar
criterion (Annex III).
21,        INFRAT'uJ  is a department of the Central Bank and it ..as no in6e-
Dendent legal stat:us   Statements of financial position eaws tnus rot 'ee-l.
presented.
22.       The financial result of the project, that is t Te TNFRArJR operations.
the water and sewage and the airport components, were assessed on the basis of
a consolidated rate of retu.rn,  Assuming a tLhirty year operating period, the
consolidated DCF return w,ould be aDout 91%



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC: PUERTO PLATA TOURISM PROJECT
INFRATUR: Tentative Organization Chart
MONETARY BOARD
ADMINISTRATIVE COMMITTEE
I
DIRECTOR
CONSULTING Lll
| SERVICES                                                                             POETUI
DEPUTY
DIRECTOR
LEGAL            TCHNICAL DEP          ADMINISTRATIV          INVESTMENT              GENERAL
SERVICES                              L      DEP                   DEPT.               SERVICES
World Bank-9040



DOMINICAN REPUBLIG: PUERTO PLATA TOURISM PROJECT
INFRATUR:  Pro Forma Statement of Income and Expense
(RD$ OOO's: RD$1.00 = US$1.00)
Calendar Year                                                             1a974     1975      1976      1977      1978      1979      1980      1981      1982       1983      1984      1985      1986
Project Year                                                                1         2         3         4         5         6          7        8          9        10        11        12        13
Statement of Income and Expense
Revennue
Land Sales                                                             -         -         -      1,290       840    1,290    1,160    1,164          804       480       480       480       480
Land Leases                                                            -         -         -         94       218       224       250       330       350       390       410       410       zlo
Property Loascc                                                        -         _         _        204       532       744       844       979    1,049    1,139       1,235    1,334      1,361
Service Charges                                                       _          -                  132       293       300      330        450       480       510       570       570        570
Total Revenue                                                    -                   -      1,770    1,883    2,558    2,584    2,923    2,683    2,519           2,695    2.794    2,821
OperatngCot
Land C                                                                                               68        45        68        52        52        48        31        31         31        31
Administration                                                                                      185       195       205       216       216       216       216       216        216       216
Maintenance                                                            -         -         -         82        82        82        82        82        82        82         82        82        82
Promolion                                                             _         _         _          50        50        50        50        50        50        50        50        50         50
Total Operating Costs                                            -         _         -        285       342       405       400       400        396       379       379       379       379
Gross Operating Profit (GOP)                                                -         -         -      1,385    1,511    2,153    2,184    2,523    2,287    2,140    2,316    2,415    2,442
Depreciation and Amortization
Depreciation                                                           -         -         -         -        346       516       516       516       516       516       516        516       516
Amortization                                                           -         -              -              -        218       218       218       218        218       218       218       218
Total Depreciation and Amortization                              -         -         -         -        346       734       734        734       734       734       734       734       734
Profit before Interest                                                      -         -          -     1,385    1,165    1,419    1,450    1,789    1,553    1,406            1,582     1,681    1,708
Interest a/                                                                 -          -        -          -     1,344    1,344      1,344    1,344       1,344    1,344    1,310       1,277    1,243
Net Profit                                                                   -         -         -     1,385       (179)       75       106       445       209        62       272       404       465
Accumulated Net Profit                                                       -         -         -     1,385    1,206    1,281       1,387      1,832    2,041    2,103    2,375        2,779    3,244       X 
Ratio of Gross Operating Profit to Cross Fixed Assets                        -         -        -         5%       10%        11%      11%        12'!.     11%       107,      117       12%        12 7,
Cash Flow
Cash Generated                                                         -         -         -      1,385     1,511    2,153    2,184    2,523    2,287         2,140    2,316    2,415        2,442
Debt Service                                                                     -         -         -      1,344    1,344    1,344    1,344    1,344    1,344    1,711            1,711    1,711
Debt Service Coverage                                                  -         -         -                    1.1       1.6       1.6       1.9        1.8       1.6       1.4       1.4       1.4
a/ Includes interest on Central Bank loan.
OCTOBER 1974



."'YLiLi1I-c'  1ei"I'.(.  irruncr'  ,nc.l.'H!)l'-,I rUi 01  onl(
(R)$ 0C&0: a        1 .00 = 1S. L00)
Cal  ndar Ycr                                             L.974l i.i_925    1976    9 7 '    _97P    3979    190    .9861    1982      98W3   j9i/j   0I la9P,
Pruirct Year                                                         2       3       1        5       6        /       8               10       i1               i-
Sn311c-oao  FLI0dsW
IT¢,itiJ_'1'1J Fuity                                  93 959  0518    ,,07-                               -                        -- 
C.niral Bank [oan                                      70      i20   1 ,300    710
TBRD Loan                                            8-50   _ 0    9.000   439 0          
Subtotal                                       7,859  11,301  14,373   6,060        -       -        -       -       -        -       -        -
Profit before Depreciation and Interest                -        -       -    1,385   1,511   2,153   2,184   2,523   2,287   2,140   2,316   2,415   2,442
Transfer of Assets                                     -        -       -   13,041 ,     -       -        -       -        -                        -
Total Funds                                         7,859  11,301  14,373  20,486   1,511   2,153   2,184   2,523   2,287   2,140   2,316   2,415   2,442
Application of Funds
Land                                                3,671       -       -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -
Fixed Assets                                        3,001  10,069  12,364   4,099        -       -        -       -        -       -        -        -       -
Asset Transfers                                        -        -       -   13,041       -       -        -       -        -       -        -        -       -
Pre-opening Expenses                                1,117      712     709     251       -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -
Financial charges                                      70      520   1.300   1.710       -                         -       -        -       -        -       -
Subtotal                                       7,859  11,301  14,373  19,101        -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -
Payment to INAPA                                       -        -       -      390      250     190      180     100       75      70       -       -        -
Total Applications                                  7,859  11,301  14,373  19,491       250     190      180     100       75      70           -            -
Cash Available                                         -        -       -      995   1,261   1,963   2,004   2,423   2,212   2,070   2,316   2,415   2,442
Accumulated Cash                                       -        -       -       995   3,156   5,119   7,123   9,546  11,758  13,828  16,144  18,559  20,101
Debt Service
01
On Full Bank Loan                                      -        -       -        -    1,680   1,680   1,680   1,680   1,680   1,680   2,139   2,139   2,139   a
On Adjusted Bank Loan a-                                        -                -    1,112   1,112   1,112   1,112   1,112   1,112   1,416   1,416   1,416   r o
On Central Bank Loan                                            -       -        -      288     288      288     288      288     288      367      367     367
a/   IBRD Loan less portions applicable to water and sewerage and airport components.
October 1974



ANNEX VIII
Page 1
DOI- JCAU REP°UBLIC
APPRAISAL OF THE PUERTO PLATA TOURISM PROJECT
-TZ j4a fkt
I. The Caribbean Market
1.        The Caribbear. has lrng been identified as a leading travel
destination.  Traditiona'l;y, in islafids such as Jamaica, small luxurious
hotels were built catering mos-tly to Iealthy visitors from North America
during the winter seasor.  In the 1960'0s, larger often high rise hotels,
as for exanple in Puerto Rico and the Bahamas, were built capitalizing on
the sane steadily growir.g affluent North American market.
2.        In 1960, there were 1,O)i8,OoO visitors to the Caribbean3 for
recent years, the statistics are as follows:
Visitor Arrivals             Animual Growth Rate
Year                  (000's)                        (M)
1968                 2,643                             -
1969                 3,059                          15.8
1970                 3,106                           1.6
1971                 3,474                          l1.8
1972                 3,856                          11.0
The above figures do not include cruise ship arrivals which would add
another one million arrivals to the total. Growth in the 1960's was
uninterrupted, until 1970, when it stopped abruptly.  The reasons were
the economic slowdown in the United States, increased inter-regional
competition from Europe (because of reduced transatlantic group air fares),
and political and social unrest in the Caribbean. In 1971 and 1972, growth
resumed, spurred by a recovering U. S. economy and aggressive marketing
efforts by the host countries. ihe market is also changing with an emphasis
more on groxp travel away from the traditional Caribbean individual travel.
3.        Tables 1  2 ard 3   show the origin of visitors, seasonal distri-
bution of arrivals, and the average length of stay of visitors to the Carib-
bean.  Between 60 and 70<o of visitors to the Caribbean are American and that
ratio is expected to continue.  Winter is the high season but intensive
merchandising and group travel are altering the seasonal distribution to the



ANNEX VIII
Page 2
point where the flow of visitors is becoming more even throughout the year.
The average length of stay is between five and eight days and is static, or
declining slowly in major destination areas. A minimum of 80% of the
visitors are on vacation rather than on business.
4.        The Caribbean is traditionally an expensive destination.  Average
expenditures are difficult to determine but in Jamaica, a study in 1970
suggested that the average daily expenditure of all arrivals was about US$ 25
and about US$ 27 for visitors from North America. More recent surveys in
Bermuda and the Bahamas suggest that the average expenditure there is US$ 40 -
Us$ 45 daily, and in the U. S. Virgin Islands as high as IJS$ 70 daily. By
comparison, the daily expenditure of Americans in Europe averaged about us$ 18
in 1972, according to recent U. S. Department of Commerce Statistics. Undoubtedly,
the Caribbean is one of the most expensive destinations in the world.
5.        In 1972, the hotel industry in the Caribbean had about 65,000 rooms
and 130,000 beds, with a growth rate in the supply of rooms in excess of 10%
for the period 1968-72. Average room rates are among the highest in the world.
In Puerto Rico, for example, the annual average room rate is about US$ 30 in
luxury hotels. Indications are, however, that in spite of inflation the high
rates are easing somewhat. In luxury hotels, room occupancy was about 66% in
1972, unchanged from 1971. Overall, evidence indicates that occupancies declined
in the period 1968-1972, although hotels in principal destination areas still
maintain high levels. Operating costs in Caribbean hotels have increased greatly
in recent years. Food, much of which is imported into the islands, has increased,
and payroll costs have risen dramatically, in spite of the high unemployment rates
in many islands. In Puerto Rico, several hotels have closed rebently, not because
of poor occupancy, but rather because of the prohibitive costs of doing business.
6.        In synthesis, several conclusions on the Caribbean tourism industry
can be drawn. First, the major source of demand is the high income United States
market. Secondly, high operating costs in hotels, accented by a marked season-
ality pattern, threaten to render the industry unprofitable in several islands.
Thirdly, the move away from traditional small to large high rise hotels has
given rise to serious political and social questions regarding the future of
tourism as an acceptable economic activity. Fourthly, after a decade of strong
growth in the 1960's the Caribbean relatively lost some market share to competing
parts of the world, particularly Europe. By contrast, the growth trend resumed
in 1971 and 1972. It is now evident that the disappointing results of 1970 were
transitory and that fundamentally the demand for Caribbean travel is strong.
Recent devaluations of the U. S. dollar will lend strength to tourism in Carib-
bean countries maintaining parity with the dollar. Fifthly, since 1970, there
has been a greater incidence of group travel to the Caribbean which is helping
to fill hotels in the spring/summer months as well as in the winter season.
II. The Dominican Republic Market
7.        Unlike other Caribbean destinations, the Dominican Republic is one
of the few islands which did not develop tourism in the 1960's. Yet, it has a
broad asset base well-suited for tourism development. It has a typical



ANNEX VIII
Page 3
Caribbean climate, good beaches, natural beauty and an interesting historical
and cultural background. It is readily accessible and offers the opportunity
for varied recreational activities. It has a broad-base agricultural industry
(which many Caribbean islands do not have) capable of supplying the tourist
industry with much of its food stuff, if marketing and distribution systems
can be adequately developed..
8.        In 1960, there were about 20,000 arrivals in the Dominican Republic;
for recent years, the statistics are as follows:
Visitors
Year                  (OOO's)
1968                    60.2
1969                    74.2
1970                    67.6
1971                   106.5
1972                   135.0
Up to 60% of these arrivals are business rather than vacation oriented
visitors. In terms of overall Caribbean tourism, the arrivals have been
about 3% of all arrivals. However, the growth rate in the past four years
has been 2 5  compared to about 10% for the Caribbean as a whole.
9.        The majority of visitors to the Dominican Republic have been from
the United States as the following data confirm:
Year
Origin              1968         1970          1972
Mainland U.S.A.       33.0%         41.6%        48.9%
Puerto Rico           47.6          39.4          37.0
Other                 19.4          19.0         14.1
100.0%       100.0%        100.0%
There are two additional groups of visitors which have particular importance -
returning Dominicans and Puerto Ricans. DominicanB resident abroad return in
the months of June, July, August and December principally; Puerto Ricans visit



ANNEX VIII
Page 4
the Republic on vacation  predominantly ln the mornths of June, july and August.
On average, July is the month with t'he highest incidence of arrivals followed
by December and August; the distribution between 4;;De other mo7n,r.ths is relatively
even wzith arrivals in the first three montnh5 neavier than in the reImaining
months.  The average length of stay was about sx days in 1972.
10.       There are about 2,000 hotel rooms currently available in the
Dominican Republic, but only about 1,600 are of international standards.
About another 1,000 are pianned t.o be open by 1075 and many other projects are
under consideraticn.  in international hotels i:n t-he ca;Lital.' rocm rates run
from US$ 12 - UJS$ 30 and room occupancy is abo_t 7   irn t.he leadi ng hotels
rnhe costs of operation in hotels in the Don.minican :-n.epublic are low by- co-mparison
with other parts of the Caribbean.
11        In summary, the Dominrcan Republic has had litftle experience -oith
tourism. Most visitors have been businessmen,  Ho,-ever" in t3he past few years
the growth rate of visitor arrivals has been. 2,X`o -. .;h a h gh inclidence of  U. S.
and Puerto Rican visitors.  Operating costs i-n hotel  are IoTw,  Both factors
have contributed to a great deal of interest in the  03ons'J.UCtion OL new hotels.
III. The Puerto Plata Project
12.       The type of tourism development proposed for the Playa Dorada area
relies on the concept of providing competitively priced, all inclusive, family
vacation package tours, including low cost air transportation that N.ill appeal
to the middle ircome vacationer.  The concept represents a break with past
Caribbean experience since target markets will be middle JnLome, rather than
high income and the emphasis wi2. be on group rather than individual travel.
The Dominican Republic can do thl s because tourism is a new industry for the
country. The type of tourism development to be promoted for the Playa Grande
area is the traditional Caribbean high income market.  Overall, the physical
capacity of the project sites to accommodate large numbers of tourists is rnot
a limiting constraint, and this together lith the planning and ernvirormental
control which the project will have, combine to create a rare opportmuity for
developing a new tourism region.  The essential elenents in the project con-
cept are: the target markets, product make-up and mass merchandising.
(i) Target Markets
13.       The major target market for the Puerto Plata project is the Eastern
Coast of the United States. This area provides about 70% of all Caribbean
visitors, and arrivals of Americans have increased from 641,000 in 1960 to
1,992,000 in 1972, which represents a threefold increase in 12 years. The
strategy for Playa Dorada is to attract the middle income market (family
income between US$ LO,000 - 15,000) and for Playa Grande to attract the high
income market (family income over US$ 15,000).



ANNEX VIII
Page 5
14.        There is little data avabil -e on Ncruth Arierican travel to the
Caribbeaan from whLch a soci'eoeconomic rcofile of the U. S. traveller to the
Carilbbean could be ddrawwn   Da-a on UlT S. households travelling abroad (see
Table       shows the dLst-niicution of the house,hold head!s occu.pation to be
as follows :
Profess-Lona1, technical, maxnager           !?t
Clerica ,, sales                             16 f
Craftsmen, laborers                          20%
Retired perZons                              11
Other                                        l3%
iO 0 
Of U. S. households taking srips abroad, 27, have TFMlly  ancompes of between
$10,000 and $15,000 aad over 370" ha-LVe incomes in excess of $l5,000.  Various
studies on famwily income in3 th.e li LS7 have been made and It is predicted
that fan-ily income of roups curre-fny :eos- active  fn foreign trarel 'gcll
continue to grow rapidW-y
15.        In the riid-s-t`=ies, less than 3".<o Q f all f'm ` 'ilies in the UC. S. laad
earnings of  _0 0()O  f          'o    v  a rSrcportl. .s p<ojected to
exceed 7 r7 mpasured in co slant- 1571 pr-.c e 1-3  E tota1L of ',S.1 million.
families.  Again, in 'h   a-sxties mod  -ixt         of all ,an6.y if     e accrued
to f amidies earxnang ov'e                      uh >Is- pr orortioci is projectec. to
be about 9.  - .' ''r    '    C 'angeS en th,e de .ana Tor fore-ign
travel    I b - s ub t a1i,t ,J      97 hre v <ebe a-curt 26' Z i           hiCgh and-.
mliddle income  tf.,ae E-ast Coas. cC 4hibe TI  i,l e,,c-o wil3 u coa-
stitute the  Dote nc. dema-n fcr t- ,             t>le Ca;bbean-
16.        Although the, U. S. mairi am  nwriil prvde thne  ulk of touar sts3,
Puaerto Rico -w-ill also be an-- import'Rt -.orce of r' -     - s.  The Puerte Rican
Tarket is already reLabiVel,y large            `0'q000 2tw  ' G 972' and has been grow-
ing rapidly ir. recent years.  meiena< r r  ia-   es Tw -eee an increasing
iTrmPortance.  These inc.lude Canada  o-ther Caribbean. countries, Latin Airier`cca
and Europe (oazct-ic--ularly char1t-er traff-ic) as  -el as Dominicans themselves.
'1 )  ? Orcducot Make-up
17.        Tne Plava Dorada ievelopment ccneisti-jng of l1,400 rooms will be
aimed at attracting a middle income,   afily 7flarket.  The middlle income
American spends Eabo.ut 7, S. $27 on vacation anxnually, excludng the costs
of transportation. J  As a pricing polic   therefore, vacations in the form
1/ Based on U. S. - reau of Economic Analysis Data.



ANNEX VIII
Page 6
of package tours to Puerto Plata will be priced in the region of US$ 250,
which would enable the area to compete favorably for the bulk of the middle
income market.
18.      In order to provide a medium cost vacation at Playa Dorada, the
bulk of accommodations (900 of 1,400 rooms) provided will be in a 'Vacation
Village", which is an accommodation facility providing food service, enter-
tairnent, recreation and shopping, open to hotel guests and local residents,
but at the same time closely relating to the nearby town of Puerto Plata and
to other hotels and second home developments in the area. Rooms in the
Vacation Village will be moderately priced, but other hotels offering more
luxurious appointments and services will have higher prices. Secondly, air
travel will be in groups or on charter flights, and thus it will be possible
to take advantage of lower (than scheduled carrier normal) fares.
19.      The hotel at Playa Grande will offer very luxurious appointments
and the highest level of service. The site at Playa Grande is one of the
most beautiful in the Caribbean and development must be low density if the
character and charm of the area is to be preserved. Thus a high income
market must be developed able to pay the rates necessary to provide a return
on the investment in infrastructure and hotel accommodation to be built there.
The emphasis will be on individual rather than group travel.
20.      The range of room rates to be offered will permit a flexible market-
ing program to be developed, At the Vacation Village the average annual room
rate will be as low as US$ 19.50, and other hotels will fall in the range of
US$ 27.50 to Us$ 42.00 (see Annex IX). At these rates, with reason-
able occupancy, the hotels would reach acceptable levels of profitability.
The Vacation Village room rate is particularly competitive in terms of exist-
ing hotel rates in the Caribbean as can be seen from the comparative room
rates shown in Table 5.    Meal prices, US$ 7.00 for two meals daily at the
Vacation Village, are also very competitive compared to the charges of
US$ 11 - US$ 13 per person per day generally prevalent in the Caribbean.
The low room rates are made possible largely because of moderate operating
costs and the low food prices, because a low proportion of food is imported.
These differential rates between the Puerto Plata project and current Carib-
bean experience enable packages to be arranged which have considerable price
advantage over competing Caribbean areas. In addition, charter and group
ares will help keep the price of vacations low. Round trip charter fares
are US$ 88 from New York and US$ 49 from Miami. The respective group
inclusive tour (GIT) fares are US$ 131 and US$ 90.
(iii) Mass Merchandising
21.      The Puerto Plata project will be marketed through travel wholesaLers
and retailers and the vehicle will be the package vacation, particularly for
the Vacation Village.  This is again a break with the Caribbean experience
and requires that: (i) hotel management understand marketing systems and be
able to work effectively with high volume/low profit operations and (ii) the



ANNEX VIII
Page 7
vacation is an integrated product combining lodging, food and transportation
services as well as ancillary services such as golf, fishing, car rental or
sightseeing trips.
22.      It is proposed that all-inclusive packages be developed for Puerto
Plata and the following are suggested:
(a) four-day/three-night
(b) seven-day/six-night
(c) eight-day/seven-night
(d) fifteen-day/fourteen-night
The four-day package is ideally suited to the existing Puerto Rican market,
and will be a logical extension of that market. The seven and eight-day
packages will be tailored for the North American market and will be able
to take advantage of excursion fares. The 15-day package is designed for
the European market, which although small, is expanding rapidly according
to tour operators there, :Largely because of prices (starting at US$ 350.00
per person for two weeks 14AP, including sightseeing entertainment and round
trip air fare) which seem incredibly low by United States standards.
23.      A hypothetical e-Lght-day/seven-night package to the Vacation Village
at Playa Dorada (from Miamni and from New York) is shown in Table 6. The
package is basedL on per person rates with double room occupancy. Two meals
per day are included and the US$ 20.00 recreation allowance is sufficient
for up to three rounds of golf including rental of a motor cart (or some
alternate form cf recreat-ion or entertainment). Taxes and commissions have
been based on standard rabes applicable.
24.      By excluding the air fare portion of the package, it can be seen
from Tables 7 and 8 that The high season (winter) rates at the Vacation Village
are about the s me price as low season rates at most other Caribbean destina-
tions.  In addition, the package cost ranges from US$ 173 to US$ 218, depend-
ing on season, or an average of about US$ 200, well within the target of
US$ 250. The package price is low enough, at US$ 28 daily, to permit
additional experditure for food, entertaiment and shopping and still be well
below the Caribbean average daily expenditure of about Us$ 40-50.



ANNEK VIII
Page 8_
25.       The hotels at Playa Grande will also be sold on a package basis
where possible.  However, higher income U.S. travellers still prefer not
to travel in grouDs and individual arrangements will be more prevalent.
Packages have thus not been prepared for this market but daily MAP per
person rates based on double occupancy are estimated to be from $27_$30
in summer and from $38-$)40 in winter. Expenditure at Playa Grande twill be
about the same as at existing Caribbean resorts.
rIJ. Projections and Justification
26.       As discussed above, the Dominican Republic has little relevant
prior experience on which to project the growth of tourism.  The justifi-
cation for the project is based on the assumption that  nhe Caribbean
tourism industry is sound and that well planned new hotels canr develop a
clientele for themselves if they have a realistic assessment of the market
opportunities.
27.       The level of business which each of the five hotels could generate
in the Puerto Plata project was calculated individually. The Vacation
Village is a new concept in the Caribbean and thus there are no establish-
ments suitable for comparative purposes.  However, based on the low room-
rates possible, the summer market from Puerto Rico, and the intensive
marketing program proposed, an occupancy curve starting at 45% and attaining
64% after five years of operation and 70% after ten years has been assumed.
The luxury hotels are assumed to reach 70% in a typi cal year of operation.
Luxury hotels in Puerto Rico had room occupancy of 73% in 1971 and 73% in
1972. The principal hotel in Santo Domingo has improved its operations
from a 56% occupancy four years ago to 75% in 1972. A leading smaller
hotel in Santo Domingo had an annual occupancy in excess of 90% in 1972 and
a recently opened hotel attained a 70% occupancy after three months of
operation. It is true that many hotels in the Dominican Republic have low
occupancies. However, these hotels are small and are neither competitive
internationally      nor are they marketed well.
28.       The overall occupancy curve for the five hotels envisaged in the
project, starts at 45% in 1977 and attains 70% by 1986, assuming three to
five-year periods for build-up to peak occupancy of all rooms. This is
slightly higher than the estimated national 65% room occupancy (55% esti-
mated bed occupancy) and the overall Caribbean occupancy of 66%. The
consultants estimated that the project was capable of attaining 78% occu-
pancy by 1986. It has been assumed in the projection that the market was
100% foreign. However, it is likely that Dominicans from Santo Domingo and
Santiago will also use the proposed facilities, in addition to foreign
visitors.
29.       The hotel occupancies were converted to tourist arrivals by assu-
ming a level of double occupancy and an average length of stay. Double
occupancy for hotels in the Caribbean is 1.7 and this figure was used in
the hotels other than the Vacation Village. In the Vacation Village it was



ANNEX VIII
Page 9
assumed to be 1.9, which is tvyical of mass marketed tour operator hotels.
The length of stay was ca7culated at six days on the basis of overall
Caribbean averages, on Dominican experience and on an assumed mix of the
different packages proposed.  Based on these assum.ptions,-tourist arrivals
were projected to rise from 23,000 in 1977 to 150,000 by 1986 (see Table 9).
This means a participation rate of about eight persons per thoLsand in the
potential middle income market in the J.S.
31,       The projected nunber of tourists appears reasonable in the context
o0  possible growth patterns of visitors to the Dominican Republic.  The
growth rate of arrivals in the Dom-n---can Re-oublic (albeit from a narrow
base) has been 25% over the past four years; the average Caribbean groTgth
rate is about 10% over the same ner:Lod .  Based on tuhe assumption that over
the long run, Dominican Republic growth rates will level. to regional levels 
the following are alte-rnative gro,r-,0h petterrLs )-fioioor arrbLs to the
Dominican Republic:
Alternative I            Alternwative Il         Alternative IiT
Growth     Number       Growt          Gmbe           th      N mber
percent       of        -ercert        of        ,percem        of
Year   per annum   visitors   IAer annTui  vsisl tQOTs   Der aLnnm'   visitors
1970                 67.000                   67                      f7 (,QO
30                      25
1975                227i000                  20,00Q                  167,000
20                      20
1970                536,000 o                 0,0010                 336,000
15                      115
1985              -113 -6,00o             1,022,000 f541 -,0&00
10                      10                        3
1990                                        b5329.G00  t3,000        700,000
Under the most consex-.rative estimPaJfe of growth in total arrivals to the
Dominican Republic, th7e -arket for         IIIertO Plata represents .-jst over one
quarter of total tourists in 19853  under Jhe most optim stic assumption it
represents about 13"'  Eft~ier of these sit-a.ailon is Dl-aui.3-'b'e.
32.       The projected number of arrivals also aprears reasonable in the
context, of the br-oader Cariobean market. Arrivals at Faerto Elata would
represent less than 2% of total Carib7ibean arrivals, if regional risitor
arrivals double by 1985 from Q172 'evels.  If total Caribbean arrivals triple
in the sane period (eqluiva:lent to the 10% growthfh rate experienced in the
past ff3e  years3 arrira1s at .2erto  L,7a tlouild represent jlust over one per-
cent ofn the total Caribbeaa d.enc   JnXdr ei-her E 3t    conditions, the
market projections are rea.o>nable, att -irable goals.



kNNEX VIII
Page 10
V. The Energy Crisis
33.       The impact of the energy crisis is difficult to ascertain.
Research in the Bank I/ suggests that the primary influence of travel from
the U.S. is income, rather than price. The study concludes that travel
to the Caribbean from the U.S. may well increase at 10-12% annually in the
1970ts (higher than the 9-10% annual rate in the 1960's) principally because
of the geographic proximity of the Caribbean vis-a-vis other traditional
U.S. destinations.
34.       The projections of demand to the Dominican Republic are consistent
with these conclusions. Projections of family income to 1985, based on U.S.
Government pre-energy crisis figures, indicate that the potential market for
the Caribbean will be 22 million people (para. 15).  There will possibly be
some downward revision of these figures but any changes are likely to be
marginal as far as their impact on travel to the Caribbean is concerned. In
fact, any downward revision may well be offset by the substitution of foreign
vacations in nearby locations such as the Caribbean for domestic vacations
by car which will be hard hit by the energy crisis.  Projections of demand
for travel to the Dominican Republic in para. 31 above are based on the
most conservative estimate of demand to the Caribbean (10% annual growth
rate) over the next decade.
1/ Tourism & Energy Prices, March 27, 1974.



ANNEX VIII
Table 1
DO14INICM  REPUBLIC- PUK0 PLATA TOURISM PROjECT
ORIGIN OF VISITORS
Origin      ~~~Numb~er of visitors  00's',       IL--reentase distribution
i968           1971              e1968             1971
u. S. A.                  1809            291`                 69               62
Canada                     162             199                  6                6
Europe                     11              145                  4                4
Latin America                8 E100                             3                3
,"aribbea:n                ! >k6           2533                 5                7
Otner                                      6 8                 X                18
Tot-. 2a!                           347L                100              100
SOUFOCB E,,  S   ank aad Cox "Tourism, Supply Study,
.aribbean Region" for IBRD, October 1973.
Caribbean Travel Association.



ANNEX VIII
Table 2
DOMETICAN REPUBLIC:  PUERTO PLATA TOURISM PROJECT
Caribbean Area Distribution of' Visitor Arrivals by Quarter()
Jan-Mar       ApJny-Sept                      Oct-Dec
Antigua       1968        33.8            19.8            23.2           23.2
1971       32.2            20.8            24.3           22.7
Bahamas       1960        31.1            25.3           22.0            21.6
(includes    1968        27.6           24.5            24.9            23.0
cruise)      1971        25.2            26.5           26.0            22.3
Barbados      1968        27.6            21.1           25.2            26.1
1971       29.8            19.3            24.2           26.7
Bermuda       1968        18.5            30.3           29.k            21.3
1971       16.0            31.6            30.7           21.7
Cayman I      1968        35.6            22.5           20.1            21.8
1971       30.8            19.2            21.2           24..7
Haiti         1968        27.9            23.0            23.4           2157
1971       27.3            19.8            26.5           26.2
Jamaica       1968        29.7            22.9           25.6            21.8
1971       29-5            23.1            26.5           20,9
St. Vincent   1968        20.1            28.1           27.9            23.4
1971       31.0            23.2            26.5           19.3
Dominica
(air)        1972        24.9           20.0            28.8            26.3
Grenada       1972        32.9            19.9            24.6           22.6
Montserrat    1970        32.6            19.9           21.0            26.5
St. Lucia     1971        25.1            22.4           25.6            26.9
Source:  Shankland Cox Tourism Supply Study - Caribbean Area



ANNEX Vill
Table 3
DOMTIICAN TE PUBLIC:  PUTERTO PLATA TIURISM PROJECT
Ave 7:              Sa  i  S  ec ed Cari bbean Gountries (dayss)
L9 O60    965     _7       _ 669     197     1 971    1972
Bahamas                 -        -        -        -        *      5S9
Barblados"              _               6.3      6.5               6.-_
Be rmuda "            8.1      6.2      6.o      5.9      5        5.7
BVI                              -                 -                 -       7
Dom.n Re-Y.           2.5      3e.0     h.       L    t       3             5   4  84e
Grenada                -         -                 -        -              11 :
Guadeloupe                    _ .                3 2                o.07    5.7
Hai t3l                          _                          .9 0 D ze   
Jamaica*               8-        9        ,       .       8.1        -
Marti inique_   -   -                     *.     3  "i    !o2       49       ;
Neths. Antilles:                          -        -  
Curacao                *7        -P              5.3 3
Arub7a                                    2      6        6.5    D.2
St. M0aarter,n          - ".8                    5.0      h.        .0
Bonaire               2.7               3.5 3J9           3.6      31_
Puerto Rico`           .2      5. 7     671 5.7           4;c      5 .L
St. Kitt                -             3-                             -
St . Vincent                              4 -  579 O 7, *.5 0
No. of nights - Elsewhere., ass-wtie no. of days
Source:  Shanilanci Cox Tourism Supply Study -
Caribbe,ar. Area



ANNEX VIII
Table 4
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC: PUERTO PLATA TOURISM PROJECT
Selected U.S. Traveler Statistics
Households Taking Trips Outside U.S.
1972
Spring Travel               Summer Travel
000's          %            000's          7.
Family Income
Under $5,000                       207          9              384           9
5,000 -  7,499                     207          9              565         14
7,500 -  9,999                    306          12              591         14
10,000- 14,999                     626         26            1,148         28
15,000 and over                    881         37            1,213         29
No response                        174          7               237          6
Total                      2,401        100             4,138        100
Occupation of Household Head
Professional, Technical
Manager                     1,043          44            1,533         37
Farm                                12          -                82          2
Clerical, Sales                    413         18              588          14
Craftsmen, Operators, Laborers  410            17              954          23
Household and Service Employees  81             3               199          5
Retired Persons                    266         11              468          11
Other                              177          7              314           8
Total Households
Taking Trips               2,401        100             4,138        100
Trips Taken (1972)
Spring Travel               Summer Travel
000's                      000' s
Percentage of Trips Taken as:
Vacations                             61.4                        79.6
Weekend                               24.4                        21.6
Duration of Trip
Less than 24 Hours                     117                         167
1 - 2 Nights                           517                         759
3 - 5 Nights                           693                         865
6 -15 Nights                         1,309                      1,756
16 Nights or more                      444                      1,369
Source:  1972 Census of Transportation
Department of Commerce



ANNEX VIII
Table 5
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC:  PUERTO PLATA TOURISM PROJECT
Comparative Caribbean Low Season
Estimated Average Daily Room Rates (Us$)
1973
European Plan                                   European Plan       MAP
Holiday Inn:
St. Lucia                                      22.00          12.00
Aruba                                          23.00          13.00
Barbados                                       26.00            -
Puerto Rico                                    26.00          11.00
Bahamas                                        30.00          11.00
Hilton Trinidad.                                    24.00           11.00
Grapetree Bay, St. Croix                            28.00           12.00
Halcyon Balmoral                                    30.00           12.00
Frommer, Curacao                                    16.00           10.00
Average for Caribbean 1972                     29.00             -
Modified American Plan
Half Moon, Jamaica                                  59.00             -
Mullet Bay Beach, St. Maa.rten                      60.00             -
Dorado Beach, Puerto Ricc                           70.00             -
Little Dix Bay, Virgin Gorda                        70.00
Source: Shankland Cox Estimates
Horwath & Horwath International



ANNEX VIII
Table 6
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC: PUERTO PLATA PROJECT
Eight-day/Seven-night Package (US$)
Winter Season                         Summer Season
New York             Miami            New York            Miami
Hotels                       84                  84                49                 49
Meals (MAP)                  63                   63                63                 63
Recreation                   20                   20                20                 20
Transfers                     4                   4                  4                  4
Gratuities                   14.70               14.70              11.2               11.2
Tax                           7.20                 7.20              5.45               5.45
3/
Commission                   25.65               25.65              20.40              20.40
Total (no air fare)    218.55               218.55            173.05             173.05
- with GIT fare  349.55               308.55            304.05             263.05
- with charter
fare      306.55              267.55            261.05             222.05
1/  10% of hotel and MAP.
2/ 57/ room tax; $3 per person airport tax.
3/ 15% on hotel, MAP, recreation and transfers.



ANNEX VIII
Table 7
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC: PUERTO PLATA TOURISM PROJECT
Selected Eight-Day/Seven-Night Packages
Low Season, Modified American Plan (uS$)
Not Including Air Fare
Extra
Package           Night
Bahamas
Holiday Inn (Paradise Island)                      220.50           25.50
Nassau Beach                                       221              30
Sonesta Beach                                      213.50           29
San Juan
Caribe Hilton                                      201              28
El San Juan                                        206              31.50
Cerromar Beach                                     222              30
St. Thomas
Grapetree Bay                                      250              24
Caneel Bay                                         260              35
Jamaica
Hilton                                             205              25.50
Half Moon                                          217.50           29.50
Sheraton                                           180              24
Barbados
Hilton                                             195              26
Sandy Lane                                         207              27
Other
Haiti, Villa Creole                                161              N/A
St. Lucia, Halcyon                                 165              23.50
Curacao, Frommer                                   137              19
Sources:  American Airlines, Pan Am,
Eastern Airlines, Caribbean Holidays



ANNEX VIII
Table 8
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC: PUERTO PLATA TOURISM PROJECT
Selected Seven-Day/Six-Night Packages (us$)
Low Season, Modified American Plan
Not Including Air Fare
Rate          Extra Day
Cerromar Beach Hotel, Puerto Rico               173.50            27.50
Dorado Beach Hotel, Puerto Rico                 190               30
St. Croix By The Sea, St. Croix                 144               23
Shaw Park Hotel, Jamaica                        160               22
Source: Pan Am, Eastern Airlines,
Caribbean Holidays.



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC: PUERTO PLATA TOURISM PROJECT
SUMMARY OF TOTAL HOTEL GUESTS
(Ltousands)
Calendar Year                                    '77             '78            '79            '80            '81             '82            '83           '84             '85           '86
Project Year                                      3               4              _              6              7              8               9             10              11            12
Total rooms occupied                             74.0          183.1           223.3          268.1          350.5          385.4           421.8          470.9          483.8          491.0
Total guest nights
DORADA
Vacation Village                           106.1          210.8          252.4           282.3          353.7          398.8          419.7           433.4          436.9         436.9
Hotel 2                                                      -              -              -             72.3           85.4            92.0          128.1          134.7          147.8
Hotel 3                                      -              -                              --             -              -             31.0            68.3           80.7           86.9
Subtotal                             106.1          210.8           252.4          282.3          426.0          484.2           542.7          629.8           652.3         673.6
PLAYA GRANDE
Hotel 1                                     33.0           47.5           64.1           100.2          108.4          114.8          114.8           114.8          114.8          114.8
Hotel 2                                       _            82.1            98.6          115.0          115.0          115.0          115.0           115.0          115.0          115.0
Subtotal                              33.0          129.6           162.7          215.2          223.4          229.8           229.8          229.8           229.8         229.8
Total guest nights               139.1          340.4          415.1          497.5          649.4           714.0          772.5          859.6           882.1         903.4
Total guests
DORADA
Vacation Village                            17.7           35.1           42.1            47.1           59.0           66.5           70.0            72.2           72.8           72.8
Hotel 2                                                     -               -              -             12.1           14.2            16.4           22.4            23.5          24.6
Hotel 3                                      -              -               -              -               -             -               5.2           11.4            13.5          14.5
Subtotal                              17.7            35.1           42.1           47.1           71.1            80.7           91.6          106.0           109.8         111.9
PLAYA GRANDE
Hotel 1                                      5.5            7.9            10.7           16.7           18.1           19.1            19.1           19.1            19.1          19.1  
Hotel 2                                       -            13.7            16.4           19.2           19.2           19.2            19.2           19.2            19.2          19.2
Subtotal                                5.5           21.6           27.1           35.9            37.3           38.3           38.3            38.3           38.3            8.3
Total annual guests              23.2           56.7            69.2           83.0          108.4          119.0           129.0          144.3           148.1         150.2
Source: IBRD Mission Estimates.
March 1974



ANNEX IX
Page 1
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
APPRAISAL OF THE PUERTO PLATA TOURISM PROJECT
Hotels, Resort Facilities and
Related Commercial Enterprises
Hotels and Resort Facilities
1.       The proposed development and phasing of each of the five hotels
for the period 1977-1986 is shown in Table 1, along with a composite occu-
pancy curve and summary pro forma statement of income and expense. The
projections have been based on the following estimates and assumptions, which
take into account the actual experience of hotels in the Dominican Republic
and the Caribbean region.
(i) Occupancy
2.       Occupancy has been calculated on an annual per room basis taking
into account differences in the type of hotel proposed. The Vacation Village
will be a moderately priced, high volume operation, catering to a block reser-
vation group market; the other hotels at Playa Dorada will be group-oriented
but will aim at a slightly higher priced market. The two hotels at Playa
Grande will be geared more to individual business and offer a very high
standard of service. Occupancy levels were prepared for each hotel separately
and resulted in a consolidated occupancy curve conservatively rising from
46% in the first year of operations to just over 70% by 1984. Double occu-
pancy was calculated at between 1.7-1.9 guests per occupied room.
(ii) Revenue
3.       Statements of income and expense in 1974 prices were prepared for
each hotel, following the U.S. Uniform System of Accounts for Hotels. Sea-
sonally adjusted average room rates were calculated ranging from RD$ 19.50
to RD$ 42.00 on annual basis. Food sales were based on charges for modified
American Plan (MAP) ranging from RD$ 7.00 to RD$ 13.00 plus allowances for
meals served in addition to MAP. Beverage and other sales (gift shop, tele-
phone, etc.) were calculated on a per person basis. All these revenue and
expense items, discussed below were based on comparable hotels in Puerto Rico,
Jamaica and the Dominican Republic. The 5% sales tax on hotel room rates
has not been included in the calculations.
(iii) Operating Expenses
4.       Cost of sales were estimated as ratios to departmental sales as
follows:
Food        33-35% of food sales
Beverage    27-30% of beverage sales
Other       30-40% of other sales



ANNEX IX
Page 2
Payroll was calculated from staffing tables for the individual hotels, and
from wage rates established by law for different employment categories in
the Republic, with an allowanice for fringe benefits,  Th-e number of employ-
ees per room ranges from 0.8 in thle Vacation Village to 1,2 in the Playa
Grande hotels. The payroll ratios are low by international standards but do
not include the mandatory 10% service charge whichi is distributed to personnel
in direct contact with the clientele,
5.       The category of "other direct expenses" includes supplies, replace-
ment of linen, china and glassware, etc. plus an allowance fcr travel agercy!
tour operator conmiissions of up to 17.5% of rooms and food sales,
6.       The undistributed expense categories were calculated using ratios
based on experience in the area, with the exception of heat, light and powqer.
These utilities were calculated according to quantities and tariffs derive-d
on a full cost basis for the utility portions of the project,
(iv) Rate of Return on Hotels
7,       Based on the investment assumptions given in paragraph 8 and the operatin.c,
results shown in Table 1, the overall after-tax internal rate of return for
all the hotels taken together is 11,7%, assumiing that al the hotels are
managed by the owning company.  Results for a single hotel are
shown in Table 2.  The rate of return on that hotel, after deduction of
management fees from the benefit stream, is 8,8%, These results do not
include capital gains, and, of course, will vary depending on conditions
prevailing at the time of investment,  They are reasonable, however, and re-
present  returns that can be expected under current conditions,
8.       The 11.7% DCF rate of return for the hotels is based on the opera-
ting results for 1,900 rooms sho-wn in Table 1 and the following assumptions,
An average per room "turnkey;5 cost of US$ 20,000 (excluding land) was
assumed.  Management fees were estimated at 7% of total hotel sales and a
charge of 2% of total cost wa.s deducted from cash flow for replacements annloalyr
Assumptions were made for debt financing (60%, of total cost at 9% interest),
and depreciation (4% of total assets) for the purposes of calculating taxable
income. Income tax was calculated at 50%/ of taxable income after a ten-vear
tax holiday.  Salvage value after a 25-year life was estimated at 40% of
project cost (i.e. equal to assumed initial equity).
:eatdConercialDterrises
9,       Total sales for the shopping center, golf courses, stables and
beach restaurants are shown in Table 3,
10.      Revenue for these operations has been based on sales to visitors
staying at the resort and to day visitors.  Shopping center sales are based
on US$ 2.50 per person per day; golf courses sales are based on green fees,
rental of equipment, food and. beverage sales, sale of equipment and various
membership fees; stable sales are based on rental-of horses; beach restaurant
sales are based on a per cover expenditure of US$ 2.0,
11.      Gross operating profits are derived from ratios for existing
operations in the Dominican Republic and Puerto Rico.



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC: PUERTO PLATA TOURISM PROJECT
Summary of Hotel Operations
Calendar Year                                   1977            1978           1979            1980           1981            1982           1983            1984            1985           1986
Project Year                                      3               4              5               6              7               8              9              10              11             12
Number of Rooms
Dorada
Vacation Village                      340             600            600             600            800             900            900             900             900             900
Hotel 2                                -               -              -               -             200             200            300             300             300             300
Hotel 3                                -                                              -              -               -             100             200             200             200
Subtotal                         340            600             600            600           1000            1100            1300            1400           1400            1400
Plava Grande
Hotel 1                               100             125            150             250            250             250             250            250             250             250
Hotel 2                                -              250            250             250            250             250             250            250             250             250
Subtotal                         100            375            400             500            500             500             500             500            500             500
Total Rooms                                 440            975            1000           1100            1500           1600            1700            1900           1900            1900
Composite Room Occupancy (%)                      46              51             61              67             64              66              68             72              70              71
Pro Forma Income Statement
Sales (RD million)
Rooms                                         1.9             5.2            6.4             7.9            9.9            10.8           11.9            12.6            13.8            14.0
Food anid Beverage                            1.1            4.7             5.8             7,3            9.2            10.3           11.1            12.1            12.8            12.9
Other                                         0.6             0.9            1.2             1.4            1.6             1.8            1.8             2.0             2.0             2.0
Total Sales                                   3.6           10.8            13.4           16.6            20.7           22.9            24.8            26.7           28.6            28.9
Cost of Sales                                      0.7             1.8             2.2            3.5            4.9             5.2             5.5             5.9             5.8            5.8
Payroll. and Related Expenses                       0.9            2.1             2.1            2.4             3.2            3.5             3.8             3.9             4.1            4.1
Other Direct Expenses                               0.5            1.8             2.2            2.7             3.4            3.7             3.9             4.4             4.7            4,9
Total Departmental Expenses                   2.1            5.7             6.5             8.6           11.5            12.4           13.2            14.1            14.6            14.8
Departmental Profit                                 1.5            5.1             6.9            8.0             9.2           10.5            11.6            12.6           14.0            14,1
Undistributed Expenses
Administrative and General                    0.4             0.6            0.8             0.9            1.2             1.3             1.4             1.5            1.5             1.5
Advertising and Promotion                     0.6             0.9            1.0             1.3            1.5             1.7             1.8             1.9            1.9             2.9
Heat, Light and Power                         0.5             1.0            1.0             1.1            1.5             1.6             1.7            1.8             1.8             1.8
Repairs and Maintenance                       0.2             0.4            0.5             0.7            0.8             0.9             1.0             1.1            1.1             1.1
Total Undistributed Expenses                  1.7             2.9            3.3             4.0            5.0             5.5             5.9            6.3             6.3             6.3
House Profit (Loss)                                (0.2)           2.2             3.6            4.0             4.2             5.0            5.7             6.3             7.7             7.8
Store Rentals                                      0.1             0.1             0.2            0.2             0.2             0.3            0.3             0.3             0.3             0.3
Gross Operating Profit (Loss)                      (0.1)           2.3             3.8            4.2             4.4             5.3            6.0             6.6             8.0             8.1
Ground Rent                                         0.1            0,2             0.2             0.3            0.3                     0.4            0.4             0.4                     0.44
Service Charge                                     0.1             0.2             0.2            0.3             0.3             0.3            0.4             0.4             0.4             0.4
Adjusted Gross Operating Profit (Loss)             (0.3)            1,9            3,4             3.6            3.8             4.6             5.2            5.8             7,2             7.3
JULY 1974



D37-i N l.N REIRTE'iJB.C:   U :'1[  PL.AT'A TOIJ1'TSM I~t     .CI
TLp,1 1 hol   Pro_jocte  I ]ncome Statemment a-,d Cal Plow
(US$ million)
Year                                                                         1          2          3          4           5          6          7           8          9          10         II
Rooms                                                                      200        200         300        300        300         300        300        300         300        300         300
Room Occupancy (7u)                                                         55          65         68         72         75          75         75          75         75         75          75
Average Room Rate (US$)                                                      27.5       27.5       27.5       27.5        27.5       27.5       27.5        27.5       27.5        27.5       27.5
Income Statement
Sales
Rooms                                                             1.1        1.3         2.0        2.2        2.3         2.3        2.3        2.3         2.3        2.3         2.3
Food                                                               .9        l.1         1.7        1.7        1.8         1.8        1.8         1.8       1l8         1.8         1.8
Beverage                                                           .1         .2          .3         .3          .3        .3          .3          .3         .3         .3
Other                                                               .i         .1         .2         .2          .2         .2         .2         .2          .2          .2         .2
Total Sales                                                       2.2         2.7        4.2        4.4        4.6         4.6        4,6        4.6         4.6        4.6         4.6
Cost of Sales
Food                                                               .3          .3         .5         .5          .5         .5          .5         ,5         ,5          ,5         .5
Beverage                                                           .05         .05        .1         .1         .1         .1          .1          .1         .1          .1         .1
Other                                                              .05         .05        .0         .1          1          .1         .           .1         .i         .1          _T
Total Cost of Sales                                                .4         .4         .6          .7         .7         .7          .7          .7         .7          .7         .7
Payroll                                                                  .4          .5         .6         .6         .6         .6          .6          .6         .6          .6         .6
Other Direct Expenses                                                    .5         .6         .8          .8         .9           99                    ,9         .9          .9         .9
Total Direct Expenses                                               .9        1.1        1.4        1.4         1.5        1.5        1.5         1.5        1.5         1.5        1.5
Undistributed Exenses
Administrative and General                                          .2         .2         .3          .3         .3         .3          .3         .3          .3         .3         .3
Advertising and Promlotion                                          .2         .2         .2          .2         .2         .2          .2         .2          .2         .2         .2
Reat, Light and Power                                               .2         .2         .3          .3         .3         .3          .3         .3          .3         .3         .3
Repairs and Maintenance                                            .1          .1         .2         .2          .2         .2         .2          .2         .2          .2         ,2
Total Undistributed Expenses                                       .7          .7        1.0        1.0         1.0        1.0        1.0         1.0        1.0         1.0        1.0
Gross Operating Profit                                                         .2         .5        1.2         1.3        1.4        1.4         1.4        1.4         1.4        1.4         1.4
Ground Rent and Service Charge                                                 .1         .1         .2         .2          .2         .2          .2         .2          .2         .2          .2
Management Fee                                                                 .2         .2          .3         .3         .3          .3         .3          .3         .3          .3         ,3
Interest                                                                       .2         .2         .3          .3         .3         .3          .3          .3         .3          .3         .3
Depreciation                                                                   .2         .2         .3          .3         .3         .3          .3         .3          .3         .3          .3
Income Tax                                                                     - ,1
Net Profit (Loss)                                                       (.5)        (.2)        .1         .2          .3         .3         .3          .3         .3          .3         .2
Cumulative Net Profit                                                   (.5)        (.7)       (.6)       (.4)        (.1)        .2         .5          .8        1.1         1.4        1.6
Cash Flow
Net Income                                                              (.5)        (.2)        .1         .2         .3          .3          .3         .3         .3          .3         .2      t
Interest                                                                 .2          .2         .3         .3         .3          .3         .3          .3         .3          .3         .3
Depreciation                                                             .2          .2         .3         .3         ,3          .3          .3         .3          .3         .3         .3
Cash Generation                                                         ( Il         -          .7         .8          .9         .9         .9          .9         .9          .9         .8
Less:  Replacements Reserve                                               _          -          ,1         .l          . l,                   .l         .l          .1         . l,
-          -          .6          .7         .8         .8          .8         .8          .8         .8          .7
Debt Service                                                             .2          .2         .5         .5          .5         .5          .5         .5          .5         .5          .5
Cash Flow                                                                (.3)      52)          .1         .2         .3          .3          .3         .3         .3          .3          .2
Cumulative Cash Flow                                                    (,3)        (.5)      (f4)        (.2)         .1         .4          ,7        ].0        1.3         1.6        1.8
JuTLY 1974



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC:  PUERTO PLATA TOURISM PROJECT
Sumaary Operations for Superstructure (RD$ 000)
(Excluding Hlotels)
1977           1978           1979           1980           1981            1982           1983            1984           1985            1986
DORADA
Shopping Center
Sales                         a/    531            1053           1266           1410           1770            2196           2610            3087           3246            3360
Gross Operating Profit (GOP)         106            211            253            282             334            439            522             617            649             672
Golf Course
Sales                               254             404            464            504            619             619            619             619            619             619
Gross Operating Profit (GOP)          24             57             87             95             126            127            127             127            127             127
Stables
Sales                                128            134            140            146             146            146            146             146            146             146
Gross Operating Profit (GOP)          37             39             41             44              44             44             44              44             44              44
Beach Restaurant
Sales                                 19             45             56             60              87             95            103             108            118             120
Gross Operating Profit (GOP)           5             16             17             18              25             29              31             32              35             36
PLAYA GRANDE
Golf Course
Sales                                197            482            566            621             621            621            621             621            621             621
Gross Operating Profit (GOP)          21             76            119            146             146            146             146            146             146            146
Stables
Sales                                 66             70             74             78              78             78              78             78              78             78
Gross Operating Profit (GOP)          18             20             22              24             24             24              24             24              24             24
Beach Restaurant                                                                                                                                                                             u
Sales                                 37             91            110            121             172            191             206            216             235            241
Gross Operating Profit (GOP)          10             32             32              36             50             58              61             55              70             72
SUMMARY
Total Sales                              1232           2279            2676           2940           3493            3946           4383           4875            5063            5185
Gross Operating Profit                    221            451             571            645            749             867            955            1045           1095            1121
a/ Net of rent for lease of land and buildings.
JULY 1974



ANNEX X
Page I
DOKKI3C.M  R3ULIC
AP .CSAI 1OF ITHT       'FLA T½ 2A TOURISM PROJET
IL;;le cf rE Computati1on
1.       ALthough specifically aimred at providing infrastructures in Playa
Dorada ard 3la;ya CGrd_, the proposed project is part of a larger develop-
mieni prog=r&: vfi ch Lnclc--        tp- apartments and condominiums. Hence its
economic evaluation hbs been madlz- in terms of this larger program.
Reve-nue Assumtions
2.        The 7rcss reven-ues resuitirn  from the project would be the
expenditures of tonrists attracted to the Playa  Grande and Playa Dorada
areas.  Becauss t e s,torism assets of the Dominican Republic are largely
unexploited, the Paerto Plata visitors would represent previously untapped
demand. These benefits are therefore incremental to the Dominican Republic
and do not represent a diversion of traffic from existing destinations in
the Republic   Although, some portion of the net revenues of international
transportation of -isito-s is properly attributable to the project, they
haev  not beer  alemn finO aoco nt n the clculation of project rates of
return. The net revenues generated by the rental of apartments and condominia,
have also been excluded from the caloulations because of the absence in the
Republic of sLailar facilities, whose operations would have provided the
basis for estimating then.  Benefits associated wsith development of the
Puerto Plata region oB a planned and integrated basis, which would help
avoid disfiguirati o'f tlis reAgon, are not reflected in the rates of return
calculated owing to difficulties in quantifying them.
3.        Some of the se-vices to be provided would serve and be paid for
directly by ths tourists, while others would be coensated for only in-
directly.  Accordingly, the costs and  revenues must be carefully analyzed
so as to avoid double counting.
4.        The expenditures by visitors to the project areas have been
estimated on the basis of patterns of tourist expenditures by visitors to
similar facilities in the Dominican Republic and other Caribbean destina-
tions.  The visitors to the Vacation Village, representing about half of
the number of vrisitors to the project areas would spend UJS$ 31 00 per guest
night.  The vi,sltors to Playa Grande, which account for a quarter of the
total number of visitors to the project area, would spend US$ 55.50 per
guest night, an expenditire pattern close to the one at present prevailing
in some luxury Caribbean destinations. The breakdown of average daily
expenditures o:f visitors according to the facilities used is summarized in
the following table:



ANNEX X
Page 2
Bothl pro ject
Playa Dorada    Play_Grande       areas
Vacation  Hotel   Hotel       Hotels   Average per
Villa e   H2       H3       Hl & 112   Visitor
(us$)   (uss)      (U13);
Accommodation, food and
beverage                22.00    31.00  35.50        o4450       30.50
(of which room tax and
10% compulsory service
charge)                    2.hS      3.45   4e05        5.00        3.40
Shopping                    4.00      4.00   4.00        4.00        4.00
Sports & 3itertainment      2.90      2.90   3.00        3.50        3.00
Local transportation and
others                    2.10      2.60   3,00           02.50
Average daily expenditure  31.00    40,50  45.50         5L.50      40.00
Percentage of guest nights
in 1986                  48.5%    16.5%    9.6%       25.4%      100.0%
5.        On this basis the composite average daily expenditure of tourists
to the project areas would be about Us$ 40.00 and would be distributed as
follows: accommodation, food and beverage (US$ 30.50 including US$ 3.40
for a 5% room tax and a 10% compulsory service charge), shopping (US$ 4.00),
sport and entertainment (US$ 3.00), local transport and other items (US$ 2.50).
Hotel revenues assume an average length of stay of six days, a double
occupancy factor ofl .8 persons per room and an annual composite room occup-
ancy of 46% in the first year rising to 71% in the twelfth year of operation.
These assumptions are consistent with the market projections and the marketing
strategy to be adopted for t'he project (Annex II). Revenues from the airport
are relatively small and consist of landing fees, space rental and a US$3
head tax per departing tourist. Revenues from the sale of a US$ 1 tourist
card to each foreign visitor have been included.
Cost Assumptions
6.        The relevant costs are the capital and operating costs of the
infrastructure provided under the proposed project and of the hotel and
related superstructure facilities to be built in the two project areas,
plus the estimated capital and operating costs of producing the goods and
services, which would be consumed by the visitors outside the project area.
7.        Investment costs cover the capital cost of constructing the
infrastructure facilities in Playa Dorada and Playa Grande, including the
construction of the hotel school, the site works for worker housing in
Playa Grande, the water, sewerage and solid waste disposal systems in Rio
San Juan and the completion of the airport. Ir. addition, costs of con-
structing hotels and other superstructure facilities have been taken into
account. Hotel investment costs are assuamed to average US$ 20,000 per



ANNEX X
Page 3
room excluding the cost of land. Investment in villas have been excluded
from rate of return calculations.  The benefits or satisfaction derived
from investment in villas by private individuals were assumed to adequately
compensate them for their investment in these facilities.
8.        Economic costs of operating the superstructure facilities are
derived from the projected financial accounts of hotels, restaurants and
other facilitJes, which in turn, are based on actual accounts of similar
facilities elsewhere in the Dominican Republic and the Caribbean. With
regard to revenue-earning utilities, the gross revenues have been pro-
jected on the basis of expected consumption of hotels and other superstructure
facilities. The projection of utilities charges in the operating costs
of the superstructure faoilities has been carefully matched with the-pro-
jected gross revenues of the utilities. The gross operating profit of the
utilities has then been counted as a benefit in justifying the related
investments. The gross :revenues of the airport have been established on
the basis of projected tourist arrivals and of projected use of the air-
port by residents of the Puerto Plata-Santiage area. The projected
operating and maintenance costs of non-revenue earning infrastructure
items (such as roads, street, lighting and landscape maintenance) have
been taken into account in calculating the operating and maintenance costs
of INFRATUR. The share of tourism promotion attributable to the project
estimated at U.S$ 500,000 per annum from 1977 on, has been included in the
rate of return computations. The operating costs of the hotel school estimanted
rt RD$ 250,000 per cnnum, have elso been taken into account. Investment costs
operating costs end gross revenues are P11 calculeted in 19714 prices.
Gross 0oer&t1QL 
9.        The gross operating profits resulting from the main categories of
visitor expenditures are shown below for the year 1986, when all the hotels
are in operation.
Average daily         Gross Operating
visitor EMenditure        Profit
Accommodation, food and beverage           27,10           7.15        26
Room tax and service charge                 3A4o           3.40       100a/
Shopping                                    h.00           1.20        30
Sports and Entertainment                    3.00            .gO        30
Local transportation and other items        2.50            .75        30
40_0           1
a/  The whole service charge is considered a net benefit since the wages and
voluntary tips would be sufficient to attract adequate manpower to the
project areas,
Shadow Price Consideration
lC.       ?9ro e      -c    --ere urt-e  e    -   i-eut  a -.ie - 0o detarmininn
the true ecoro-._ v_ues o  :-2o eingn eicui-nge,      and labor.  The existence
of an authorized unofficial exchange market, where the Dominican peso is
rated between 6 and 12% below its par value, depending on the time of the
year, suggests that the official exchange rate is not in equilibrium.
However, projecting the existing situation into the future over the
life of the project may not be realistic. Accordingly, rate of return



ANNZ11X X
Page 4
calculations ignored shadow pricing for foreign exchange, except for illus-
trative purposes (para. 14). The compensations for expropriated land have
been reviewed. It appears that, since the project has become widely knowM
in the Puerto Plata region, prices for land have increased by about one third.
A 30% shadow pricing has thus been applied to land in one of the sensitivity
t6sts(para 14). In view of unemployment and underemployment existing in the
Dominican Republic, particularly in the areas away from the capital city of
Santo Domingo, the opportunity cost of unskilled labor is likely to be lower
than wages received. Hence, while actual wage levels have been used in cal-
culating the economic returns, an  additional rate of return hlas been calcu-
lated to test the project's sensi;.Wvity to shadow wages for unskilled labor
in the construction nnd hotel industries, 25%below actual wages.(para 14).
Cost Benefit Stresms
11.       The capital costs and gross operating profits of the tourism project
are summarized below:
Puerto Plata Tourism Project
(US t 000)
Year  Infrastructure   Superstructure   Total Investment   Gross Operating
Investment Cost  Investment Cost         Cost              Pr.:fibJ
1974      7,200              -                7,200
1975      8,300             3,500            11,800
1976      8,00            12,300            20,700
1977      2,500             5,200             7,700                   4°
1978        _                 800                800                5,200
1979        _               3,100             3,100                 7,500
1980        _               5,300             5,300                 8,800
1981        -               2,700             2,700                 9,700
1982        _               1,500             1,500                10,700
1983        -               2,100             2,100                11,800
1984        -               2,200             2,200                13,000n
1985        -               3,200             3,200                14,800
198S/       _                -                 -                   1a4,900
a/ Includes GOP's from hotels, restaurants, shops, local trauspo r!1tiOU
and entertainment, plus the GOP of the utilities, INFRATUR and the
airport.
b/ 1986 represents the "Typical Year" of operation for the project since
some hotels would not reach their normal projected occupancy levels
until then.
Internal Rates of Return
12.       The project facilities and equipment have varying economic lLves,
but as a whole it is estimated that the project would have an economic life
of about 30 years. The need to make modest provision for some replacement
expenditures during this period is considered to be offset by the life of



ANNEX x
Page _1
the main assets beyond 30 years. Based on the above assumptions, the
internal economic rate of return on the project would be 15.2%. The sen-
sitivity of the rate of return to alternative assumptions regarding costs
and bjenefits is tested below.  Separate rates of return have been computed
for the Playa Dorada and Plrya Grande areas.  Costs and revenues associated
wTiAth the airport, the hotel school, investment end generic promotion have
been allocated to each project area in proportion to the number of rooms
pl,nned for the area.  On this basis,the economic rate of return on the
investment in Playa Dorada is 15.0% and the rate of return on the investment
in Playa Grande is 16.0%
13.       Assuming that about half of the equity and debt capital for hotel
investment would. come from abroad and that half of the hotels would be
foreign managed, the rate of return on the mational investment outlays
(including the IBRD loan, but excluding both the foreign private investment
and the net repayments anid other returns accruing to foreigners) would be
16.2%. This is partly because foreign hotel investors would not participate
in benefits arising from taourist expenditures outside the hotels and would
receive an after-tax return on their investment somewhat lower than the
project's overall rate of return -- thus raising the share and the rate of
return accruing to domestic capital (including the IBRD financed portion).
It is also partly a result of the ability of the Government authorities to
recover from the hotels thie full costs cf the utilities and other infra-
structure provided under the project. If the expected foreign private in-
vestment were available onIly for this tourism project, without any impact
whatsoever on the amount and terms of foreign capital available for the
rest of the economy, then the return on domestic investment (including the
IBID credit) would be the relevant one to consider. If, on the other hand,
the private foreign investment in tourism were part of a foreign capital
nool available to the whole Dominican Republic econom;y, fully determined
in respect to its size ancl terms, then clearly, the relevant consideration
would be the return of the overall investment. The foreign share would
then be part of the overall resource pool under Dominican command, over
which it must maximize returns.  Presumably, the true situation is inter-
mediate between these two extremes; some of the private foreign investment
in tourism may not be avai.lable for other projects, but it does influence
the amount of other capital inflows and its terms. However, as the returns
both on the overall project and on the Dominican funds invested in it
(including IBED fund) are quite satisfactory, the project is acceptable
under any reasonable assumtption about its impact on capital inflows to the
Dominican Republic economW.
Sensitivity Anal.ysis
14.       The rate of return wylld be sensitive to change in investment
costs, gross operating profits, the timing of hotel development and the
assumed shadow rates for wages and foreign exchange. The rates of return
resulting from altemative assumptions for each of these variables are
shown in the table below.
1/ Changes in GOP projections reflect potential variation in occupancy
rates, average daily e.xpenditure and operating costs.



y
-' e 6
Resulting Rate of Return %
(i) Best estimate                              15.2
(ii) Investment costs + 10%                      13.9
(iii) Gross operating profits
(a)  + 25%                                 18.4
(b)  + 10%                                 16.5
(c)  - 25%                                 11.6
(d)  - 10%                                 13.8
(iv) Two years delay in opening of hotels        12.0
(v) 30% shadow rate for land                    15.6
(vi) 25% shadow rate for unskilled labor         16.7
(vii) 10% shadow rate for foreign exchange        15.6



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC: PUERTO PLATA TOURISM PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION, EXPENDITURE AND DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
_ _ _  _    .t___ _E_ _ _  _ -  
YEAR I                  YEAR II                  YEAR III                 YEAR IV                 YEAR V
Q1    02   03   Q4   Q5   Q6   07   08   Q9  Q10  Q1l  Q12  013   14  0                                  Q15   0 19  020
1. Playa Dorada Tourism Area
DEFECTS LIABILITY PERIOD
Civ il VVorks             _oo  RMOR   r_fgn  _bz                             _        mmm                           =111   am    an _   
Eqlilpmelit __ lElES _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ GUA RANTEE PERIOD|
Equipment                                                                                               I"E                O
Professional Services                   ,                                                               __
2. Playa Grande Tourism Area -   
Cij v  Il Wor ks           z                                                 >  _  mQ BQ ;,x9 G U ' \ R AN 1  -DEFECTS LIABILITY PERFIOD
Equipment                                                                                                G             P   IOD
Professional Services                                                                                   No - - -
|3. Airport                                                                                                                                                 I 
3|      Civirport  Works-DEFECTS L IABILItY PERIOD
Civil Works                                    *FR    -                   -m    -  'mmmm 1111MW21 e   . mu m   NNW"
Equipment               t     t      l     l     I     u     l      l                              IGUARANTEE PERIOD
Equipment                                                                               r     l                       E -             I                 l
Professional Services                    *                        nu_1-1119            -                 r
4. Hotel Training School                                                                                                                                         i
| Civil Works               l            |     |               _             CDEFECTS LIABILITY PERIOD
|   Equipment                                                                      G l  l  l  l  |  l   UARANTEE PERIOD
Professional Services
5. InvestisteTIt Ilroiriotion  
6. Project Adinirsistration 
7. Tecltsical Assistance
Date of Loan Agreement ;                                                                                                                Closing Date 1_-
Estimated Quarterly Expenditures              YEAR I                   YEAR II        |        YEAR III        |       YEAR IV                   YEAR V            TO       1/
I ~    ~- EsiatdOarel' --n- -ues Zl|                                                                                                                      TOTALS-
and Disbursements (in 000 Dollars)    01   0222 103    04    05|  06   07   08   09  0Q10   11  012  0131 014  015  016  Q17  Q18  019  020
Expenditures 1      646   610  1,460 1,510 1,840 2,370 3,028 3,543 4,217 3,507 2,877 2,472 1,630 1,010  831   771                                  32,322
Quarterly Totals
Disbursements        -    450   450   950  1,000 1,200 1,500 1,900 2,300 2,700 2,200 1,800 1,600 1,000  700   650  6600                            21,000
Expenditures 7/    646  1,256 2,716 4,226 6,066 8,436 11,46415,007 19,224 22,73125,60828,08 29,71 30,72 31,551 32,322
Cumulative Totals
Disbursements              450   900  1,850 2,850 4,050 5,550 7,450 9,750 12,450 14,650|16,450 8,05019,05019,75020,400|21,000
1/ Excludes Lanci Acquisition (RD $ 3,671,000)                                                                                                       Wo1d Bank-8662QRI



IBRDt-10758
~~~~1.                  69~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~        FEB~~~~~~~~~RUAR     1974
L'c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
N G o~~~~~~~~~~~~~o nooo,~opo
PugprO  PL~~~~TA                 -~~-R  LOYG                       20,O00pSeArooosIV
"D U A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U
-La ~   ~     SA     R    OSL         '3E
San qa ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~oi~en                        .5aB
/ 8AP-'AHONA. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ N
les  BAR-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HCN~~~~~~UA                                               OIIA
PED,FRIVA Z ES ~ ~     ~       ~       LCAIN    FPRJC   /RASMXIOr*                                                    p~le~eI'BEJJBI
00   40  00  GO                             C,0U20~~~~~~~~~~~VN-~L



IBRD 10760
D >    1  >j  tOMIN!CAN  RtEPU$LIC                  FEBRUARY 1974
PUERTO PLATA TOURISM PROJECT
511/A( r"m  fi °rL\                                     0                                                         \  5                                        PLAYA  DQRA0A-KERGANTIN
LAND USE PLAN
" \                                                                   R>_. ' *  = *09 '  j  \ PROJECT AREAS     FUTURE  EXTENSiONS
9-'.fi:  '15iT": 'i'il;  .]1! \ 0 ,                                   Hotels - Vocotion,Villoge                Hotels
Residential                              Resideotlol
t Golf Ccurse                    [=7        Golf Course
j Apartments (Condmrrdnimurn)               Apartments KCnndomio,ur.)
.  ConmerciQl                      ' .    Commnrcil / Light Industrial
1i                                                        0,j; j j ji-- -:                                        Project Boundary                         : Othet LowlDessity Resideetial
Parks and Recreationol Areas
Project Roods
Future Roads
\   '                                     /                      :                                cx~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Fisting Roods 
NtrlVeaton Areas,
CPromenondes and Ridi'sg Trails
]  \S~SO  OroodO                                                                           Low;Land Areas
z . ,'ade                                                                       Contiurs in Meters
N~~\ /F                                                              -                                  =  Riners
0               5Z)5              1000                      1\04 1> i ,1; ;+                       H |     tI'dtQlfiiSi I i E4't              j             j;       ,       l;    f t ;SPvr}e t7ert1n
MOlLYER5                                                                                                                        1                              \') .2 4I  -  1 t'A  '  8 g  t
sss IPUD4D:(A  h1 A ./v rlz: cn                                                                                      'N        'n -
~~~~~~~~~~,  , i t  '0  7?  9'  Un  9?                                           ,tJ                                                      .       - '
-2'    t'  ''~20,                       AT/ANFTC              ?-                                          1                                                      --             '               G              O  i"3!t
24'           *.--   ,  :  '0g  QrO                 OCEM  N                                           \     1li /                  w--                                                                                    . lli U24-
,1 o,                                                              21   --
20r r ;  -e j.                -t                                1-                                     s
u      Jonnln      hlu, c  . . .
51       75        45'       72'       59                  63 ni



IBRO 10760
E5RUAPy 152'2
DOMINICAN REPUBUC
7.                                                                                                                               PUERTO PLATA TOVI$M PR9JET
,IooI I,
PLAYA DORADA-BERGANTINI
<How
LAND US PLAN
*                                          77
RROJECT  AREAS                           PjJV4RE  ETEN$IONS
<0
'7k,.  u
Restdeotiol                              Residartll
I Golf Course
I Aportrseets Coodoreruol                  A9rtmeots ICood9rrtruuo)
Coercol                                  CorrtmercaI / tghs lodostriol
-is-
Project Bosodory                         Other tow-Ooosity Reui6eutiot
Parks nod Recreotiosol Areas
Project Rouds
Puture
EsuhoR Rouds
Natural Yetatiop Areas,
Proreecodes  Rdiog Troils
low cord Aroyr
C0,s Q,ooJo
Corstours ij Meters
Rivers
0                                                     N
c
051   ,,  0
0               000               1000                                                                                t /5                                                             Pousuo Bo11suuo/,o
MuroRt
<
A tu 
O,,u2',5',3.. oo2,,                                                                                                                            11020100 I  Ot                                                0 tts1      %
22'   22'   72'   us-   us'   us-                                                                                                                                                    2                          -<
*                                                                                                                                                  V                                       0
I:
0 12                                 5221  It1
u                                                                                                                                       0.                                      0i000l0t00 1'
24'            .                             ATLNT!C                                                                                                                                                  02 lIt
7                    OCEAN                                                   /                                                                                        jl0ILO7.
2?
&                                       2
2'              2                                                  21'
ib           '0               ssut,i014Auo'0                7
0'
J70570      ti             *   P,s,o
tsr j -.
0025510 CAl,                                                                                                                                                                                        u
O   200  202
LL2
20'       01        Ooo,02.o,,s   Oro                               5'
5"       2        0'       211       56'       06'      ,3'



IBRD 107ll
FEBRUARY 197k
A  T Z  A  N                          / C                         0  C  5 A  N
Punto Prectosa
Punto Sombaernto               Cope Romero
Punto Pa/ro A/to                                                /                                                      ,1o
Playa Ciaonde                      PnaC~
j                 ;        g                                                             ;                 f    >              0             0  7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4                      T Aboeu,
#.Sl a ..  Fez raLplrrn b ..............   .... \/~
Pf r7drtnral //a P,ch al0 -1ae                                                                                        /     '/y N~
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~od 9%- ,.i 
USA 1°     75.      12- tl-  '6               63rt 7- PROJECT AREAS                                          FUTURE EXTENSIONS
riorldra °MIaml  @Og       ~~~~A TZ A IVTI C                ::::.Hotels                                     =         Hotels                              -       Project Roads
24°                 0                             ECtA // 24°-__                                                                                                            Ftr   od
o                               y         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Apartments (Condominium)      =      Apartments (Condominium)             Ftr   od
Golf Course             U~~-T--  Resi                                     = --a   Future Alignment
oa               Golf Course                       Lf X  1 1:1 Residential                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Existing Roads
,, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~      ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     I '-_.,        , _._
_21         t                                             21°-|   '     Commercial                                                                                           Natural Vegetation Areas
l >  Plato l r;')iE(.I .1;1,E  O 100 200 300 400 500          1000    -                                                       Promenades and Ridingc deTandrRidng Trail
Ne  JamoiccHli ,..                    Pv.rt. Rico                  .. 8-METERS                                                       --1---Contours in AAeters
0   c 200 40                                                                                     DOMINICAN  REPUBLIC
0- 200 400eut                                                                        P U E R TO  P L ATA TO U R I S M  P ROJECT O JC
7_            75, hiIVrg  C a           W            63'1'                              PL AYA   G RA N DE  L A ND  U SE  P LAN



CAN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
0 f & PAVEO A~~~~~~~~~~~~~REAS  3L\
ROPL-ATA   OUIsm  PROJEC,
INT =:    rE NA OAl AIRpORT
/ /~~~~~~~~I$E PL~AN
SoWWI PAIVEDAEAS
RWAS' tGINI OTN
R,AG IGA      G
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CA



