Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
Repwt N. 12012
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1605-4HA)
JUNE 17, 1993
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. :12012 CHA    Type: (PCR)
Title: FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT -
Author: TELLEZ, JAVIER
Ext. :31746 Room:T 9051 Dept. :OEDD1
Agriculture Operations Division
Chil and Mongolia Department
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document bas a rtricted distribution and may be wsed by reipients only in the perforMance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
1985 US$1.00 = Y2.94 = SDR0.9849
1986 US$1.00 = Y3.54 = SDR0.8542
1987 US$1.00 = Y3.72   SDR0.7734
1988 US$1.00 = Y3.72 = SDR0.7441
1989 US$1.00 = Y3.96 = SDR0.7802
1990 US$1.00 = Y4.77 = SDR0.7371
1991 US$1.00 = Y5.22 = SDRO 7340
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Imeter (m)       =    3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)  =    0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)        2.47 acres
Imetric ton (mt)  =    1,000 kg
1 cubic meter (cm) =    35.31 cubic feet
ABBREVIATIONS
DCA        =    Development Credit Agreement
ERR        =    economic rate of return
FAO/CP    =    Food and Agriculture Organization of the United
Nations/World Bank Cooperative Programme
FGHY       =    fast-growing and high-yielding
FRR        =    fnanc;d rate of return
MFO        =    Ministry of Forestry
NAP        =    National Afforestation Project
PCR        =    Ptoject Completion Report
PMO        =    Project Management Office
RVP        =    Regional Vice President
SAR        =    Staff Appraisal Report
SFF        =    State Forest Farms



FOR OMCLAL tSE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Wshbigton, D.C. 20433
U.8ik
Ohf. of Wkests,4mWal
June 17, 1993
AbQ                             IM.E, MORDUh O1 E IRECMROS AND 3RMEN
Subiect.'    iPrject Completion Report on China
Atached is the Project Completion Report on Chia - Forestry Deveopmt Proect
(Cr. 160QCiA) prepaxed by the Fat Asia and Pacific Regional Office, with Part H prepred by the
Borwer. The report is comprehensive, infomativ and of high quality.
mhe project is the fiAst collboraive effort betwee China and IDA in this diffcult
sector. The prect aimed to accelerate afforestation and improve management of existing and new
forest on 200,000 ha. Afforestation exceeded apprisal expectations. The procesing component
performd poorly. Ihe resarch component produced mixed results
The project has reduced poverty through increased employment and income
genraon, and has improwved the environment by aesting soil and wind eosi
Th economic rate of return has bee reestimated at 38 perwent compared to the
appraisalestiate of 56 percent. Overall, the outcome of the prwect is rated as satisfactory, its
su tainabiity as likely and its institutional development as partiaL
The prqject may be audited in conjunction with the follow an National Afforestato
Attachment
o docent has a rcted distribution and nay be used by ecipients only in the perfoancloe of
dIr offical duties. Its conten nmy not otherwise be disosed wihout World 8ank authorizadon.



.                 . . . . .  . . . . . . . .
: :  :::::::             :::     .:::::::l
3  .   : :.:::::::::::   :::::   :::::::::::   l
_~~~~~ .                       .        ... .... .. ............. ....8.... .......:::::::  ::  ::    ::: 
o~~ ~~~ a             .                 .  ::::::::                  W.
t~~~ .                    . ,..  .....  
{   .    .   . .   .    -   . -   .    -   - g  -  . -. -. .-. ' -. . . --.    .  -.   .  -. -.-.- 1Zt
* ~~~~ 
. . ..  . ' '' '% A
U *   *  II.-.---..'..-..-.-. *- .--. *.-. -. -.-.-- .-4.      0 is
N ~~~ ~ a  a * *. *---.......                        .  .  ..   .   3 
|    '  , ! i',    gliKiSli |fil'i', i,2.i! llS  ,    a



- i ^
PRQJECT CMPLLEON REPOR
FORESTRY DEVELDPMENT PROJECT (CR. 1605ICHA
ERLEACE
This is the Projact Cont!letion Report (PCR) for the Forestty Development Project in China,
for which Credit 1605-CHA In the amount of SDR 47.8 million was approved on June 11, 1985. The
credit was closed on December 31, 1991, two years behind schedule. It was 89 percert disbursed, with
a cancellation of SDR S. 1 mfllion on May 13, 1991, and the las disbursement was on June 30, 1991.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Agri:ulture Operatons Division, China and Mongolia
Depamt, East Asia and Pacific Region (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and m), and the
Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's fial supvision mission of the
project in March 1992, and is based, ittr. alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report; Credit and Project
Agreements; supvision reports; corre+pondence between the Bank and the Borrower; and intemral Bank
memoranda.



- iii -
PROJECT C( OLMPION REPORT
HAINA
FOEQR3TY D      E OMIA.TPR pEC  (CR, I65
EY£IALUMMN SliMMARY
Objectives and Desio
L.         The main objectives of the project were to a&e,erate afforesttion (hro-4A establishment
of 82,000 ha of plntations) and impove management of existing forests (through tending of 73,000 ha
of young plantions and thinning of 49,000 ha of mature forests) on state forest fams in Guangdong,
Heilonaiang, and Sichuan. The pro5ect also supported strengthening of four research institutes,
construction of ten extension centers, and construction of several medium-sized wood processing facilities.
The project was well designed to reach its main tiber production objectives, but several weaknesses
emerged durg  implementtion  at afected its overall impact: the project perpetted traditional
aoresttion practes; o provision was made for asesm     of natural forest resources, despite the fact
that the project financed harvesting of indigenous woodland; there was inadequate financial and economic
analysis of wood processing investment; and the research/extension component was inadequately
iegrated ino the overall project
i.         The project was unplemented effectively within the basic framework designed at appraisa.
Actual imple tion indicators exceeded the origina SAR targets: the amount of new fast-growing
high-yielding (FGHY) plantations established, the number of fctories constructed, and the amount of
vehicles and equipmt procured was two to ree dmes the original targets. The quality of project
implementation was generally very good: tree survival rates, growth rates, and havestng levels were in
line with project targets; the design standards and cnstuction work of the roads, office buildings, and
research  sites were of high quity; and the level of utilization of project vehicles, heavy mobile
eipment, ad logging equipment was high. Throughout the six years of imple ion, project staff
have baically complied with all project covenants.
iii.       While overall performance was strong, three signficant implementation problems were
enountered. First, establihment costs for FGHY plantations were very high, as a result of heavy
reliance on cosdy planting materials, intensive site prepaation, frequent tending, excessive fertlizer
applications, and large stockng densities. Second, wood processing investments faced severe operational
difficulties. Constucdon was slow due to shortages of local financing, problems with plant and
equipment design standards, and equipment prerement delays. Similarly, capacity utlization bas been
low due to problems in raw material procurement, indequately trained staff, inexerienced manage,
and a decline in demand for many wood products since 1989. lhird, the technical assistance progrm
for the research insttes encountered implementation problems, which slowed development of improved
research capacit and necessitated two extensions of the credit closing date.
Proect Results
iv.        The affrestation component is expected to surpass the originil production target of 11.1
million cm of timber in 1986-2007, as a result of the increase in new platation establishment This



- lv -
strong output perormace has supported: (a) a high level of gross doniestic production in the construction
and man i        sectos; (b) povrty reduction (employment and incme generation under the project
have geatly exceeded the SAR targets); and (c) environment  protection. While the component
ntinues to show strong economic and financial rates of retum, esmatd at 45 pecent and 22 percent
respectively, these fal short of fte initial SAR estimates of 67 percent and 28 percent respectively. Ibis
decline, in spite of the increase in overall timber output. is due to increased unit costs for planttion
etablishment and road construction, lower unit prices for timber, and higher economic prices for project
inpu than was assumed in the SAR.
v.         The wood processing component performed poorly. Few of the factories are currently
making a profit ater depreciation and interest charges, and several requ  indirect operating subsidies
from the provincial governments, such as tax exempos and debt service relief. Of the ten project
factories, twu re clearly not viable (FIR below 10 percent); seven are likely to breakeven and pehaps
generate modest profits aer contined improvements in operation and management (FRR around 14
percent); and one is expectd to post a strong performance (FRR of 35 percent). Economic rates of
return are also low, with the exception of two  cories with high labor and low capital inputs. The
reasons for the disappointing results include inadequate investment analysis during projex design and
severe operational and managerial problems during implementtion.
vi.        The research and extension component has displayed mixed resuts, as some research
programs have not been geared towards high priority field sse, the utilization rates of many pieces of
speciald equipm    have been low, and strengthening of human resources has proceeded slowly. As
a result, there has been limited tenology development and transfer under the project.
vii.       The overall return of the project remains high, as the wood proceing component accounts
for a relatively small shae of project costs and benefits. The overall ERR is 38 percent and FRR is 20
percent, compared tu SAR esimates of 56 percent and 27 percent respectively.
foWect SustiailiVy
viii.      Ihe afforestation component is expected to maintain a significant level of net benefits
thrugbout its life. This will depend on the provision of adequate budgetary support for afforestatlon
operat   expedes in State Forest Farms, maitance of the present market-oriented policy
framework, and contnuion of high technical and management stadards. The wood processing
component is curently not sustainable and, consequently, requires close supervWion and restructuring.
Three ky steps are required: (a) eliminaion of all indirect subsidies; (b) development of restructuing
programs for any factory that continues to make losses after several years of operation, comprising
technical assistance for management, cancellatior. of unprofitable producton lines, and, if necessary, plant
closing; and (c) deepening of state enterprise reform measures, particularly the contract responlit
system and the separation of taxes and profits.
Findin gs n Lessons Leated
ix.        Overall, the Forestry Development Project should be considered a success. Despite
problems of designt and implementation, the project has generated a wide array of economic and social
benefits. While the level of new technology development and asfer under the project appears to be
inadequate in hindsight, it is Important to recognize that this was the first collaborative effort between
the Bank and China in a difficult, comple' sector. Ihe key lessons, which played an important role in
developing the Bank's largest aflbrestation investment in the world, the FY90 China Nationa
Afforestation Project (NAP), include:



- v -
* 'he importance of new tchnology development in raising the productivity of forestry resources,
pardcularly new species, improved plantng materials, more efficient silviculturi pracs, ad lower
stocking densities;
d 'De need to Improve the links between silvicultural reseach and plantation management, in order to
strengthen the process of technology rsf  during project implementaion;
* The Importance of assessing and protecig natural forest reoces, which depends on development
of comprehensive provincial forest resource management plans;
* Ihe need to develop standardized investment guidelines to evaluate fiture investments in the wood
processing sector, with emphasis on detailed analysis of supply and demand fiators, managerial capacity,
and fiancial rates of return;
* The Importnce of deeptning state enterprise reform measures in the wood processing sub-sector,
particulaly the elimiaion of indirect subsidies, development of restuctuing programs, and plant
closings as appropriate; and
* The need to strengten MFO isitutional capacity for economic and finacial analysis, particuarly in
the evaluation of cost-effective afforestation techniques and new factory investments.
x.         In response to these lessons, NAP was designed to give emphasis to introduction of new
afforestation technologies, particularly new species and improved planting materials; developmen of new
nstitutional aranlgements to better link reserch and afforeston activities; fonmulaion of provial
forest resource mangement plans; and instutional strengthening of MFO in economic and finacial
analysis and investment appraisal.



- 1 -
PROJECT COWLEEM0 REPOIRT
CHW
EORESTR DEVELOPMENT PRQJE3CT (a. 160S-)
PART I: PROECI  REVIW FROM BANKS PERSPECTIVE
Proe X deafi
Project Name:                     Forety Development Project
Credt Number:                     1605-A
RVP Unit:                         East Asia and Pacific Region
Country:                          China
Sector:                           Agriculture
Subsector:                        Forestry
1.         lbe. forestry soet has played a critical role in the Cbhnese economy, providing 40% of
household energy, almost all of the lumber and panel products for the larie constrction secor, and raw
mal througput for the domestic pulp and paper industry. The resource base is small, with a total
fbret area of 120 mlon ha at the time of appraisal, and demand has exceeded susiable supply for
several decades. Conseqeny, the natural forest has been heavily depleted outside of the remote
Northeast and the level of per capita roundwood consumtion has rmaine among the lowest in the
world. Overcutting of foret, particularly in eionmentally frge watereheds, has led tO increased
soil erosion, loss of plant and wildlife habitat, and increased labor costs for fudwood collection.
2.         In response to the growing imbalance between supply and demand, the Govenmens
sectora development sategy at the time of appraisal emphasized: (i) increased tmber production from
intensively managed bigh-yielding plantations; (II) more Intensive eploitation of mature and over-mature
areas; (il) expansion of forest industries; and (iv) strengthening of forest resarch, educadon, and
extension. lhe Govenment was aiming to incres the forest cover by 20 percent by 2000, wbich was
intended to support a doubling of the anmal level of industrial roundwood harvesting and a tripling of
the ammal level of wood-based panel production. In recent years, the C'overnment has incasingly
emphasized forest conservation and sustainable utilization, particularly in the remaining natural forest
area, frage ecosystms, and watersheds. This aggressive aforestation program has been supported by
a relatively sound policy framework ncluding secure land tenure, market-basd resource pricing in most
areas, and increased emphasis on private sector actvity) and a strenghened isitional frameworlk
3.         Ihe key issues for development of the foety sector were Identified as folows at the time
of appraW: (i) lack of adeqat access roads and efficient logging equipment for natua forests; (i)
inadeque land use planning and poor plantation management; (iii) inadequate wood prceing capacity
and infficiat proceing technologies; (iv) shortages of trained technical and m_ San    staff. in recet
years, th emphasis has shified away from nDatural forest exploitation and new factory expasion to (i)
enhancing  the productvity of forest through improv    in planting stock development and



-2 -
sHlvicultua management; (ii improved sector planning; and (ii) impving th9 efficiency of the wood
processing sector troug continued reform of the policy framework for statowned enterprises.
PJBtect Qb3eves and  KRaaW
4.         The project was designed to accelerate afforestation and improve management and
exploitation of existing forests on 92 State Forest Farms (SFF) in Guangdong, Heilongjiang, and Sichuan.
It included the following components:
(a) Establishment of 82,000 ha of forest plantations, including 24,000 ha of fast-growing
high-yielding (FOHY) plantations;
(b) Forestry improvement, including tending of 73,000 ha of young plantations and thinning
of about 49,000 ha oi young plantatons ani natural forest;
(c) Construction or upgrading of 1,930 kn of forest roads;
(d) Provision of logging trucks and equipment, tractors, and other vehicles;
(e) Construction of 157,000 e2 of buildirgs, 1,100 km of  utility lines, and other
infrastructure related to forest management and logging;
(f) Construction of wood processing faciliies, includiwn  a plywood mfll, tnnin extra
factory, wood shutle factory, and small furniture workshops;
(g) Strengening of four forest research institutes tough provision of equipment, training,
and tehnical assistance; and
(h) Constction of ten forestry e sion centers, with provision of equipment, trming,
and technical assistance.
Proect Dog= and
5.         The project was identfied and preparea by FAO/CP and drew on traditional afoeston
models developed by the Ministry of Forestry (MFO). The design was relatively straightfvrward and
based on a clear concta   foundation: Cbina faced a growing deficit of wood products and required
cenal capital and technical assistamce to improve the exploitation of existing woodlands and afforest
new areas. The project design was shared and undemtood by all parties - which is a particularly
impressive achievement in light of the fact that this was the first World Bank investment in forestry in
China and neither the Bank nor MFO had much faniliarity with each other's management and
adminisdative systems at the start of the project. While the project was well designed to reah its main
timber production objectives, four key weaknesses emerged during project implemeion that affected
the overall economic impact of the project
6.         Fhirt, the nroject was not desi8ned bo =romote ang astehnology fes. It largely
pereuatd edstg Chinese afirestation practices, with limied provision for inrduction of new
species, improved genetic matera, improved nusery rumagement, more efficient silvicultura, practices,
and more rigorous econonJc analyis of invmens. As a r, the yields and return of the plantion
progm were not opdmized and the project's  erall developmental impact was limited. Ihese design



3 -
weaknesses were redressed in the next Bank afforestatlon proJect, the FY90 National Afforestadon Project
(NAP), which supported a wide range of technological and managerial improvemen  to raise the
efficiency and productivity of plantation fotestry.
7.         Second, although the project financed thinnig and harvesting activities in natuWal forest
areas, the project design made ns nro    fr amm=of a           f  esoce or preparation of
appropriate management plans. For example, the project was originally designed to finance selective
felling in 10,000 ha of indigenous woodlands at the Hongya Forest Farm in Sichuan, which is an
importat biaba for China's rare Giant Pandas. Wh. a the World Wildlife Fund brought this issue to
the Bank's attention in 1990, the Bank and MFO agreed to suspend RH project activity in the area and
the government reclassified the area as a protected nature reserve. As a result of the inadequate review
of natural forest resources in the originak project dalign, it is not clear if the project correctiy balanced
the competing objectives of resource extraction, sustinable management, and conservation of natural
foress.
8.         Third, there was h   1_manaly   of wood sg_ing Investments at the start of the
project. The review of the technical, econownic and financial viability of the three factories in the original
project was extremely cursory in the SAR, particularly the analysis of supply and demand conditions.
As a result, two of the three original factories now face a significant decline in product demand as a result
of changing market condiftons and are unable to sell their fUll production line (Bm Xian Wood Shuttle
Factory and LeizJou Tannin Factory). Similarly, the seven additional factory investens that were
proposed by the Govemment during the implementation of the project (which were designed to utilize
some of the surplus project financing discussed in paaph 10) were not subject to any comprehensive
financial andysis or rigorous investment critera. Consequently, sub-optimal investment decisions were
made and scarce invesnt fiuds were not used tD imize economic and financial retrs.
9.         Fourth, the research/extension component was inadeqaely ineted into the overal
ict, as a result of the following factors: (i) the componen; was only developed in detail after appraisal
and finaized several years later by consultants under the project, which slowed Implementation and
minimized the impact of component activities on the afforestation program; (ii) the creation of two
separate project management offices (PMOs) in UFO, one covering afforstation and the other
research/extension, led to administrative and managerial difficulties: and (iii) the inclusion of research
instites and extension centers in eleven provinces outside of the affrestation component area led to an
excessively diffused project focus, which contibuted to difficulties in PMO management and Bank
supevision.
10.        The project was implemented effectively within the basic fram ork designed at appraisal.
As shown ;n Table 4 in Part m, the actual project implemeaion indicators have exceeded the origi
targets of ihe SAR in alnost every area. in particular, the amount of new plantatwn establishment of
FGHY tres was almost two and one-half times the original target, the number of factories that were
construced was more than three times the origin  target, and the amount of vehicle and eq'lipmen,
procurement was almost two times the original target. Ihis expansion in project outputs was made
possible by project savigs arising from a greater depreciation of the yuan against the dollar and the
dollar ainst the SDR than was assumed in the SAR, which created an additonal US$17 million in
ailable fianmcing for project actvities. However, not all of these additina funds were utilized by the
project and the credit closed withb an undisbursed balance of US$7 mMlllon.



-4-
11.        The auaity of project Implementation wss generally very good. The project nursedes and
the new plantions were well established, as demonstrated by high survival rates and the low incidence
of pests and disease. The tending and thinning operations on both new and old plantations were well
managed, with growth rates and harvesting levels in line with projeca targets. The design stdards of
the roads, office buildings, and researrh institutes were of high quality and the physical conmtruction was
well executed. ITe level of utilization and maintenance of project vehicles, heavy mobile equipment, and
logging equipment was also high. Throughout the six years of implementation, project staf have
basically complied with all the covenants of the Development Credit Agreement (DCA), the terms of the
Project Agreement, and the underdings reacbed at project negotiations.
12.        While the overall performance was strong, the project did encounter four significant
Implementation problems. First, establishment costs for EGHY plantations were very hih, as a result
of heavy reliance on costly planting materials, intensive site preparation, frequent tending, excessive
fertilizer applications, and large stocking densities. While Bank supervision missions urged project staff
to evaluate the costs and benefits of these silvicultural management techniques, little scientific and
financial analysis was done and project staff iargely continued to maximize input use without reference
to margina benefits.
13.        Second, wood poeing investments iced severe opead      and         difficuties
throughout the project. Construction was slow due to shortages of local fiacing, problems with plant
and equipment design standards, and equipm    procurement delays. Similarly, capacity utilization has
been low due to problems in raw materW  procurement, inadequately trained staff, inexperienced
managers, and a decline in demand for many wood products since 1989.
14.        Third, the technical assistace rgra  for the resech ins_tt   encunrd several
em,which slowed development of improved research capacity and necessitated two
extensicas of the credit closing date. First, the provincial governments did not allocae adequate local
counterpart tutmng for research activities and the instues had to focus heavily on income-generatig
research services for local enterprises in order to generate operafling fimds. Second, annual targets for
oveseas study tours and taning were often not met, reflacting (i) SAR over-estimation of the number
of English-spaking research staff available for training; (i) a general delay in central government
approval for all overseas training following the events of June 1989; and (iii) a general reluctance to use
]DA funds for non-commercial, human resource development activities. Third, some of the research
inses did not pursue high priority applied research programs that would directly benefit the
afforestation objectives of the credit, such as opftima plantation spacing, plantng pit size, fertilizer
application rates, and roWion periods. For example, the Guangx Instibute focussed heaily on research
into wood processing and chemical extraction technology, which represent secondary research priorides
not related to the projeWs main objectives. On the other hand, while the Guangdong Institute conducted
usefi silvicultural research under the proje, its findings do not appear to have affected implementatton
of any project afforestation activities and contributed to any improvement in actual forest management
15.        Fourth, the PM0 initially lacked familiarity with auk gmced=, which led to slow and
cmbm e procurement of equipment, delayed submission of disbursement applications, and weaknesses
in audited finamcial statements. However, all these problems were corrected in the later years of the
project and successive Bank projects in the sector have been admistered effiectively.



-5 -
EMetReslts
16.       Tie afforestation component is expected to surpass the original production target of 11.1
million cm of timber In 1986-2007, as a result of the Ln -.ase in new plantation establishment from
82,300 to 118,376 ha during implementation. Ibis strong output performance has alleviated
supply/demand imbalances in Sichuan, Guangdong, and Heilongjiang and supported a higher level of
gross domestic production in the construction and manufacturing sectors than would have been realized
without the project. In addition, the plantation program made significant contributions to (i) poverty
reduction (employment and income generation under the project have greatly exceeded the SAR targets,
as a result of increases in daily wage rates, an expansion of project activities, and a longer
implementation period); and (ii) environmental protection (inceased forest cover contributed to reduced
soil and wind erosion, reduced river sedimentation, enhanced protection of biodiversity, and reduced
carbon emissions).
17.        While the afforestation component continues to show strong economic and financial rates
of retu (ERR and FRR), estimated at 4k percent and 22 percent respectively, these fall short of the
inidti SAR estimates of 67 percent and 28 percent respectively. Four factors account for the decline in
the rates of return in spite of the increase in overall timber output under the project. First, the SAR
calculated benefits in an unusual manner, which led to an ealier phasing of revenue flows and consequent
higher rates of return than would have been achieved with a more standard methodology (the SAR
allocated timber revemne on an average annual basis over the life of the project, despite the fact that the
revenue is realized only in the later years of the project as the trees mature). Second, the actual unit costs
for plantation establishment and road constucion during project implementation were higher than
estmated in the SAR, largely as a result of heavy reliance on expensive production inputs (see paragraph
0), increases in wage rates, and higher domestic inflation rates. Third, the final estimate of financial
unit revenue values are lower than projected in the SAR, in line with revised World Bank commodity
price projections for timber (see page 1 of Annex 1). Fourth, the final estimates of the economic prices
for labor wage rates, fertilizer, and capital goods are significantly higher than in the SAR projections (see
pages 2-3 of Annex 1).
18.        The wood processing component has performed poorly. Few of the factories financed under
the project are currently making a profit after depreciation and interest charges, and several require
indirect operating subsidies from the provincial governments, such as tax exemptions and debt service
relief. Of the ten project fctries, two are clearly not viable (the Leizhou Tannin Factory and the Bin
XMam Shuttle Factory are projected to generate a FRR of 3 percent and 8 percent, respectively); seven are
likely to break-even and perhaps generate modest profits after condnued improvements in operation and
management (the consolidated Shaoguan factories, the consolidated Sichuan factories, and the Tanguan
Parquet Factory are all expected to show a FRR of 14 percent); and one factory is expected to post a
strong financial performance (the Yilan Veneer Factory generates a FRR of 35 percent). The revised
economic rates of return of the factories are also low, with the exception of the more labor intensive, less
capital intensive factories such as Tanguan Parquet (ERR of 25 percent) and Yilan Veneer (ERR of 39
percent). The reasons for the disappointing results include inadequate investment analysis during project
design (see parah 8) and severe operationa problems during inmplementation (see paragraph 13).
19.        The research and extension component has displayed mixed results. Ihe ten extension
centers constucted under the project have developed useful extension programs that have disseminated
tdional afforestation information to individual and collective tree growers. However, the strengthening
of the four research insdtutes has been less successful, as some research programs have not been geaed
towards high priority field issues, the utilization rates of many pieces of specialized research equipment



-6-
have bee low, and strengthening of human resources has proceeded slowly. As a result, there has been
Ihnited new thology development and trander under the project.
20.        Abe overall return of the pfoject remains high, as the wood processing component accounts
for a relatively small share of project costs and benefits. The overall ERR is 38 percent and FRR is 20
percent, comared to SAR estmat  of 56 percent and 27 percent respectively (excluding research and
exension actes).
PFOjct Susiabilt
21.        The afiorestation coimponent is expected to maintain a significant level of net benefits
throughout its life. Continued strong output performance will depend on (i) the provision of adequate
budgetary support for affores on operating expenditr  in State Forest Farms, until such time that the
project plantations mature and the farms become financially independent operations; (ii) mainteance of
the presen policy framework of firee maret pricing and the production responsibility system; and (ii)
contnaion of high technical and management stndards In SFF, particularly the correct phasing of
thinning and harvesting operations. A high level of cost recovery is also expected throughout the project
pe-iod: net farm income is projected to cover debt-servicing obligations for State Forest Farms and
project taxes are epected to cover public sector budgetary allocations for infsucture, research, and
extension.
22.        The wood processing component is curently not sustaable and, consequently, requires
close supervision and restructuring. Three key steps are required: (i) elimination of all indirect subsidies;
i) development of restrucuring programs for any factory or workshop thw contues to make losses
after several years of operation, comprising technical ssiace for management, cancelon of
urofitable production lies, and, if necessary, plant closing; and (iii) deepenig of state enteprise
reform measures, particularly the contract responsibility system and the separation of taxes and profits.
23.        As the first operation in the forestry sector in China, the project required a large staff input
in preparation (94 staff weeks) mnd apisa (44 staff weeks). During the early stages of the project
cycle, staff performed well in developing a comprehensive undea g of a new sector, explaining
Bank lending procedures, framing a realistic and usefil project design, and, most importaly, building
a strong relationship with a new implemening agency. This early intensive staff efort played a key role
in strengthening the institutionad capacity for project management at MFO - which ranks today as one
of the most efecive inmplementing agencies for Bank projects in China. While overall Bank peformace
was satisfactory, some aspects of the appraisal were weak as a resut of the Bank's limited familiarity with
the sector. As reviewed earlier, there was litde innovation in project design and Inadequate analysis of
wood processing invetments and natural forest resources.
24.        The Bank also invested significant resources in supervision, including 154 staff weeks and
nine missions, in response to implementation problems. Supervision generally appears to have been
adequate, with a heavy focus placed on improving the operational performance of the wood processing
facilities (a forest industries specialist participated on six out of the nine missions), reorienfting the
research instittes work programs towards high priority afforestation topics (the Bank requed the
instit   to develop prioridzed research action plans), economic and financial aspects of afforestation,
and equipment procurement. However, several elements of the project were under-supervised and would
have benefitted from more direct input: (i) froUy and envionmentl secialisM on the management and



- 7-
havesting of natura forest areas (despite the fact that natural forest areas were the source of most of the
timber harvested thus far under the preject, the Bank did not systematically visit these areas); and (i)
Bodo siacialish on the technology transfer program (it appears that none of the ten centers were ever
vstd).
lBoUowe Performance
25.        The Borrower's peformance was effectve, including good management and supervision
from the provincial and ministry project staff, high technical competency of the field staff at SFF, and
strong support from local leaders. The PMO for the afforestation component was particularly effctive
in coordinating the diverse project activities throughout the country. However, the PMO for the
research/etension component received less support from MEO management and was therefore less
successful in coordinating project activities in beneficiary instittes.
26.        Four weaknesses with the Borrower's performance emerged over the life of the project.
First, there was insfflcint Mnagt   coordinan between the two PMOs responsible for the
afforestaion component and the research/extension component, which complicated the submission of
disbursemet applications and project account iformation to the Minstry of Finance and the World
Bank. Second, here was some resistance to the adoption of new technologies t   deviated from
traditional Chine  practices. For example, project staff did not accept repeated rO Da     from
Bak supervision missions for lower stockig densities, smaller fertilizer applications, and less site
preWaration in plantatiom - al of which have been demonstrated elsewhere in the world to lead to more
efficient wood production. Similarly, project staff did not follow the Bank's suggestion for improving
road maintenance through procurement of mehanized road graders, preferr  instead to rely on the
tradional system of small  tors with gradingachments and manual labor. Third, while project staff
readily acknowledged the opeatioa problems with the wood processing component, there was
to restrucwerub1le faQrie and actually break 'the iron rice bowl, wage, and armchair. In
particuar, project staff were reluctant or slow to act on Bank suggestions for marketg studies for
factry output (which the Bank eventually insisted on as a condition for the first extension of the credit
cloi  date), technical assnce for facry management, and a slower phasig of proposed new
investments. Fourth, there was resstac to Bankl prguremntprodres, which project staff perceived
to be inefficient and cumbersome. A signficant amount of Bank supervision time was spen monitoring
project proement to enre ) compliance with international competbidding requirements and Qi)
selection of high quality, durable equipment.
Proiect Relations
27.        The relationship between the Bank and the Borrower (comprising the two PMOs in Beijing,
provincial forestry deparents, research insttes, factories, SFF, and extension centers) was adeqte
throughout the project. Conflicts that arose durig implementtion focussed on risin Bank tehnical
standards and expectations of the Chinese during implementation, which were later reflected in the
formulaion of NAP.
Qonsul Seneces
28.        Consultig services under the project included twenty-two man-months for the deveopment
of project reserch actvities (financed through a grnt from the Austraian aid program), eight man-
months for the development of project extension activities, and four man-months for scientific analysis
of soils on the SFF. The consultants generally performed well. lhe perfbrmnce of ontactors



-8-
supplying equipment was also satisfactory, although a few problems occurred in the factory component
as a result of poor installation and training services.
Project Documenttion adData
29.       ITe SAR, DCA, and Project Agreement provided a usefil and clear framework for both
the Bank and the Borrower during implementation. In addition, the anmnal work and financing plan
prepared by the PMO and the excellent data records maintained by the provincial foresty departments
facilitated close monitoring of the project during implementation. The data required for the Project
Completon Report were readily available at the PMO and provincial forestry departments.
EWdi= and Lem ns Leamed
30.        Overall, the Forestry Development Project should be considered a success. Despite the
various problems in design and implementation, the project has generated a wide array of economic and
social beefits, including increased timber for the industial and construction sectors, increased
employment in remote rural areas, strengthening of scientific reseach capacity, and extensive
environmental benefits. While the level of new tecbnology development and transfer under the project
appears to be inadequate in hindsight, it is important to recognize that this was the first collaborative
effort between the Bank and China in a difficult, complex sector. The only real failure in the project is
the small wood processmg component, which has faced severe implementation problems and requires
further restructuring.
31.        One of the most valuable results of this first project was an increased understnding of
ecoomic development and project management issues in the foresty sector for the Bank and government.
The key lessons, which played an important role in developing the Bank's largest afforestation investment
in the world, the FY90 National Afforestation Project, include the following:
* The inportance of new technology development in raising the productivity of the forestry sector in
China, particuarly new species, improved plantg materials, more efficient silvicultural practices, and
lower stocking densities;
* The need to improve the links between silvicultural research and plantation management, in order to
strengthen the process of technology transfer duing project implementaton;
* The mportace of assessing and protecdng natural forest resources, which depends on development
of comprehensive provincial forest resource management plans;
* The need to develop standardized investment guidelines to evaluate future investments in the wood
procssing sectr, with emphasis on detailed analysis of supply and demand factors, managerial capacity,
and financial rates of return,
* The importance of deepening state enterprise reform measures in the forestry sector, particularly the
elimination of indirect subsidies, development of restructuring programs, and plant closings as
appropriate;
* The need to strengthen MFO institutional capacity for economic and fimancial analysis, partiularly in
the evaluation of cost-effective afforestation techniques and new factory investments; and



-9 -
0 Ihe importance of developing only one central project management office to coordinate all afforestion
and research activitles in future Bank projects.
32.        In response to these lessons, NAP was designed to give emphasis to introduction of new
afforestion technologies, particularly new species and improved planting materials; development of new
insdtutional arrangements to better link research and afforestation activities; formulation of provincial
forest resource management plans; and instiutional strengthening of MFO in economic and financial
analysis and investment appraisal.



- 10 -
NIA
FORElTY lDEVELOPAUNT PRJ0ECT (CREDfT 1                    )
COMHPLETION RT (
Forestr Devlopme Project Offic
Te Mintry of Forsty
Peoples Republic of China
Juy 1992



Sammary
1.           lhe Deelom         Cri A8reemem of Foresty Developmeut Project (FDP)
betwree Peoplets Republic of China and kIternational Developmet Associatiot (IDA) was
signed on September 5, 1985. Being stipulated in the above-mentioned Agreemen, the FDP
consists of commercial tmber base costruction (at A), research and extension (Part B). The
project construcdon target is to build up 12 commercial timber bases coveag 92 State Forest
Fams (SFFs) located in three provinces of Heioiang, Sichuan and Guansdong, and to
strengthen four Forestry Science Reseach Insties (FSRIs) In Guangdong, Guangi, Sichum
and Shanxi provinces, respectively, and 10 Forestry Extension Centers (FECs) of 10 provinces
Inluding Fujian and Gansu provinces, etc. The total credit borrowed from IDA is SDR 47.8
million (about $47.3 million equivalent, and Y 132.44 million equivalent at the exchange rate
in appraisal). For this project, the central govement budget is Y 109.32 million, finds
collected by local foret sectors is Y 101.6 mIllion. The project duraion is from Sptember 5,
1985 to December 31, 1991, and the repayment period is 20 years (HReilogjiang is 25 years)
Including 3-year grace period. With the support and assistance of the WB and all the authorities
conened as well as the great efforts made by project units at different levels, the project
proced   smoothly and succassfully for fulfilling and even surpassing the project construction
tsks and also realized the expected objectives after more tan 6-year itplementation.
Project Prepaaon
2.           In consideration of national long-term developmeat program of forestry, the
central government listed the commercial timber construction bases into the plan of projects
fnanced by the WB as a proposed project in 1983. Aftwards, it was detemined In the
preapprsal conducted in Septmber 1983 to establish 12 commercial dmber bases covering 92
SFFs in Heilongjiang, Sichuan and Guangdong prvinces. In order to well accomplish e
preparation work for the project, Ministry of Forestry (MO) finnced Y 2.42 million as
revolving fimds for the project preparation. Forest Inventory and Design Instit   of project
pvinces conducted the feasibility study for dermining project location, scale and cotent, and
then worked out the general design and expanding design of the project bases.
3.           In September 1984, the WB group appraised the project under the assistce of
the staff concerned from central government and project provices. The Stff AppraWl teport
(SAR) of FDP covering commercial timber bases contction (Part A) and research and
extension strengthening (Part B) was worked out in January 1985 and the Denelopmt C t
Agreement between China Goverment and IMA were signed on September 5, 1985. Iheo
Part A of the project commenced on November 26, 1985. Since the terms in the Credit
Agreement for Part B of the project require research and nexeion plasm and equipment
procurement list be worked out under the consultation of epets. MIFO invited experts from
Australian and Sweden for consultadon and worked out research and extension plans as well as
equipment procurement list approved in October 1986 and Juary 1987, resectively,
aftewards. And in addition, Part B started at the end of 1986.
4.           In review of the project executon status, project tasks, investment scale and
predicted progress detemined in appraisal would have been dosely with the actual execution if
no great deviation had occrred between the appraisal and the unpredicted changes of price and
exhange rates. The conclusions like "the project is feasible* and "the limit of risk is within the
acceptable soope' concluded in the appraisal report are correct. On the other side, the appraisal



- 12 -
work had the fc owing shortcomings; (a) the funds aflocatlon Is nnistent with ta In te
PDP preaation rpo  resudng from certain construction Items had been cut down and so led
to an u leted project system; 0) the estmaon of flucuatg trends of exchange rate d
price ncs is far behind tie actuad situatin and led to InvestmentakCt  creasemt for some
tm  or consucdon scale reduction; (c) the inlaon coefficient fiacs and contecies fubd
in the araisal a  lower ta tha of the actual dtoadon; (d) due to tie dme
rtctos and the big demand for Information, marketing invc-.4ption Is not comprehenive
whie the predicted daa Is not so acurae, meanwhfle, profits of very few items are differed
greatly firom ta of calculated in appraisa.
rojec Eeuton
5.           Implta    Progre.  Accordig to the arrangement of the project
exection frmulated targets In Projea Ag4men, MFO dstrbuted the general task  and
investm  to Guangdong, Sichuan and Heilonniang by years in accordance with the execution
schedule set in the project SAR and the designed production capacity. Inegrated with general
desin of the project execution unit and the State Commisson's funds arrangement, local fUnds,
he  prvincs al worked out annual project implemention plans and let project unit to
execute after e approveme  from MPO. The oigi  construcdon tasks have been basically
accomplihed on e xcept newly added construction works which were finished in the
prolonged period while equipment procurmet,  Waiing and stdy tours are behid the schedule.
The ptoject execution saus shows the following suaions:
(a)   In tIhe commercia timber base construction, the u   n  of funds is
reasonable. The expedi   for aforestton, road and track, wood prcmig
and equipment procureme  accounted for 81.2 percent of the total project
investmt; and with the addit   of the costs of wood yards, power
tamision and co caton lines, bridges and other facilities construction,
the production Investent exceeded 90 percent.
(b)   Unbanced ecion progress. The executo speed Is slow at the eady stage
for Itm  of afforeston, roads construcion, wood processing, eqipm
p,                training and study tours frthe resons of   (i) materid
preton was not adequate. For example, aorestation seedlings were not
prepared enough, especially the fast-growing plantations which need breedig
work 1-2 years in advance; (ii) the stae funds were not tdmely available and
postoned the project constrcton period such as the construction of wood
pmcesing mil (worshops). The delay of its compledon and of putting inlto
operation lowered the invemen profits; (il) the annual plan was issued in
delay and then the contrucon progress of engineering work, espaly the
seasonal consruction works were significantly affected; (v) the fomaites for
qnt bidding Iniaton, prormentandpv4 are complicatetedios
and lonme-conming. For example, it took about 12-15 monfts to prced
the 6qument proe            und  ICB every time.
(c)    During the project execution period, the funds  rclating   hnels were
basically guaeed while impleention progress and mageme  acidves
were affected by the following factors: (1) being lack of enough revolving fumds
fr the project constuction works, it was not adaptable for the disburement



-13 -
system of WB, pardcuarly for im  crossing two fiscal years which rqired
the project unlt prepaid a large amount of revolving fmds due to not able to
withdraw timy and so had the project units had a heavy economic burden as
well as tieir production and management activities Influenced other ta th
project scope; (ii) from the laer semester of 1988 to the end of thethir quarter
of 1989, the WB had not added any supplemtay revolving funds to the special
account in US dollars established in China Bank in BeiJing for 14 mont
continuously which consequendy brought a delay in withdraw and put the project
construction into a very difficult situation.
6.           Modificaion of Plans. During the course of project execuion, great chages
had been taken place objectively. In order to make project implementationplan practical, pa
of the project subitems were adjusted with th WB agreement after detailed investdgation. Ihe
reasons for modification are as follows:
(a)  Ilnreases of both prices and taton made the engieern costs higher, and so
the investment determined in SAR could not finish the orinay setted
constuction works. According to the statistical data from three project
provinces, increases of mean annual sales prices in makets during the
constuction period all exceeded 10 percent, which was far beyond the predicted
annul iaou rate 3 percent of the appraisal. As approved by the WB, the
unit cost and disbursement percenWe for afforestation and road consuction had
been modified three times constandy.
(b)   Since the project was not desgned completed, some necessary items were added.
such as wood yards in HeilonViang and Class m  standard foet roads
constuction in Guandong.
(c)    Tho changed exchage rate made an increase of US dollars amount equivalent
to the credit.
(d)   Some constuction items were constructed by other social construction works of
its kinds and some advanced fdites replaced some constuction content  at
were originally dtuermined, so some reduction of constuction works were made
for avoiding rqe d constuction.
Overall, the adjustmnat of the project execution plan adapted all the changed factors during the
consuctimn period and made the constuction content and credit investment more reasonable and
more conformed with the project objectives.
7.           Equipm     Promu ent. Through ICB and thae purchasing by askig prices
ad other ways, equpment and vehicle procurement in project execution wa conducted by
epetise group of equipment and matal procurement from project provinces under the
leade of uniform organization of the FDP Project Office of MFO. According to the
apraised shede and the actual production needs, each project unk was required to list outthe
kind, quantity, specifications, technical requirements and quaity stndards of mateials and
equipmen for procurement, and then the procurement grop  worked out a specific procuremet
schedule for procmueent by times and stages with the approval from the WB and all the
domestic authorities concerned. The delivered equipment and vehicles were commercially



-14-
examined and checked for acceptance in prwvinces and distrit   to various bases ready for
using in production. All procured equipments are operating well and wfll play a sigficant role
in fuure fotresty production. Howeer, the procuremen sdll havo the following problems:
(a)    Beig imfamillar withthe scentifc and the technical levels both of China and
abroad, and the perfomaces ofthose machines and equipments, a few procured
devices haven't been well utilized (auning fo; 0.43 percnt of the total
procurment budget). For example, the imported aticulated siding machine
in Sichuan and hydraulic crate loaders in Heilongiang and Guangdong are not
being used for years since they are not sAtable for our production conditons.
(b)   Approving fonnalities is complicated for purchasing foreign and domestic
equipment by ICB. It not only delayed the project implemenion schedule but
also influenced the equipments performances.
Project Adhevement
8.           Ibe accomplished items in Part A are as follows:
(a)    Plantation establishment is 118,400 ha accounting for 100.4 percent of the
adjusted plan. n 1990 the FDP Project Office of MFO entrusted sAlviculturist
from the Academy of Forest lIentory and Planning of MFO to conduct an
overall  aminaion on the afforestation and the findings shown tha both
established rate and survivri rate have reached the MPO standards, young
planttions were growing well and expected to be closed.
(b)    Young stand tendig is 43,000 ha/ime, treant thinnig is 62,000 ha.
(c)    Constructed forest roads and tracks is 2,051 km accoing for 100.7 pernt
of the adjusted plan of which newly built-up roads of forest Class m  adards
is 1,136 km accouning for 100.9 percen of the plan  FDP Project Office of
MFO sent road specialists to exmine the quality and the results shown that the
roads had reached the MFO standards.
(d)    Setting up 949 knm power transmission lines and communication lines occupied
100.9 percent of the adjusted plan.
(e)    Housing construction is 158,000 e2.
(M)    Procured vehicles are 803 sets,  restry machines, instrument and wood
prceing equipment 769 sets (umit), and 99.6 percent of thLe purchased vehicles
and equipments have been put into operation at present and will play an
importan role in future forestry production.
(g)   Having constucted of 18 small-scale wood processing fatories (workshops) for
integrad wood udlization.
h)   Building up two soil labs.



- 15-
(i)    Overseas training and study tours are 134 man-months.
9.           The accomplishment items in Part B are as follows:
(a)    Capital constucion is Y 34.42 million, each FSRI has set up medium
expeiment worlkhops and testing centers.
O)    The advanced equipment and facilities with technology at 1980s level are
procurement including analytical instment, lab equipment field testing 4evles,
facilities of medium test  workshops, glass greenhouses, plastic film sheds,
automobiles of various khids.
(c)    Twenty-four study missions, 15 candidates for degree and 40 for short-ime
trang have been arranged.
10.          During six-year execution of FDP, the WB had visied 1roject sites several times
and gen a lot of good advice for project, also the project administrative and audit agencies at
diferent levels did supervision frequenty. Ihe final examination fdings when the project
coemplement with which the WB satisfied shown th the FDP had finished all ot the constuction
tak and realized the consruction objectives formulated in the Dewlopen Cedt  Agr_ent
with the following remarks:
(a)   In project bases, forest resources is significanty grew up, forest stands structe
is in a tendency towards reasonable with their Improved quality. The growing
stock of the exting forest is 59,107,500 re 18.49 percet higher than that of
1984 before base constructon. By deducdng the resourceb consumption of
cuting, the net forest growing stock increased 1,845,000 m3 annually and the
volume per hectare of the stands is raised from 72.98 me befre base
construcdon to 84.29 mn. A cmmcial mber base with a newly i ased
productive capability 400,000 m3 yearly was established aiA 118,000 ha new
plantions during the construction period was planted which could be started
thinning and utilizing in 1993.
(b)   Roads density of forest areas incrased obviously. The road density in project
bases increaed from 1.23 m/ha before the construction to 2.21 mra with an
increasement rate of 79.7 percent. In Heilongjiang, forest road density
increaed from 0.83 m/ha to 1.54 m/ha; in Guangdong, from 6.99 m/ha to
7.9 m/ha; in Sichuan, 578.4 km newly constructed Class m  forest roads
increased the density of forest roads from 1.25 mha to 6.21 n/ha four times of
before and adequa to mee the demands of afforestatlon, wood prceig and
dme tans    on in project bases.
(c)    Various  sortaon capacity has been strengthened. Among 460 procured
vehicles of various kinds in project bases, 302 vehicles are used for timber
transportion which forms the tansportion capait of 77,046,00 tons/lkm
yealy and the anmnal amount of dmber ansportion 673,000 Rn.
(d)   Structures of forestry industral have been adjusted and made the fist stop for
realizing a nourshig fue. The implemention of FDP has explored the way



- 16-
to utilize dmber comprehensively and primarily formed a new production and
manag.ment mechanism with an intgrated arrnment for "producdon, supply
and marketing," which laid a foundation for further forest reform and overall
development.
(e)    While introducing the credit, advanced equipment and technology and
management methods were being introduced and the project manament level
had bee increased consequently, particulaly through following the whole set
of working methods and strict requirements of the WB concerning project
appraisal, procurement,t financial aspect and management methods, the working
staff had been tained and administration personnel were of qualified.
(f)    Forestry scienfic research capability and science etension works were
strengthened.  Those academic activities of tree improvemet, intensive
plantation management, soil management and wood processing will efficiently
serve for  estry production.
(g)    The project has gained not only economical profits but also ecological and social
benefits and even to play a demonsion function in the process of doing
benefits to the country, peoplc, society, forestry areas as well as flourishing
local economy.
I1.          By calculating, the general FIRR of the project in Part A is 20.06 percent under
which the FIR for Heiloajiang, Guangdong and Sichuan are 22.07 pernt, 27.17 percent and
13.72 percent, respeotively, for timber production. In wood processing, the FIRR for the above-
mentioned provinces are 15.12 percent, 8.49 percent and 15.77 percent, respctvely. Reviewing
on the whole project, the project financW profits are good under the condition of no great
changes take place in domestic economy. There is no big risk in the tmber production
activities concrning finance, technology and administration while there exist big rik In wood
processing at the aspects of finncial and management. Since some mflls (workshops) have been
put ino operaion for a very short period of time or still not yet, it is difficult to make a correct
conclusion on acal beneft. By making an effort to strengthen administration and cauried out
an effective management, the predicted profts sha be achieved in the fiuture. Generally, there
is no big problem for repaying the credit.
World Bank Performan
12.         Ih the process of project appraisal and execution, the WB had supevised the
project for many times by making a lot of good suggestions beneficial to project impl on
and solved currendy occurred problems timely during their visis. In general, the WB
supervision and management of the FDP is highly effectively with the following aspects mainly:
(a)    Effective project supervision. A series of review and suevsion adopted by the
WB for project management is very successful, epecially reviews on the project
perodical progres reports, financial accounting reports, biig documents and
sending supervision mission to project fields so as to have timely fedback
information of problems occurred or good experiences         durig
project execution. This has effecively improved production techniques,
financi aountig, and project managementL



- 17-
(b)    Since the cag   of eage ra    and prices, the WE appwved was
Increasemen of disbursement percente for afforneaon and road constDon,
adjustme  of contrucdto  tems and also the of the proect construcdon piod
so tha the projet success was guaranteed.
(c)    Having made contucdve suges         for the opation management of th
major engineering work and wood pwcesn  mis (workshop). By haing
accepting suggesdons firom the WB, the project management has been impoed
and hence the prodtidon benefits Inessed.
(d)    The WB officials and experts have successfully cooprated with the project
officials at different leves during the process of the project vaiution and its
implemettion.
(e)    At the begining of Part B, no project imp  ion agment was made with
related pinces and caused difficulties for the proect uni  for collecting
unterpart fuds and repayment.
Borrower's Perfonmace
13.          Project administratn  organiato:  according to the re e          and
regultons in the credi agreement and the SAR, leading groups of FDP were set up in MFO,
Forty Departme   in project provinces and project bases  lspec y and under this, Project
Offices were set up and staffd with professinal experise in fie  of foresty, capital
construction, planing, financial, equipmt procurement, and so or. Project Office i the
inistration hadquartes wbich is relatively idependet with functiosm of fo naffairs
iaison, organizing and spevising the project execution in the natu  integratd multiple
discipline adminitatio with definite duties responbits as follows: (a) compile and Issue
project costuction plans; (b) frm and poplaiz  the project managme  reuaio
(c) suevise and acmine the quality of ng works; (d) organize the actvity of project
mgeedmg check and accep         after s complement; (e) orgie fincal activites; (t) car
out tecdhica staff training; 0 organize equipment and material         distribuo,
commercia  eamination and check for acceptance; (h) sumaize and report the project
execution progress; (i) coordie; 0) conduct field invesdgtion and organdze proje  eecton
erine   smming up and exchging.
14.          Durlg the project aecon, the project administraton agencs at diffent
leves had the fbllowing meaue to management the project implementaton:
(a)    Strening the on-job taining to Improve manageme   Project Offic
at differet level had held a series of pfo nal traing cours,i icluding
financial, mac   , new type of vehicles and m              and otwr
learng whic enhanced the qualit and profedonal skill of management soaff.
(b)    Forming management methods and perfc    admsuativeprocedes. Durn
the proJect eeuuion, a nmber of reguons were worked out Iluding
Financial Managemen  Methods,"  "Accounting  Methods,"  8Plannin
Management Methods," "Technical Standards of Fast Gtow and Hih-Yield
Plantatiom" and various kinds of satWstcal reportig reglatin so as fo make



- 18 -
the project management in a staiardized, systemized way and of a good
procedure.
(c)    Streging quality supervision and enhancing acceptuce testng. During the
project execution, fles of engineering techniques were put into file, exination
and check for acceptance system were ticdy established. Besides those specia
examination conducted by MFO anid Forestry Department in project provinces,
construction works at every stage were supavised accord with the system of
section checking for acceptance and disbursed by stages on the base of quality
ensured. All these make thle constuction quality guarantei with many high-
quaity works came out cos y.
(d)   Inroducing advanced technology and improving working efficiency. Experience
got from overseas studies in the proJect implementation were fully applied in
giding the project Constrction and forestry industi  production.  For
exaple, by USing the experience of centrizing breeding nmrsery set up system
which is good for mechaniion, specialization and improving seedn quality.
Heiloniang and Guangdong esblished cetral nurseries and so improved
breedi  technology, lowered seedling costs and were able to meet the seeding
demands for local afforestation.
(e)    Putng all working rtions in good order, closely oopaing with domestic
sectors covering planning, finance, taxation, bank and commercial exminton
and especialy enhancing the cooperation with the WB so as to get many-sided
support for the project.
(f)    Due to 2 out of 4 FSRIs and 9 out of 10 FECTs are not located in the proJect
provinces conerning Part A, and the research items detmined in Part B of
project do ot fuly tally with the production needs of Pat A, the conecion
between Part A and Part B is not very closely. In addition, Part A and Part B
are managed by two relatvely indepedent Project Offices of MPO and ftis
brought some difficulties for proJect administration.



- 19 -
PART III - STATISTICAL INFORMATION
TABLE 1: RELATED BANK LOANS AND CREDITS
Loan/Credit                Loan/Credit                 Purpose                Year of        Status             Cements
Title                          NO.                                            Approval
North China Plain         Cr. 1261-CRA     Establishment of 232,000 ha          FY82    Capletaed 12/87
Agriculture Project                        of forests, orchards and
shelterbelts
Pifshianr-Chaohu          Ln. 2579/        Production of 61 rlilttan            FY85     Under             Satisfactory
Area Development          Cr. 1606-CRA     seedlings ftr border and                       implemmntation    progress; PCR
Project                                    coamerceal plantatfons                                           ptanned In FY93
Red Soils Area            Cr. 1733-CMA    Establishmont of 8,515 ha              FY86    Under              Satisfactory
Development Project                        of orchards and 4,350 ha. of                   laplementation    progress; closing
woodlots                                                        date 6/92
Da Xing An Ling Forest   Cr. 1918-CNA    Saltage of burned timber and           FY88    Under               Satisfactory
Fire Rehabilitaiton                        Introduction of fire protection               implementation    progress; PCI
Project                                    system  n a 870.000 ha                                          pltwwed in rMr93
forest at-,.
Shandeng Agricultural     Cr. 2017-CtA    Establishment of 30,000 ha            FY89    Under              Satisfactory
Development Project                        of forest and 12,500 ha of                     vplensentatSon    progress.
Chinese dates
Mational Afforestatian    Cr. 2145-CMA     Establishment of 985,000 ha          FY90    Under              Satisfactory
Project                                    of tloter plantations;                        leplementation    progress
strengthening of research aid
institutionst capacity



-20 -
TABLE 2: PROJECT TINETABLE
Item                    Date            Date            Date
Planned         Revised         Actual
identification          3/83                             3/8
Preparation             10/83                            10/83
Appraisat Nias on       9/84                             9/84
Negotiatfons  1/        2/85                             4/85
Board Approval          4/85                             6/8s
Signing Date             n/a                             9/85
Effective Date           n/a                             11/85
Closfng Date  2/        12/89            12/90           12/91
Ccptletion Date         6/89            6/91             6/91
Notes:
.1/ The government announoed a new policy between appraisal and negotiations that
required project entities to assume foreln exchange risk for Bank debt servicing,
which temporarily dbopened provincfal interest fn the project and. consequently
led to proeossing delays.
2/ The clesong date of the credit was extended twice in order to Ci) cotplete training
and research activites that had been delayed (due to late starting of the cceponent)
nd (I1) afforestation and wood processins targets that had been inereased during project
luplementation.



- 21 -
TABLE 3: ESTINATE AND ACTUL CEDIT IRMET  US NILLIN)
Year and     Appraisal Eatimte        Actual      Actual as 2
Semester    Absolute  Cumlative    Cwulatlve    of Estmaote
1985
1        0.50       0.50 I/      0.00              02
It       0.50       1.00         0.00              02
1986
I        1.00       1.00         4.99
it       6.05       7.05         4.99 2/          712
I        7.10      14.15         8.37
I        ? 7.50    21.65         16.53            762
1988
I        7.50      29.15         24.81
I1       6.50      35.65         27.69            78
1989
1        5.20      40.85        30.00
11       5.00      45.85        39.57             866
1990
I        1.45      47.30        48.62            1032
it       0.00      47.30         51.14           10l6
1991
I        0.00      47.30         56.22           t19:
11       0.00      47.30         S5.93           1182
1992
I        0.00      47.30         55.72 S/        11SX
Notes:
1/ Project preparation facitity
2/ US $5 mILlion w; deposited Into the Speciat Account In 2W8
3/ The undlsbursed baLane of the credit, US 8 7.01 1 tfioan Ws eanelLed, effective 5/13/92.
The depreciation of the USS agenst the SO  over the project ped Led to a total fncrese
in the US S equivaent vaLue of the credt of US S 15.42 mllion



- 22 -
TABLE 4s PROJECT INPUBIIEITATION INDICATORS
Ind1cators                         Unit    Appraisal      Revised       Actual      ACtual/     Actuall
Estimate      Tarot                     ea         Revsed
New Plantations                     ha.        82,300      117.900     118,376          144         100t
a) Fast Growing  1/              ha.        23,900       59.500      57,375          2401        9fX
b) Traditional                   ha.        58,400       58.400      61;001          1061        104X
Existing Plantation
a) Tending                      tt. V/     437,000                  435,711          100l
b) Thifming                      ha.        49.000                   61537           1261
Chfeical Fertilizer                 tons       10.800        7.500       7.989           741        107Y
Road Construction
a) Now Class III 3/               km           930        1.126       1.136          1221        101X
b) Upgrad. to Class III           km           500          410         415          803         101%
c) Forest Tracks                  km           500                      500          1001
Equipment aW Vehicles               no.           536         885          988          184X        112X
Buildings                            m2       157.000                  158.285          1011
Utiltty l1nes                        km         1.084         808          949           881        117X
Other Contructifn  4/               no.            21           29          31          148X        107X
Wood Proe ssIng Facilities
a) Factories                     no.             3           10          10          33          100X
b) Workshops                     no.            12            7           7           !58        1001
Training & Technfcal Ast.
a) Overseas S/                    m            533          761         747          140X         981
b) Domtic  S/                                1460         1,605       26459          1681         153
c) Consulting Services 6/         m             34                       34          100X
Extension Center                    no.            10                       10          1001
notes:
1/ An additional 35,600 ha of fast growing plantations ver approved in 1989
2/ Activity masured fn #tonding tifms"  i.e. nmabr of hectares tene ultiplied by the
mnaber of tfmes each hectare was tended
3/ An additional 150 km of road was approved fn 1987 an 46 km In 1990
4/ Includes brdges, fire toer,  tells and a relay station
S/ In June 1986 it was areed that overseas trafning for the reseach an extension caponxnt would
be increased by 228 m and domestic training by 145 mm to be fuded through reduced quipment purdchse
6/ These snonths funded by co-financiers



- 23 -
TABLE SA: PROJECT COSTS (U  14LLION)
Appraisal Estimate   /                  Actuat
Item                           Local    Foreign    Total        Local    Forefgn    Total
Cost 2/   Cost         Cost    Cost 3/  Cost 4/    Cost
Plantation Establishment          14.5        0.8       15.3      21.6        0.0       21.6
Forest Itprove.mnt                13.9       0.7        14.7      19.8        0.0       19.8
Chemical Fertftizer                0.5       3.1        3.7        0.7        0.0        0.7
Road Constructfon                 28.7        1.5      30.2       22.9        0.0       22.9
Equipamnt & Vehicles              3.0        12.8       15.8       2.3       22.7       25.0
Sutldings & Utilities             12.8        1.5      14.3       14.8        0.0       14.8
Wood Processfng Facilities         7.7        5.5      13.1        9.9        0.0        9.9
Trafnfng * TA                      0.3       2.5        2.8        0.3        0.6        0.9
Nanagmu ant & Overheads            3.0        0.0       3.0        7.7        0.0        7.7
Research & Extension Centers      13.3       9.7       23.0       12.9        9.5       22.4
Total Project Cost                97.6      38.2       135.8     113.0       32.8      145.8
Notes:
1/ Appraisal estimate from SAR
2/ The folloting exchange rates, whfch maintained purchasing power parfty of the yuan
against the dollar, were assuned In the SARI
1985        US*1 a Y 2.3 a SOR 1.0103
1966        USS1 a Y 2.30   SOR 1.0103
1987        USS1 a Y 2.17 t SDR 1.0103
1988        USS1 a Y 2.07 a SOR 1.0103
3/ The actual exchange rates ere as follows:
1985        US1    Y 2.94 a SDR 0.9849
1986        US$1 a Y 3.54 a SDR O.8542
1987        US$1S a Y 3.?2   SR 0.7734
1988        US$1 a Y 3.72 a SDR 0.7461
1989        USS1 a Y 3.96 a SOR 0.7802
1990        US$1 a Y 4.77 a SOR 0.7371
1991        US$1 a Y 5.22 = SOR 0.7340  (average of first three quarter only)
4/ Sam  foreign expeditures related to wood processin  factories and buildings are listed
under the  EqIpmsnt and VehiclesU category, as a result of project accountins practices.
This Is slightly different treatment than in the SAR.



-24 -
TABLE SO: POJECT FPIMCING
Planed  1/              evised 2/             Actual 3/
X of                  X of                   X Of
Source                                  BuoAmt     total   Amount         total    Amout 3/    Total
Foreign Sources
IDA Credit  USS mllion)               47.3      34.8K        61.5        na         S5.7      38.2K
Civtl Werk                         13.6      10.02       24.3        nm         22.6      15.5K
Equpuent                          30.2      22.22        33.9        na         30.2      20.7X
Consultants                        2.4        1.02        2.8        no          1.8       1.3K
fund 4/                            0.0       Q.0X         0.5        no          1.1       Q.8X
Unallocated                         1.1      0.8X         0.0        no          0.0       0.0O
Doamtic Soures
Cntral Govt. (Yuan million)           106.9     34.1X          no        no        133.1      24.1X
Prowincial Govt. (Yuen millfon)       97.3      31.0X          no        no        207.7 5/  37.7K
Total (Yuan mlfttin)             204.2      65.1X          no        no        340.8      63.8K
Total cUS  fil ion)               88.5                     no                   90.1
Total FInsnsirg (USS dilon)               135.8    100.0K          no        no        145.8    100.0K
Motest
1/ Plamned estimate as in Developmnst Credit Agreement, using $1 a SDR 1.0103 exchange rate
2/ Credit allocatfon was revised in lfne ifth dwvaluation and expensfon In project tarets, using an exchange
rate of $1 a SO 0.7802
3/  The fNim   crodit allocatton excludes the cancelled amunt of U5 7.02 willonand  8 sbased on an exchange
rate of $1 u SOR 0.7663
4/  Th  fund category represents the fluctuatfin between the 103 and th  currency of the Special Account
fro the tfm. of the fnitfal deposlt to the tf. of docusensttfon of the Special Account
5/ All Part 8 domestic sourc  finanine  included In this category, since no break doan s avaltlabLe
between central and local funding



- 25 -
TAMS 6A: PROJECT RESULTS * DIRECT  ENFITS
Apprafsl        wwsed         Reio
Ind¢altors                                                      Unft         Estite    Estimate  V    AI praisel
Timber Production 2/
Total Production from nforests 3/                           000 m3          16Gm           4,433             6
Incremantal Productlon from existine forests 4/            000 m3            9,540          7.053            742
Totat New ProductIon                                       000 .3           11.164         11,4S6           103I
Mood Processfng Production 2/
shguan Plywood Factory                                     000 .a              204            170            85X
Ltfzhou Tannin Factory                                      000 Mt              21              6            37X
Strixlen Wood Shuttle Factory                            mltlion unfts          21             12            S72
Tangyuan Parquet factory 5/                                000 .2               no          3,198            no
TiYan Veneer Factory S/                                    000 .2               no         36,600            n
NanJi ng Flbreborad Factory 5/                              000 .3              no            48             n
Honoya Veneer Factory S/                                   000 m2               no         16,050            no
ReJoang Composite  oard Factory S/                         000 e2               no          7,383            no
Shoosuan Blockboard Factory 5/                             000c   3             no            111            na
hs oguan Glue Factory 5/                                   ooo Mt               no            32             no
Epoloyment and I ns 6/
Emp leoyent                                               mdllfon *d             5             19           36M0
Incremental Uage 5111                                   milton Yuan             20           107            3352
Notes:
1/ Revlsed estimate to based an actual output for 1986-1991 and projected output for 1992 - 2007
2/ Production fndicators agregate total benetfts for 1986 - 2007
3/ Total productfon from thfnning and harvestfng of timber from new plantations estabifahed wdwer the project
4/ tncremental production from thfnnfng and harvestfng of teber from noturat forests wnd existing
plentations made posoible by projact 1nputs, such as roads end warvastfr4 equipsent
5/ This factory investment was not pert of th orfginal project dasign and, therefore, not reviewed In the SAR
61  Emptowimnt and fnconm  indicatoro  epate total benefits for the project IiAleuantatifn pertod, which mV
defined as 1985-88 fn the 8AR but was 1985-91 in actualt hlenentatf1n



- 26 -
TABLU 68: PROJECT RESULTS - ECONIC IMPACT
Econmic Rate of Return  1/                     Nt Present Vatue at 1IN  1J
(X)                                        (miltitn Yuan)
Appraisal            FInal                       AFOratesl         Flinl
Esti ate             Estimate  2/                Estiate           Estmfato  2V
Tirmber Productlon Component 3/
Gundon                                    106                  39                           186.8             147.6
Sichuan                                   38                   35                           99.9              119.0
Neltongj1ang                              73                   65                           271.2             211.9
Totat Production  4J                   67                   45                           557.9             478.5
Wood Processing Componnt 5/
Leizhu  Tannin Factory                    19                    8                           0.9                -0.6
Shagogun Plywood Factory                  14                   14                           2.6                 7.0
Sin Xian Shuttle Factory                   14                  12                           1.1                -0.2
Sichuan Factories 6/                      no                    8                           no                 -2.1
Yftin Veneer factory  6/                  na                   39                           no                 11.5
Taua Paut Factory  6/                     na                   25                           na                  3.6
Total Processing  7/                   14                   15                           4.6                12.0
Total Project                                    S6                   38                           562.3             490.5
Notes:
1/ The detailed chftlow statoents used fn this analysis are included In Annexes 1 ad 2. The eonverslon factoer used
to establish economie prfies are listed on page 5 of Annex I ad page 7 of Annex 2. Costs erd benefits related to
resach an  axtenefen activities are excluded.
2/ Finat estinats are based on actuat data for 191511991 and projected data for 1992-2007.
3/ The revenue stre. for tfiber production is based on: Ci) the incrementat production from natural forests and
plantations existing prior to the project that is attributable to the rad, vehicU4s, nd equipment prowided under the
project; Cif) alt production from now ptantatfons establfshed under the project; and Ciii) other inea.. from project
assets, such as truck nd buitding rental incoea. Tifber costs irnlude reforestatfon after fin l harvesting of existing
plantatons, annual road maintenane, and replacement of futly depreciated project assets.
4/ Despite the fact that totat wood production and economic prices for timber are higher in the final estimate than in
the SAR, the finat revfsed estimate of the economic 1rpact of the timber component is loer, for three reasons. First,
the OAR catculated benefits  n an unusual manner, which ted to an eartfor phasing of reveui ftoows and a consequent
higher ERR and  PV than woutd have been ascheved with a more standard m thodtlogy Cthe UAR allocated tidaer revenue on
an avereae annual basfs over the life of the project, despite the fact thst the revenue is reatfzed only in the later
yes of the project as the trees nature).  Scond, the actual unit costs for ptantation establishment and road
construction during project faplementatfon were higher then estimated In the AR. Third, the final estimates of the
economic price for tabor mage rates, fertfLizer, and capital goods are stgniffeantly hfgher than In the UR projectiona.
S/ The revenue stroew for wood processinf production Is based on total factory output. Wood procesing costs inctude
reptacement of fulty depreciated project as3ets. The costs and benefits of the seven small furniture workshops have
neer been quantiffed and aem therefore excluded from thfs anatlsis.
6/ These factory fnvestments were not part of the originat project design and, therefor  were not reveMwed In the SR.
7/ The ffnat estimate of the economfc lspact of the processing corponent is tow for three reasons. frst, the
construction and comissioning of factories has ben delatid, as a result of shortage  of tocat counterpart funds,
problem wIth ptant and equipment design standards, and equipment procurement detays. Second, cpacity utitization
lewls hkve been tow due to problems fn raw matersal procuremenS  inadequatety trained staff,  nd inexperienced
imnagers. Third, revenue perforeance has been poor due to low production levels, problem wfith product qulity, and a
dectfne In deomnd for some wood products.



- 27 -
TA8LU 6C: PiOJECT RE£ULTS  FINANCtAL IMPACT
Financial Rate of Return  12                   met Present Value at 11%  17
CU)                                        (eition Yuan)
Appraisa       l        ffnat                    Apprasatl          Final
Estimate             Estimste 2/                 tstimate          Estimat   2/
Tibner Production Component 3/
GuangdQng                                 4                    28                           103.9             46.9
Slehumn                                   1?                   14                           26.3                5.9
Neilonjtlang                              29                   22                           125.0              S3.1
Total Productfon 4/                    28                   22                           257.2             125.9
Wood Processing Component S/
Leizhow Tannin Factory                    14                    3                          0.2                 -0.8
Shagoguan Plywood Factory                 12                   14                           0.1                 5.8
81n Xfan Shuttle Factory                  24                    8                           6.6                 t.8
Slehuan Factories  61                     no                    8                           I                  -2.1
tilan Veneer Factory 6/                   na                   35                           no                  7.7
Tanguan Parquet Factory 6/                na                   14                           na                  0.3
Total Processfng  7/                   1                    14                          6.9                  6.0
Total Project                                    27                   20                           264.1             132.0
Notes:
1/ Firnancal ealulations Include taxes and exclude debt service. Costs and benefits rotated to research and extension
activtfes are excluded. The detalted ashhflow statements used In this analysis are included fn Arnnxes 1 and 2.
/ Final estimates are based an actual data for 1985-1991 and proJected data for 1992-200t.
3/ The revenue strean for tinter production 7s based en: tl) the lncremental production from natural forests end
plantations existing prior to the project that Is attributable to the roads, vehicles, and equipoent provided under the
project; (fi) alt production from new plantatins establfshed under the prolect; and (Ctf) other incofm from project
assets, such as truck nd building rental Income. Tidoer costs include reforestation after ffnal harvesting of existing
plantation, anuast road mIntenanee, and replacement of fully deprecfated project assets.
4/ Despite the fact that total timber productfon is higher In the final estimate than In the SAR, thef final revised
estimate of the financfal ipat of the tinter component Is lower, for three reasons. First, the SM  calculated
benefits In an unusual nrmer, which led to an earlier phasifn  of revenus flows and a conssquent higher FRR and WV than
woutd have bean ach eved with a more standard methodology (the UAR allocated tiber revenuo on an average annual basis
over the life of the project, despite the fact that the revenue Is realized only In the later years of the project as
the trees mature). Second, the actual unit csuts for plantation establishment and read construction during project
fmpleuntatfon wer higher than estimated in the SAR. Third, the final estimate of unit ravenue values are lowr than
projected in the SAo (see page 11 of Annex 1).
5/ The revenue streem for wood processing production Is based en total factory output. eood proe ssing eosts inelude
replacement of fully depreciated project assets. The costs and benefits of the seven small furniture workshop have
never been quantffied and are therefore exeluded from thfs  nalysis.
6/ These factory investments were not part of the origfnal project design end, therefore, were not reviewed In the SW.
T/ The final estimate of the finanieal Impact of the processfng component Is low for three reasons. First, the
cons ructfon and commissioning of factories has been delayed, as a remult of shortagos of ltoal counterpwrt funds,
problems with plant and equipment design standards, wnd equdpment procurement delays. Second, eapecity uttlization
levels have been low due to problem In raw material procurement, inadequately trained staff, end inexperienced
managers. Third, revenue performance has been poor due to low production levels, probtem with product quality, and a
decilne In demand for some wood producte.



- 28 -
TJLE AI0: POECT SWLTS * SI
Study                           Purpose              Status            lopact
Ttuber Pricing        *oview of pricing policy     Corpltted   Study explained pricing poticy
in the forestry sector 1/     12/8W      to Bank but did not te d to any
pot..-y refon. dialogue
Rosearch and          Develop medfum-term          Coopltted   Plans provided offective
Extension Plan        strategy in research and       11/86      framework for research end
extenso0n for agenifes                   extenso0n activities under the
participating In project                 project
Notes:
I/ During appraisal the  ank prxpWsed that the govemmxnt should conduct a comprehonsive
study of sector fssuss, whfch would provide the basis for Long-tenr policy and investmont
ptlannng. The goverment responded durlng negotfations that tho proposed study was too
cooplicated and not relevant to their needs. It mas therefore agroed to study only the most
important 1ssue, pricing.



- 29 -
TAML  Ta SAluS OP COI
Cownant  /         Desription                                                                        Statu
DCA 3.02             oo*, o wrks ad wcnulttnt services would be pretud               Lagey fn ceplitfe throu0hut Om
OR 3.22            in acordance hith schedute 3 of th  OCA                           project, ath_ough the orisina clting
enimn-ICS procurement we excee_d
oW  3.04           The ctralt PR0 would be mintained within NMP; the                 in Compiac  throughout projeet
SM 6.01 (t)        minfstry, princtal and Icoel Plt's wouid be
adequatety staffed
OCA 3.06 (f)       Research plans and eqLupmnt lists specfying the objectives.    Completed 11/86
1an 6.01 (a)       research methodology end equfpment neods for the four project
roesarch fnstitutes on fur tcpics woutd be compted by
Jure 30. 1986 and subaitted to IDA
OCA 3.06 (if)      Extenslon plans nd equfpment ltsts spefifying the detalted        Compteted 11V/1
SM 6.01 (b)        designs and required equipment for each of the ton extension
centres would be coopleted by June 304 1986 and submitted
to IDA
OCRA .07           The training cowponent would be arried out in acomrdance          Largety fn complience throughout the
PR 6.01 (a)        with a pregra acceptable to IDA                                   project, although the wre delay
In sending staff orem  for training.
O   3.08           A dataled work and finaneing plan would be propwrod arnumtty    In compliance throughout projeet
SM 6.01 (d)        by Sept.30 and submftted to IDA
DCA 4.01           Project aceunts woutd be auditd weatlty nd suAmitted to           In comptfence throughout project
nR 6.01             IDA  by June 30 of th  ftolloing year
PA 2.05 (a)        Provinces woutd exchange views with IDA en project progress;      In Comptiansc  throughout project
MA  4.07           progress reports to be sumitted to IDA sm-wannualtty,  thin 2
mrtth of the end of each project sewstor
mu (1)             WPO would presere a report on tither pricino boesd on TOR         complted 12/86
propwred jointly with IDA; the rqport would be submitted t6
IDA by Deu 31. 1986
mU (2)             NPO would discuss the forestry investeent pregre  for             Completed 12V"
1986-90 with the lank by DOec 31 1986 to provide further
understanding of the soctwr and to identify further forestry
development activities
Notes:
/ OCA * Devetopment Credit Agreement of 91S/85          -
SM a Staff Appraisat Report of /S/8V5
PA a Project Agreemet of 9/5/85
mU a Negotiatn Understanding from agreed danutes of negotiatfins of 4/a6/85



-30
TA*BUL $As    ' OF UlK   UCEEK8 - STAFF IPTS (13 STAFF ulKS)
Sta  of Projet eyce             Plud          RIsed          Ffrul
Through Aprelall                   m             em              94.4
Apprafsal Throgh oerd       o      e                               .
Bard Approval ThroUh               re                            9.1
Effeo twas
Euporvieion                        tm an                        153.6
MOTAL .                                          no             301.4



31 -
TABLE 83: USE OF UllKl  SOWIJCES - NSSIONS
Stao  of                           No. of       ays in    Specialization    pfert o   Tywp of
Project Cycle          Date       Person       Felod      Reprsented 1/    Ratirn  2/   Probles
Identification         Mar-3            2            9         E,F
Preparation 3/         Aug-84           6           2        3F,E,FI,RA
PreparatIon 3/         Sop.84           3           16        F,FR,FE
Appraisalt             Se-84             5          21       ,F,F1F,PO,FN
Swervison 1            utM-86           3           15        F,PO.F                 2   Technical
Supervision 2          Jun-ST           3           20         I,f,PO                2   TechnIcal
Spervision 3           Jul-88           2            5          F,FI                 2   Technieal
Suervision 4           Oct-88           2            9         E,fl                na    Techniel
Supervision 5          Mr-89            3           1T         F,E,FI                2   Technical
Supervfsion 6          act-89           3           11         F,E,FI                2   Technicat
Supervision 7          Nov-90           3           1         f,E,fl                2   Technical
Supervision 8          Apr-91            1           2           a                   2   Technical
Supervision 9          Nov-91           3            2         E,f,fl                2   Technicl
PCi Mission            Mar-92           3           21         I,E. 1
Total Supervision                      25          102
Total over Project Life                42          175                               2
Wotest
1/ a u Economdst, k- Fore ter, Fl a Forest Ind4stries Specialist. PO   Project Officer
FM   Fiancial Anelyst, FR a Forestry Researec Specialist FE a forestry dusiatfon
Speclfist, WA a Research Assistant
2t Key to pert. am  ratinfg
1 a Problem free or minor problems
2 a Noderate problems
3 a Major problem
3/  Includes fAOCP staff



FuW a UNT PRIC E        E a M aS)
19i5   S86 197  198 11 989 1990  1991  1992 1993 1994  1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2K0 2U11 a    2803S 21104 2085M  20  200
Alr.  Esthet               t1. 184           20   21   24  213  248  26   274  28   29   29   29   300  303  306  309  33  316  319  319  3"
Fleet  stht                  0  2    22  0  2m    236  248  246  247  V4   24   246  246  24   24   24   VA   24   26 2    246  246  2P    24
Ip4irlet Esthte            145  15   I67  180  1It  200  223  240  258  2    297  3000   3     30   310  313  316  31   322  326  32   329  32
f hotbsthete               220 20    358  322   25  216   215   25  21S   n6    216   21S   216   216  2t6  215  25   21    21S             21S  6 2n    216
A4weIsat  Esthete          100  116  122  134  U1   163  180  191  219  241  26   269  272  m     m27                282  215  288  2    29   298  2m     2sJ
tImi Esthete                 0   119    t 139t46   120   126  18Ia                186 1 8    I"   190 9  194  15 198 19           201  203    20S    2   21022
ppralot * te               135   US   1S3  U4   IY  1"   206  222  240  259  280  23  206  289  292  294  29   300  303  306  310  310  310
Ftnd Ethto                 220  180  214  199  187  I"6  179  212  212  214  215  217  218  218  219  220  217  218  221  21   29   221  220
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'



CWUSIOS FMOM FOR aOWTIh0 FOKIAL MIIM1S tmO iaIlC PRICES
- 903 196 198  1988 1969 1990 1991 192 t93  994 t995 1996 1997 1996 1999 2000 20111 21102 2003 20014 2QDS 2006 200
Tidi   d108 Price       1.4  1.42 1.37 1.32 1.2  1.22 1.17 1.13 1.08 1.94 1.04 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 t.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Labag Vag0 0.50 0.50 0.50 0.50 0.50 0.50 0.50 0.50 0.50 0.50 0.50 0.50 0.50 0.50  .5  0.0 0.5  0.0 O.S0 0.50 0.50  ."   .S0
Fertillzer Cot          1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.0  1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
fcbeW  Rafte            1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00  1.00  .00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
WeIghted Avg. Cap. I    OA 0.0. 0.0.08 o.88 0.88 O.II8 0.00 0.88 0.880.38  0.08  0.88 0.00 0.008O    0.88 0.88 0.68 08A  0.AS 0.11 0.80  0.0
Weigted Avg. q2e. tCots O."  0.66 0 ."  0.66 0.6 0.6  06 046 0."  06 06 0.66  .6 0'6J  0.66    0.60.66 0.66 0.6  0.6  0.6  0.6   .66
Fit f Estilats
TIbr saes trie            .. 1.21 1.06 1.18 1.32 1.11 1.1S 1.22 1.24  1.25 1.26 1.23 1.30 1.32 1.34 1.36 1.38 1.40 1.42 1.4  1.4  1t.40  .SI
tabor Va_               0.45 0.65 0.5 0.65 045 045 0.65 0.65 0.6s 0.6S 0.6s 0.6s 0.65 0.65 0.65 0.5 0.65 0A4  0.65 0.65 0.60  0.65 0.6
Fertilert               1.45 t.4s 1.4S  1.4s  1.4s 1.45  2.                   1.45 1.45 1.45 1.4   1.45 1.45 1S t4 .4s 1.4                1.45 1.45
Exch_n    Rste          1.67 t.S9 1.40 1.48 1.4  1.1s  1.03 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 2.OO 1.00
Weihted Ave. Cap. hm    1.24 1.13 1.09 1.09 1.08 0.96 0.91 0.90 .9  O.90 0.90  .90 0.9  0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 6.9  0.90 0.90 0.90 C.9  0.90
WsltWed Ave. Gie. Casts 2.00 0.94 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.86 0.63 0.63 0.83 0.13 0.83 03 0.63  0.83 0.63 0.83 03 0    0.6  0.83 0.   0.83 0.3
SMR
ttmer sates trliae      1.06 1.74 1.64 1.s4 1.45 1.36 1.28 1.20 1.13 1.06 2.0  1.00 1.00 1.00 t1.00 1.   2.00 1.00    1.00  2.00 1.00 100 1.00
L        Wg             0.50 o.S0 0.SO 0.   0.50 0.50 0.50 0.50 0."  .5  0.50 0.50 0.50 0.S0 0.50 0.50 0.s5  0.50 0.50 o.5s  0.50 0.50 O.S0
FertlIr Cost           1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 t.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
bexae Rute              1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Weighted Akw. cap. law.   0.79 0.79 0.79 0.79 0.79 0.79 0.79 0.79 0.79 0.79 0.79 0.n  9 0.79 0.79 0.n 9 0.79 .n  9   79 0.79 0.no    0.79 0.79 o.J
wistdw Avg. a. csts 0.6 0."6 0."  0.6  0.6 0.66 0.66 0."  0."6 0.66 0.66 0.66 0.66 0.66 0."  .66 0.66 0.66 0.6"  0.6  0."  0."  0.6
inal btimto
Timbe salze trice       1.22 1.02 0.87 1.03 1.22 1.32 1.37 1.45 1.48 1.48 1.49 1.S2 1.54 1.S6 1.S8  1.61  1.6  1.6  16  1.1  .73 1.76 1.18
La1  Ugs"               0.65   65 0.65 0.65 0.65 0.65 06 0.6             0.65 0.65 0.65 0.65  0.65 0.65 06  0.65 0.65 0.65 0.65 0.65 0.65 0.65
fertilier Cast          2.45  2.45 1.45  1.45  1.45      t. 1.45 1.45. .45 1.45 1.5  1   1.45 14   1     S 14  1.4  .45  1.45  1.45 1A45 14   1.45S
Eui_oe Rate             1.87 1.59 1.46 1.48 14  11  1.03 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00O.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 
Weigted Ave. cap. Im.   1.24 1.13  1.09 1.09 1.0B 0.96 0.910."  0.90 o.9  0."  0."  0."  0."  0.90 0.90 O.9D        0.90 0.90  0.90 0."S  0."9  0.90
Weighted Aw. qaw. Ceste 1.00 0.94 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.U6 O.3 0.63 0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83 0.8               0.63 0.83 0.8  043 0.63
'I.



ire  WS  WO ire0 WrO r-8   WIrO Ol0 IrO  £36 We W O WS O WS  Wr  'O ire  i             ao ?A'O U0 Z   Z6WS  t6# o 6l elan .JNSO 'Aw paWiP.lA
o0e  WC6 WO OO Or0   @6'            O. @@  0rO  0666  O0 OVO 0S60    06e OVS WO 96- 96I WIO' 6    661 46   tit   l'  AMl 1h3 'SW Pa
W   t o     l  Os' sr   Solt sri eel    Solt 60.1 0s1r  0s1i s 0lr  cl 0ri si    Oi tn srl i "Is "It*  all "*It     i               GSu ra°p3
St1  Sri WI WS St'  WI s'i Ol  Srt  St's Srt stri stl "rI  sri Sri sri                     s s    Sti  str  stii WS Ol tIIiJ
59*  sW`  SowrS SpS9  S9'O S9- `e  Sp's            i S9'0  Ssr9e    WSSP   a's 9e 09eS    srs    Ol e "O  Ole                     ofu sd P1
11i or     IS I  t es*i  IS'I U5  I    ssff Ii SSS     £s 1 WI I'   ivw       WI S  1ZIZ  Sri  I    Wt i w l Z-            "P1 "'S _i11
re  we  we  we ue we uo 's    u's we              u' e    e  W   we ues we u's wu    u's u'  we  ue  we 819.3 jUb 11W p.s"i
wer  we  weu6   r we          US0onvl  sol  ge  ee* we *ooo we    er w   e    we. rS  Osl  so'  u's@  a's a's go's    Ml5 '3 'RAY P&Itpiia
Olt  1-1  W1 06 0l 1  G00-1 Sot1 6e6  so'  WI 6l61  WI sr  W1 OD  I        I-t  -1  wl1 00661 i- 6-l 6t 6t Ws'              *we ewO ps
Ws1    WI 61 6ol1  ol6 61   l "Is soot 661    061  Ws1 wI 661 661l    "It so'i 66.1 a's colt 66l  ol 661 613 jIIll)1J
0V6 K's  we O0oso 0os ooo os's 5o 60 Oe  so1os 0        os0 oslo 6    os 61 S0 Or   O    Oslo 01OS0 OSlo Osl  we Oslo0 0 OSl0 o6o ft_
art Wi 1   6  66  606'  001 - so's 1 Ga t so   1 sse    66 00 1      slt 61     ail  sli     Ws. 311  "It Ml "It  WI       "Pd   "Ps  J"41
.... *.... .... ...... .... ...... .... ...... .... ........  ... ...... ....
_W                  NWW U 3   M  SON66M e6B  66  lO          " ff" uM   NU 'MU  Wi 46  DU  MU  9M  SM



MAP SECTION
., 



I'          - li                                              Shiha,i                                          M          U   N     G      0      L      I     A
.                                                                                                                                                                                        IBRD lB611R18
ir. ~~~~R U SS I AN    F ED ER AT I O N..-
KAZAKHSTAN                                       _t-..                                                                                         ,
X IN                                                                                                                                       p           
/~~~~~~ _                               ,,-kgLw   {  3, fG E.A'Cl
UZBEKISTAN                              /                       I                                           * UfIONBGaT rR
4~~~~~~~-- c r- <>  *r~  I                                                                                                                                                                     I@ >- . SOF-
tlsdow  0  <fiNG                   XAk  S Hipzh                           M    ;   q5/~DO  N   ,i
ahh1                                               G    0    L   I   A
~''¼)KYRGYZSTAN                                                                                                       /                                    T5ch"e *M
rdoN    _                             X. G,NJIANO                                                                                                       N N       r .  /  DE7M.tAT C
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~POL' REPBLI
'TAJIKISTAN                                                                                                  .--.t.,.   > >                                   hv. l       OFKO~RE A
FORETRi   DEE,  IPEi                                                                            6 I             g, 0LhA N0 G                  ruJ                           ''"
AFGHANISTAN                                                                  /r                                         y
Thit ,h. b Pizn.o".                                                              I                                                                ('REPUBLIC
ofrod.,oo bg  _                                     'N-                                                            Tys.@      Ver,-
'N                                           p4,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,CJ  S,eA NY!  'oI
M Countv.level                                 Fo/estrv OIN  :OMAE ° qt                                                O e   *   w
-  -  Pro snce Bondors        >             \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~<$3  1           0         SoSth C15mo  .             f>--0~~~~~~~~I- ,_ 
-  SHAANXJ          HENAN                  A NG G, 
'N. N                                                    3          \ A, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oY  Errs!  Chino,
Lho.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
C  H         XI,N ANGQ
'1  Ursa~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 445                               A'VItU
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT                                                                                                                           I AC.
PROJECT                                                                            p-"- jVIr"l
Prov'inces with Project Activites InPatntation          YUNN                          UNGILO
Establishment ndFutMnagementVO
A Provincial Foremtr Research Insttutes in Project0                                                                                                     9      4a)     g
9 Couinty-level Fosstr Extension Centers In Proec      4                                                                        KILOUesa0        20      a      elBo           to
*   Proejoco Capitols                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~LAO PEOPLESS                        Sow%t:hin
---Prosis  Boundaries                               ---4-DEMOCRATC                 Cbr#'¼
nter,roaraal Boundaries                                     ¶RPBLIC  .V 
IflSILRflUAg15~~~~y1pj.j ..~~   '1                                  PHILIPrINES
FPBRLIA5 1993



I -")   -      \       '          \                >         o     t        /    <-       Wtut    ' t''\ \  <    <-  
- '-                                               w o 6\  5         1.   T  T   h       7  xi   Ia s                 BRD  163
GANSU                      OI     T
'                            QINGHAI                                                                    NXI
°    W    J      1   q§( X ,4         g \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OOO        SICHUAN' PROVINCE
s,  o w y  < <  /    GUIZHOU         -AO
0                                                                   "OOfS   Thohooe,,dilb' ro   Rh
/   ,t4   .    > d_  uzld           tro Ihxrolhws           /               ~vw~ Dlitrlol {Slwn) bOUrldrirlr
XIZANG                                             DO
3v ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HBEI S
(iJ\~~~~~~~~4
S   (<  ;   2   civhxelsv    YUNNAN                    j                         _;_ InWrnSonr bounehrS   UNA
J..11.         ~~~T. Q.Y       To              Mr.  T  R'
OOMYANMAR\'-4.
01  Ir ,7 -       T
zhaoft ,   1     T. AO,P FORESTRY0 DEVELOPMENTR PROJECT



IN                                       |                                           r              -                                 v    .r\N  I    e '~                                      II    IV   1. I               I
IBRD 18614S
WUSIAN FEDER0TIO                                                                                        Ille9                                   140                                
|                                                                                                                                                            CHAHUNAN
(J                    /                                                                             JANG  I                        hsegftaflg~~~~~N
MONGOLIA 
OeM.    8                                                                                                    -e                          LObgauA                                              FUJIAN
3                     v          2 |   C                                 AOGGOV
B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EsgaUWAN                                                                                                                    Nrof 0os o 
~~~~~~>)     I                                                 .                                                u  ui                                                                                   a   Roilrod
GUANGXI
yj,, Xl~Fingan                                            LA 4 oQl
tr_           ZIINJ--ANJIANG   -   L\      I    Tgs
Dog ng hANNL             Z           <                                                                                                DrdBmdie
CHINA
Do                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~FORESTRY  DEVELOPMENT  PROJECT
GUANGDONG PROVINCE
BEIBU  ',41A N                                                                                                                      Commial Timber Bse
(8)    Number of Forest Farmis
Notional Raads
-20P                                                                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Secondary Roads
- ~~Railroads
r(     lo    - Internotionol Airports
W.7"                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Airports
.7  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~Ports
,  HAIN,~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~~~~                                                             <~~~~~~'~~~~-~~~~-~~~~-  ~~Rivers
N\HAINAN LIUDistrict Boundaries
Province Boundaries
International Boundaries
o . r.. d , of NI. A.
t'z z                                    _ z)                    ,fS0nyhu                                                                                         0         60       100       15o      200
pm of 0. Wodd So4 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~KIL.OMIETERS
P-t>W                                      \ / Tt www                                                                                                      E
108°  110°  llae                          1140                                     1160
.                       I                                -        I                                         I                                                                                                                fN.Ri1095
FtEBUARY 195



IBRD 18612R
taP0                                   i2o°                 CHINA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
HEILONGJIANG PROVINCE
-77i7_. COMMERCIAL TIMBER BASE
CuBan 8  8 9      {  <                                                        NUMBER OF STATE FOREST FARMS
ROADS
4.<--.---. RAILROADS
*- a_ >g  >RIVERS
Blillul                                              -        4 COUNTY BOUNDARIES(ImmoIn )
To wa,-                                                                     -  PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
- <       r s- -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDAPIES
To AWIOV        jM                              KILOMETERS °         u     iso   o
MILES
N  E  I                  a              H^W
M O N GOL o *                   &                                            RUSSIAN FEDERATION
: s
RUSN FEDERATI°O                            J                                                                                   J
MONGMIA                      T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ecuivl m   ft% . bonw.is
_-v.,-/ r j _ s rO far I o r,wk                                                        e,Jf
po of The Wodd                                                                       :1* Gro.ip.
FEBRUARY IM9



