Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Rpeft No. P-4069-CHA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED IDA CREDIT
OF SDR 47.8 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 13, 1985
This document h. a restricted ibtiom sad my be used by reeiplmul emy in the perf.rme of
thir oilld duems econtet nay ne odterwise be diose  without Wold Bak amthobdzadaI



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1984      April 85
Currency unit  =         Renminbi           (RMB)
US$1.00        =          Y 2.32            Y 2.84
Y 1.00        =         US$ 0.43         US$ 0.35
(Project cost estimates are based on the January 1985 exchange rate of Y 2.8
per US$1.00.)
Fiscal Year
.
January 1 - December 1
Weights and Measures
1 meter (m)          =    3.28 feet
1 kiLometer (km)    =    0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)       =    2.47 acres
=    15 mu
1 kilogram (kg)      =    2.2 pounds
1 ton (t)            =    2,205 pounds
Principal Abbreviations and Acronyms Used
AFS     -  Academy of Forest Sciences
BFM     -  Bureau of Forest Management
CIF     -  Cost including Insurance and Freight
CTB     -  Commercial Timber Base
C3      -  Cubic Meter
DBH     -  Diameter of-Tree Trunk at Breast Height
ERR     -  Economic Ra-te of Return
FRR     -  Financial Rate of Return
GAF     -  General Administration of Forestry
GVAO    -  Gross value of Agricultural Output (including animal
husbandry, fisheries and forestry)
ICB     -  International Competitive Bidding
kw      -  Kilowatt
MAl     -  Mean Annual Increment
MFO     -  Ministry of Forestry
PMO     -  Project Management Office
PFB     -  Provincial Forestry Bureau (recently renamed Provincial
Forestry Department)
SFF     -  State Forest Farm
sq m    -  Square Meter
m-m     -  Man-month
mt/a    -  Metric Tons Per Annum
Y       -  Yuan (Chinese Renminbi)



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
CHINA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:       People's Republic of China
Amount:          IDA Credit: SDR 47.8 million
Tei:ms:          Standard
Project
Description:  In support of the Government's program to develop forest
resources, the project would accelerate afforestation and
improve management and exploitation of existing forests on
92 state forest farms in Guangdong, Heilongjiang and Sichuan
Provinces. The project would establish about 82,000 ha of
forest plantations, introduce forest improvement measures on
existing young plantations and natural forests, construct and
upgrade about 1,900 km of forest roads and tracks, and expand
equipment and vehicle fleets. It would provide for the con-
struction of about 157,000 sq m of buildings and 1,100 km of
utility lines and the establishment of wood processing facili-
ties. The project would strengthen forest research facilities
in four provinces and establish extension centers in ten
provinces. A technical assistance component would provide
overseas training opportunities (533 man-months) in logging,
forest road construction and forest production, research and
extension; and consulting services (34 man-months) in forestry
research and extension, and soil science. At full development
the project would produce annually about 546,000 m3 of
roundwood, 10,000 m3 of plywood and other miscellaneous wood
products to meet strong internal demand. The project faces no
significant technical or administrative risks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Costs:                                    Local      Foreign   Total
-   t$ million)
Plantation establishment                         11.4          0.6       12.0
Forest improvement                               111          0.6       11.7
Chemical fertilizer                               0.5          2.7        3.1
Forest road construction                         22.7          1.2       23.9
Equipment and vehicles                            2.5         10.0       12.5
Buildings and utilities for SFFs                 10.1          1.1       11.2
Wood processing facilities                        6.3          4.2       10.6
Training and technical assistance (SFFs)          0.2          0.8        1.0
Managements and overhead for SFFs                 2.4           -         2.4
Research and extension centers                   10.9          8.9       19.7
Base Cost                                     78.1         30.0     108.1
Physical contingencics                            6.9          2.7        9.6
Price contingencies                              13.1          5.0       18.1
Total Project Costs /a                        98.1         37.7     135.8
Financing Plan:
IDA                                         15.8         31.5      47.3
Government and state forest farms           82.3          6.2      88.5
Total                                       98.1         37.7     135.8
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA FY                1986    1987    1988      1989       1990
Annual                      7.1    14.6    14.0       10.2       1.4
Cumulative                  7.1    21.7    35.7      45.9       47.3
Rate of Return: >50Z
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 5394-CHA, dated Nay 8, 1985.
/a No taxes are imposed on major cost items.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the foLlowing report and recommendation on a proposed IDA
credit to the People's Republic of China to help finance a forestry devel-
opment project. The credit, for SDR 47.8 million ($47.3 million equivalent),
would be on standard IDA terms.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A country economic memorandum, entitled "China:  Recent Economic
Trends and Policy Developments" (No. 4072-CHA), was distributed to the
Executive Directors on March 31, 1983. An economic mission that visited China
early in 1984 is currently preparing a report on long-term development issues
and options, which is expected to be submitted to the Executive Directors
later this month. Basic data on the economy are given in Annex 1.
Background
3.        To address economic inefficiency and structural imbalances, the
Government initiated a program of reform and adjustment in 1979. Reform
implementation proceeded most rapidly in agriculture and culminated with the
introduction of the "production responsibility system" (in various forms),
which gave households and small groups autonomy in production and investment
decisions and allowed them to keep most income earned after contracted
payments to the state and collective. By the early 1980s, the vast majority
of production teams in China had implemented such a system. Reform of the
urban economy began much more slowly, but nevertheless significant systemic
changes occurred, incLuding bonuses for individual workers; profit retention
by state-owned industrial enterprises (at first on an experimental basis);
fiscal decentralization measures, which allowed provinces to share in the
benefits of increased revenues and gave them more freedom in budgeting; and
some decentralization of foreign trade authority. Adjustment policies
resulted in an increase in the share of consumption in GDP; a rise in the
share of light industry in total industrial output, substantial improvements
in living standards, rapid growth of foreign trade (particularly manufactured
exports), and relatively modest (in relation to past trends) GDP growth.
4.        A number of problems emerged in the process of reform and adjust-
ment, including large budget deficits in 1979 and 1980, deterioration of the
external position and a significant current account deficit in 1980, infla-
tionary pressures and some overt price increases, and excessive investment



-2-
demand resulting from decentralization of investment decision making and
financing. In response to these difficulties the Government imposed a stabil-
ization program in early 1981, which relied mainLy on administrative con-
trols. It resulted in a slowdown in growth, a reduction in price inflation
(to around 2% p.a.), a sharp cutback in budget-financed investment, a lower
budget deficit (1Z of GDP in 1981); and a current account surplus of $1.5 bil-
lion in 1981 and $5.6 billion in 1982.
Economic Performance, 1981-84
5.        Economic growth picked up in 1982 with the resumption of rapid
growth of heavy industry and the rebound in investment. Overall performance
has remained strong, with real GDP growth averaging over 8% p.a. from 1981 to
1984. Shortages of energy, many producer goods, and construction materials
were exacerbated by the rapid growth of demand, yet price increases were
limited by further strengthening of administrative price controls
(particularly in 1983). Government budget revenue grew very slowly in 1982
(1.3Z) but much more rapidly in 1983 (7.9Z) and 1984 (as much as 10), due to
a new tax on enterprise retained funds and extrabudgetary incomes of Gcvern-
ment organizations. This permitted an increase in budget expenditures on
investment of 17% in 1983 and a further rise in 1984, while maintaining a
relativeLy small budget deficit (less than 2% of GDP in 1983). Growth of
subsidies was largely stemmed by stopping increases in most of the agricul-
tural procurement prices.
6.        Gross industrial output value grew at over 10X p.a. between 1981 and
1984, witil heavv industry growing somewhat faster than light industry (12% vs.
9%), a reversal of the 1978-81 pattern. The energy constraint on industrial
growth was eased by rising coal output (8% p.a. in 1981-84), consistent annual
crude cil output at over 100 million tons, and improvements in the efficiency
of energy utilization (primary commercial energy consumption grew only 60% as
fast as GDP in 1981-83). Agriculture has continued its very strong perfor-
mance, with gross agricultural oucput value rising at 9Z p.a. in 1981-84 and
grain output at 7% p.a. (reaching over 400 million tons in 1984). Cash crops
and animal husbandry, stimulated by rising *-JZ.ad and attractive prices, have
Aso grown very rapidly.
7.        There have been impressive increases in personal incomes throughout
the period 1978-83. Average per-capita income in rural -?-eas rose by about
12% p.a. in real terms and urban incomes by about 52 p.a. Rural income growth
was mainly due to production increases, efficiency improvements, and growth of
employment in nonagricultural activities, as well as substantial agricultural
procurement price increases (through 1981). Urban income growth, on the other
hand, can be attributed primarily to wage and benefit increases, which have
exceeded growth of labor productivity.
8.        Control of the aggregate level of investment and its composition has
continued to be a serious problem. Enterprise and local government investment
continued to increase sharply in 1982, far exceeding plan guidelines. In
1983, more stringent measures brought this part of investment under control
(though it still exceeded plan targets). But investment outside the rural
sector remains rather inefficient, and improvements in efficiency have been



-3-
hindered by administrative controls. Construction costs have risen
continuousLy (10% p.a. in 1978-83).
9..       China has maintained a strong external position.  The dollar value
of both exports and imports stagnated in 1981-83, but this masked considerable
increases in the volume of foreign trade. Since 1983, imports have grown more
rapidly than exports, and in 1984, exports rose by an estimated 10% while
imports increased by 25%. Manufactured export growth was slower in 1981-84
than in 1978-81, but it started from a much higher base and occurred in the
face of worsening world market conditions. Foreign debt and debt service
ratios remained at very low levels ($6.4 billion and 5.5Z respectively in
1983); China's foreign currency reserves (excluding gold) rose to $17 billion
(over 7 months' imports) by mid 1984 and have stabilized at that level since
then. The value of the Chinese renminbi declined by about 36% against the SDR
between the end of 1981 and late 1984 (60% against the US dollar).
Recent Reforms
10.       Rural reforms have continued to progress more rapidly than reforms
elsewhere in the economy. There has been a remarkable spread of nonagri-
cultural activities such as processing, transport, and commerce. "Specialized
households" (which concentrate on one undertaking - often cash crops, animal
husbandry, or nonagricultural activities) and pooling of capital by small
groups of households in various types of ventures are becoming more common
forms of economic organization in China's rural areas. Wholesale markets for
some agricultural products have emerged. To encourage investment in land
improvement and development, farming contracts between collectives and peasant
households (which typically had been fixed for no more than 3-5 years) can now
be extended to as long as 15-20 years. In early 1985, it was announced that
planned precurement quotas for agricultural commodities will be aboLished;
more methods of financing investment in rural nonagricultural activities will
be permitted (including tax exemptions, local government bonds, higher inter-
est rates to attract more saving, etc.); and the growth of the agricultural
processing industry in coastal areas will be promoted.
11.       The momentum of urban reforms has revived, with significant progress
on several fronts. Since early 1984, the focus has been on broadening and
delineating the decision-making authority of urban enterprises. Profit reten-
tion now extends to virtually all state-owned industrial enterprises and to
nonindustrial sectors like transport, commerce, construction, and other
services. Urban collectives and individual enterprises, as well as a variety
of joint ventures between them and state enterprises, have grown rapidly (the
number employed in urban individual enterprises rose from 150,000 in 1978 to
2.31 million in 1983).
12.       In financial reforms, the most important new development was the
implementation of a profit tax system to replace profit remittances by state
enterprises to the Government budget. Though most enterprises have switched
to this system, the benefits have been limited because of the application of a
different effective tax rate for each enterprise, to offset the impact of
distorted relative prices and other factors. Similar problems have resulted
in the abandonment of an attempt to impose a fee or charge on the fixed capi-



- 4 -
taL provided to state enterprises by the Government, and they have hindered
the shift from grant to Loan financing of new fixed investment, despite strong
Government support. Financial discipline at the enterprise level remains
weak, in spite of efforts to strengthen accounting and auditing systems and
more strictly enforce existing financial regulations.
13.       In the crucial area of price reform, a major price adjustment for
textiles and textile raw materials occurred in early 1983; it helped balance
supply and demand, to a large extent equalized profit rates for synthetic and
cotton textiles (which are close substitutes in production and consumption),
and drastically reduced subsidies for cotton procurement, with only a small
net effect on the Government budget. Prices of many "minor" consumer goods
(which individually do not have a significant impact on living standards) and
the majority of agricultural commodity prices have been decontrolled and are
now set by negotiations between producers and commercial units. "Floating
prices" (up to 20% above or below official prices) are now allowed for many
industrial producer goods (either for all output or for output above the
mandatory plan target). Price adjustments for key energy products and raw
materials (which in many cases are severely underpriced) and for subsidized
basic consumer goods like grain and edible oil have proven more difficult to
implement, hindered by the potential impact of price changes on urban living
standards and on the finances of energy-using enterprises. Nevertheless, some
price rises have occurred (e.g. for coal and petroleum), and moreover the
share of free market transactions (at largely uncontrolled prices) has
increased in recent years.
14.       Reforms in the employment and wage system have made limited pro-
gress. The bulk of urban labor is still allocated administratively, and
transfers of workers or professionals among enterprises are heavily impeded.
Numerous attempts are being made to link individual performance more closely
with rewards, including piece-rates, "floating wages," and various types of
contractual "responsibility systems." These have achieved some success, but
problems of egalitarian distribution of bonuses remain, and many enterprises
give out bonuses in kind or disguise them as allowances in order to evade
regulations.
15.       China's foreign exchange rate system has been unified with the
abolition of the "internal settlement rate" (Y 2.8 to $1) at the beginning of
1985. Direct foreign investment (which was first allowed in the late 1970s
but developed slowly due to the lack of a legal framework) is being actively
encouraged and joint venture agreements have increased sharply. In addition
to four "special economic zones" open to foreign investment and subject to
more flexible policies, 14 coastal cities were recently opened up in the same
way.
16.       Significant steps have been taken to develop new tools of indirect
macroeconomic management. The central banking functions of the People's Bank
of China were separated from its commercial banking functions (which were
given to the newly estabLished IndustriaL and Commercial Bank of China) at the
beginning of 1984. The central bank relies on redeposit requirements and a
discount window to influence the operations of specialized banks, and even-
tually may use discount rates and interest rates in general as a flexible tool



-5-
of macroeconomic management. Adjustments in indirect taxes may be used to
affect profitability and supply, in the absence of or as a supplement to price
reform. Scope for horizontal flows of investment funds is also widening, as
enterprises invest in each other and in joint ventures and as some individuals
purchase stocks. Though restrictions on secondary trading remain, Government
bonds purchased by individuals can now be sold to banks or used as collateral
for loans.
Long-term Issues and Prospects
17.       The Central Committee of the Chinese Communist Party issued a major
document on urban reforms in October 1984, which reaffirms and consolidates
recent reforms and provides some general guidelines for the direction of
future reform. It emphasizes the need for breakthroughs in: (a) enlivening
and better motivating urban enterprises; (b) clearly separating Government and
enterprise functions (and limiting direct intervention by Government
organizations in enterprises' day-to-day operations); (c) reforming the price
system; (d) improving incentives in the wage and bonus system; (e) establish-
ing a planning system that is in harmony with greater reliance on the market
mechanism and developing indirect macroeconomic management; (f) upgrading
managerial personnel to meet the new demands on them in a reformed economy;
(g) removing obstacles to a unified national market and promoting cooperation
and technology transfer among regions; and (h) expanding utilization of
foreign capital and advanced technology. Among the main themes of the
document are the role nf competition in promoting a more dynamic, flexible
economic system; the recognition that a certain degree of income inequality is
necessary to provide better incentives for economic development; the need for
clear responsibilities and appropriate incentives at all levels in the econ-
omy; and the recognition that thoroughgoing price reform must involve liber-
alizing the mode of price determination, not just adjusting administratively
set prices. Managers of large state-owned enterprises, however, will still be
appointed by the Government; a few key products will still be subject to
mandatory planning and distribution by the Government; state ownership and
control over certain institutions Like banks and railways will not be relin-
quished; and establishment, relozation, changing product lines, mergers, and
shutdown of enterprises will still be subject to Government approval.
18.       The Central Committee declaration represents a political commitment
to economic reform, which will help foster an environment in which fundamental
reforms can be gradually implemented in a coordinated way. But specific
policy measures will take a considerable length of time to design and then to
implement. Many of the reforms required will be very difficult, particularly
since reforms in different areas are closely interrelated, and thus appro-
priate sequencing and coordination are essential. For example, price reform
in the absence of improvements in enterprise financial discipline will have
Limited benefits, yet the more profit-oriented behavior that wouLd result from
tighter financial discipline would exacerbate the adverse impact of distorted
prices. Similarly, reform of the Labor allocation system will be incomplete
without eliminating many of the "social responsibilities" of enterprises
(which now provide housing, medicaL care, and pensions for their workers and
in many cases education and jobs for workers' children) and replacing them
with Government-supported social service programs.



-6-
19.       China's objective of quadrupling the gross output value of industry
and agriculcure between 1980 and 2000 (which means GDP growth of well over 62
p.a.) will require significant improvements in efficiency as well as continued
high saving and investment rates.  There will be major structural changes in
the economy over the next two decades, including a reduction in the share of
agriculture, a rise in the share of industry and possibly in that of services
(which at present is unusually low), and substantial urbanization (in smaller
towns if not in large cities). There will also be a shift within agriculture,
away from grain and basic crops and into cash crops and animal husbandry.
20.       Certain physical/technical constraints will hinder the attempt to
achieve China's targets for t.Le year 2000 and its longer-term goal of catching
up with developed countries. Despite rapid growth and substantial improve-
ments in efficiency in recent years, agriculture may again become a constraint
on overall growth, since land in China is severely limited. In energy,
shortages of fuel (primarily coal) and electricity may continue to constrain
growth in transport and commercial infrastructure. Without large new invest-
ments and improved efficiency, economic growth will lag. In mobilizing
resources in all these areas, China could profitably make use of foreign
borrowing. Finally, the rising share of the elderly in China's population
(related to the slowdown in population growth) means that more resources will
have to be devoted to maintaining their consumption Levels, especially in the
decades after 2000.
21.       Poor motivation and inefficient utilization of labor in the state
sector of the economy are major problems which can be solved only by coor-
dinated reforms in labor allocation, the wage system, enterprise management,
and social services, among other things. Reforms in the system of education
and training to develop China's "human capital" potential also are crucial.
Backward technology and inefficient use of existing technology must be
addressed by a combination of reforms, appropriately directed investment, and
transfer of advanced foreign technology. IrrationaL location of factories,
suboptimal scale of many plants, and poor utilization of physical capital in
general are related problems.
22.       If reforms successfully transform the economic system, with a bene-
ficial impact on growth and efficiency, a new set of issues will con.m  to the
fore. Management of a reformed economy with indirect fiscal, monetary, and
other instruments is a major issue. In this context, maintaining an adequate
saving rate (if the Government no longer accounts for the bulk of aggregate
saving) and avoiding inflation (as well as deep cyclical downturns) will be
major goals. Assuring an adequate minimum standard of living for the popula-
tion and an appropriate level of social services will become a major chaLlenge
as enterprise and rural communal responsibilities in these areas are
reduced. The problem of poor, backward rural areas in various parts of the
country will continue to require attention. Redistributing financial resour-
ces through the fiscal system, easing restrictions on migration out of the
poorest areas, and lowering nonagricultural wages to make investment in them
more attractive ar    me options for alleviating poverty in these areas.
23.       The Government is in the process of finalizing its Seventh Five Year
Plan (covering the period 1986-90). The combination of potentially



-7-
fundamental reforms and the urgent need for large investments in many parts of
the economy to build the foundction for further growth makes this talk
difficult. In order to mobilize the investment resources needed for rapid,
sustained economic growth and development, China will need to rely in part on
foreign borrowing. Recognizing this need, the Government plans to gradually
draw down its substantial foreign exchange reserves and hopes to attract
foreign capital through a variety of channels. China also has a claim to
concessionary lending because it is still one of the poorer countries of the
world. But China's access to concessionary capital to finance development and
modernization is limited; apart from Bank Croup funds, a significant amount of
concessionary capital is likelv to come only from Japan and a few other
bilateral donors and will probably average no more than $500-600 million p.a.
during the rest of the 1980s.
PART II: BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
24.       To sustain rapid growth over the coming decades, to increase
efficiency and innovation, and to maintain equity in distribution, China will
need continuing and fundamental reforms. These challenges are compounded by
China's large investment requirements and difficulty in efforts to open up to
the rest of the world. In light of this, there are several broad objectives
for the Bank to pursue in its relationship wich China. First, the Bank can
offer China development experience and institutional knowledge as well as
opportunities for interaction with the Bank's other member countries. Second,
the Bank can assist China in removing major constraints on development and in
improving investment planning and policy coordination in the priority
sectors - namely energy, transport, other infrastructure, human development
and industry. Third, the Bank can assist the Government in efforts to remove
the remaining pockets of poverty.
25.       The Bank Group's strategy to meet these objectives is formulated in
line with China's broad development priorities and related issues outlined in
Part I of this report. However, Bank Group lending can provide only a small
portion of overall resource needs. As a key element of the strategy, there-
fore, the Bank's lending operations will aim to create a substantial demon-
stration effect applicable to China's overall development efforts. For
example, projects involving new techniques for land development or for provi-
sion of social services have been designed so they can be repeated by local
authorities with their existing resources. Some of the agriculture projects
and rural health projects are examples of this approach. The introduction of
international competitive bidding through Bank projects (first to finance
goods, and later civil works) is being adopted by the Government for most
local purchases and many domestic construction projects.



-8-
26.       Bank assistance can help improve the efficiency of investment,
through introduction and dissemination of improved analytical techniques for
investment and project planning and through institution building. Preparation
of the project appraisal manuals for the China Investment Bank and the
Agricultural Bank of China, consultant assistance and the EDI-sponsored pro-
grams, as well as specific sector work in transport, industry, health, educa-
tion and other sectors have improved the quality and content of project pro-
posals. Assistance to Chinese enterprises and agencies through staff train-
ing, consultant assistance, creation or reorganization of institutions, and
improvement of costing and financial management has been included in a number
of projects ranging from the ports and railway projects to the several educa-
tion and petroleum projects. Sector work in enterprise management, urban
development, health and industry has also provided assistance for improvement
of investment efficiency.
27.       Human resource constraints are a particularly serious problem for
China's development. There are severe scarcities of higher level trained
manpower. Substantial economic and sector work and technical assistance and
training components in most of the Bank projects are providing support. In
terms of poverty alleviation, the rural health project, proposed urban and
water supply projects and sector work on labor mobility and regional develop-
ment options address poverty, health and equity issues.
28.       Transfer of technology in the broad sense is of fundamental impor-
tance in China's efforts to improve efficiency of the economy. Outmoded,
inefficient and costly industrial technologies are serious impediments to
development and are wasting valuable energy resources. Here, the Bank can
play the role of an intermediary. In transportation, energy, industry, agri-
culture and even education, the Bank can finance transfer of technology
through equ;nmenc imports, provision of foreign consulting assistance,
arrangement of training and prommotion of licensing and other agreements such
as are now being discussed in the railways and other projects. Long-term
investment for new technology will require increased foreign borrowing in the
future and the Bank can assist China through cofinancing. Progress is being
made in introducing co-financing tunder the first and second power projects,
coal, urban, water, and some agriculture projects, and the Bank will continue
these efforts.
29.       For most of these elements of country strategy, however, progress
will be gradual and will require sustained Bank involvement over a series of
projects in various sectors.
Economic and Sector Work
30.       Economic and sector work in China was initially designed in part as
a learning experi nce to provide the Bank with a basis of knowledge on the
development and functioning of the Chinese economy. It also introduced the
Government to alternative ways of economic analysis and views about its
achievements.
31.       In the last four years, the above approach has been well received
and has fostered economic and sector work that is responsive to the problems



-9 -
of adjustment and reform. FolLow-up to the first economic report emphasized
technical assistance and sector work for investment analysis and selection
techniques and enhanced sector planning. The content of the lending program
has been directly influenced as a result. The rural credit project, the China
Investment Bank proj.Jcts, and future regional industry projects are examples
of the lnks between economic and sector work and the lending program.
32.       More fundamental research by the Bank in collaboration with Chinese
economic research institutions into the problems of enterprise management is
nearing completion. The research has yielded insights into the attitudes of
enterprise managers toward system reform and has led to better understanding
of how policy changes can improve planning, performance and management of
enterprises. In addition, there is a variety of project-related sector work
underway through studies included in the projects. These are expected to
produce the basis for detailed discussion of development options and policies
in the various sectors.
33.       Current economic work focuses on future options and issues to the
year 2000. A comprehensive report will be ready later this fiscal year. In
light of the experience of other countries in making the transition from low
to middle income levels, the report will pay special attention to inter-
sectoral linkages and cross-sectoral and economy-wide issues.
34.       Future economic and sector work will be based on the conclusions of
the economic report and will look in more detail at some of the issues
raised. It will continue to improve our knowledge of the economy - its struc-
ture, the issues and constraints in key sectors, and the functioning of the
economic management system. Collaboration with Chinese research institutions
on issues of institutional and policy change will continue. Review of the
investment program in key sectors when the Seventh Five Year Plan (1986-90) is
finalized will help develop the next generation of projects for the lending
program.
Lending Operations
35.       Since China's change of representation in the Bank Group in May of
1980, 24 projects involving lending of $2,391 million to China have been ap-
proved. Annex II contains a summary statement on these loans and credits as
of March 31, 1985. For this fiscal year we expect to present a total of
twelve projects to the Board. These include the already approved projects for
Second Agricultural Research, Second Power, Second University Development,
Changcun (Luan) Coal Mining, Seeds Development, Rural Water Supply; the
proposed Forestry Development Project as well as projects for highway,
railway, fertiLizer rehabilitation, Pishihang-Chaohu area development, and gas
engineering.
36.       For FY86 and beyond, the China lending program should continue to
grow from current levels. Areas of emphasis would incLude development of
energy resources, transport infrastructure, skilled manpower and improved
technology. We will also investigate the feasibility of a regional approach
in a number of sectors to take better account of intersectoral linkages.



- 10 -
37.       In the energy sector, lending has included six projects, which have
emphasized increased energy output and technology transfer through financing
of equipment, technical studies, training and consultant assistance. The
Lubuge Hydropower Project has resulted in the Government's extensive use of
competitive bidding for power projects. The Second Power Project places
particular emphasis on better system planning. Fuel alternatives for electric
power, generating plant location and interconnection of power grids will be
the subject of future work. For development of China's petroleum and coal
resources, Bank Group assistance will emphasize acquisition of appropriate
technologies, least cost planning of investment and related transport
investment programs.
38.       In the transport sector, raiLway, port and road capacity must be
substantially increased. So far, one project each in ports and railways has
concentrated on increasing capacity, upgrading technology for lower cost
operations, and establishing better costing systems. Expanding domestic
capacity to manufacture improved transport equipment will continue to be a
theme in the sector and this should provide scope for substantial foreign
private sector involvement. Improved management and information systems and
analytical techniques for better cost control will be encouraged under the
projects, which, once proven, will be suitable for wider use throughout
transport enterprises. Intermodal coordination and planning and assessment of
alternative investment choices will have increasing prominence in both lending
and sector work.
39.       In agriculture, six projects have emphasized support services
through improved research and education, production increases through new land
development, reclamAtion, use of improved technologies and management,
strengthening of the agriculture credit system and seeds development.
Projects in forestry and agriculture credit will continue to strengthen sup-
port services and rural institutions. Land and area development projects will
endeavor to provide models of integrated regional development. Specialized
activity projects such as fisheries, livestock and agro-processing may also be
developed to support ongoing structural transformation in agriculture.
40.       In the industrial sector, two projects have focused on establishing
and strengthening the China Investment Bank. Improved investment selection
criteria, incentives for more efficient management, technology transfer, and
energy conservation are priorities for future projects. Lending will have a
two-pronged approach - further strengthening of the China Investment Bank (and
perhaps other financial intermediaries) and financing large regional produL-
tion-oriented projects such as the proposed project for fertilizer as well as
other projects for machine tools and cement, to expand output and demonstrate
the merits of improved subsector analysis and planning.
41.       Further expansion of higher education and improvement of teaching,
curricula and graduate quality will be needed to the end of the century. The
human resource constraints have already been addressed by five education
projects and a component of the Rural Health/Medical Education Project. The
value of international competitive bidding for equipment purchases and of
international advisory panels for educational poiicy and curriculum reform has
been demonstrated in the first projects. Improved university management is



- 11 -
being encouraged through establishment of quantitative targets for growth,
student-teacher ratios, classroom utilization, laboratory experiments per-
formed, and other reforms (including development of evaluation and monitoring
procedures and greater decentraLization). Projects in heaLth, urban
development and water suppLy wiLl assist the Covernment in addressing diffi-
cult poverty-linked questions of affordability, cost recovery, and minimum
standards with focus on particularly impoverished regions.
42.       implementation.   Project implementation is generally proceeding
well. There have been some delays in procurement because of the Government's
unfamiliarity with the concept of bidding, but these are now being addressed
through a central procurement agency. Most project agencies, as well as the
Ministry of Finance and the State Planning Commission, have established and
staffed offices to handle Bank Group projects. To support further expansion
of the lending program, accelerate project preparation, improve project
implementation, and facilitate further economic and sector work, the Bank
Group is planning to open a resident office in China early in FY86.
PART III - THE FORESTRY SECTOR
Resources and Production
43.       With about 120 million ha (13% of the total land area) under forest
cover, China ranks first in Asia and sixth in the world in terms of forest
reserves. On a per capita basis, this translates into 0.13 ha of forested
area per person, compared to a world average of i.25 ha. Since 1949 some
86 million ha have been afforested, but plantings on only about one third of
that area are resorted to have survived. Total growing stock is estimated to
be 9.5 billion m , of which 55% is in coniferous species and 45% is in broad-
leaved types. About 21% of the forested area is in Heilongjiang Province
alone and five provinces (Heilongjiang, Yunnan, Jilin, Guangdong, Sichuan)
account for 48Z of the total. A significant feature of China's forest
resource is the high proportion of the forested area and of the standing
volume accounted for by mature forests (more than 30Z and 60Z, respectively).
44.       Forestry's share in the GVAO has increased steadily from about 1% in
the early 1950s to just over 4Z at present. Employment in forestry and forest
industries totals 2.2 million (less than 1% of the rural work force), with 60X
in wood processing, 30% in land preparation and planting and 10% in nursery
operations, logging, et . Industrial roundwood production in recent years has
been about 50 million m . Substantial additional quantities, including logs
and poles, but excluding fuelwood, are produced largely for self-use by
collectives and rural households. Estimates of timber used annually for fuel-
wood range as high as 70 million m3.  Production of timber products includes
sawn timber (2 sillion m3 in 1981), plywood (3.35 million m3), fiberboard
(0.57 million m ) and particleboard (76,700 m ). Paper and paperboard output
was about 5.7 million tons in 1982.  Annual per 3apita consumption of
industrial forestrX products is less tban 0.10 m  (excluding fuelwood)
compared to 0.08 mo in India and 1.5 mo in the United States. Since 1975, the
rising demand for timber has led to a sharp increase in imports of wood and
wood products.



- 12 -
L.-ganization of the Sector
45.       The Ministry of Forestry (MF0) provides technical guidance to
provincial and county forestry bureaus which are administratively responsible
to their respective levels of local government. In areas where forestry is of
minor importance, forestry and agriculture frequently are combined into a
single bureau. State forest farms (SFFs) are responsible to county forest
bureaus. In Heilongjiang there exist both a Ceneral Administration of
Forestry (GAP) and a Provincial Bureau of Forest Management (BFM). The GAF
oversees some 64 Local forest enterprise bureaus which are commercial ventures
involved in logging, afforestation and timber processing in areas with the
richest forest resources. The BFM, operating through county and municipal
forest bureaus, oversees 354 SFFs, some of which are less well-developed than
the GAE enterprises and receive state budgetary subventions for capital
construction.
46.       Nationwide there are over 100 forest enterprise bureaus and
3,900 SFFs, of which - in addition to the 354 in Heilongjiang -- 296 are in
Sichuan and 222 in Guangdong. About 60% of the industrial roundwood is
produced by state forest enterprises while about 30Z is produced by colLec-
tives and 10Z by SFFs. The major objective of the SFF system is to expand
China's forestry base through accelerated afforestation and improved manage-
ment of forest lands. In total the SFFs manage more than 46 million ha of
land, of which 26 million ha are under forest. Most of the total managed area
not currently under forest is suitable for forestry development. The SFFs
employ about 500,000 people and account for 1OX of the standing volume of
timber in China, 21% of the total forested area, and 25% of the area under
forest plantations.  Since 1979, as part of the production responsibility
system (PRS) special contracting arrangements with individual families or
groups of hot!eholds have been introduced as a means to encourage afforesta-
tion programs on more than 50 million ha of barren or sparsely covered areas.
Support Services
47.       The MFO's Academy of Forest Science (AFS), China's leading agency
for forestry research, operates seven institutes located in the Beijing area
and three institutes in the provinces. Most provinces and some prefectures
operate research institutes and several forestry and agricultural colleges
also carry out research. Research priorities at the national level are
determined through interaction between the AFS, the State Council, State-
Planning Commission and the State Scientific and Technological Commission.
The 1982 budget for forestry research by the Ministry of Forestry was Y 6 mil-
lion (less than 0.1% of the annual gross value of forest production in recent
year ) and was channelled largely through the ten AFS-affiliated research
institutes.  Research expenditures by provincial fcrestry institutes are
funded largely by provincial governments.
48.       Forestry extension services are being strengthened to meet demands
created by contracting-out arrangements and other new programs to encourage
afforestation. A Division of Technical Exchange and Extension was established
within the MFO's Department of Science and Technology in 1980. In 1983, the
Government announced plans to set up a national network of forestry extension



- 13 -
units at the provincial and county levels. Eight provincial stations had been
established by mid-1984. Construction of about 50 county forestry technical
extension centers is to be completed by 1987. Extension work at present is
handicapped by shortages of buildings, equipment and trained staff.
Collection of seeds and production of seedlings are functions of seed centers
run by Provincial Forestry Bureau (PFBs) and SFF-operated nurseries.
Forestry Policy
49.       In view of rapid growth in demand and concern over deteriorating
forest resources in many parts of China, the Government has accorded high
priority to forestry development in recent years. Future de-elopment will
focus on accelerated afforestation, increased exploitation of mature and over-
mature areas, expansion of forest industries and strengthening of forest
research, education and extension. Government plans call for the land area
under forest to be increased to about 20Z by 2000, an increment of some
60 million ha. Annual harvesting of industrial roundwood is to increase to
about 100 million m by 2000 and the production of wood-based panels is
projected to aLmost triple from present levels.
Constraints to Development
50.       Achieving planned targets in forestry development depends on
overcoming certain critical constraints:
(a) Lack of adequate access roads to facilitate exploitation of large
areas of virgin forest, particularly in Heilongjiang, Nei Mongol,
Sichuar and Yunnan.  China is reported to :.ave only about 2.3 m '
forest roads per ha of trees, as compared -with the 9-10 m/ha whic.
would be desirable in the types of forestry and terrain found in
China. The use of outdated equipment in logging operations also
impedes efficient exploitation of existing forest reserves.
(b) Inadequate land use planning and poor plantation management.
Planting on degraded sites appears to have been hampered by
inadequate research on suitable species and the appropriate use of
chemical fertilizers. Many of the existing plantations have been
planted too densely for optimum growth and are in need of thinning.
(c) Lack of processing plants close to the main forest areas, including
the shortage of wood based panel plants which can make use of log-
ging wastes, sawmill residues and secondary species. Within exist-
ing manufacturing plants, particularly small-scale industries
operated by SFFs, there is considerable scope for the introduction
of more modern equipment to minimize losses in log conversion, to
improve the quality and value of the end product, and to enhance
plant safety.
(d) The shortage of trained technical and managerial manpower resulting
from the rapid expansion of forestry activities in China and the
hiatus in technical training during the Cultural Revolution.



- 14 -
Bank Group Lending for Forestry
51.       Lending in China's forestry sector is part of the Bank's broader
efforts to assist in expanding the production of commodities expected to be in
continued short supply. While the proposed Forestry Development Project is
the Bank's first full-scale involvement in the sector, forestry components
have figured importantly in other IDA-financed projects in agriculture. The
North China Plain Project and the proposed Pishihang Chaohu Area Development
Project include establishment of tree nurseries, plantations, and protective
border plantings on a total of more than 50,000 ha.  The Rubber Development
Project in Guangdong Province is assisting in the new planting and replanting
of about 40,000 ha of rubber trees and 12,000 ha of windbreaks. The
Agricultural Education and Research Project and the Second Agricultural
Research Project are providing scientific equipment, computers, technical
assistance and training to expand and upgrade forestry colleges and research
iastitutes. The Rural Credit Project is financing investments in Guangxi
Province to develop, inter alia, orchard and other tree crops.
Project Rationale
52.       The major rationale for Bank involvement in this project is to help
expand China's forest resource base through afforestation, forest road con-
struction and improved management of planted areas. Assistance to the SFFs is
an appropriate mechanism in this regard because of their central role in
afforestation, the extensive forested areas under their control and the
sizeable areas available to them for future plantings. Technology transfer in
the project is expected to be considerable. Notwithstanding some impressive
efforts at afforestation, forestry in China is less advanced than crop
development. The project,would increase supplies of high quality seed and
introduce improved technologies related to soil and plant analysis, plant
spacing, weeding, thinning and fire protection, use of chemical fertilizers in
nurseries and new plantings, road construction, logging, log handling and
forest products utilization. Proposed study tours would update technical
knowlege of SFF staff who have been relatively isolated from international
developments over the past 30 years. Project assistance to forestry research
and extension would come at a time when these activities are being
reformulated and given increased emphasis by the Government. In view of the
need to expand production of wood and wood products and upgrade technology,
this project could be viewed as the first of several Bank Group operations in
the sector.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
53.       In early 1983 the Ministry of Forestry requested Bank assistance for
a forestry development project; the proposed project was prepared by the
Government and Bank staff, with the assistance of FAO/CP; it was appraised in
September 1984. A Staff Appraisal Report No. 5394-CRA, dated May 8, 1985, is
being distributed separately. Supplementary data are provided in Annex III.
Negotiations were held in Washington' from April 22 to April 26, 1985. The
Chinese Delegation was led by Mr. Wang Liansheng, Deputy Director, External
Finance Department of the Ministry of Finance.



- 15 -
Objectives and Scope
54.       The project would accelerate afforestation and improve management
and exploitation of existing forests on 92 SFFs in Cuangdong, Heilongjiang and
Sichuan. It would strengthen forest research facilities in four provinces and
establish extension centers in ten provinces. The 92 SFFs in the project have
been grouped into 12 "commercial timber bases" and encompass about 1.2 million
ha of which 729,000 ha are under forest. Plantation forestry accounts for
729,000 ha out of this total. The permanent labor force resident on project
SFFs numbered about 20,800 in 1982; seasonal workers from nearby collectives
are employed for plantation establishment, forest tending and logging, and
road construction and maintenance.
Principal Project Features
55.       The project would include:
(a) the establishment of about 82,000 ha of forest plantations of which
some 24,000 would be fast-growing plantations;
(b) forestry improvement, including tending of some 73,000 ha of young
plantations and thinning in about 49,000 ha of young plantations and
natural forest;
Cc) construction or upgrading of about 1,430 km of forest roads to
Class III standards and construction of about 500 km of forest
tracks;
.d)  prc' sion of logging trur*s. wheeled and crawler tractors, logging
and log handling equipmen. and passenger vehicles;
Ce) construction of about 157,000 sq m of buildings, 1,100 km of utility
lines, and other infrastructure related to forest fire protection
and log handling;
(f) construction of wood processing facilities, including a plywood
mill, a tannin extract factory, a wood shuttle factory and small
wood working shops;
(g) strengthening of forest research and extension programs by providing
equipment for four provincial forestry research institutes and
constructing and equipping ten forestry extension centers; and
(h) provision of training and technical assistance, including domestic
and overseas training and consulting services for participating SFFs
and overseas training and consulting services in support of forestry
extension and research activities.
56.       Plantation Establishment.  About 82,300 ha, of which some 23,900
would be in fast-growing plantations, would be planted during the project
implementation period, 1985-88. To reduce costs and encourage early tree
growth, the project would recommend planting at densities moderately below



.:~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~L
- t6 -
current practice. The project would supply some 10,80 tons of chemical
fertilizer for use particularly in the fast growing plantations. The
increased use of fertilizer would provide an important impetus to growth in
the early years of the plantings, thereby enabling trees to overcome weed
competition more readily and substantially reducing weeding costs. Rapid
early growth would accelerate cash flow from the plantations by producing
saleable log volumes at time of first thinning. The major product would be
roundwood, with intermediate yield during thinning of pulpwood, mining timbers
and construction poles. The project would establish 60 ha of seed orchard in
Sichuan where seed from superior planting materials is in short suppiy. About
25Z of the seedlings produced on the project SFFs would be made available for
purchase by nearby collectives.
57.       Forest Improvement.  Under the project, 73,000 ha of young
plantations would be weeded more intensively in their formative years to
enhance growth and reduce the risk of fire. Commercial thinning and other
improvement operations (improvement felling, seLection felling) would take
place on about 48,000 ha of young plantations and natural forest. More
intensive thinning regimes would increase tree diameter growth rates, provide
greater intermediate returns before clear felling, and produce a higher
quaLity end product. The project would increase the effectiveness of fire
detection and suppression by providing nine look-out towers and modern
communication and fire suppression equipment.
58.       Forest Road Construction.  The project would construct some 930 km
of forest roads to Class III standards, upgrade about 500 km of forest roads
to Class III standards and construct about 500 km of forest tracks.  Nearly
60% of the Class III road building program would be in Sichuan where the
existing density of forest roads is particularly deficient. As a result of
the project, the density of forest roads and tracks in the three provinces
would increase by at least 75%.
59.       Equipment and Vehicles.  Equipment and vehicles would be provided to
improve logging, log handling and timber transport. Logging operations would
be made more efficient by the introduction of improved cable logging systems,
articulated skidders and improved chain saws. The introduction of improved
cable logging systems would be particularly important in Sichuan where 70Z of
logging must be done by cable systems because of difficult terrain. Aboar 400
trucks would be introduced and the average load capacity would increase from
the present five tons per truck to seven tons. Four truck-mounted hydraulic
cranes would facilitate loading of trucks at roadside and five articulated
front-end loaders equipped with log forks would be provided to replace cable
cranes and winches at log yards. Five of the log yards would be expanded to
accommodate the larger volume of logs expected from project activities. Other
vehicles, consisting of 4-wheel drive utility vehicles, pickups and
microbuses, would assist in passenger transport and fire control activities.
60.       Buildings and Utilities on SFFs.  The relatively autonomous nature
and isolated location of most participating SFFs requires that each has a
comprehensive set of buildings and supporting infrastructure. About 85% of
the construction program would take place in Heilongjiang and the balance in
Sichuan. Housing construction would alleviate crowded =onditions on SFFs
f



- 17 -
where present average housing per capita is about a third of the national
average, and provide some additional facilities for field crews engaged in
logging and plantation establishment and management. The project wouLd
construct about 100,000 sq m of housing and school buildings, 33,060 sq m of
storage and garage area, 13,150 sq m of office space and 10,350 sq m of
mechanical workshops. It would provide about 739 km of telephone lines and
345 km of power lines, construct and equip nine fire watch towers and con-
struct other misceLlaneous transport and log handling facilities.
61.       Wood Processing Facilities.  The project would c nstruct a plywood
mill in Shaoguan, Guangdong, capable of producing 10,000 mg of plywood per
year. The mill would introduce to the area the technology co utilize small
diameter logs in the production of wood-based panels. A factory to extract
tannin from eucalypcus leaves would be established in Leizhou, Guangdong.
This plant would utilize each year some 5,000 tons of leaves and twigs to
produce 1,000 tons of tannin extract for use as a drying agent in the local
cement industry. In Bin County, Heilongjiang, the project would establish a
factory capable of producing annually about one million wo3d shuttles for the
textiLe industry.  The factory would utilize about 4,000 m  of Logs annually
from nearby SFFs. On participating SFFs in Sichuan, the project would
construct and equip 12 small workshops to process locally available bamboo and
small-dimension timber into packing boxes, shuttles and bobbins, and simple
furniture.
62.       Research and Extension Centers.  The project would strengthen for-
estry research capabilities in the provinces of Guangdong, Shaanxi and Sichuan
and in Guangxi Autonomous Region. The research efforts would focus on
Ci) site classification and soil management; (ii) tree improvement and tree
breeding; (iii) afforestation, forest management and logging; and (iv) extrac-
tion and utilization of forest products, including non-wood materials such as
gums and resins. During the first year of the project, forestry research
scientists and administrators would visit overseas institutions which are
working on similar problems and would assess research technologies and equip-
ment considered most appropriate to conditions in their respective provinces.
Assurances were obtained that research plans and equipment lists would be com-
pleted by June 30, 1986 and would be submitted to IDA for review and approval
(Section 3.06(a)(i) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). In addition
to supporting major provincial and county level research and extension
activities, the project would construct, equip and provide technical assis-
tance for two small (100 sq m each) soil laboratories at Harbin, Heilongjiang
and Chengdu, Sichuan and would establish a research unit in Leizhou, Guangdong
which would examine the technical and economic aspects of mechanized land
preparation for large-scale development of eucalyptus plantations.
63.       Forestry Extension.  The project would support current plans to
strengthen China's forestry extension services by constructing and equipping
ten pilot extension centers in Fujian, Gansu, Hebei, Henan, Hubei, Hunan,
Liaoning, Shandong, Sichuan and Zhejiang Provinces. These centers would
include simple laboratories, classrooms and offices for extension personnel
and would be furnished with audio-visual aids and basic laboratory equip-
ment. Overseas study tours would be arranged for key extension staff. Assur-
ances were obtained that the detailed extension plans and equipment lists



- 18 -
would be completed by June 30, 1986 and would be submitted to IDA for review
and approval (Section 3.06(a)(ii) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
64.       Training and Technical Assistance.  For the SFFs, the project would
finance about 84 man-months of overseas study tours (two to four weeks per
participant) and 110 man-months of overseas training (more than four weeks per
trainee). Study tours would reLate largely to forest management, logging and
forest road construction. The overseas training would include work in soil
analysis and plant nutrition, and operation and maintenance of wood processing
equipment. Four man-months of consulting services would be provided to SFFs
through provincial forestry bureaus to assist in the establishment of the soil
laboratories in Heilongjiang and Sichuan.   The domestic training program for
the SFFs p-ovides for 1,460 man-months of practical training to forestry
technicians and workers of the SFFs and nearby collectives. In support of
research and extension activities, the project would provide about 250 man-
months of overseas training to university graduate level or above in subjects
directly reLated to forestry development; and 30 man-months of consulting
services, of which about 15 would be to assist in forestry research and
another 15 to help formulate and implement fcrestry extension programs, which
would include assistance in extension planning and organization, monitoring
and evaluation, and the production of training materials. Assurance was
obtained at negotiations that overseas training and study tours wouLd be
carried out in accordance with a program acceptable to IDA (Section 3.07 of
the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Implementation Schedule
65.       The project would be implemented over a four-year period beginning
about July 1, 1985. The construction programs for Class III roads (about 50%
of the totaL road construction in the project) and project buildings would be
substantially compLeted by 1987; this is considered feasible in view of the
ready availability of labor and managerial skills in the project area.
Detailed work plans for the first year of the project have been prepared by
the SFFs and provincial forestry bureaus. The Government's plans for streng-
thening forestry research and extension activities would be developed on the
basis of the report prepared by the FAO/CP team in August 1984 and with the
help of consultants provided by the project. Assurance was obtained from the
Government that by September 30 of each year a detailed work and financing
plan for the following year would be prepared for IDA review (Section 3.08 of
the draft Development Credit Agreement). Procurement actions for goods and
services would begin during the second half of 1985, with first deliveries
expected before mid-1986. The project is expected to be completed by June 30,
1989.
Cost Estimates
66.       Total project cost in mid-1985 prices is US$135.8 million, with a
foreign exchange component of $37.7 million, or 28Z of the total. No taxes
are imposed on major cost items. Unit costs for plantation establishment,
forest improvement, roads and building construction are based on expenditures
by the SFFs for carrying out similar activities in the project areas. Prices
for locally available equipment are based on data provided to MFO by local



- 19 -
suppliers. Prices for vehicles, chemical fertilizers, large log handli5ag
equipment and related items are based on list prices obtained from
manufacturers. Physical contingencies (8.9X of project base costs) equal 1O0
of base costs of construction (including plantation establishment and forest
improvement) and equipment. For the calculation of price contingencies, it is
assumed that exchange rate adjustments will, on average, be made to maintain
the parity of purchasing power during project implementation. Price escala-
tion for both foreign and local costs when expressed in US dollars, is based
on expected international annual price increases of 5Z in 1985, 7.5Z in 1986
and 8% in 1987-89 and when expressed in yuan, is based on expected domestic
inflation of 32 p.a. in 1985-89.
Financing
67.       Bank Group assistance would be US$47.3 million (351 of the total
project cost), consisting of an IDA credit of SDR 47.8 million. The balance
of US$88.5 million equivalent would be provided from the central government
budget (about US$46.3 million equivaLent) and provincial forest bureaus and
participating state farms (about US$42.2 million equivalent). Provincial
governments would contribute about US$16.4 million equivalent in support of
project research and extension activities.
Procurement
68.       International competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank
Group Guidelines would be followed in procurement of equipment and vehicles
(US$23.1 million) and chemical fertilizers (US$3.1 million). Domestic manu-
facturers would receive a preference of 15% or the applicable customs duty,
whichever is less, in bid evaluation. Prior IDA review of contract awards
would exclude small contracts ($200,000 or Less) estimated to cover less than
15Z of the value of all contracts. Small items of equipment costing not more
than US$50,000 each or US$5 million in total wouLd be procured on the basis of
three price quotations under procedures acceptable to the Association. Estab-
lishment of plantations (US$15.2 million), forest improvement (US$11.7 mil-
lion), construction of buildings and utilities on SFFs (US$11.2 million) and
construction of facilities for extension and research (US$7.8 million) wouLd
be carried out by force account employing the workers on participating SFFs
and nearby collectives. Because these works are in widely separated provinces
and distributed among 92 SFFs, they could not be readily packaged into con-
tracts large enough for ICB. Construction of forest roads and tracks would be
done under contracts between the SFFs and construction companies from the
county or nearby townahips.  Competitive bidding among local construction
teams, which has been rarely used by the SFFs, would be encouraged by SFF man-
agement in road construction.



- 20 -
PROCUREMENT PROFILE
(US$ million) /a
Procurement methods
Limited
international  Other pro-      T.A.       Total
Item                  ICB     bidding /b      cedures      guidelines   cost
Plantation establishment                                   15.2                     15.2
(7.5)                    (7.5)
Forest road construction/
grade 3                                                 23.6                      23.6
(6.1)                    (6.1)
Chemical fertilizer              3.1                        0.5                      3.7
(3.1)                                              (3.1)
Equipment and vehicles          23.1        5.0                                     28.1
(including the plymill)      (23.1)     (5.0)                                    (28.1)
Technical assistance                                                      2.5        2.1
(2.5)     (2.5)
Construction and operation/
research and extension                                   12.0                     12.0
Forest improvement                                         11.7                     11.7
Buildings and utilities/SFFs                               11.2                     11.2
Wood processing (buildings,
equipment except plymill)                                 7.2                      7.2
Forest track construction                                   5.3                      5.3
Other, incLuding management and
overheads and associated
contingencies                                           15.3                      15.3
Total                       26.2        5.0          102.1            2.5      135.8
(26.2)     (5.0)          (13.6)          (2.5)     47.3)
/a   Figures in parentheses indicate amounts which would be financed by IDA.  All figures
include price and physical contingencies.
/b   Includes the financing of small items of equipment costing not more than US$50,000
each or US$5 million in total which would be procured on the basis of three price
quotations under procedures acceptable to IDA.



- 21 -
Disbursements
69.       Disbursements against expenditures for equipment, vehicles and
materials for SFFs would be at a rate of 100X of the foreign exchange costs of
imported items or 100Z of the ex-factory price of locally manufactured
items. Disbursements for overseas training and consulting services would be
100X of total costs. Disbursement for the establishment of plantations on
SFFs, excluding chemical fertilizers, would be 49X of total expenditure and
disbursement for construction of roads to Class III standard would be 25% of
total expenditure. Such disbursements would be against statements of expen-
diture supported by progress reports showing physical quantities and unit
prices. Agreement was reached with the Government at negotiations on these
unit prices. Unit prices would be updated annually by the provincial forestry
bureaus (PFBs) in the participating provinces and approved by IDA.
Disbursements against expenditures for equipment and vehicles for the
provincial research institutes and county level extension centers would be
made at 100l of the foreign exchange costs of imported items or 100% of the
ex-factory price of locally manufactured items. For overseas training and
contracts valued at less than $50,000 each, disbursements would be made on the
basis of statements of expenditure to be certified by th4e MFO. Documentation
supporting the SOEs would be retained at the Project Management Office (PMO)
in Beijing for review by IDA. To provide for efficient disbursement of the
credit proceeds, a special account would be opened in US dollars in the Bank
of China with an authorized allocation of the US dollar equivalent of
SDR 4.5 million which represents the estimated expenditure for an average
four-month period. Applications for replenishment of the special account
would be submitted quarterly, or whenever the special account is drawn down to
50Z of its initial deposit, whichever comes first. No disbursements would be
made against other project expenditures. The credit closing date is December
31 1989.
Accounts and Audits
70.       Accounting systems maintained by the PFBs and based on regular sub-
missions by accounting units in SFFs are adequate to control project finance
and disbursements. Assurances were obtained that the PFBs would maintain
detailed project accounts for major expenditure categories and that these
would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association and submitted within six months of the close of each financial
year (Section 4.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement; Section 3.01 of
the draft Project Agreement). It is expected that the state audit agency of
the Central Government would audit project accounts of the PFBs.
Environmental Effects
71.       The project would improve environmental conditions and no detri-
mental effects are anticipated. The afforestation of presently underutilized
and unproductive land would lead to better water conservation and water
quality and would reduce soil erosion. Amenity values would be enhanced,
wildlife habitats improved and fire losses reduced. Soil fertilizer levels
would be raised through the use of increased quantities of chemical fertili-
zers. All areas scheduled for logging would be surveyed to ensure the protec-



- 22 -
tion of rare or endangered species. Areas of natural forest with slopes of
more than abcit 80% would be designated as areas of protection forest from
which all forestry activities would be excluded. The increased availability
of fuelwood from new plantations is expected to reduce random cutting in
existing natural forests thereby improving the quality of those stands.
Industrial wastes produced by the plywood mill would be recycled as fuel to be
used within the plant.
Project Management and Execution
72.       The forestry development activities in the project would be carried
out by the SFFs under the supervision of the PFBs of Guangdong, Heilongjiang
and Sichuan Provinces. The plywood mill, the tannin extract factory and the
wood shuttle factory would be the responsibility of county forestry bureaus
operating under PFB supervision. The PFBs would operate under the general
guidance of a PMO established within MFO and headed by a representative from
the Silviculture and Management Department. Provincial project management
offices would be responsible for coordinating the activities of participating
SFFs and providing technical and logistical support. Similar groups
responsible for day-to-day activities would be established within
participating SFFs. An assurance was obtained at negotiations that t'e PMOs
at ministry, provincial, and local levels would be maintained during project
implementation and adequately staffed with qualified personnel. (Section 3.04
of the draft Development Credit Agreement and Section 2.04 of the draft
Project Agreement). The research and extension activities in the project
would be carried out by the PFBs of the participating provinces under the
general supervision of the MFO's Department of Science and Technology. A
simple intra-governmental project implementation agreement between HFO and the
participating PFBs outlines their respective responsibilities and has been
approved by all units concerned.
73.       In the project, funds made available for forestry development from
IDA and -he Central Government would be passed to the SFFs through the PFBs
for repayment over 15 years, after 5 years' grace period at 3Z p.a.
interest. The terms at which funds from provincial sources for forestry
development would be made availabLe to SFFs would vary among SFFs, depending
on their financial strength and repayment ability. In keeping with national
policy, increased emphasis would be placed on loan assistance in lieu of
grants. Domestic funding of the research and extension activities would be
financed entirely from the government budgets of the fourteen participating
provinces. The proceeds of the IDA credit would meet costs for equipment,
overseas training and consulting services in the research and extension
activities and would be repaid by the fourteen provincial governments on terms
similar to those applicable to Central Government funds channelled to the
SFFs.
Markets
74.       Strong internal markets exist for all of the project output.  Log
production in China meets only about 85% of current consui.ption and imports of
logs, sawn timber and other wood products are increasing rapidly. Rapid
income growth and the surge in construction of rural housing will lead to



- 23 -
continued strong demand for wood and wood products. The plywood mill is sited
in a rapidly developing p ovince (Guangdong) which had a plywood production
capacity of only 10,000 m in 1983 and purchased large quantities from other
provinces. The demand for tannin extract by the local cement industry is
estimated at 4-5,000 tons per annum while current production is reported to be
about 100 tons. Annual replacement demand for wood shuttles is estimated at
about 10 million units, as compared with yearly output from the project
facility of one million units.
Financial and Economic Prices
75.       It is estimated that about two-thirds of log production in the
project would be commercial timber allocated within the state plan and sold at
the state fixed price co the central or provincial governments. The remaining
output in excess of the quota would be sold at higher-than-state prices. On
average, financial prices are about 55% of current estimated world prices for
timber of comparable quality. World prices in real terms for the same type
and mix of timber are projected by the Bank to increase by about 1Z per annum
over the medium term. The Government recognizes the need to further increase
state prices of timber to provide additional incentives for production. A
policy directive effective January 1985 permits all timber from individually-
controlled plots and che collectives to be sold on the free market at prices
which have been substantially higher than state prices. The Government aims
to increase average domestic timber prices to world Levels over the next few
years as part of the ongoing price reforms. 'hile the exact timing of these
prire increases cannot be predicted, it is expected that the next price
adjustments will take place before the end of 1986 and that parity with
international prices will be achieved within the Seventh Plan period (i.e., by
1990). An understanding was reached that the MFO would prepare a report for
discussion with the Association before the end of 1986 which describes more
fully the entire forestry price and marketing system.
76.       Most of the labor used in the project is provided by nearby collec-
tives. iages range from Y 2.50 per man-day in Sichuan to Y 5.00 in Heilong-
jiang. The base case economic analysis assumes that the economic wage is one-
half of the financial wage. Substantially higher economic costs for labor
would not jeopardize the economic viability of the project. Financial prices
for fertilizer of the type requirel by this project have been assumed equal to
economic prices over the life of the project.
Production
77.       The major output from the project would include logs, poles, ply-
wood, tannin extract, shuttles and miscellaneous wood products such as furni-
ture and packing crates. Through road building and provision of equipment,
the project would improve access to existing mature forests and permit accel-
erated logging of natural stands.  Annual total production in the natu ral
stands on the SFFs would increase from the current level of 507,000 m to
660,000 m3 in 1988. Without the project it is assumed that production from
natural forests would decline by 20% annually in 1986-88 and remain at that
level over the next several years. Production from plantations, virtually all
of which would be established on cut-over land now of low or zero producti-



- 24 -
vity, would begin with commercial thinnings after 1988. All output from the
plantations and the wood processing facilities is considered as incremental.
Incremental production of logs for the project wouid average about 204,000 m
annually in 1985-88 and would total 11.2 million m over the 23-year period
assumed in the economic analysis.  A3nual incremental production at full
development would be about 546,000 m , or 18% greater than total log
production from these farms in 1982. Although difficult to quantify precise-
ly, additional production benefits would be expected from the tending activi-
ties in the project (mainly weeding, pruning and fire protection). The ply-
wood mill is projected to reach full production of 10,000 m annually in 1989
while the shuttle and tannin extract factories would be producing at an annual
capacity of a million units and a thousand tons, respectively, in 1988.
Financial and Economic Analysis
78.       The FRR is estimated to be 28% in timber production, 16% in the case
of wood processing and 27% overall. In timber production, FRRs are 17%, 29%
and 46% for Sichuan, Heilongjiang and Guangdong, respectively. In wood pro-
cessing, FRRs are 12%, 14% and 24% for the plywood mill, the tannin extract
factory and the wood shuttle factory, respectively. The relatively high FRRs
in timber production are consistent with returns to similar activities in
other countries and reflect in part the near-term benefits realized from the
accelerated logging permitted in mature forests as a result of investment in
road construction and equipment upgrading. Following Bank Group practice in
similar earlier projects, returns have been calculated for timber exploitation
and plantation establishment combined, as these two activities are normally
considered an integral part of weLl-managed forest production systems. The
relatively low FRR for the plywood mill reflects in part the low conversion
rates obtained in producing plywood from small diameter logs.
79.       The overall ERR for the project exceeds 50% (67% in timber produc-
tion; 14% in wood processing). The ERR exceeds 50% for both Guangdong and
Heilongjiang and is estimated at i4% for the plywood mill. At a discount rate
of 12Z, the prcject has a net present value of Y 562 million, of which about
80% is contributed by timber production in Guangdong and Heilongjiang. As in
the case of the financial analysis, the high ERRs in timber production are due
in part to the early returns made possible by project activities which accele-
rate logging of mature forests. Sensitivity testing indicates that no plausi-
ble changes in prices, costs or timing of benefits would jeopardize the econo-
mic soundness of the project. Similarly, the project would remain economi-
cally viable with an assumed doubling of economic labor costs to equal the
financial wage. On the other hand, a 10Z decline in prices of wood products,
a similar increase in costs, or a one-year delay in benefits would push the
ERR for wood processing to the 8-9% range.
Project Risks
80.       The timber production activities in the project face no significant
financial, technical or organizational risks. The SFFs are in general well
managed. They have experience with the tree species to be planted and silvi-
cultural practices to be introduced have been proven elsewhere. Administra-
tive and financial risks associated with wood processing are larger, but



- 25 -
considered manageable. The SFFs operate wood processing facilities in the
project provinces, including wood-based paneL plants, although the technology
using small diameter timber would be new to the SFF system. It is expected
that the supplier of this equipment would provide necessary support in
training the operational and maintenance staff. Efficient operations would be
required to ensure satisfactory economic and financial results. Little
administrative risk is attached to the research activities in the project, as
these are geared largely to a strengthening of on-going programs. More
administrative risk is associated with the extension component which is viewed
as a pilot operation in a key support service currently being reformulated in
China. It is believed that these risks can be kept within acceptable bounds
by the consulting services provided in the project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
81.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's Republic
of China and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the
Association and the Provinces of Guangdong, Heilongjiang and Sichuan, and the
Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the
Articles of Agreement of the Association are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
82.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III. An additional condition of effectiveness would be that China's State
Council shall have approved the Development Credit Agreement and the Project
Agreement (Section 6.01 of the draft Developmenc Credit Agreement).
83.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
84.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
May 13, 1985
Washington, D.C.



-26-                                              ANNEX I
Page I of 6
cmA. mrCDs uP. or - sOCIL INOcCTO.s .As s er
CUM,  oML-WLS UP. OF          r       M131Uc cOUPS (ZICHI ATD A*IAGES) /a
VW3                  (lSw mm=u  33?DI&2) A
-R         7        IU              133l3 301
a9seoLd     L30k  ru:uExc&    ASA6FWISA4 rxcIE
-U, Siu         .l u)
TVIAL                              9561.0       3561.0      9361.0
AUIlC0lMAL                         3257.6       IU2.0       3865.9
-   ECam= (36s$)                        40.0 Ie      M0.        310.0           278.6                   1092.2
NM ci momwrzw PM cairn
(LoAGAs Or OIL 741VA.LZII)          191.0        230.0      461.0            272.0                    567.3
PeUamm ammi VxTAL srAUSzC I
PVOVLAZXOK.KLD-21   (TIOoSAMS)    87800.0    845700.0   10817.0                 .         -
OREM POPUL*hO  CZ O1 TOM)           18.4 /4        ..        20.6            21.7                     34.7
POPULATIONI USOZICTIO
POPLATE IN Wm 20KlL)                                       1196.3      _       _
SAIORA  POPuIAm  (MILL)1..
OULATIM  Renew=                                               1.7
POPULMTON pzsusm
PER SQ. S1.                        71.3         88.5        103.8          186.6                    26L.9
PM SQ.  . AC!. LAND               211.1        217.9       256.8           345.5                   1735.1
POPULATION ASE STMCZU   CZ)
0-14 US                           38.9         37.7        30.9            35.8                     39.0
15-4 URS                           56.3         57.2        63.3            59.8                     57.S
65 AND AU3                          4.8          5.1         5.5             4.3                      3.3
POrmSoATI  cOllIE 3! CZ)
70rAL                               1.3          2.1          1.5            1.9                      2.3
URN"                                  -           ..                         4.1                      4.3
zM MUE 3I82  (PE11 25)               39.2 le      3X60        16.5            27.7                     30.1
liE OWN tAU (PER T30S)               23.5 7       10.1         6.6            10.1                      9.5
cOss 3E0OcU0  7=                      2. a         2.3         1.2             L1S                      2.0
-MS. AlC           C S)
uns CZ O0 MAru3D WD).                                       69.4 If           .     _                52.7
(1969-71-100)                                    1001.0      124.0           11L2.                    1230
PIE CAPITA 5011'!.? 0r
CALCUES CZ O UIQUXREIENTS)        93.0         83.0        107.0           97.7                    114.
P-*7E   C (GRUB MM DAY)            56.0         53.0        66.0            56.8                     57.0
0F wzCR AuXuL AND PlSE           16.0         16.0         17.0           14.9                     14.1
-D   (CAZS 1-4) DZA A                26.0         14.0         7.0             9.3                      7.2
_~~~~~~~~
LIM EPICI Ar BR  (TEARS) S           41.0 lb      52.3        66.5            60.0                     60A
ISUA  1R1.  RATE (In  eM)           165. 0      109.0        67.0           83.8                      66.3
*c~ TO 5a  wJar  (2307
TOT'L                                             -'        41-0           3329                      37.0
11M!                                 ,,           .s-a                      70.9                     54.8
RURAL~~~3                                       20            1                       26.1.
ACS TO Vw4A 015D10612
CZ Or POPULATION)
TOTAL                               .-            ..          __            18.1                     41.3
8834A                                .            ..          .-            72.8                     47.4
RAL                                   _           _.          _               6                      33.3
POPULATION PM PUSICIN              B390-0 If   3830.0 /t   l110 0t          3484.2                   7749.4
POP. PM 3M  P.7           *    050 _ 4030.0     2870.0      1790.0          4793.1                   240.A
POP. PM WSFIXAL BED
TOTAL                            1040.0        760.0       490.0          1066.5                   1044.2
05343                             210.0          -.        160.0           298.0                    651.A
33312                           10140.0           ..      1020.0            93.4                   2594.6
AUSS        PE  OSPL   E               ..           ..          ..              ..                     27.0
AVERACE SUE OP HOOSEBMD
TOL                                  ..           ..         5.2
ca11                                  _           ..         4.2
USRAL                                ..           ..         5.5
*USaS  N0_ or 2URSNIZOa
TOTAL                                 -'          '-
03.6                                 ..           .. ..
RE.aL                                ..           . .. .
ACCS TO EXECT. (Z OF  .ELLIC_S)
TOTAL                _                            ..          .. _. _,
.,                    ~~~~ _a



-27-                .                    ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
Mu29. M091  ur. er - uLC1SDICA?(So DA 1
GR,M  no0u1 EU.  oP *              WhIn 0c0   (MEGUD 1MA           1 b
i,eobk      its@                         A A FAMIC           MIA   PIF
ummalh   SOUAL                     10.0         110.0        L11.O           97.4                      138.0
UoL3            o                                 l0.0            110.5                     10.9
imaLE          ..          ..         1~~~~    ~      ~~~~~06.0  23.7           91.2
SECONDAR: TOTAL                     21.0         2.0          44.C            35.9                      4.0
MALl                       ..           ..         5.0 a.                                    4.7
ALZ                        ..           ..         335.0 a2.1                                42.1
VOCATIONAL CZ or S33141)               ..           ..          2.2             2.2                      17.5
NflIL-UACM RATI0
1333*2?                               ..           ..         26.0            31.5                      3-1.
1                                     ..           ..         17.0           1U.7             - 7
ADIT LITEACY  AZh CZ)                 43.0 /d        ..         49.0            52.4                      72.9
FASSE=  C ASIUS*D 1                     ..           ..          0.2             0.9                      10.1
S1O0 USJZWS/TOU5AD MP                   ..         14.2        183.3           112.1                     112.4
T   31C9SIID/3A53                       .. O0.                  27.4            L5.7                      30j
SAPl        (-MAILY Z 4L
SMZU%)  CXRCOLATIO
S 70SAM  7O TIh                       ..           ..           ..            14.2                      53.9
CDIn  -M. AT _          CAP             ..           ..           ..,            3.4                       5.4
TOTAL IIOK  OCE   OMS)            321114.0    330555.0    47341.0
1Ui (        )                      35.3         38.0         37.2            33.3                      33.5
11C 33 (P'CE3J                                                68.9           9H.6                       5=2
3  (PEScN)                            ..           ..         U8.7            15.3                     17.9
1122ICXPATIUM MMU C7330C3
TOTAL                               46.3         45.0         47.0            42.6                      317
YALE                                55.9         54.5         57.2            54.7                      50.9
1c*L                                37.0         35.0         34.0            29.3                      24.6
aWUSUC DumaN r 1AT1O                   0.9          1.0          0.1             1.0                      1.1
I31ET OF NZVAZE imam
Uzczw ST O5   EOSfLIS                -.           ..         12.5              ..2
L1CvMST lOT or O0USE0 OU1S            *- *.. 1.4*-
LOVSD  r0or  Dosom                                               .                                         .
LammS 4010  HOCINLAS                                                            .                       13.5
ABm SOLTE TO ZMnt XBK
LPKL CaS n   C41WM3
can".....                                                                    133.9                     111.4
MMIAL                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~111.4       152.0
1.121 (O3 n PMcAPITA
iU                                     .           ..           ..           U..                       177.9
h1.g                                 ..           ..          ..            11..                     144.4
ZS1DOZD  X         CLO AwMOLUT
0311                                  ..           ..           ..            43.3                      23.A
amh"                                  ..           ..           ..             .7                      37.7
am? VAZL&AWL
/a   Mm Szmip avera-c for _ea  itdcelter are papalatlmu-ved -rIttc _d r t         . Coveraue  of    leS   _g te
L1dicata  dapead  - avmlabiLq of data Wd Ia Wc inheae.
/b   Unlela_ othe_ meted. -fe  lor 190 ref_r to aD year betwev  1959 a" 191; hta for l97r burumm 2g4 mod
1971; _ad data for Ibet Racat lstlaace- betumm 1930 mad 1982.
/c  Iatrplated 1157-42 dta;  Id 19:4; 1; 1955-L945 awerage:  /f Percetag  of a* 1m1?ad    e of chfld bamug
a- ge pactLCag caatwacS. /1 19??.  /b 1955-4 average;  It Saeslo decier of _metam usdcima;
D Oiacrbatlo  of vepla raakJN  ba;a.im per capta leAa. 19079 d.
* All powlatl   and vtal satazatea arme leak   m t- which d ffer frau CIae affliae statit.
V er_1sl ducation onLY; amaf n sinaI earmeat Iambataatal.
-m   alimirzan Ad corag  ditfer fra b   of Cloe" officalt 0aetl*ecca.
me. i



s  msuadut p    in.0 -    msud    'ln-asini.      ia 
mi-a-   d. h  -- a. -          is,. -Musan W        S.sfie
- lu-sdslamuls Ai Pm     (se   11tmms-Nssuud             -S
l.nJ        =-  :i l-u-         Isasss    a- aus  s-m  musaum  -nay"
"m                                                      .2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ms- meamlumaa  *pines m -   a    up  W nn-    ipmns
CT-  V-  --I                               lkws~~~~~~~- m-allaSC   msun  jqu       fmau     sj-Ams.
S-  I   ma                                                                pm. Mumuaamls-mn psuuomi   ajlw s-A -J sl-     pu
0-3- In-  Mr   ~     ~      ~      ~     ~     - r.  -.iin23m   nsms  m  m..~a                       .sa   a
,1 inis P  s-1-" t~  -2 -o-JC~ms anua-mm
*.-Ps'    i-  IS  Qd  5a. 
anam - hums...) u.m1 Sm  *5a-ma minute -mis- -utmams p-u-sass-  A.-F I. J
a-s4 -.f Simm  ln   m-50   )us4                     a   -
- me pm ma.- (GIl-idas MB   -      z    aa-ainuuua                         -u a--s--l-uun  .sy-mam  ij ls             sa ~-s  s-s A-, pi
so ol- u  W- -%!=     -1-                                      1-i--Ai.-, anmAsuM-
unumus5 isa--n- tsm  u-mni mu -au-s-  u-J asuss aissn                    sj3   l        t5     's  -  sw   -  lua muuaW t..  s
-.sum- imuim-  I)ss   usa lum   -.o-anaun   su5wuunustn a-    ia  al
111161 am& !-u -qn I.-  p- -0--s.a  nus-siPua  -asi  upa-in-.    n
ssl~ Isso-j-  '-% -     ~"W- -I -.a MI5  u-s...-a'-   at- s--  -1`1 mimsa  us  i-a J . 1-                             nu
Iftl g  412. '11%     -S ~I9-  8  iMsi.-3'. ini-- A.Ma imis.d   a u   mal.-. -aiua lu aasimau
-J -q    as -allm-ma  a)  ssa   i -.m.a-  mma-Sp  luau.       a .
P- t-        I~~i             tam   u- mp   auuu   nimus.,u%ampm  -  -ibss   -   )masiu
se    u-dula - icu  -   -    n wt-ag ssumm       ij35i                          mu Muaau  imua.ms aimn-as   ls.  un-mi
~3- fle ALm m u-s.   iu"s- I   11m. mm--a s - s -a-a As--aa                      a5aais    asagama5             ss  uala     i-lisln  m
a a-uusautmd    musi -a   n-  una- smmas-)sa- s-aspaam
is   us p  mm       a*Uisa-sau  133s5*umua amisma sm a-  u.lsu. -  -Miz
um-  as-su umuinu i    -mmus - sm).-u-a-su.s.      sai   5i*la..umttm                                                      imuu.ym -Ml     mim
sea  i--mau     to' PW Au.usm-.s-  -sinsj -au sm  mZ                -            ~ a-s-    -Au 'st  pSm-   Slmaiaem-  i-ums1 1Si
-  usu    l-mma - -as- I."s- Uusasi-5u  i-IMspm-        ' i5ui5155wa 
Jss       ms- 5a551C)     ns-n.1-u  -ma             us-u  Aa  sus.p  aua5Mut TaVyususuia. 
Ml rllW   J. 5a    s        md   tasSe.  m-smBss     f                                  ss     555 A.eu  ..us ria- muil 'usIna
smss~Ie m U  i    1mm  1p    us Luaumlat assme sus"sguisiC                                                      ill
simufss m-p-ps504    -aa  .a nt       suuua             aI maumui-ss tes. adns  5lS!ani  lSTus
5 j- -1mes       s-na   asms  -      tsa   l-u--a-   a-mi-usa -  mua. sus  A-"-. s   -   u   mmu.
misl-a So iePu-a mA  msA    slmusu -.- Ws"sm          a -                        1wua  -lM                        '-au  seu  mulute
-&m   at-s s.awl*sJ .m ....s ad   -ai  leeS0 .3 n-u-                         uma I    m..saa   -e-         i  -   mas  n.  isn) .s.
nyu is  cus-ia   ain uw-   ie.  n-us  ss)sa-mua s-mu-tyusau  s sauiusmmu-suassumusedau
M "-  11"a   M0 8--1-   Imp A1             ma                 a- s"-spse   si5n5          -am  -gud1m W          ui4sba samw
napes       -uug Oii-lsi- igiasm  -ft -pau -- sanmss samamu  51 ssua
a.smsc.tup"     -sSstji   uuisumma 5                               -sIs  umas-  -i  mi -    a -        - n   us.uai -   -a
-  sla -gmasau)-tp  ust    uautms  nuu   u                                                                  uusy  i-up.  uau 5- '"s-u   ""'
.1 susms usun  umsi -a*--a  m -u-i- - sum  -a.i-                                               -.sts-is   i-       e  mi-u ps
*ms-u-esssl.  ~-uAuMutc   in-a "- lad- Aisada                              a    . ussu   Is,-s  usft I-  Ms sl ARi mu   .
a-i    mumauli-lmuau ae   a m-uIgss   pn itasu upusmal              u-441Ia1-u   ssaP - I"e Pm au-au"   la-ua     am.  s-l-twinP
i- -siss- p   -i-   pu-ad  i s -    i""   u-u`   - u-is...  52.-p                 i-s---usmu    mi. ma-auulass   lnpmem5-
aaiy-i. uAst -q ssMa N        ti     s-m1 -     - uu-.sm M aslsS                 4m.  -.u s-us   i      iu-dsni  nsusu       u
0l "I-   a-l lml-Js m  si     t-isamus                mu-asla.--ssulSAaauuu-jss-u51su.
nassau puss.-t    S PIuA         uuat"Mml Isuau11   --umum.i                         's,us.mmS suamm -                ua- 3imup l-.- asis..
a-ss u-A me. A-madIll  5-l sasanluass assu  53.1sWsM5                         s-s-n *imu-inn mis imuame  u sP.- ma'uurs.uu -a
.mu I-. ,0  mu Ifa usgs-   Iucsa    tmlsml. s-te  Ms-adam)u-u s d a us- s 1-i  -s anul-sui-
s.uusu      mu~usi~ S.t-~u 5isua misn  i- uumis.t tles               alus let    u11aluIuSsi  sum  ---i.  m - ufs-             I  f
mus s- l-vIsu  sum..   I-m     u        --                                uns'-a- s nu-s. P--- ea-nu             mua   -    I IS
o aW- A  mloiwl Mi!5W.                                    'musd asu -uesi   asAusmi                uuzs-um-u
'alsulu-03-- -umua   uuIlmmy Imus pm  isq .sll-ta  is1%    mt-              mmul eaiu :.iisfm M    asulapp mi P   sinu-Sadm-   se
Osa       smuai i1-ua   M u uua -in iA.  Sl        ua                          niu   amsi -F-suuaa-mll --'mi             sum  -u " musMa
- tina-.  a- -uuna- assau       a-a-s 5saua       -   -    I          a- mNO    ui su  i 0-uumae   isasi C A-u-a  suu hes-  q-
- -                                  u.ss __________ao  n     -       ms  a nsa-a  -s_a insau--1as          I emlmdmm,sma 'umaa
pm s-a-la  su~sdi - in     -mIm  --tnussdu-ImS)ism                        Aa-slamik-" pmiuS.ma- asul- n  m         u41- a~s.       llasmut
sm 1"-             -v mu-%da isatmsm -o   a    nssMp' e9 ld                       P.u-..%"set  -usPA"-m    P 'W"i 'n-s SsliM
mu Wleu  Illse a.  a  M 0-mu aimmay  mu-s mi-s ama.n"  gas  s                    mf-s-p" a* p.ssiulsam     iia-u-amsm -v    sasuima  -lmsu.--
essm  -us   n'C  tmus i  uS5    -ueflism   -I-sudu  sa  imnme mii-isalssa
Ixma.        sa    s-    nuss'  s  aaam    i-a        ii    m



AMEU I
-29- -                                                              6
PoPuLation    t  1.006 illIon (uid-19S2)
GU  per capital  S30  (1982)
CsIU  - ECOU  C IIIDCA0
_1 rs th (S)6*t eota   rla
ladicator                                     1957-70   1970-7   IS781                                        19uZ t               1964
radicator                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(Outlxat.)
Prodmction
Groe ouetput
Agrieulture                                 2.2        3.4       9.0       8.6        3.9       6.6       11.0       9.5
List indamtry                               8.3        7.8      10.H       9.6       18.4      14.1        *.7       8.7
He  lr uduetry                             11.6        9.3      15.6       7.7        1.4      -4.7        9.9      12.4
_         Neent Iteral Product (MNW)                     5.2       4.8       12.4      7.0        6.1        4.8       7.4        9.1
1957      1970       1977      1978       1979       1980      1981       1962      1983
Prices
EAtell price indz x  1970-100)   92.2      100.0      102.7     103.3      105.4      111.7     114.4      116.6     118.3A
no deflator         C1970-100)   90.7      100.0      99.1      100.5      104.5      108.4     110.5      110.9     III.iZj
Exchange rate      (C/US$)         2.46      2.46       1.66       1.68      1.55       1.50       1.71      1.89       1.9RT
A cunt                                                              Avorage annual grwth
1962                  SbZr.. of GDP I)                            CE) at conetant prtee
National Accounts           (9 bln)85                                                    195770   1970-79   1979-82   1902-90
GDP                          264.5       100.0   100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0                      5.8       5.1        6.5
Agriculture                 97.5          ..    32.5      36.9     34.0      29.4         1.6       3.2        5.1        3.2
Industry                   107.0          ..    43.5      40.4     43.0      45.7        12.1       8.9        7.4       8.2
Other                       60.0          ..    24.0      22.7     23.0      24.9         3.5       4.3        0.3        7.8
Consumtion                   184.4        76.4    6u.4      69.7      70.0     71.0         2.7       5.4        5.8        6.8
Investment                    76.0        23.2    32.5      28.7     30.3      29.8         9.8        6.8       0.9        7.0
Exports GNFS                  23.5         3.7/b   6.0       8.9       9.0      9.6         1.6/b     8.0/b    19.9         7.5
Imports GNFS                  19.4         3.50-  6.8        7.3      9.3      10.4         2.37-    9.47Q       7.7       11.3
National _ svings             80.1        23.6/c  31.9      30.3      30.0     29.0
As  OF GP
Public PlnDnce                                                        1957           1979             1981            1983
current revenues (excludlg forei4n borrwing)                      28.7            34.5            31.9            29.1
5urrent expenditures                                               16.1            22.8            23.3            21.3
Surplus (+) or deflcit C-)                                        +12.6           +11.7            +8.6            +7.8
capital expenditures                                               11.9            16.9             9.9             9.4
Foreign borrowing /d                                                0.7             0.9             1.6             0.7
Otber indicatorm                                                   1957-79         1979-82         1982-90
CDP groith rate (2)                                                 5.8              5.1            6.5
cDP per capita growth rate (Z)                                      3.8             3.9             5.3
hErSy consu.PLIon groWth rate (Z)                                   8.5             1.9
ICGR                                                                5.4
Marginal savings rate                                               0.42
Import elasticity                                                   1.6             1.5
/ NKP basis.
7b- coods only.
T7- G s.
_     75T   Grose.



Z.;   -30-
ANIIK I
Pge 5 of 6
Population       1,008 million (mid-1982)
CGP per capita:  US$310  (1982)
CHINA - ZEITERAL TRADE
Motut
(million US$ at               Annual grwth rates t2) (at contant 1980 prices)
current prices)                   Actual                              lProjcted
IAdicator                            1983         1950       1981       1982       1983       1984        1985        1936
External Trsde
Merchandise exports              22,223          17        -L6          6          10        14           5            5
Ensrgy                          4,466          ..         ..         ..         .. 6.
Other primry                    4,947          ..         ..         ..          .
alnufactures                   12,557          ..         ..         ..          ..        ..          ..
Other                             253          ..         ..         ..          ..
Marchandise imports              18,970          17        -9          10         29         30           8            8
Food                            2,735          ..         ..         ..          ..
Energy                             99          ..         ..         ..          ..        ..          ..
Mechinery and equipment         3,537          ..         ..         ..          .
Other                          12,599          ..         ..         ..         ..         ..          .  
Prices
Export price index (19804100)        ..        100         103         99         89         86          90           95
Imort price Index (1980-100)         ..        100         1U5         91         79         76          80           85
Term  of trade Index (1980-100)      ..         100         98        108        113        113         112          112
Composition of merchandise trade (C)                   Average annual increae  Z;:
(at current prices )                               (st constsnt prices)
1980     1981     1982     1983     1985      1990     1957-70  1970-79  1979-32  1982-85  1985-90
Exports                100.0  - 100.0   100.0    100.0        100      100         1.6      8.0     12.9      9.6        4
En-rgy                25.1     22.9     23.8     20.1        11        0         ..        ..
Other primary         28.4     24.1     22.8      22.3       24       24         ..        ..
Manufactures          46.5     47.8     50.5     56.5        60-      71         ..        ..
Other                  0.0      5.2      2.9       1.1        5        5         ..        ..
Imports                100.0    100.0   100.0    100.0        100      100        2.3      9.4       5.4     21.9        7
Food                    ..     19.6    22.5       14.4       16       17         ..        ..
ETergy                 0.0      0.0      0.0      0.5         0        B         ..        ..
Machinery and
equipment           27.5     24.2      19.1     18.7       24       25          ..       ..
Other                   ..     56.2     58.5     66.4        60       50         ..        ..
Share of trade vith         Share of trade with        Share of trade with countries with
industrial countries (1)    developing countries (2)    centrally planned economies (X) /a
1978    1981    1983        1978    1981    1983             1978       1981      1983
Direction of Trade /b
Exports                      37.3   45.9   42.1           51.6    50.2   53.1              11.1       3.9       4.7
Imports                      73.3    76.8    68.1         17.5    18.7    24.2             9.2        4.5       6.4
/a  Includes the Soviet Salon. Eastern Esurope, Cuba, North Rorea and MIongolia.
lb  Based on IMF: "Chins - Recent Economic Developments," October 1984. p. 90b.



-31  -                                             E6  f 6
?opulmtion    I  1,008 rlllon Ctid-19a2)
CU per capita: UZ310 (1982)
CBDI - SALAICS OLF FAUEUTS. UTrNAS. CAPIAL AMD OUT
cantlon. DE$ at current price.)c.
1979  1980    Actual                           tuodISA.19
Indicator                                           1979      19oO       1981      1982       1985
Balante of FainEst
Exportes o  good  and servicas                  15,351    20j901    25,157    25,989    26,389    29,060    32,000    53,300
Of whichi Merchandiue f.o.b.                  13,658    18,492    22,027    22,476    22,223    24,450    27,000    45,700
Xmports of goods and cervices                   18,204    24,752    24,380    20,793    22,448    28,060    31,900    62,600
Of wutchi  Ibrehandlee f.o.b.                 16,212    22.049    21,047    17,830    18,970    23.710    26,900    52.600
      Not transfer.                                      596        500       680        412       511        600       700        600
.4.
Current ac:emt balace                          -2,257    -3,351       1,657     5,608      4,442     1,600        800    -8.500
Pbreign direct lnrets-nt (net)                       -        57        265       359        478       670        800     1,500
! MLT Loans (nut)                                  800    1,130         416       426        899     1,000      1,20Q     4,000
Official                                         35G       446       479        557        789
Private                                          450       684       -63       -131        110        .
Other capital                                    2,054     2,555        365      -102    -2,481    -1,070    -1,300       1,000
COange in net racervem  C"-" - inrease)           -597      -391    -2,503    -6,291    -3,338    -2.200    -1,500        2.000
International remerveu                           7,274     7.665    10,168    16,459    19.797    22,000    23.500
of which: gold                                 5,120     5,120     5,120      5,120      5,120        ..
Reserves as months iportr                          4.8       3.7        5.0       9.4       10.6       9.4        8.8
External Capital and Debt
Gross dlbur_ente                                    ..        ,
Conceusianal Lans                                   ..
DAC                                               ..        ..         ....
OPEC
SlDk
Other
Nonconcessional Loans                               ..        ..
Official export credits                           ..
IBXD                                              .          .         .          ..
Other *ultilaceral                                ..        ..
Private                                           ..
External debt
Debt outstandlng & disbursed                      ..     5,433     5,785      6,058     6,397
Off icial
Prlvate                                         ..
Ibdisbursed debt                                  ..
Debt service
Total service payments                            ..
Interest                                        ..
Payments am S exports GFS                         ..       5.8       8.6/a    10.9/        5.5/a
Average Interest rate on new loan. ()               *-        . *.       .-                    *-
Average maturity of new loans (years)               ..
/a Including soe early repayment of principal.
.
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



-32-                                                ANNRX I1
STATUS OF BANK CGROUP OPERATIONS IN THE PEOPLE'S RFPUBLIC nF CHINA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of March 31, 1985)
Loan or                                                                                    nS$ milliou
Credit                                                                              Amount (less cancellation)
Number     Year    Borrower                     Purpose                             Bank     IDA    Undisbursed
2021/1167  1981    People's Republic of China University Development                100.0    100.0       50.6
1261    1982    People's Republic of China  Worth China Plain Agriculture          -       60.0       19.6
2207    1982    People's Republic of China  Three Ports                           69.0       -        49.6
1297    1982    Peopile's Republic of China  Agric. Education & Research            -      75.4       2R.1
2226/1313  1982    People's Republic of China  Industrial Credit                     40.6     30.0       56.4
2231    1983    People's Republic of China  Daqing Petroleum                     162.4       -       110.1
2252    1983    People's Republic of China  Zhongyuan-Venliu Petroleum           100.8       -        91.2
2261/1347  1983    People's Republic of China  Heilongjiang Land Reclamation         35.3     45.0       41.1
1411    1983    People's Republic of China  Polytechnic/TV University              -       85.0       77.5
1412    1983    People's Republic of China  Technical Cooperation                  -       10.0        8.0
1417    1984    People's Republic of China  Rubber Development                      -     100.0       74.6
2382    1984    People's Republic of China  Lubuge Rydroelectric                 145.4       -       141.6
2394    1984    People's Republic of China  Railway                              220.0       -       178.1
1462    1984    People's Republic of China  Rural Credit                           -       50.0       41.1
1472    1984    People's Republic of China  Rural Health & Medical Educ.           -       85.0       76.1
2426    1984    People's Republic of China  Karamay Petroleum                    100.3       -       100.1
2434/1491  1984    People's Republic of China  Second Industrial Credit             105.0     70.0      170.2
2444/1500  1984    People's Republic of China  Second Agricultural Education         45.3     23.5       65.5
1516    1985    People's Republic of China  Second Agricultural Research           -       25.0       24.1
1551    1985/a  People's Republic of China  Second University Development          -      145.0      145.0
2493    19857b- People's Republic of Chins  Second Power                         117.0       -       117.0
2501    19857c  People's Republic of China  Changcun (Luau) Coal Mining          126.0       -       126.0
Total                                                         1.367.1    903.9    1.791.6
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                1 367.1    903.9
Total Undisbursed                                             1.181.5    610.1
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of March 31, 1985)
None
/a Signed on March 15, 1985, but not yet effective.
7T  signed on M?rch 15, 1985, but nat yet effective.
7Wc  Approved on March 14, 1985, but not yet signed.
Notes:  (1)  Credits of $40.0 million (Seeds Development Project) and $80 million (Pural Water SupiDly
Project) were approved and signed subsequent to the above date of Statement A.
(2) The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all Bank/IDA
financial projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated to the Executive
Directors on Aprtl 30 and October 31.



- 33 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
CHTNA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:          21 months
- *             'b)  Project prepared by:                    Staff of Ministry of Forestry
and Provincial Forestry
Bureaus,
(c) First presentation to IDA and
first mission:                        February 1983 - March 1983
(d)  Departure of appraisal mission:         September 1984
(e)  Completion of negotiations:             April 26, 1985
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:          September 1985
Section II: Special Conditions
(a) research plans and equipment lists would be completed by June 30,
1986 and submitted to IDA for review and approval (para. 62);
(b) extension plans and equipment lists would be completed by June 30,
1986 and submitted to IDA for review and approval (para. 63);
(c) the training component would be carried out in accordance with a
program acceptable to IDA (para. 64);
(d) a detailed work and financing plan would be prepared by September 30
of each year for the following calendar year and submitted to IDA
for review (para. 65); and
(e)  the ministry, provincial and locaL PMOs would be maintained and
adequately staffed with qualified personnel during the life of the
proposed project (para. 72).
-






