Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5394-CE&
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CH.INA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 8, 1985
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonuance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otberwise be disclosed witbout World Bank authorization.



CURkMNCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  -  Yuan (Y)
US$1.00        =  Y 2.80
Y 1.00         =  US$0.36
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)       =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km) =  0.62 miLes
1 hectare (ha)    =  2.47 acres
I ton             =  1,000 kg
= 2,205 pounds
1 kilogram (kg)   =  2.2 pounds
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
AFS       - Academy of Forest Sciences
CIF       -  cost, including insurance and freight
CTB       -  commercial timber base
m3        -  cubic meter
dbh       -  diameter of tree trunk at breast height
ERR       -  economic rate of return
FAO/CP    -  FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program
FRR       -  financial rate of return
GDP       -  gross domestic product
GVAO      -  gross value of agricultural output (including
animal husbandry, fisheries and forestry)
ICB       -  international competitive bidding
kw        - kilowatt
MAI       - mean annual increment
MFO       - Ministry of Forestry
PMO       -  Project Management Office
PFB       -  provincial forestry bureau (recently renamed
provincial forestry department)
SFF       -  state forest farm
sq m      -  square meter
i-m       - man-month
mt/a      - metric tons ver annum
UNDP      -  United Nations Development Program
Y         -  Yuan (Chinese Renminbi)



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
CHINA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  BACKGROUND .............. . .......*................ ............    1
Introduction         ... ...... **..... 0***.....**........**-*         1
The Forestry Sector ..........1...-......             ............      1
Bank Group Lending for Fo         rys                t    r     y       5
Project Origin and Ratii                   on..,.**.&..... ..           5
II.  FORESTRY IN THE PROJECT AREA................................               6
Location and Topography ..                                              6
Clmae.........0m......c...                                              6
Locis    and.. oiols.p.. .  ....................                        6
Forest Resources   7...............                                     7
Infrsrutre ......r..u..  t.......                                       7
III THE PROJECT.. .... ....*ose...                                              8
Project Description                              ......                 8
Plantation Establishment                .............                   8
Forest Improvement ........                                             9
Forest Road Construction                ...........    10
Equipment and Vehicles                                                 311
Buildings and Utilities on SFFs                                        11
Wood Processing Facilities                                 .......    12
Research and Extension Centers                                         12
Training and Technical Assistance ..........................   13
Status of Design  5       ...........15
Implementation Schedule .............................. * ....   15
Cost Estimates ......         .......   15
Financing ............                  ,                              16
Procurement                                           ............   16
Disbursements .....................,.                           ,,,,.. 18
Accounts and Audits ......................            ,       ,i, 18
Environmental Effects .........................                        19
This report is based on the findings of preparation missions by the FAO/CP in
October 1983 and August 1984 and an appraisal mission in September 1984.
Members of the appraisal mission were T.J. Goering, M. Grut (IDA) and
G.D. Devitt, M. Ladurner and A.D. Helhuish (Consultants).
Tu documenta bas ritd ditbuftion and may be wed by recipients only in the perfobnnme of
thr offca duoo  Its cone     my not otheoi  be didosed without Wodd Dank authoaom



- ii -
Page No.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT                                    ........ 19
Project Management and Coordination          .     .......................   19
Financial Management                      . ....  20
Execution of Project Works .       . ..................----.-          -- 21
Progress Reports .       ..............._.--------. .    .     -       22
V. MARKETING, PRICES, BENEFITS AND RISKS ..22
Marketing                     ...22
Financial and Economic Prices .        . .............................   23
Production .       .        ........... .24
Employment and Income .      . ...............................--...   24
Financial and Economic Analysis                  . . .    25
Project Risks ...............................................   26
VI. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .28
TABLES IN THE TEXT
3.1 Summary of Project Costs
3.2 Procurement Profile
5.1  Stmmary of Rate of Return Analysis
TABLES IN THE ANNEXES
1. Background Data
1.1 Summary Forest Data, by Province
1.2 Timber Production in Major Producing Provinces, 1981-82
1.3 Provincial Data on State Forest Farms, 1982
1.4 Phyto-Geographic Regions in the Project
1.5 Location of SFFs and CTBs by Province and County
1.6 Forest Areas and Standing Volumes of Project CTBs, 1982
1.7 Log Production in Project Bases, 1971-82
1.8 Income Statement, Project CTBs, 1981-83
2. Cost Data
2.1  Project Cost Summary
2.2 Project Expenditure Schedule
2.3 Expected Price Increases
2.4 Project Financing Plan by Source and Year
2.5 Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
2.6 Proposed Allocation of Credit Proceeds
2.7 Unit Costs of Plantation Establishment by Province
2.8 Unit Costs of Read Construction



- iii -
2.9   Estimated Costs of Equipment and Vehicles
2.10 Estimated Costs of Timber Processing Equipment
2.11  Estimated Costs and Phasing of Technical Assistance
2.12 Indicative Costs of Equipment for Research and Extension
2.13 Costs and Phasing of Building Construction
3. Data on Production, Processing and Marketing
3.1 Plantation Establishment and Forest Improvement by Province
3.2 Location and Phasing of Afforestation and Road Construction
3.3 Cutting Regimes and Yields on New Plantations
3.4 Tree Species, Meal Annual Increments and
Rotations by Province
3.5 Domestic Training Program
3.6 Design Standards for Forest Roads
4. Economic and Financial Analysis
4.1 Financial and Economic Prices of Roundwood
4.2 Summary of Economic and Financial Prices of Major
Project Inputs and Outputs
4.3 Cash Flow for Timber Production and Wood Processing
4.4 Economic Costs and Benefits in Timber Production and Wood
Processing
5. ExampLes of Statements of Expenditure and Progress Reporting Forms
5.1 Example of Statement of Expenditure for Reimbursement Against
IDA-Financed Works
5.2 Project Progress Reporting Form for SFFs
5.3 Project Progress Reporting Form for Research and Fxtension
6. Glossary of Technical Terms
7. Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
LIST OF FIGURES
3.1 Implementation Schedule
4.1 Organization of the Ministry of Forestry
4.2 Organization of a Typical State Forest Farm
4.3 Organization for Project Implementation
MAPS
IBRD 18611 - Forestry Development Project
IBRD 18614 - Commercial Timber Bases, Guangdong
IBRD 18612 - Commercial Timber Bases, Heilongjiang
IBRD 18613 - Commercial Timber Bases, Sichuan



-iv -
CHNA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Suimm&r
Borrower:       People's Republic of China
Amount:         IDA Credit: SDR $47.8 miLlion
Terms:          Standard
Project
Description:  In support of the Government's program to develop forest
resources, the project would accelerate afforestation and
improve management and exploitation of existing forests on
92 state forest farms in Guangdong, Heilongjiang and Sichuan
Provinces. The project would establish about 82,000 ha of
forest plantations, introduce forest improvement measures on
existing young plantations and natural forests, construct and
upgrade about 1,900 km of forest roads and tracks, and expand
equipment and vehicle fleets. It would provide for the
construction of about 157,000 sq m of buildings and 1,100 km
of utility lines and the establishment of wood processing
facilities. The project would strengthen forest research
facilities in four provinces and establish extension centers
in ten provinces. A technical assistance component would
provide overseas training opportunities (533 man-months) in
logging, forest road construction, forest production, research
and extensions, and consulting services (34 man-months) in
forestry research and extension and soil science. At full
d velopment the project w3uld produce annually about 546,000
m" of roundwood, 10,000 m of plywood and other miscellaneous
wood products to meet strong internal demand. The project
faces no significant technical or administrative risks.



Estimated Costs:                                    Local      Foreign   Total
($ million) ---
Plantation establishment                         11.4          0.6       12.0
Forest improvement                               11.1          Z.6       11.7
Chemical fertilizer                               0.5          2.7        3.1
Forest road construction                         22.7          1.2       23.9
Equipment and vehicles                            2.5         10.0       12.5
Buildings and utilities for SFFs                 10.1          1.1       11.2
Wood processing facilities                        6.3          4.2       10.6
Training and technical assistance (SFFs)          0.2          0.8        1.0
Hanagements and overhead for SFFs                 2.4           -         2.4
Research and extension centers                   10.9          8.9       19.7
Base Cost                                     78.1         30.0     108.1
Physical contingencies                            6.9          2.7        9.6
Price contingencies                              13.1          5.0       18.1
Total Project Costs /a                        98.1         37.7     135.8
Financing Plan:
IDA                                         15.8        31.5       47.3
Government and state forest farms           82.3          6.2      88.5
Total                                       98.1         37.7     135.8
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA FY               1986      1987       1988      1989       1990
Annual                     7.1       14.6      14.0       10.2       1.4
Cumulative                 7.1      21.7       35.7       45.9      47.3
Rate of Return: >50Z
/a No taxes are imposed on major cost items.



CHINA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
Introduction
1.01      The Government of China has requested Bank Group assistance in
financing a Forestry Development Project, with major investment activities in
the provinces of Guangdong, Heilongjiang and Sichuan. The project would esta-
blish about 82,000 ha of plantation forests, provide improved silvicultural
management in existing plantations and natural forest, construct or improve
some 1,900 km of forest roads and tracks, and accelerate logging in areas of
mature forests. The project would construct and equip wood processing
facilities and provide housing, office blocks and service buildings for the
staff and workers in participating state forest farms (SFFs). It would
strengthen forestry research activities in four provinces and forestry exten-
sion programs in ten provinces.
The Forestry Sector
1.02      Resources and Production.  With about 120 million ha (13% of the
total land area) under forest cover, China ranks first in Asia and sixth in
the world in terms of forest reserves. On a per capita basis, this translates
into 0.13 ha of forested area per person, compared to India's 0.52 ha and a
world average of 1.25 ha. Of China's total forested area, about a third is
virgin forest, nearly half secondary (natural) forest and the balance
replanted forest. Since 1949 some 86 million ha have been afforested, but
plantings on only about one third of that area are reported to have survi-
ved. Survival rates in recent years have been higher. Total growing stock is
estimated to be 9.5 billion cu m, of which 55Z is in coniferous species and
45Z is in broadleaved types. About 21% of the forested area is in Heilong-
jiang Province alone and five provinces (Heilongjiang, Yunnan, Jilin, Guang-
dong, Sichuan) account for 48% of the total. In contrast, the five provinces
with the smallest areas under forest (Ningxia, Qinghai, Nei Monggol, Jiangsu,
Shandong) make up less than 2% of the total cover. A significant feature of
China's forest resource is the high proportion of the forested area and of the
standing volume accounted for by mature forests (more than 30% and 60%,
respectively). In part this is due to a lack of forest roads which has
impeded exploitation.
1.03      Forestry's share in the gross value of agricultural output (GVAO)
remains relatively small, but has increased steadily from about 1% in the
early 1950s to just over 4% at present. Employment in forestry and forest
industries totals 2.2 million (less than 1Z of the rural work force), with 602
in wood processing, 30% in land preparation and planting and 10% in nursery
operations, logging, etc. Industrial roundwood production in recent years has
been about 50 million cu m. Substantial additional quantities, incLuding logs
and poles, but excluding fuelwood, are produced largely for self-use by



-2-
collectives and rural households. Estimates of timber used annually for fuel-
wood range as high as 70 million cu m. Production of timber products includes
sawn timber (2 million cu m in 1981), plywood (0.35 million cu m), fiberboard
(0.57 million cu m) and particleboard (76,700 cu m).  Paper and paperboard
output was about 5.7 million tons in 1982. Annu-1l per capita consumption of
industrial forestr3 products is less t an 0.10 m (excluding fuelwood)
compared to 0.08 m in India and 1.5 m in the United States. Until 1975,
imports of forestry products were insignificant in China. Since then, the
nation's declining forest reserves coupled with rising demand for timber have
led to a dramatic increase in imports of wood and wood products. Imports of
logs, sawn timber, veneer, and plywood rose from USS242 million (CIF basis) in
1976 to a peak of US$642 million in 1980. Between 1978 and 1981, pulp and
paper imports rose from less than 600,000 tons (US$150 million) to 1.4 million
tons (US$630 million). Expected income gains will almost certainly result in
continued rapid growth in demand for forest products, larger imports, and an
increasing drain on foreign exchange unless steps are taken to improve forest
areas and to accelerate the pace of afforestation.
1.04      Organization of the Sector.  Forestry development programs are
implemented largely by the Ministry of Forestry which was established in the
early 1950s and several years later expanded through a merger with the
Ministry of Forest Industries. The Ministry of Forestry was absorbed by the
Ministry of Agriculture in 1971 and was reestablished as a separate entity in
1978 as part of the Government's efforts to emphasize forestry development.
Today the Ministry includes seven major departments (Figure 4.1). Similar
administrative structures exist at provincial and county levels, where bureaus
of forestry are administratively responsible to their respective levels of
local government. On technical matters these bureaus are under the guidance
of the Ministry of Forestry. The structure of local forest bureaus varies,
depending on the importance of forestry in the area. Where forestry is of
minor importance, forestry and agriculture frequently are combined into a
single bureau. State forest farms are responsible to county forest bureaus.
1.05      For Heilongjiang a special administrative structure has been
established. There exist both a General Administration of Forestry (GAF) and
a Provincial Bureau of Forest Management (BFM), each administratively respon-
sible to the provincial government and technically responsible to the Ministry
of Forestry. The GAF oversees some 64 local Forest Enterprise Bureaus which
are directly involved in logging, afforestration and timber processing. Each
enterprise is an independent accounting unit and is expected to earn pro-
fits. These enterprises operate in areas with the richest forest resources.
The BFM, operating through county and municipal forest bureaus, oversees 354
state forest farms (SFFs). The SFFs are less well-developed than the
enterprises supervised by the GAF and some continue to receive state budgetary
subventions for capital construction through the provincial BFM.
1.06      Nationwide there are over 100 forest enterprise bureaus and
3,900 SFFs, of which -- in addition to the 354 in Heilongjiang -- 296 are in
Sichuan and 222 in Guangdong. Currently about 60% of the industrial roundwood
is produced by state forest enterprises while about 30% is produced by collec-
tives and 10% by SFFs. The major objective of the SFF system is to expand
China's forestry base through accelerated afforestation and improved manage-



ment of forest lands. In totaL the SFFs manage more than 46 million ha of
land, of which 26 million ha are under forest. Most of the total managed area
not currently under forest is suitriole for forestry development. The SFFs
employ about 500,000 people and account for 10% of the standing volume of
timber in China, 21% of the total forested area, and 25% of the area under
forest plantations.  Since 1979 the production responsibility system (PRS) has
been introduced as a means to encourage afforestation programs on more than 50
million ha of barren or sparsely covered areas throughout China.  Provincial
governments and SFFs are now entering into special afforestation contracts
with individual families or groups of households. Under the terms of these
contracts, ownership of newly planted trees belongs to the contracting
families or groups and is considered legally transferable while the land
remains the property of the state.
1.07      Support Services.  The MFO's Academy of Forest Science (AFS),
China's leading agency for forestry research, operates seven institutes loca-
ted in the Beijing area and three institutes in the provinces. Most provinces
and some prefectures operate research institutes and several forestry and
agricultural colleges also carry out research. The AFS tends to focus on
basic research while applied work is left to lower-level institutes. The
Acadea.y has the responsibility to coordinate research work among provincial
research institutes, although it appears that considerable duplication
exists. Research priorities at the national level are determined through
interaction between the AFS, the State Council, State Planning Commission and
the State Scientific and Technological Commission. The 1982 budget for
forestry research by the Ministry of Forestry was Y 6 million (less than 0.1%
of the annual gross value of forest production in recent years) and was chan-
nelled largely through the ten AFS-affiliated research institutes. Research
expenditures by provincial forestry institutes are funded largely by provin-
cial governments.
1.08      Forestry extension services are being strengthened to meet dem,ands
created by contracting-out arrangemenLs and other new programs to encourage
afforestation. A Division of Technical Exchange and Extension was established
within the MFO's Department of Science and Technology in 1980. In 1983, the
Government announced plans to set up a national network of forestry extension
units at the provincial and county levels. Eight provincial stations had been
established by mid-1984. Construction of about 50 county foresty teclmical
extension centers is to be completed by 1987. Extension work at present is
handicapped by shortages of buildings, equipment and trained staff. The
collection of tree seeds is organized by the PFBs through seed centers which
operate by employing collection teams or by purchasing seeds from collective
nurseries. In areas where seed is scarce or new species are to be introduced,
collection and interprovinciaL exchanges are organized by the MFO. The SFFs
operate about 30,000 ha of nurseries throughout China, frequently on rela-
tively good land formerly under annual crops.
1.09      Forestry Policy.  In the presence of rapid growth in demand and
concern over deteriorating forest resources in many parts of China, the
Government has accorded higher priority to forestry development in recent
years. Future development is to stress accelerated afforestation, increased
exploitation of mature and over-mature areas, expansion of forest industries



- 4 -
and strengthening of forest research, education and extension. Government
plans call for the land area under forest to be increased to about 20% by
2000, an increment of some 60 mil ha.  Ann 3al harvesting of industrial round-
wood is to increase to about 100 million m by 2000 and the production of
wood-based panels is projected to almost triple from present levels. Affore-
station of some 60 mil ha would require annual planting of about 6 mil ha with
a survival rate exceeding 60%. The share of industrial roundwood production
sold in the free market is being expanded to increase the financial incentives
for forestry development.
1.10      Constraints to Development.  A major constraint to more efficient
exploitation of China's existing natural forest resources is the lack of
adequate access roads in the large areas of virgin forest in Heilongjiang, Nei
Mongol, Sichuan and Yunnan.  China is reported to have only 2.3 m of forest
roads per ha of trees, as compared with the 9-10 m/ha which would be desirable
in the types of forestry and terrain found in China.  In part, this shortage
of access roads reflects difficult terrain, complicated by low population
densities in these areas, severe climate (in the Northeast), and the lack of
adequate road construction equipment. Long distances between China's
remaining forest resources and population centers also adversely affect
exploitation. The inadequate road network and poorly-developed techniques in
fire control are reported to result in fire losses which are several times as
large as those experienced in other countries under similar physical condi-
tions. An additional constraint to efficient forest exploitation is the use
of outdated equipment in logging operations. Efficiency is low and the log
volumes removed are well below what could be achieved with improved equipment.
1.11      There appears to be an abundaiq.e of poorly-utilized land for the
development of new plantations, but some of that land, particularly in the
more densely populated parts of the country, is of low quality, being either
abandoned agricultural land or steep terrain with shallow and eroded soils.
High population densities and a shortage of fuelwood in many areas also lead
to problems of illegal cutting. P1anting on degraded sites appears to have
been hampered by inadequate research on suitable species and the appropriate
use of chemical fertilizers. Survival rates in many of the plantings have
been low. Some of the existing plantations have been planted too densely for
optimum growth and are in need of thinning which, at this stage of relatively
advanced growth, is difficult.
1.12      A major constraint related to utilization of forest products is the
lack of processing plants close to the main forest areas. A particular prob-
lem is the shortage of wood based panel plants which can make use of logging
wastes, sawmill residues and secondary species which have Limited market
value. Within existing manufacturing plants, particularly small-scale indus-
tries operated by SFFs, there is considerable scope for the introduction of
more modern equipment to minimize losses in log conversion, improve the
quality and value of the end product and enhance plant safety.
1.13      A general constraint to the development of forest resources is the
shortage of trained technical and managerial manpower resulting f:om the rapid
expansion of forestry activities in China and the hiatus in technical training
during the Cultural Re'olution. Less than 5Z of all forestry workers have



-5-
received secondary or higher education. Some staff of the forestry research
institutes are underqualiZied with only about 1OZ hoLding the Ph.D. equivalent
or senior researcher positions. Apart from formal qualifications, most
researchers are in need of Aefresher courses to make up for years of isolation
from the international research community.
Bank Group Lending for Forestry
1.14      Lending in China's forestry sector is part of the Bank's broader
efforts to assist in expanding the production of commodities expected to be in
continued short supply. While the proposed Forestry Development Project is
the Bank's first full-scale involvement in the sector, forestry components
have figured importantly in other IDA-financed projects in agriculture which
have had as their primary focus land development and strengthening agricul-
tural support services. The North China Plain Project and the proposed
Pishihang Chaohu Area Development Project include establishment of tree
nurseries, plantations, and protective border plantings on a total of more
than 50,000 ha. The Rubber Development Project in Guangdong Province is
assisting in the new planting and replanting of about 40,000 ha of rubber
trees and 12,000 ha of windbreaks. The Agricultural Education and Research
Project and the Second Agricultural Research Project are providing scientific
equipment, computers, technical assistance and training to expand and upgrade
forestry research institutes. The Rural Credit Project is financirg invest-
ments in Guangxi Province to develop, inter alia, orchard and other tree
crops.
Project Origin and Rationale
1.15      In early 1983 the Ministry of Forestry presented proposals to the
World Bank for a forestry development project which had as main features the
establishment of plantations, improvement and exploitation of natural forest,
forest industries developrent and support to forestry education and research.
A BanK team discussed the proposals and visited proposed project sites in
March 1983. In subsequent months the project concept was modified slightly in
terms of geographical location and content. Based on a visit to China in
October 1983 by the FAO/CP, a preparation report was completed in March 1984.
The research and extension components were prepared with the assistance of the
FAO/CP and appraisal took place in September 1984. The major rationale for
Bank involvement in this project is to help expand China's forest resource
base through afforestation, forest road construction and improved management
of planted areas. Assistance to the SeFs is an appropriate mechanism in this
regard because of the central role accorded to them in afforestation, the
extensive forested areas under their control and the sizeable areas available
to them for future plantings. Technology transfer in the project is expected
to be considerable. Notwithstanding some impressive efforts at afforestation,
forestry in China is less advanced than crop development. The project would
increase supplies of high quality seed and introduce improved technologies
related to soil and plant analysis, plant spacing, weeding, thinning and fire
protection, use of chemical fertilizers in nurseries and new plantings, road
construction, logging, log handling and wood utilization. Proposed study
tours would update technical knowlege of SFF staff who have been relatively
isolated from international developments over the past 30 years. Project



- 6 -
assistance to forestry research and extension would come at a time when these
activities are being reformulated and given increased emphasis by the
Government. In view of the need to expand production of wood and wood
products and upgrade technology, this project could be viewed as the first of
several Bank Group operations in the sector.
II. FORESTRY IN THE PROJECT AREA
Location and Topography
2.01      The afforestation and forest management activities in the project
would take place on 92 SFFs in Guangdong, Heilongjiang and Sichuan Provin-
ces. The provincial forestry research institutes to be strengthened are in
Guangdong, Guangxi, Shaanxi and Sichuan. The ten extension centers to be
established are in Fujian, Gansu, Hebei, Henan, Hubei, Hunan, Liaoning,
Shandong, Sichuan and Zhejiang (Annex Map 18611). The 92 SFFs have been
grouped into 12 'commercial timber bases" (CTBs), of which six are in Heilong-
jiang, three in Sichuan and three in Guangdong. In most cases, the SFFs are
located in the more remote and mountainous parts of the provinces. This is
particularly true in Sichuan, where the participating SFFs are located at
altitudes ranging from 700 to 2,200 m on slopes ranging from 25% to 45Z. In
Heilongjiang the elevation of participating SFFs ranges from 200 m to 1,000 m.
Forests and plantations of these farms are generally situated on the undulat-
ing plains to the northeast of Harbin. In Guangdong, two of the CTBs are in
hilly to mountainous areas with elevations to 1,700 m. In contrast, the
Leizhou CTB is on low-lying (up to 100 m), flat to gently sloping land. The
three provinces are widely dispersed and represent differing agro-ecological
zones: Heilongjiang is the most northerly province in the country; GCangdong
is the most southerlv; and Sichuan borders on the Tibetan plateau in the west.
Climate
2.02      All three provinces faLl into the continental monsoon zone, but wide
differences in latitude (20 degrees N to 47 degrees N) result in distinct
variations in climate (Annex 1, Table 4). Heilongjiang has a long winter with
mean annual temperatures in January of -25°C. Depending on location, the
length of the growing season varies from 120 to 130 days. The climate in
Sichuan is very favorable for plant growth with mean annual temperatures
ranging from 15C to 21C and an average for at least 10 months of the year of
more than 10°C. Guangdong has a subtropical climate, with mean annual
temperatures of 22C to 26C.  Frost rarely occurs.  Rainfall is adequate for
forest growth in all three provinces, ranging from 635-1,015 m annually in
Heilongjiang to 1,200 to 2,800 mn in Guangdong. Typhoons are common in parts
of Guangdong.
Soils
2.03      In Heilongjiang the soils include moderately leached podsols in the
mountains, brown forest soils in the lower slopes, and deeper and richer
alluvial soils in the plains. In Sichuan the hills and mountains are mainly
sandstones, shales or granite while red and yellow podsolic soils are found in
the south and east. In Cuangdong soils include gray-brown podsols in the



hills, red earths and non-calcareous alluvials in the coastal belt and some
yellow laterites in other areas. All soils in the project areas tend to be
acidic. In general, soil conditions are satisfactory for the proposed
forestry development activities.
Forest Resources
2.04      Forests in Heilongjiang are characterized by mixed coniferous and
northern broadleaf types, including species of pines, maple, birch, larch,
ash, poplar and aspen. Forests in Sichuan and northern Guangdong are repre-
sented by the evergreen broadleaf types, including more than 40 species of
evergreen oaks.  Commercially valuable coniferous species associated with the
evergreen broadleaf forest are Pinus massoniana, Cryptomeria fortunei and
Cunninghamia lanceolata. Various species of bamboo are also important in
these areas. The project area of southern Guangdong includes extensive
plantations of exotic eucalyptus and trials are under way with exotic tropical
pines.
2.05      The 92 SFFs in the project encompass a&but 1.2 mil ha, of which
729,000 are under forest (Annex 1, Table 3).  Plantation forestry accounts for
179,000 ha of this total.  These fasms carry an estimated 53.8 miL mi  of
standing timber, of which 8.3 mil m  are in the plantations.  About 5OZ of the
total standing volume is classified as mature or over-mature natural timber.
H'ilongjiang accounts for 65Z of the total standing volume on participating
SFFs and the farms in Guangdong account for about 56% of the total plantation
area. The farms in Sichuan make up only 20Z of the total standing volume of
timber in the project, but account for 35% of the mature or over-mature
timber.  9oundwood production in these 12 CTBs peqked in 1978 at about
542,000 m and subsequently declined to 461,000 min in 1982. More than half of
total production came from Heilongjiang, 40% from Guangdong and less than 1OZ
from Sichuan (Annex 1, Table 7).
Infrastructure
2.06      The permanent labor force resident on project SFFs numbered about
20,800 in 1982. The SFFs also employ seasonal workers from nearby collectives
for plantation establishment, forest tending and logging, and road
construction and maintenance. The quality of housing for permanent workers
varies widely from farm to farm, but tends to be poorest in Sichuan and the
best in Guangdong. Housing floor space per capita on the SFFs averages well
below the national figure for rural areas and severe housing shortages exist
on some farms. All of the CTBs in the project are accessible by either rail,
road or waterway, but access in certain locations, e.g., some parts of
Sichuan, is difficult. The density of forest roads and tracks on the farms is
far below that considered to be the economic optimum in other countries with
similar topographic conditions and ranges from 0.8 m per ha in Sichuan to
about 2.2 m per ha in Guangdong. Participating SFFs are served by local power
generating facilities or the regional power grid.



Ilt. THE PROJECT
Project Description
3.01      In support of the Government's program to develop forest resources,
the project would accelerate afforestation and improve management and exploi-
tation of existing forests on 92 SFFs in Guangdong, Heilongjiang and
Sichuan. The project would also strengthen forest research facilities in four
provinces and establish extension centers in ten provinces. The main features
of the project are:
(a) the establishment of about 82,000 ha of forest plantations of which
some 24,000 would be fast-growing plantations;
(b) forestry -xprovement, including tending of some 73,000 ha of young
plantations and thinning in about 49,000 ha of young plantations and
natural forest;
(c) construction or upgrading of about 1,430 km of forest roads to Class
III standards and construction of about 500 km of forest tracks;
(d) provision of logging trucks, wheeled and crawler tractors, logging
and log handling equipment and passenger vehicles;
(e) contruction of about 157,000 sq m of buildings, 1,100 km of utility
lines, and other infrastructure related to forest fire protection
and log handling;
(f) construction of wood processing facilities, including a plywood
mill, a tannin extract factory, a wood shuttle factory and small
wood working shops;
(g) strengthening of forest research and extension programs by providing
equipment for four provincial forestry research institutes and
constructing and equipping ten forestry extension centers; and
(h)  provision of training and technical assistance, including domestic
and overseas training and consulting services for participating SFFs
and overseas training and consulting services in support of forestry
extension and research activities.
Plantation Establishment
3.02      About 82,300 ha would be planted during the project implementation
period, 1985-88. Some 23,900 ha would be fast growing plantations, of which
70Z would be in the Leizhou CTB of southern Guangdong. In Guangdong, the
major species to be planted would include Cunninghamia Lanceolata,
Pinus Massoniana in the north and Eucalyptus Esserta, E. Citriodora and E.
Leizhou No. 1 in the south. Major species in Heilongjiang include Larix
Gmelini, Pinus Koraensis and P. Silvestris, while in Sichian the major species
would be Cunninghamia Lanceolata and Pinus Armandii. In the past, espacement



- 9 -
of plants in some of the plantations have been unduly close, resulting in
unnecessarily high planting costs and, in many cases, near stagnation of tree
growtb early in the rotation. The recommended plant spacing is 1.33 m x 3 m
(2,500 plants/ha) in Leizhou, 1.8 m x 1.8 m (3,000 plants/ha) in northern
Guangdong and 1.5 m x 2 m (3,333 plants/ha) in Heilongjiang and Sichuan.
These figures compare with current planting densities in excess of 4,000
trees/ha in some of the project areas. Further refinements of these recommen-
dations would be expected from research provided for by the project. Planting
costs could also be decreased, and labor productivity increased, by limiting
the size of the planting pit to about 30 cm x 30 cm x 30 cm in most areas.
Cutting rotations would range from 40-50 years in Heilongjiang to 15-20 years
in Guangdong. The project would supply some 10,800 tons of chemical ferti-
lizer for use particularly in the fast growing plantations, at the rate of 5J
grams per seedling at time of planting, and for subsequent applications as
required at weeding and thinning. The increased use of fertilizer would
provide an important impetus to growth in the early years of the plantings,
thereby enabling trees to overcome weed competition more readily and substan-
tially reducing weeding costs. Rapid early growth would accelerate cash flow
from the plantations by producing saleable log volumes at time of first
thinning. Annual timber growth ra es are projected to vary from 6-8 m3Jha
(Larix) in HeiLongjiang to 12-15 m /ha (Eucalyptus spp.) in Guangdong. The
major product would be roundwood, with intermediate yield during thinning of
pulpwood, mining timbers and construction poles.
3.03      Closer control by MFO is helping to improve quality of tree seeds,
but much of the seed continues to be collected from easily accessible stands,
many of which have been cut over and comprise trees of poor form and low
growth potential. For the principal plantation species, both indigenous and
exotic, there is need in some areas for additional seed orchards to supply
seed from superior parent materials. The project would establish 60 ha of
seed orchard in Sichuan for the production of seeds of Cunninghamia
lanceolata, Pinus armandii, Cryptomeria japonica, and various exotic pine
species. Seed supplies of adequate quality are more readily available in
Cuangdong and Heilongjiang.
3.04      Fertilization regimes in the SFF nurseries include generous
quantities of organic manure, but chemical fertilizers have been rarely used,
and then largely urea, because of inadequate supplies. Some of the chemical
fertilizers provided in the project would be used to meet this need. In
general, nursery practices throughout the project area are adequate and
robust, disease free planting materials are produced. With the proposed
expansion of seed orchards under the project, sufficient seedlings would be
available to meet requirements. About 25% of the seedlings produced on the
project SFFs would be made available for purchase by nearby collectives.
Forest Improvement
3.05      Forest improvement includes tending and thinning operations.
Tending includes weeding to the stage of canopy cover and the first thinning
of noncommercial (small diameter) timber. Under the project, 73,000 ha of
young plantations would be weeded in their formative years. Intensity of
weeding would vary among provinces, but in general the northern project areas



- 10 -
are expected to require weeding about five times over the first three years
after planting, while the southern areas might require up to seven weedings in
the first four or five years. Past thinnings in some areas have not been
carried out as frequently, or as heavily, as required to produce optimum
growth rates and output of saleable timber. Commercial thinning and other
improvement operations (improvement felling, selection felling) would take
place on about 48,000 ha of young plantations and natural forest. Thinning in
most of the plantations would approximate a five-year cycle, beginning at
about age five (20 years in Heilongjiang) and continuing until age fifteen
(30-35 years in Heilongjiang). More intensive thinning regimes would enhance
tree diameter growth rates, provide greater intermediate returns before clear
felling and produce a higher quality end product. Details on plantation
yields and cutting regimes are provided in Annex 3, Table 3.
3.06      Protective measures against fire, disease and insect pests are
essential parts of tending operations. Fire risks are not considered substan-
tial in most of the project areas under natural forest, but are considerable
in all of the plantations during certain parts of the year. Fire risks during
the first and second years of planting are expected to be reduced by the pro-
posed intensive weeding program. Under the project, the effectiveness of fire
detection and suppression would be increased by the provision of nine look-out
towers and modern comnunication and fire suppression equipment.  The expanded
network of forest roads and tracks would also help in fire control. Fungal
and insect pests do not pose major threats in the project area due to ongoing
control through biological and chemical means. The risk of disease is reduced
by the general policy of creating mixed plantations and maintaining a high
proportion of natural stands as protection forests.
Forest Road Construction
3.07      The density of forest roads on project farms varies from less than
one mi/ha in Sichuan to two to three m/ha in Guangdong, or less than one-fifth
of the density considered optimum in other countries with similar topographic
conditions. While design standards are generally adequate, the technology
which has been used in constructing forest roads is inefficient and costly,
-'rticularly in areas of difficult topography such as Sichuan.  The project
would construct some 930 km of forest roads to Class III standards (Annex 3,
Table 6), upgrade about 500 km of forest roads to Class III standards and
construct about 500 km of forest tracks. Nearly 60X of the Class III road
building program would be in Sichuan where the existing density of forest
roads is particularly deficient. Methods used in road construction and
maintenance would continue to reflect the relatively labor abundant
circumstances in some of the project areas such as Sichuan, but provision
would be made to introduce more mechanized approaches where warranted by
economic and technical circumstances. As a result of the project, the density
of forest roads and tracks in the three provinces would increase by at least
75%; in Sichuan the average density would increase from less than one m/ha to
more than five m/ha.



Equipment and Vehicles
3.08      Logging in the project areas is seasonal, depending on weather and
the availability of labor. Logging in Heilongjiang takes place during the
winter months when the ground is frozen, while in Sichuan logging occurs over
an eight month period when slack demand for agricultural labor exists. In
Guangdong no logging takes pl'ace during the main typhoon season (July-August)
and log transport is concentrated during the six month dry season. Logging
systems tend to be labor intensive, except in Leizhou where labor scarcities
exist. Felling, debarking and crosscutting are generally done by hand, partly
because available equipment, such as chainsaws, is heavy and cumbersome. Most
skidding is done by cable systems (Sichuan), draft animals or crawler skidders
(Heilongjiang) or by human powered, two wheeled carts (Guangdong). Logs are
generally hand loaded, except for heavy logs cut from mature forests, onto
5-ton trucks for transport to point of sale. Log handling at log yards is
generally slow and uses cumbersome cable cranes and winches. Under the
project, equipment and vehicles would be introduced primarily to improve the
efficiency of logging, log handling and timber transport. Logging operations
would be made more efficient by the introduction of improved cable logging
systems, articulated skidders and improved chain saws. The introduction of
improved cable logging systems would be particularly important in Sichuan
where 70% of logging must be done by cable systems because of difficult
topography. About 400 trucks would be introduced and the average load
capacity increased from the present five tons per truck to seven tons. Four
truck-mounted hydraulic cranes would be introduced to facilitate loading of
trucks at roadside and five articulated front-end loaders equipped with log
forks would be provided to replace cable cranes and winches at log yards.
Five of the log yards would be expanded ro accommodate the larger volume of
logs 'expecced from project activities. Other vehicles, consisting of 4-wheel
drive utility vehicles, pickups and microbuses, would assist in passenger
transport and fire control activities.
Buildings and Utilities on SFFs
3.09      The relatively autonomous nature and isolated location of most
participating SFFs requires that each have a comprehensive set of buildings
and supporting infrastructure. Construction of buildings and utilities would
account for about 11%, and housing and schools about 4%, of project base
costs. Housing construction would alleviate crowded conditions on SFFs and
provide some additional facilities for field crews engaged in logging and
plantation establishment and management. Some state farms in Heilongjiang
report average housing per capita at present of only about three sq m compared
with the national average of more than ten sq m. In Sichuan the total
building area (residences and service buildings) per capita on SFFs is about
four sq m. The project would construct about 100,000 sq m of housing and
school buildings in Heilongjiang and Sichuan. This construction, consisting
largely of multiple-dwelling housing blocks, would increase the average 2
housing area per capita for employees on participating SFFs by about 3.8 m2.
The project would also include construction of 33,060 sq m of storage and
garage area, 13,150 sq m of office space and 10,350 sq m of mechanical
workshops on SFFs. It would provide about 739 km of telephone lines and
345 km of power lines, construct and equip nine fire watch towers and con-



- 12 -
struct other miscellaneous transport and log handling facilities. About 85%
of the construction program would take place in Heilongjiang and the balance
in Sichuan. Other construction would be carried out in support of the fores-
try research and extension activities (paras. 3.11-3.14).
Wood Processing Facilities
3.10      The project would c 3nstruct a plywood mill in Shaoguan, Guangdong,
capable of producing IC,000 m of plywood per year. The mill would introduce
to the area the technology to utilize small diameter (180-250 mm) logs in the
production of boards with thicknesses of 3.5 to 19 mmn depending on log
quality.  Annual log utilization would be 25-30,000 m . This technology
entails a relatively low conversion rate of 33-35% and higher unit production
costs. but permits the utilization of small-diameter timber with hitherto
limited commercial value. Wood residues would be sold to an adjacent
fiberboard mill. A factory to extract tannin from eucalyptus leaves would be
established in Leizhou, Guangdong. This plant would utilize each year some
5,000 tons of leaves and twigs to produce 1,000 tons of tannin extract for use
as a drying agent in the local cement industry. The process, already
operating on a small scale in the project area, consists of cooking the raw
material, distilling the product and drying the extract.  Equipment would be
supplied from local sources and some facilities such as housing would be
shared with the adjacent wood processing plant. In Bin County, Heilongjiang,
the project would establish a factory capable of producing annually about 1
million wood shuttles for the textiLe industry.  The factory would utilize
about 4,000 mi  of logs annually from the SFFs of the area and employ about
360 workers at full development. The site, about 64 km from Harbin, has good
road and river access. On participating SFFs in Sichuan, the project would
construct and equip 12 small workshops to process locally available bamboo and
small-dimension timber into packing boxes, shuttles and bobbins and iimple
furniture. These small units are expected to utilize about 13,000 mi of
timber and 30,000 m of bamboo each year.
Research and Extension Centers
3.11      Forestry Research.  The project would strengthen forestry research
capabilities in the provinces of Guangdong, Shaanxi and Sichuan and in Guangxi
Autonomous Region (Annex Map 18611). The research efforts would focus on
(i) site classification and soil management; (ii) tree improvement and tree
breeding; (iii) high yield forest management systems; and (iv) forest products
utilization research. During the first year of the project, forestry research
scientists and administrators would visit overseas institutions which are
working on similar problems and would assess research technologies and
equipment considered most appropriate to conditions in their respective
provinces. For eact research topic noted above, the research plan would spell
out objectives, research methodology and equipment needs. Assurances were
obtained that research plans and equipment lists would be completed by June
30, 1986 and would be submitted to IDA for review and approval. Since
selection of appropriate research equipment would depend on the outcome of the
research planning exercise for each topic, only indicative estimates of the
cost of this equipment are provided in this report (Annex 2, Table 12).
Detailed equipment lists would be included in the final research proposals.



- 13 -
3.12      In addition to supporting major provincial and county level research
and extension activities, the project would undertake two research activities
directly related to the afforestation component: (a) the establishment cf
soil laboratories in Heilongjiang and Sichuan; and (b) the creation of a
mechanized land preparation unit in Leizhou, Guangdong. Within the project
SFFs, wide variation exists over relatively small areas in soil type, fertil-
ity and depth, thereby complitating tree planting and fertilization regimes.
To address this problem the project would construct and equip two small
(100 sq m each) soil laboratories at Harbin, Heilongjiang and Chengdu, Sichuan
(facilities already exist in Guangdong) and provide training opportunities and
consulting services. Laboratory staff would undertake soil surveys, chemical
and physical soil analysis and tree nutrition studies for the proposed and
future plantation areas of the project. The research unit in Leizhou,
Guangdong would examine the technical and economic aspects of mechanized land
preparation for large-scale development of eucalyptus plantations. The
relative scarcity of labor in Leizhou, the need for deep plowing preparatory
to planting and the availability of extensive areas of flat land make mecha-
nized land preparation appropriate in these circumstances. The equipment
provided would make it possible to clear new land and uproot stumps at the end
of the rotation and prepare the soil effectively and quickly for the next
planting. The successful introduction of this technology is considered
necessary for the rapid expansion of large-scale, fast-growing eucalypt
plantations in Leizhou.
3.13      Forestry Extension.  In response to the rural reforms of recent
years including, in particular, the decentralization of production decisions
in agriculture and forestry, China's extension services are being reformulated
(para. 1.08). The project would support the construction and equipping of ten
pilot extension centers in Fujian, Gansu, Hebei, Henan, Hubei, Hunan,
Liaoning, Shandong, Sichuan and Zhejiang Provinces (Annex Map No. 18611).
These centers would include simple laboratories, classrooms and offices for
extension personnel and would be fur-aished with audio-visual aids and basic
laboratory equipment. Detailed designs and equipment would be determined
after completion of the forestry extension study tours (para. 3.17). The
centers would: (i) test alternative methods of extension such as optimum
ratios of extension staff to forestry workers or farmers; (ii) develop
material for short courses for forestry extension staff; and (iii) train
extension staff. Overseas study tours would be arranged for key extension
staff to visit other countries and to study their extension experience and
programs. Assurances were obtained that detailed extension plans and
equipment lists w'.uld be completed by June 30, 1986 and would be submitted co
IDA for review and approval.
Training and Technical Assistance
3.14      State Forest Farms.  For the SFFs the project would finance about
84 man-months of overseas study tours (two to four weeks per participant) and
110 man-months of overseas training (more than four weeks per trainee). Study
tours would relate largely to specific issues in forest management, logging
and forest road construction. The overseas training would include work in
soil analysis and plant nutrition, and operation and maintenance of wood
processing equipment. Four man-months of consulting services also would be



- 14 -
provided to SFFs through provincial forestry bureaus to assist in the esta-
blishment of the soil laboratories in Heilongjiang and Sichuan.  Additional
detaiLs on the overseas training and study tours and on consulting services to
the SFFs are provided in Annex 2, Table 11. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that overseas training and study tours would be carried out in
accordance with a program acceptable to IDA. The domestic training program
for the SFFs provides for 1;460 man-months of practical training to forestry
technicians and workers of the SFFs and nearby collectives (Annex 3, Table
5). Up to 10% of the places in the domestic training program would be
occupied by staff and workers on nearby collectives.
3.15      Research and Extension.  About 250 man-months of overseas training
in subjects directly related to forestry development would be provided to
research and exLension staff, including 72 man-months for training to the PhD
leveL (two persons), 120 man-months for training to the MSc level (five
persons) and 58 man-months at the university graduate leveL (Annex 2,
Table 11). Thirty man-months of consulting services would be provided in
support of forest production, research and extension activities. About 15
man-months wotld be utilized to strengthen research in: (i) site classifica-
tion and soil management; (ii) tree improvement and breeding; (iii) afforesta-
tion, forest management and logging; and (iv) extraction and utilization of
forest products, including non-wood materials such as gums and resins.
Another 15 man-months of consultant services would be used to help formulate
and implement forestry extension programs and would include assistance in
extension planning and organization, monitoring and evaluation and the
production of training materials.
3.16      The first phase of the research activity, covering six to nine
months, would include the research planning and management study tour noted in
para. 3.11. The study tour would comprise about ten leading forestry research
scientists (two from each of the four participating research institutes and
two from the AFS or other provincial research institutes). The consuiltants in
forest reseach would include four experts in the above fields, each for a
period of about three to four months. About half of this time would be spent
in reviewing forestry research in China on the above topics and assisting with
the planning of the study tours. The second half of the assignment would be
carried out after completion of the study tours to assist in drawing up
specific research programs and lists of equipment to be financed by the IDA
Credit.
3.17      To help formulate appropriate extension programs, an extension study
tour would be carried out early in the project period to visit countries with
well-developed extension systems in forestry. The study tour would be of
about six weeks duration and include one forestry extension staff member from
each of the ten participatine provinces. Findings of the study tours would be
used in developing the extension centers and their work programs. This task
would be assisted through the provision of consulting services in the areas
indicated in para. 3.15. During the first phase of these tasks, consultants
would assist the MFO and the provincial forestry bureaus in designing the
extension programs for each center. During the third year of the project, the
experiences gained in the centers would be evalutated by KFO and the consul-
tants as the basis for developing an extension program which could be applied
in other parts of China.



- 15 -
Status of Design
3.18      All areas to be pLanted have been surveyed and plans for operations
in the first year of the project have been deveLoped. ALignments of forest
roads and tracks have been established and surveys conducted to estimate
earthworks. All construction of roads and buildings wouLd be carried out in
accord with standard designs. Technical specifications for chemical ferti-
lizers, transportation and logging equipment are being prepared and bid
documents are expected to be compLeted by about July 1985. Contract documents
would follow closely those used for the Heilongjiang Land Reclamation and
Rubber Development Projects.
Implementation Schedule
3.19      The project would be implemented over a four-year period beginning
about July 1, 1985. Major project activities would be carried out by
experienced personnel currently involved with programs of plantation
establishment and forest improvement of the Ministry of Forestry and the
provincial bureaus of forestry. Labor generally is in adequate supply in the
project areas. With the proposed increase in nursery capacity (para. 3.03),
planting materials would be adequate for the planned afforestation program.
The proposed phasing of the afforestation program is based on annual planting
of about 20,000 ha from 1985-88 (Annex 3, Table 2). The construction programs
for Class III roads (about 502 of the total road construction in the project)
and project buildings would be substantially completed by 1987; this is
considered feasible in view of the ready availability of labor and managerial
skills in the project area. Detailed work plans for the first year of the
project have been prepared by the SFFs and provincial forestry bureaus. The
Government's plans for strengthening forestry research and extension
activities would be developed on the basis of the report prepared by the
FAO/CP team in August 1984 and with the help of consultants provided by the
project. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that by September 30 of
each year a detailed work and financing plan for the following year would be
prepared for review by IDA. Procurement actions for goods and services would
begin during the second half of 1985, with first deliveries expected before
mid-1986 (Annex Figure 3.1).
Cost Estimates
3.20      The total project cost in mid-1985 prices is US$135.8 million, with
a foreign exchange component of $37.7 million, or 28% of the total. No taxes
are imposed on major cost items. Unit costs for plantation establishment,
forest improvement, roads and building construction are based on expenditures
by the SFFs for carrying out similar activities in the project areas. Prices
for Locally available equipment are based on data prozided to MFO by local
suppLiers. Prices for vehicles, chemical fertilizers, large log handling
equipment and related items and transport vehicles are based an list prices
obtained from manufacturers. Physical contingencies (8.9Z of project base
costs) equal 10% of base costs of construction (including plantation estab-
lishment and forest improvement) and equipment. For the calculation of price
contingencies, it is assumed that exchange rate adjustme'its will, on average,
be made to maintain the parity of purchasing power during project implementa-



- 16 -
tion. Price escalation for both foreign and local costs when expressed in IUS
dollars, is based on expected international annual price increases of 5% in
1985, 7.5% in 1986 and 8% in 1987-89; and when expressed in yuan, is based on
expected domescic inflation of 3X p.a. in 1985-89. A summary of project costs
is shown in Table 3.1 and details are given in Annex 2.
Table 3.1: SUMMAPY OF PROJECT COSTS
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Foreign
---- (Y million) ----  --- (US$ million) ---    (Z)
Plantation estabLishment             32.0    1.7       33.7   11.4    0.6      12.0   0.05
Forest improvement                   31.1    1.6      32.7   11.1    0.6        11.7   0.05
Chemical fertilizer                    1.3    7.5       8.8    0.5    2.7        3.1   0.85
Forest road construction             63.5    3.3      66.8   22.7    1.2       23.9   0.05
Equipment & vehicles                   7.0   27.9     34.9    2.5   10.0        12.5   0.80
Buildings & utilities for SFFs       28.3    3.1      31.5   10.1    1.1       11.2   0.10
Wood processing facilities           17.7   11.8       29.6    6.3    4.2       10.6   0.40
Training & tech. assist. (SFFS)       0.6    2.2        2.8    0.2    0.8        1.0   0.80
Management & overhead for SFFs        6.6      -        6.6    2.4      -        2.4    -
Research & extension centers         30.4   24.9      55.3   10.9    8.9        19.7   0.45
Base costs (mid-1985 prices)    218.5   84.1    302.6   78.1   30.0    108.1   0.28
Physical contingencies               19.4    7.5      26.9    6.9    2.7        9.6   0.28
Price contingencies                  14.2    5.5       19.6   13.1    5.0      18.1   0.28
Total project costs               252.1   97.0    349.1   98.1   37.7    135.8   0.28
Financing
3.21      Bank Group assistance would be US$47.3 million (35Z of the total
project cost), consisting of an IDA credit of SDR 47.8 million. The balance
of US$88.5 million equivalent would be provided from the centraL government
budget (about US$46.3 million equivalent) and provincial forest bureaus and
participating state farms (about US$42.2 million equivalent). Provincial
governments would contribute about US$16.4 million equivalent in support of
project research and extension activities. Details of the financing plan are
given in Annex 2, Table 4.
Procurement
3.22      International competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank
Group Guidelines would be followed in procurement of equipmenc and vehicles
(US$23.1 million) and chemical fertilizers (US$3.1 million). Domestic manu-
facturers would receive a preference of 15% or the applicable customs duty,



- 17 -
whichever is less, in bid comparison. Prior IDA review of contract awards
would exclude small contracts ($200,000 or less) estimated to cover less than
152 of the value of all contracts. Small items of equipment costing not more
than US$50,000 each or US$5 miLLion in total would be procured on the basis of
three price quotations under procedures acceptable to the Association.
Establishment of plantations (US$15.2 million), forest improvement (US$11.7
million), construction of buildings and utilities on SFFs (US$11.2 million)
and construction of facilities for extension and research (US$7.8 million)
would be carried out by workers on participating SFFs and nearby collectives.
Because these works would be dispersed geographically among several provinces
and 92 SFFs and carried out over the implementation period of the project,
they could not be readily packaged into contracts large enough for ICB.
Construction of forest roads and tracks would be done under contracts between
the SFFs and construction companies from the county or nearby townships.
Competitive bidding among local construction teams, which has been rarely
used by the SFFs, would be encouraged by SFF management in road construction.
Table 3.2: PROCUREMENT PROFILE
(US$ million) la
Procurement methods
Limited        Other      T.A.       Total
Item                           ICB    international      pro-    guide-       cost
bidding /b       cedures    Lines
Plantation establishment                                  15.2                15.2
(7.5)               (7.5)
Forest road construction/                                 23.6                23.6
class 3                                                (6.1)                (6.1)
Chemical fertilizer             3.1                        0.5                 3.7
(3.1)                                          (3.1)
Equipment and vehicles         23.1        5.0                                28.1
(including the plymill)   (23.1)       (5.0)                               (28.1)
Technical assistance                                                  2.5      2.5
(2.5)    (2.5)
Construction & operation/
research and extension                                 12.0                 12.0
Forest improvement                                        11.7                11.7
Buildings and utilities/SFFs                              11.2                11.2
Wood processing (buildings,
equipment except plymiLl)                                7.2                 7.2
Forest track construction                                  5.3                 5.3
Other, including management
& overheads and associated
contingencies                                          15.3                 15.3
Total                     26.2        5.0           102.1        2.5    135.8
(26.2)     (5.0)          (13.6)      (2.5)   (47.3)
/a   Figures in parentheses indicate amounts which would be financed by IDA.
All figures incLude price and physical contingencies.  See Annex 2, Table
6 for additional detail.
/b   Includes the financing of small items of equipment costing not more than
US$50,000 each or US$5 million in total which would be procured on the
basis of three price quotations under procedures acceptable to IDA.



- 18 -
Disbursements
3.23      Disbuesaments against expenditures for equipment, vehicles and
materials for SFFs would be at a rate of 100% of the foreign exchange costs of
imported items or 100% of the ex-factory price of locally manufactured items.
Disbursements for overseas training and consulting services would be 100% of
total costs. Disbursement for the establishment of plantations on SFFs,
excluding chemical fertilizers, would be 49% of total expenditure and disbur-
sement for construction of roads to Class III standard would be 25% of total
expenditure. Such disbursements would be against statements of expenditure
supported by progress reports showing physical quantities and unit prices.
Agreement was reached with the Government at negotiations on these unit
prices, as indicated in Annex 5, Table 1. Unit prices would be updated
annually by the provincial forestry bureaus (PFBs) in the participating
provinces and approved by IDA. Disbursements against expenditure for
equipment and vehicles for the provincial research institutes and county level
extension centers would be made at 100% of the foreign exchange costs of
imported items or 100% of the ex-factory price of locally manufactured items.
For overseas training and contracts valued at less than $50,000 each, disbur-
sements would be made on the basis of statements of expenditure to be certi-
fied by the MFO. Documentation supporting the SOEs would be retained at the
PMO in Beiiing for review by IDA. To provide for efficient disbursement of
the credit proceeds, a special account would be opened in US dollars in the
Bank of China with an authorized allocation of the US dollar equivalent of
SDR 4.5 million which represents the estimated expenditure for an average
four-month period. Applications for replenishment of the special account would
be submitted quarterly, or whenever the special account is drawn down to 50%
of its initial deposit, whichever comes first. No disbursements would be made
against construction and operations of the research and extension facilities,
costs of forest improvement, domestic training, management and overheads,
buildings and utilities, construction or upgrading of forest roads and tracks
to standard other than Class III, construction of buildings associated with
wood processing, and equipment for wood processing other than that for the
plywood mill.
3.24        It is estimated that disbursements would be completed by about
December 31, 1989. Because the IDA credit would finance ongoing activities
(plantation establishment, forest road construction) and the acquisition of
readily-available standardized equipment and materials (trucks, chemical
fertilizer), disbursement is expected-to be more rapid than is suggested by
the disbursement profile for Bank Group forestry and fisheries projects. (No
relevant profile is available for forestry projects alone.) Estimated sche-
dules of expenditures and disbursements are given in Annex 2, Tables 2 and 5.
Accounts and Audits
3.25      Accounting systems are adequate to control project finance and
disbursements. Provincial forestry bureaus maintain comprehensive systems of
financial administration based on regular submissions by accounting units in
SFFs and county forestry bureaus (and prefectural forestry bureaus where these



- 19 -
exist) which cover capital construction programs, production expenses and
revenue. Financial accounts of individual SFFs and county and prefectural
forestry bureaus are aggregated by the PFBs and sent to MFO, the Ministry of
Finance and provincial offices of the fiscal agent for the forestry bureaus
(usuaLly the Agricultural Bank of China). Participating PFBs would maintain
separate project accounts in sufficient detail to record expenditure on the
major expenditure categories indicated in Table 3.1. Assurances were obtained
that the PFBs would maintain such accounts ard that they would be audited
annualLy by independent auditors acceptable to the Association and submitted
within six months of the close of each financial year. The audit review would
examine and determine that funds disbursed against statements of expenditure
had been used for the purpose for which they were provided. It is expected
that the State Audit Agency of the central government would audit project
accounts of the PFBs.
Environmental Effects
3.26      The project would create an improvement in environmental conditions
and no detrimentaL effects are anticipated. All areas scheduled for logging
would be surveyed to ensure the protection of rare or endangered species.
Areas of natural forest with slopes of more than about 80% would be designated
as protection forest from which all forestry activities would be excluded.
The afforestation of land, at present underutilized and unproductive, would
lead to improved water conservation and water quality by decreasing run-off,
and would reduce soil erosion. Amenity values would be enhanced and wildlife
habitats would be improved and extended. Additional fire control measures
introduced by the project would reduce fire losses. Soil fertilizer levels
would be raised through the use of increased quantities of chemical fertil-
izers. It is anticipated that the increased availability of fuelwood from new
plantations would lead to a reduction in random cutting in existing natural
forests and therefore improve the quality of those stands. Industrial wastes
produced by the plywood mill would be treated in accordance with national
standards on environmental control and would then be recycled as fuel to be
used within the plant.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Project Management and Coordination
4.01      The administrative structure in China's forestry sector includes the
Ministry of Forestry, organized into several major departments (Annex Figure
4.1) and similar structures at provincial, prefectural and county levels.
Provincial forestry bureaus are directly responsible to provincial governments
in matters of program execution and personnel, but look to MFO in questions of
major nolicy and technical guidance. The PFBs provide administrative and
tec'.Liical support to the prefectural bureaus which, in turn, exercise control
over individuaL SFFs through well-developed lines of authority. A typical SFF
includes staff responsible for timber production and processing and general
administrative matters, including the operation of forest extension units,
power stations, school and health facilities (Annex Figure 4.2). Each SFF in



- 20 -
the project employs on average about 225 persons and manages some 12,900 ha,
of which 7,600 ha are under forest.
4.02      The forestry development activities in the project (pF'_z_ation
establishment, forest improvement, road and building construction, small-scale
wood processing) would be carried out by the SFFs under the supervision of the
PFBs of Guangdong, Heilongjiang and Sichuan Provinces.  The plywood mill, the
tannin extract factory and the wood shuttle factory would be the responsibi-
lity of county forestry bureaus operating under PFB supervision. The PFBs
would operate under the general guidance of a Project Management Office (PMO)
in the Ministry of Forestry (Annex Figure 4.3). The PMO, a small unit headed
by a representative from the Silviculture and Management Department, would
have primary resporsibility for liaison with the Association. At the provin-
cial level, a project management office, generally headed by the chief of the
PFB planning di-zision and including technical and administrative personnel
from the bureau tnd the provincial government, would be responsible for
coordinating the activities of participating SFFs and providing technical and
logistical support. Similar groups responsible for day-to-day activities
would be established within participating SFFs. An assurance was obtained at
negotiations that the PMOs at ministry, provincial, and local levels would be
maintained during project implementation and adequately staffed with qualified
personnel.
4.03      The research and extension activities in the project would be
carried out by the PFBs of the participating provinces under the general
supervision of MFO. Within MFO, the Department of Science and Technology and,
specifically within that department, the Divisions of Extension and Forestry
Education and Technical Exchange would be responsible for providing this
supervision. A simple intra-governmental project implementation agreement
between MFO and the participating PFBs outlines their respective responsibili-
ties and has been approved by all units concerned.
Financial Management
4.04      In the past the SFFs, as the units primarily responsible for the
country's afforestation program, have relied on grants from the central and
provincial governments 'or most of their development funds. These sources
have been supplemented by retained profits from the better established SFFs.
Small amounts have been borrowed by SFFs from the banking system for general
purposes, but no significant quantities of credit have been made available for
slower maturing afforestation activities. The SFFs have in the past sold most
of their timber output (except for small diameter thinnings and production
outside of the state plan) at a relatively low, centrally-determined price
(para. 5.01) to the central and provincial governments. Financial flows
upward take the form of taxes, development levies and, in some provinces, a
share of realized profits. All SFFs pay into the Government's general revenue
fund an industrial and coumercial tax equivalent to 10X of the selling price
of roundwood and 15X of the price for timber products such as sawn timber and
wood based panels. The SFFs in Heilongjiang have been required to deliver to
the PFB a portion of profits, most of which are returned to the farms to meet
investment and operating expenses. In Sichuan, all profits have been retained
by the SFFs, while in Guangdorg each of the profitable SFFs has been required



- 21 -
to turn over some of the profits to the PFB for reallocation to SFFs which are
less developed and require additional financial assistance. All SFFs also pay
a forest development levy which averages about Y 15 per m and is returned to
the farms upon proof of expenditure on specific afforestation and forest
improvement activities. Consolidated accounts for about two-thirds of the 92
participating SFFs for which data are available indicate aggregate annual
profits after taxes of about Y 10.7 million in 1981-83. On a per farm basis,
average after tax profits appear to be highest in Guangdong. Some less well
developed SFFs in Heilongjiang and Sichuan experienced operating losses and
required budgetary assistance from central and provincial sources.
4.05      As part of broader economic reforms, this financial system is
undergoing changes, including a shift from grants to loans of funds from
central and provincial government sources. The SFFs are also being allowed tc,
retain all, or higher shares, of profits. In the case of poorly developed
SFFs with little marketable timber, grants from provincial sources are
recognized as a continuing necessity. In general, taxes will increasingly
replace returned profits as instruments of financial management. In the
project, funds made available for forestry development from IDA and the
Central Government would be passed to the SFFs through the PFBs for repayment
over 15 years, after 5 years' grace period at 3% p.a. interest. The terms at
which funds from provincial sources for forestry development would be made
available to SFFs (about Y 59.3 million over the four-year project period)
would vary among SFFs, depending on their financial strength and repayment
ability. In keeping with national policy, increased emphasis would be placed
on loan assistance in lieu of grants. Domestic funding of the research and
extension activities (about Y 38 million in 1985-88) would be financed
entirely from the government budgets of the fourteen participating provinces.
The proceeds of the IDA credit would meet costs for equipment, overseas
training and consulting services in the research and extension activities and
would be repaid by the fourteen provincial governments on terms similar to
those applicable to Central Government funds channelled to the SFFs. For the
research and extension activities, to be carried out by forestry bureaus at
provincial and county level, no financing from individual SFFt. would be
required.
Execution of Project Works
4.06      Arrangements for the execution of project works would vary from
province to province, depending on the size of the labor force resident on
SFFs and the availability of casual labor from nearby townships. The general
policy of the SFF system has been to utilize off-farm seasonal labor whenever
possible to contain overhead costs and expenditure on supporting social infra-
structure. Afforestation, tending and thinning would be carried out by the
workers of the SFFs and seasonal workers from nearby townships under the
supervision of the SFFs. The construction of buildings on SFFs would be done
largely tv construction units within the SFFs or county forestry bureaus,
working to standard designs. The production responsibility system (PRS),
already widely used in agriculture to improve production incentives, is
evolving more slowly in forestry, but is expected to be important in carrying
out the forestry development activities in the project. Although many local
variations of the PRS exist, the most common include contracts of one to three



- 22 -
years with workers from the SFFs or nearby collectives for afforestation,
tending and thinning. Throughout the project areas, the maintenance of forest
roads and tracks would be done under contracts between the SFFs and
construction companies from the country or nearby townships. Competitive
bidding among local construction teams, which has been rarely used by the
SFFs, would be encouraged by SFF management in road maintenance. The
construction of buildings and site preparation for the wood processing
facilities would be carried out by construction teams from the county forestry
bureaus (in the case of the plywood mill, the tannin extract factory and the
wood shuttle plant) or the SFFs (for the small woodworking shops).
Progress Reports
4.07      The SFF system has in place a well developed system which provides
timely and detailed technical and financial information to management at all
administrative levels. Benchmark data on areas managed, forest cover and
quality, physical infrastructure, employment and income are generally avail-
able. Each SFF in the project would provide information on project implemen-
tation on a regular basis to the project management offices of the PFBs.
Similar reports would be prepared by the provincial and county forestry
bureaus which are responsible for the research and extension activities. All
of these reports would be forwarded through the respective PFBs to the MFO in
Beijing where the PMO would prepare twice yearly reports on the progress of
the project and submit these reports to the Association within two months of
the end of each project semester. At the end of the disbursement period, the
PMO, together with the PFBs involved in the project, wouLd prepare an assess-
ment of project results and compare these with appraisal estimates.
V. MARKETING, PRICES, BENEFITS AND RISKS
Marketing
5.01      Marketing of timber and timber products is subject to control by the
Government. Based on national output quotas established by the State Planning
Commission, an annual timber production plan is prepared by the MFO which
allocates production quotas through the PFBs to various production units,
including forest enterprise bureaus, the collectives and the SFFs.  Production
of industrial rS-Jndwood in 1983 was 52 million m , down from the peak figure
of 54 million m in 1979. Substantial additional quantities of Logs, poles
and fuelwood were produced, largely for self use by rural households. At
present, about 65% of total roundwood production is allocated within the state
plan, compared to 85% in 1975 and a projected 56% in 1985.
5.02      Marketing arrangements for timber products vary widely across
provinces and changes are under way as part of on-going economic reforms. As
a key commodity in short supply, the marketing of timber continues under some
degree of governmental control. However, unregulated markets for timber are
expanding -- a policy directive effective January 1985 permits aLl timber from
individually-controlled plots and the collectives to be sold on the free
market. Other timber of commercial quality allocated within the plan is sold



£
- 23 -
to state or provincial purchasing authorities at a relatively low price fixed
by the central Government.  Commercial timber not allocated by the plan is
subject to sale at negotiated prices which are generally higher than the state
fixed price. Non-commercial timber (of poor form or undersized) is usually
sold in markets with little or no goverrnent control. In the project it is
estimated that about cwo-thirds of log production would be commercial timber
aLlocated within the plan and sold at the state fixed price to the central or
provincial governments. The remaining output in excess of the quota would be
sold at higher than state prices. SmaLL amounts of sub-standard timber would
be disposed of in local markets at prices determined largely by demand.
Marketing practices vary among project SFFs. Some farms move logs only to
roadside or raiLhead and deliver to purchasers at that point. Most of the
SFFs operate log yards where logs are graded, sorted and turned over to
buyers. The price basis for SFF timber i- roadside, railhead or log yard. An
understanding was reached that the MFO would prepare a report for discussion
with the Association before the end of 1986 which describes more fully the
entire forestry price and marketing system.
5.03      Strong internal markets exist for all of the project output.  Log
production in China meets only about 85% of current consumption and imports of
logs, sawn timber and other wood products are increasing rapidly. Rapid
income growth and the surge in construction of rural housing will lead to
continued strong demand for wood and wood products. The plywood mill is sited
in a rapidly developing p ovince (Guangdong) which had a plywood production
capacity of only 10,000 m in 1983 and purchased large quantities from other
provinces. The demand for tannin extract by the local cement industry is
estimated at 4-5,000 tons per annum while current production is reported to be
about 100 tons. Annual replacement demand for wood shuttles is estimated at
about 10 million units, as compared with yearly output from the project
facility of one million units.
Financial and Economic Prices
5.04      Project outputs.  After a long period of unchanged prices, state
prices for industrial roundwood have been increased twice since 1979 by about
30% nationally, with regional increases ranging from llZ in the northeast
(Heilongjiang) to 56% in the south (Guangdong and Sichuan). Farms in the
project produce a varied mix, including large and small logs of hardwood and
softwood types from plantations and natural forest for sale at state and nego-
tiated prices. Taking all of these factors into account and adjusting for
quality differences and location, the estimated weighted average financial
price (in 1985 yuan) for 5his mix at project sites ranges from Y 100 per m}
(Heilongjiang) to Y 175 m (Guangdong). See Annex 4, Table I for details.
Lower prices in Heilongjiang reflect greater log supplies relative to demand.
On average, these financial prices are about 55% of current estimated world
prices for timber of comparable quality. World prices in real terms for this
type and mix of timber are projected by the Bank Group to increase by about 1%
per annum over the medium term. The Government recognizes the need to further
increase state prices of timber to provide additional incentives for produc-
tion. Further increases in these prices are expected as part of on-going
price reforms and as the quality of the output mix improves with larger por-
tions from plantations. The financial analysis in the base case assumes that



- 24 -
domestic prices would converge to economic prices by 1995. Domestic prices
for most processed wood products such as plywood are roughly equal to world
prices and are assumed in this analysis to continue to remain in approximate
parity over the life of the project. The other forest products in the
project, viz., tannin extract, wood shuttles, packing crates, etc., are not
significant in world trade. For these items, economic prices have been
assumed equal to financial prices.
5.05      Project inputs.  Most of the labor used in the project is provided
by nearby townships (colLectives). Wages range from Y 2.50 per man-day in
Sichuan to Y 5.00 in HeiLongjiang and probably contain some element above the
marginal value product which reflects efforts by the SFFs to assist and
maintain good relationships with the collectives. The base case economic
analysis assumes that the economic wage is one-half of the financial wage.
Substantially higher economic costs for labor would not jeopardize the
economic viability of the project (para. 5.11). Local financial prices for
chemical fertilizer in the project, adjusted for location at planting sites,
are approximately equal to worLd prices for a product with similar nutrient
content (15:15:15 analysis). Financial prices for fertilizer have been
assumed eaual to economic prices over the life of the project.
Production
5.06      The major output from the project would include logs, poles,
plywood, tannin extract, shuttles and miscellaneous wood products such as
furniture and packing crates. Through road building and provision of equip-
ment, the project would improve access to existing mature forests and permit
accelerated logging of natural stands. Annual total production in th$ natural
stands on the SFFs would increase from the current level rf 507,000 mi  to
660,000 m3 in 1988. Without the project it is assumed that production from
natural forests would decline by 20% annually in 1986-88 and remain at that
level over the next several years. Production from plantations, virtually all
of which would be established on cut-over land now of low or zero productiv-
ity, would begin with commercial thinnings after 1988. Annex 3, Table 3
contains detail on plantation yield assumptions. All output from the planta-
tions and the wood processing facilities is considered as incremental.
Incremental production of logs for the project would average about 204,000 m
annually in 1985-88 and cumulate to 11.2 million m3 over the 23-year period
assumed in the economic analysis (Annex 4, Table 4). Annual incremental
production at full development would be about 546,000 m3, or 18% greater than
total log production from these farms in 1982. AdditionaL production benefits
would be expected from the tending activities in the project (mainly weeding,
pruning and fire protection), but no attempt has been made to quantify them.
The plywood mill is projected to reach full production of 10,000 mJ annually
in 1989 while the shuttle and tannin extract factories would be producing at
an annual capacity of a nillion units and a thousand tons, respectively, in
1988.
Employment and Income
5.07      Most of the employment created by the project would be in activities
related to plantation establishment, forest road construction and forest



- 25 -
improvement (tending, thinning). During the four-year implementation period,
these tasks wouLd require more than five million man-days annually, with an
incremental wage bill of at least Y 20 million. Incremental logging of
natural forests and the wood processing activities during 1985-88 would
require another 800,000 man-days annually. Harvesting and transport of incre-
mental log production at full development would require in excess of two and
one-half million man-days annually. Assuming about 240 work days annually per
employee, some 24,000 workers would be required to undertake project activi-
ties during implementation. This may be compared with the reported figure of
permanent workers on participating SFFs in 1983 of about 21,000 and reflects
current practice of utilizing workers in nearby townships to carry out much of
the work related to road constructicn, forest development and exploitation.
This employment would be an important source of income to workers in nearby
townships.
Financial and Economic Analysis
5.08      Financial rates of return (FRRs) and economic rates of return (ERRs)
were estimated over a 23-year period, with all values converted to local
currency at the official exchange rate of Y 2.80 = US$1.00. Costs of the
research and extension activities (base costs of about Y 55 million) were
excluded from the calculations, although costs of housing and schools were
included. Assumed annual costs after the implementation period (ending in
1988) cover some clear felling, plantation establishment after clear felling,
continued forest improvement activities, road maintenance, overheads, physical
contingencies and costs for buildings, utilities, equipment and vehicles at
average annual levels during 1985-88. In wood processing, costs beyond 1988
cover raw materials, labor and overheads and, in the case of the plywood mill,
some machinery repLacements. IncrementaL output in both timber production and
wood processing was defined in para. 5.06. Neither FRRs nor ERRs were
estimated for the research and extension activities, the benefits of which are
not easily quantifiable, or for the bamboo processing and wood working shops
in Sichuan, which would turn out a wide range of minor wood products.
5.09      Financial analysis.  FRRs were calculated using financial prices for
all inputs and outputs and after deduction of taxes. Expected incremental log
production was valued on the assumption that the current weighted average
price obtained by the SFFs in the project provinces would converge to the
international price for a comparable output mix by 1995. The FRR is estimated
to be 282 in timber production, 16Z in the case of wood processing and 27%
overall. In timber production, FRRs are 17%, 29% and 46% for Sichuan,
Heilongjiang and Guangdong, respectively. In wood processing, FRRs are 12%,
14% and 24% for the plywood mill, the tannin extract factory and the wood
shuttle factory, respectively. The relatively high FRRs ir. timber production
are consistent with returns to similar activities in other countries and
reflect in part the near-term benefits realized from the accelerated logging
permitted in mature forests as a result of investment in road construction and
equipment upgrading. Following Bank Group practice in similar earlier
projects, returns have been calculated for timber exploitation and plantation
establishment combined, as these two activities are normally considered an
integral part of well-managed forest production systems. The relatively low
FRR for the plywood mill reflects in part the low conversion rates obtained in



- 26 -
producing plywood from small diameter logs (para. 3.10). Debt servicing for
the timber production ani wood processing components taken together is
manageable, with a debt service ratio rising no higher than 0.23 and averaging
about 0.13 during the period of ioan repayment (Annex 4, Table 3). However,
some individual SFFs with little or no mature forest to provide near-term
income, will likely continue to require financial assistance through the PFBs
from provincial budgets and SFFs which are better endowed with mature forest.
5.10      Economic analysis.  The ERRs are calculated by abstracting from
taxes and by employing economic prices for project inputs and outputs
(Annex 4, Table 2). Because economic prices for timber are higher, and rural
labor costs lower, than financial values, ERRs are moderately higher than
FRRs. The overall ERR for the project exceeds 50% (67% in timber production;
14X in wood processing). The ERR exceeds 50% for both Cuangdong and
Heilongjiang and is estimated at 14% for the plywood mill. At a discount rate
of 12%, the project has a net present value of Y 562 million, of which about
80X is contributed by timber production in Guangdong and Heilongjiang. As in
the case of the financial analysis, the high ERRs in timber production are due
in part to the early returns made possible by project activities which
accelerate logging of mature forests (Table 5.1).
5.11      Sensitivity testing indicates that no plausible changes in prices,
costs or timing of benefits would jeopardize the economic soundness of the
project. Similarly, the project would remain economically viable with an
assumed doubling of economic labor costs to equal the financial wage. On the
other hand, a 10% decline in prices of wood products, a similar increase in
costs, vr a cne-year delay in benefits would push the ERR for wood processing
to the 8-9% range.
Project Risks
5.12      The timber production activities in the project face no significant
financial, technical or organizational risks. The SFFs are in general well
managed. They have experience with the tree species to be planted and silvi-
cultural practices to be introduced have been proven elsewhere. Administra-
tive and financial risks associated with wood processing are larger, but
considered manageable. The SFFs operate wood processing facilities in the
project provinces, including wood-based panel plants, although the technology
using small diameter timber would be new to the SFF system. It is expected
that the supplier of this equipment would provide necessary support in
training the operational and maintenance staff. Efficient operations would be
required to ensure satisfactory economic and financial results. Little
administrative risk is attached to the research activities in the project, as
these are geared largely to a strengthening of on-going programs. More
administrative risk is associated with the extension component which is viewed
as a pilot operation in a key support service currently being reformulated in
China. It is believed that these risks can be kept within acceptable bounds
by the consulting services provided in the project.



- 27 -
Table 5.1: SUMMARY OF RATE OF RETURN ANALYSIS
Economic rate              Economic net
Base case or variation                   of return             present value, 12Z
(%)                   (Y million)
Base Case
Timber Production
Guangdong                               >50                      186.8
Heilongjiang                            >50                      271.2
Sichuan                                  38                       99.9
Subtotal                              67                       557.9
Wood Processing
Plywood mill                             14                        2.6
Tannin extract factory                   19                        0.9
Shuttle factory                          14                        1.1
Subtotal                               14                        4.6
Total Project                        >50                       562.5
Variations From Base Case
Product Prices Down 10%
Timber production                      >50                       472.3
Wood processing                           8                       -6.6
Costs up 10%
Timber production                      >50                       528.1
Wood processing                           9                       -6.3
Benefits Delayed One Year
Timber production                        43                      454.9
Wood processing                           9                       -9.5
Economic Wage Equals
Financial Wage /a
Timber production                      >50                       489.2
Wood processing                          13                        1.3
/a At Y 3.50, Y 5.00 and Y 2.50 per man-day in Guangdong, Heilongjiang and
Sichuan, respectively.



- 28 -
VI. AGREEMENTS TN BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      At negotiations agreement was reached with the Government on the
following:
(a) research plans and equipment lists would be completed by June 30,
1986 and suhuitted to IDA for review and approval (para. 3.11);
(b) extension plans and equipment lists would be completed by June 30,
1986 and submitted to IDA for review and approval (para. 3.13);
(c) the training component would be carried out in accordance with a
program acceptable to IDA (para. 3.14);
(d) a detailed work and financing plan would be prepared by September 30
of each year for the following calendar year and submitted to IDA
for review (para. 3.19);
(e) project accounts would be audited annually and submitted to IDA
within six months of the close of each financial year (para. 3.25);
and
(f) the ministry, provincial and local PMOs would be maintained and
adequately staffed with qualified personnel during the life of the
proposed project (para. 4.02).
6.02      The conditions of effectiveness would be that the State Council ha-
approved the Development Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement.
6.03      Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project would
constitute a suitable basis for a credit of SDR 47.8 million on standard IDA
terms. The Borrower would be the People's Republic of China.



-29 -                           AUNM  1
Table I
CHINA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summar:' Forest Data by Province
Area
Forest        under          Growing              Log
Province              area          forest          stoc           productign /a
(mln ha)        {%)          (mln m )           ('000 m )
Sichuan                 7.5          13.0           1,347               4,036
Guizhou                 2.6          14.0             159                 832
Yunnan                  9.6          25.0             989               2,341
Xizang                  6.3           5.0           1,436                 195
Shaanxi                 4.6          22.0             244                 186
Gansu                   1.9           3.0             198                 638
Qinghai                 0.2           0.3              31                  40
Ningxia                 0.1           0.5               5                   7
Xinjiang                1.4           0.9             237                  52
Henan                   1.8          11.0              79                  74
Hubei                   4.4          24.0              96                 662
Hunan                   6.6          31.0             189               2,414
Guangxi                 5.5          23.0             193               1,613
Guangdong               7.5          33.0             177               2,218
Jiangsu                 0.3           3.0              13                   -
Zhejiang                4.0          39.0              82                 618
Anhui                   1.8          13.0              47                 468
Fujian                  5.9          48.0             243               3,813
Jiangxi                 6.1          37.0             263               2,649
Shandong                1.3           9.0              23                  11
_  _S                   2.0          11.0              73                  62
Liaoning                4.2          18.0              98                 376
Jilin                   7.8          26.0             730               5,132
Nei Mbnggol             0.3           0.8               0               3,424
Heilongjiang           25.2          35.0           2,324              13,840
Total           119.5           13.0          9,442              46,716
/a  Exact year unknown; possibly 1975.  Production data are approximate and
vary by source.
Source: United States Department of Agriculture, PRC Forestry, Attach&
Report, Foreign Agricultural Services, Hong Kong, November 2, 1982.



-30                                 ANNME 1
Table 2
CHINA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Timber Production in Major Producing Provinces
1981                             1982
Provinces                Quanti y                          Quanti y
('000m)               %          ('000 m )
China (overall)           49,420             100            50,410             100
Heilongjiang              15,400              31            16,080              32
Sichuan                    3,440               7             3,460               7
Guangdong                  3,270               7             3,190               6
Jilin                      6,144              12             6,143              12
Fujian                     3,669               7             3,456               7
Yunnan                     1,604               3             1,934               4
Source: State Statistical Bureau, Beijing.



CHINA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Provincial Data on State Forest Farms - 1982
Heilongjiang            Sichuan            Guangdong                Total            Country-
Item                              Province  Project  Province  Project  Province  Project  Province  Project   %    wide
Number of state forest farms
(SFFs)                              354          52     296          11    222            29      872          92  11      3,900
Number of timber bases                              6                    3                   3                   12
Managed area ('000 ha)            6,942         882   1,910         139    864           164   9,716        1,186  12    46,267
Forested area ('000 ha)          4,076         497   1,061           85    513           147   5,650          729  13    26,000  1
Average number of SFFs per                                                                                                           w
base                                            8.7                 3.7                  9.7                  7.7
Average size of managed area
per 8FF ('000 ha)                   19.6       17.0      6.5       12.6      3.9         5.7      11.1       12.9           11.9
Average size of forested area
per SFF ('000 ha)                   11.5        9.6      3.6        7.8      2.3         3.9       6.5        7.6            6.7
Number of employees                             8,014               2,477               10,306               20,797        500,000
Total buildings (sq m)                        162,990              18,881              221,837              403,708
Average managed area per
employee (ha)                                   110                  56                   16                   57
Average forested area per
employee (ha)                                    62                  34                   11                   33
Average building per employee
(sq m)                                        20.3                  7.6                 21.5                 19.4
Source:  Provincial Bureaus of Forestry in Heilongjiang, Sichuan and Guangdong.
WI-



ANNEX I
Table 4
CHINA
FORESTRY DEVEILOPNENT PROJECT
Phytogeographical Region. in the Project
Mean          Mean
Rainfall          aximum      minimum    Growing season
(mean annual;  temperature  temperature  (no. of front-    Characteristic              Characteristic
Phytogeographic region    Soils                         mm)            (0C)          (0C)         free days)    major tree species         land use
Fast Heilongujiang
Kixed coniferous and    Podsolic brown              635-1,015        20-24       -16 to -25       120-130      Pinus koraiensis          Forestry
deciduous broad-        forest, gloys                                                     *                  Abies nephrolepis        Agriculture:  roots, cereals
leafed forest                                                                                                Picea jezoensi.
Larix dahurica
Betula app.
Acer epp.
Tilia anurensis
quercus app.
r
hast Sichuan
Evergreen broad-leafed  Yellow podzolic            1,015-1,900       21-31        4 to -6         250-300      Castanopsis hystrix    Agriculture:  rice (double-
forest                  Rendzina (eastern),          (E)                          (E)                        Schima superba             cropped), sweet potato,
red podzolic             915-1,500                      7 to -9                      Elaeocarpus japonicus    maize, soybean
terra rossa                  (W)                          (W)                        Cinnamomum app.          Horticulture:  tea, tea oil,
(western)                                                                            Machilus pingii            citrus, tung oil, camphor,
Phoebe bournei             bamboo, fresh water fish
Photinia aerrulata         culture
etc.                     Some forestry
Guangdong
Tropical monsoon rain   Yellow lateritic           1,200-2,800       27-29        13 to 20        350-365      Species of Myrtaceae,  Agriculture:  rice (triple-
forest                                                                                                       Moraceae, Lauraceae,       cropped)
Leguminosae, Sapinda-  llorticulture:  banana, pine-
ceae, Euphorbiaceae,       apple, lichee, grapes, etc.
Rubiaceae, Palmae,       Some forestry
Fagaceae



ANNEX I
Table 5
33                               Page I
CHINA
FORESTRY DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
Location of SFFs and CTBs by Province and County
Province           Base            County                       State forest farm
Heilongjiang        Shanghzi       Shanghzi                    Heilonggong
Weihe
Xiaojiu
Laojieji
Qingyun
Haoershan
Yimianpo
Lianhe
Yuanbao
Shangzhi
YUlan          YUlan                        Dauqinghe
Yantongshan
Sikuaishi
Erdaohe
Xianfeng
Dongfeng
Dadingshan
Hongqi
Duiqingshan
Zhushan
Tangyuan       Tangynuan                   r.i'.iangzlhe
Yaoying
Tuanjie
Heijinhe
Dongfeng
Shichanggou
7  ungyang
Muliang
ftoqing        Bboqing                     Lc.-gtou
Baomi
Toudaogang
Shengli
Baoshan
Liudao
Dongfanghong
Lishu
Btuxdan        Bitxian                     Daquansi
Taipingshan
Hongshan
Qingyang
Erlongshan
Shengll
Waurenhuan
Guangen
Songlin
Fangzheng      Fangtheng                   Kaoshan
Baoxing
Dongfanghong
Yaolinzi
Dalizi
Hongxing
Zhuanshan



ANNEX 1
_ 34 -                           Table 5
Page 2
Province           Base            Founty                      State forest farm
Sichuan            Hongya          Hongya                     Hongya
Emei                       Shaxi
Leshan (municipality)      Shawan
Fubao          Hejiang                     Fubao
Rongshan
Jiangjin                   Simianshan
Sanhe
Nanjiang       Nanjiang                    Dajiangkou
Shaba
Daba
Shahe
Guangdong          Leizhou         Suixi                      Maijin
Beipo
Suixi
Hetou
Haikang                    Jijia
Tangjia
Longmen
Liangjiarg                 Liaagjiang
lechun
Shiling
Xijiang        Yunan                       Xijiang
Tongmen
Dali
Deqing                     Yuecheng
Fushi
Xiangyashan
rengkai                    Pinggang
Gaoyao                     Jinjikeng
Gaoyao
Runfu                      Xianju
Xinxing                    Liangdongjing
Beijiang       Ruyuan                      Tianjingshan
Renhua                     Renhua
Yingde                     Tingde
Changjiangba
Tiexi
Shixing                    Liuzhangjiashan
Wongyuan                   Tielong
Oujiang                    Oujiang



ANNEX 1
Table 6
CHINA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Forest Areas and Standing Volume of Project CTBs, 1982
Natural forest                                                                                Total
Young and middle-aged   Mature and overmature                  Total                  Plantations              Total        annual
Area        Volimw         Area        Volum          Area        Volumi         Area        Volumq        volum          growth
('000 ha)  ('000 m)        ('000 ha)  ('000 m)        ('000 ha)  ('000 m)    ('000 ha)  ('000 J)           ('000 m)    ('000 m"
Heilongliang
Shangzl                     66.7        4,466          48,0        4,358         114.7        8,824          1913          776          9,600          252
Ytlan                       73.6        4,506          25.1        3,616          98,7        8,122          10.0           307         8,429           199
Tangyusn                    21.5        1,380           7.9        1,020          29.3        2,400           5.1           180         2,580            R3
Baoqing                     30.7        1,271          39.3        2,571          70.1        3,842           7,7          128          3,970          110
Binxian                     42.9        2,643          14.4        1,463          57,3        4,106          13.1          447          4,553           153
Fangzhen                    48,6        3,500          18.7        2,080          67.3        5,580           4,2           183         5,763           156
Subtotal               284,0        17,766        153.4        15,108        437.4        32,874         59,4         2,021        34,895           953
Sichuan
Hongya                        -              -         23.8        3,993          23.8        3,993           8.1          692         4,6851           141
Fubao                         -              -         24.5        3,219          24.5        3,219           5.1          348          3,567           90
Nanjlang                     3.1          285          14,8        1,860          17.9        2,145           5.8          233          2,378            50        w
Subtotal                  3.1          285         63,1         9,072         66.2         9.357         19.0         1,273        10,630           281
Guangdong
Beijiang                      -              -         13.2        1,407          13.2        1,407          22.7        1,611          3,018           149
Xljlang                     30.2        1,500           3,6          399          33,8        1,899          33.1        1,869          3,768           113
Letzhou                       -              -           -              -           -              -         44.4        1,503          1,503           90
Subtotal                30.2         1,500         16.8         1,806         47.0         3,306        100.2         4,983         8,289             -
Total                  317.3        19,551        233.3        25,986        550.6        45,537         178,6        8.277        53,814.



ANNEX 1
Table 7
CHINA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Log Production in Project Bases, 1971-82
('000 cu m)
Province and base           1971   1972   1973   1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982
Heilongijang Subtotal      176.7  210.0  215.6  200.3  296.8  239.7  284.0  277.7  268.3  271.0  260.1  243.9
% of total                  57      57     56     51     61      54     54      51     52     52      52     53
Sichuan
Fubao                      8.7    8.2    8.3    9.0    9.5    9.0    9.1   10.8   11.0   17.6   17.4   17.2
Hongya                     5.1    5.3    3.6   10.8    6.9    6.2   12.2   14.1   14.1   11.5   10.3   12.0
Nanjiang                   0.4    0.5    0.5    0.3    0.6    0.4    0.8    0.8    1.0    0.8    1.9    3.3
Subtotal               14.2   14.0   12.4   20.1   17.0   15.6   22.1   25.7   26.1   29.9   29.6   32.5
X of total                   5       4      3      5       3      3      4       5      5      6       6      7
Guangdong
Leizhou                   63.2   85.4   91.7  101.0   98.2  101.2  113.4  119.7  107.5   97.8   86.7   73.7
Xijiang                   26.4   31.6   33.7   35.1   39.9   44.8   52.3   61.4   58.9   56.5   61.6   54.5
Beijiang                  26.8   27.8   31.3   32.5   35.7   46.0   51.4   57.6   54.8   64.4   60.6   56.6
Subtotal              116.4  144.8  156.7  168.6  173.8  192.0  217.1  238.7  221,2  218.7  208.9  184.8
% of total                  38      39     41     44     36      43     42      44     43     42      42     40
Total                 307.3  368.8  384.7  389.0  487.6  447.3  523.2  542.1  515.6  519.6  498.6  461.2
Source:  Provincial Bureaus of Forestry in Heilongjlang, Sichuan and Guangdong.



ANNEX I
37       -                         Table 8
Page 1
CAM
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Income Statement, Project CTBs, 1981-83 /a
(Y'000 except profit after taxes per ha)
1981        1982         1983
Guangdong (29 SFFs; 184,400 ha Forests)
Revenue
Sale of timber and products                  33,574      35,893       37,972
Other income                                    340          300         322
Total                                      33,914      36,193       3R,294
Expenditures
Production, harvesting, transport            13,407       16,653      18,473
Forest management                             2,210        1,R42       2,207
Forest protection                             1,475       2,007        2,198
Afforestation                                 2,292       3,483        3,662
Operating expenses for schools, clinics
and research units                            959          276         874
Total                                      20,143      24,261       27,414
Profit Before Taxes                        13,571      11,932       10,880
Taxes on sales                                  3,130        3,004       3,104
Profit After Taxes                         10,441       8,928        7,776
Profit after taxes per ha forest                   57           48          42
Profit after taxes per SFF                        360          308         268
Heilongjiang/Shangzhi (10 SFFs; 177,300 ha
Forests)
Revenue
Sale of timber and products                  13,905      12,560       10,007
Expenditures
Production, harvesting, transport             9,806       9,183        7,6n3
Forest management and afforestation             737         602          548
Forest protection                               259          29Q         298
Overheads and social services                   361          277         302
Total                                      11,163      10,361        8,751
Profit Before Taxes                         2,742       2,199        1,256
Taxes on sales                                  1,086          934         754
Profit After Taxes                          1,656       1,265          502
Profit after taxes per ha forest                    9            7            3
Profit after taxes per SFF                        166          127          50



ANNEX 1
Table R
- 38-                               Page 2
1981        1982         1983
Heilongjiang/Yilan (10 SFFs; 141,000 ha
Forests)
Revenue
Sale of timber and products                   5,256        5,760       5,557
Expenditure
Production, harvesting, transport             4,184        4,687        4,234
Forest management and afforestation             641          574          552
Forest protection                               261          295          245
Overheads and social services                   276          160          245
Total                                       5,362        5,716       5,276
Profit Before Taxes                          (106)        (460)         (20)
Taxes on sales                                    477          522          507
Profit After Taxes                           (583)        (982)        (527)
Profit after taxes per ha forest                    (4)         (8)          (4)
Profit after taxes per SFF                        (58)         (98)         (53)
Sichuan (11 SFFs; 130,800 ha Forests)
Revenue
Sale of timber and products                   7,475        7,244       8,925
Other income                                     22           19           19
Total                                       7,497        7,263       8,944
Expenditures
Production and harvesting                     4,408        4,221        5,065
Transport and other selling costs               374          541         761
Other expenditures                              758          794        1,150
Total                                       5,540        5,556       6,976
Profit Before Taxes                         1,957        1,707        1,968
Taxes on sales                                    647          668          779
Profit After Taxes                          1,310        1,039       1,189
Profit after taxes per ha forest                   10            8            9
Profit after taxes per SFF                        119           94          108
Grand Total, Profit After Taxes                  12,824       10,250        9,940
Grand Total, Profit After Taxes per Farm             214         171          149
/a Data relate to all project CTXs in Guangdong and Sichuan and two of six
project CTBs in Reilonjiang.
Source:  Provincial Forestry Bureaus in Guangdong, Reilongliang and Sichuan.



39                               ANRE  Z
FORESTRY DEVELDPENT PROJECT
Project Cost Sumsry
Category                                          Y  illion          US$ million
Plantation EstablisbDent   .                        33.68                12.03
Forest Improvement
lendaiLg                                          21.82                 7.79
TMinning                                          10.90                 3.90
Subtotal                                      32.72                11.69
Chemical Fertilizer                                  8.79                 3.14
Forest Road Construction
Construction to lLass UII standards               52.13                18.62
Construction/upgrading of forest
trackafroads                                    14.69                 5.25
Subtotal                                     66.82                23.86
Equipment and Vehicles
eVchileo                                         28.68                10.24
Heavy mobile equipment                             3.27                 1.17
Logging and other equipment                        2.97                 1.06
Subtotal                                     34.92                 12.47
Buildings and Utilities of SFFs
HousiLng and schools                              11.65                 4.16
Service buildings                                  7.31                 2.61
Telephone and power lines                          5.67                 2.03
Fire toiers/equipment, bridges, railway            4.80                 1.71
Log yard extension                                 2.05                 0.73
Subtotal                                      31.48                11.24
Wood Processing Facilities
Plyvood uill
Equipment                                        9.52                 3.40
Buildings. site preparation, etc.               11.28                 4.03
Tannin extract factory
Equipment                                        0.74                 0.26
Buildings, site preparation, etc.                0.91                 0.33
Wooden shuttle factory
Equipment                                        1.88                 0.67
Buildings, site preparation, etc.                4.31                 1.54
Baaboo processinglwoodworking shops
Equipment                                        0.94                 0.34
Subtotal                                     29.58                 10.56
Training and Technical Assistance for SFPF
Doiestic training                                   0.57                 0.20
Overseas study tours                               1.48                 0.53
Overseas training                                  0.56                 0.20
Consulting services                                0.14                 0.05
Subtotal                                       2.75                 0.98
Management and Overbeads for SFF.                    6.64                 2.37
Research and Extension Centers
Construction                                      21.70                 7.75
Equipment /a                                      17.64                 6.30
Operating costs                                   12.00                 4.29
Overseas study tours                               2.83                 1.01
Consulting services                                1.08                 0.39
Subtotal                                     55.25                 19.73
Base Cost                                    302.63               108.08
Pbysical contingency                                26.85                 9.59
Price contingency                                   19.65                18.09
Total Project Cost                           349.13               135.76
/a Includes US$0.3 million for soll laboratories to serve SFFs.



- 40                               ANNEX 2
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project EaFenditure Schedule /a
tLMllton yuan)u-
Category                                      1985   1986    1987   1988   Total
Elantation Establishbent                     8.36    8.63   8.28   8.41   33.68
Forest Improvement
renaing                                    2.60    4.10   4.82  10.30   21.82
Thinning                                    2.80    2.70   2.70   2.70   10.90
Subtotal                               5.40    6.80   7.52  13.00   32.72
Chemical Fertilizer                          2.40    2.15   2.25   1.99    8.79
Forest Road Construction
Construction to Class III standards        9.90   16.36  14.68  11.20   52.13
Construction/upgrading of forest
tracks/roads                             3.72    3.22   3.39   4.37   14.69
Subtotal                              13.60   19.58  18.07  15.56   66.81
Equipment and Vehicles
Vehicles                                   4.87    8.62   7.74   7.45   28.68
Heavy mobile equipment                     0.55    0.98   0.89   0.85    3.27
Logging and other equipment                0.50    0.89   0.80   0.77    2.97
Subtotal                               5.93   10.50   9.43   9.06   34.92
BuildinRs and Utilities for SFFs
Housing and schools                        2.13    4.73   2.98   1.81   11.65
Service buildings                          3.17    2.27   1.18   0.69    7.31
Trelephone and power lines                 2.62    1.70   0.78   0.57    5.67
Fire towers/equipoent, bridges, railway   1.24    1.76   1.38   0.42    4.80
Log yard extension                         0.22    1.15   0.68    -        2.05
Subtotal                               9.38   11.61   7.00   3.49   31.48
Wood ProcesslnR Facilities
-Plywood Miil
Equipment                                2.76    6.76    -       -       9.52
hoildings, site preparation, etc.        3.27    8.01    -       -      11.28
Tannin extract factory
Equipment                                0.58    0.16    -       -       0.74
Buildings, site preparation, etc.        0.72    0.19    -       -       0.91
Wooden shuttle factory
Equipment                                 1.11    0.68   0.09    -       1.88
Buildings, site preparation, etc.        2.54    1.55   0.22    -        4.31
Bamboo processing/woocborking shops
Equipment                                0.30    0.40   0.24    -        0.94
Subtotal                              11.28   17.75   0.55    -       29.58
Training and Tech. Assistance for SFFs
Docestic training                          0.14    0.14   0.14   0.15    0.57
Overseas study tours (84 a/=)              0.69    0.42   0.21   0.16    1.48
Overseas training (110  /uJ)                -       0.56    -      -       0.56
Consulting services (4 =/a)                0.04    0.04   0.07    -        0.14
Subtotal                               0.87    1.16   0.42   0.31    2.75
!anagement and Overheads for SFFs             1.43    2.02   1.70   1.49    6.64
Research and Extension Centers
Construction                               2.17   10.85   6.51   2.17   21.70
Equipment /b                               1.78    3.57   9.87   2.41   17.64
Operating costs                            1.50    2.50   3.50   4.50   12.00
Overseas study tours/training              2.28    0.55    -       -       2.83
(89/250 m/r)
Consulting services                        0.50    0.22   0.36    -        1.08
Subtotal                               8.23   17.69  20.24   9.09   55.25
Base Cost                             66.88   97.89  75.46  62.40  302.63
Physical contingency                         5.79    8.93   6.72   5.41   26.85
Price contingency                             1.09    4.85   6.31   7.40   19.65
Total Project Cost                    73.76  111.67  88.49  75.21  349.13
/a Beginning July 1 of the year indicated.
7W  Includes US$0.3 million for soil laboratories to serve SFFs.



AlNEX 2
Table 3
- 41 -
CHINA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Expected Price Increases /a
(Y million and US$ million)
Project year                                  1985    1986   1987   1988   Total
Total base costs plus physical
contingencies (Y mln)                     72.67  106.82  82.18  67.81  329.48
Projected annual price increase (Z)           3.00    3.00   3.00   3.00
Price contingency multipier                  0.015   0.045  0.077  0.109
Expected price increase (Y mln)               1.09    4.85   6.31   7.40   19.66
Total project cost (Y mln)                   73.76  111.67  88.49  75.21  349.14
Total base costs plus physical
contingencies (US$ =ln)                   25.95   38.15  29.35  24.22  117.67
Projected annual price increase (%)           6.25    7.75   8.00   8.00
Price contingency mnltipier                  0.031   0.111  0.200  0.296
Expected price increase (US$ mli)             0.81    4.24   5.87   7.17   18.09
Total project cost (US$ mln)                 26.76   42.39  35.22  31.39  135.77
/a Beginning July 1 of the year indicated.



ANNE= 2
- 42-                              Table -
CEIRNA
FORESTRY DEVELOPfENT PROJECT
Project Financing Plan by Source and Year /a
1985     1986     1987    1988    Total
Foreign Sources (US$ million)
IDA credit                             9.99    15.13    11.99   10.19    47.30
Domestic Sources (Y million)
Central government budget             22.58    34.19    27.09   23.03   106.90
Provincial forest bureaus and SFFs   28.44    30.88    21.56   16.42    97.30
(Of which for research/extension)  (3.94)  (15.06)  (11.42)  (7.56)  (37.98)
Subtotal, domestic                51.02    65.08    48.65   39.45   204.20
US$ million equivalent /b         18.69    28.29    22.42   19.06    88.46
Total Financlng (US$ million)    28.68    43.42    34.41   29.25   135.76
/a Beginning July 1 of the year indicated.
7   Converted from yuan at an assumed exchange rate which maintains parity of
purchasing power.



AMNEX 2
_ 43 -Table 5
CHMNA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Bank group cumulative
disbursement profile
IDA fiscal                    Disbursements                 for forestry and
year or            Semestral  Cumulative  Cumulative       fishery prolects
semester           -   (US$ million) -         (Z)       Yr/Sem la        (Z)
1986                                                        Year 1
1st                  1.00          1.00         2              1           0
2nd                  6.05          7.05        15              2           3
1987                                                        Year 2
1st                  7.10        14.15         30                          7
2nd                  7.50        21.65         46              2          12
1988                                                        Year 3
lst                  7.50        29.15         62              1          20
2nd                  6.50        35a65         75              2          28
1989                                                        Year 4
lst                  5.20        40.85         86              1         37
2nd                  5.00        45.85         97              2          46
1990                                                        Year 5
1st                  1.45        47.30        100              1          56
2         64
Year 6
1         73
2         80
Year 7
1         86
2         92
Year 8
1         96
2         92
Year 9
100
/a From date of Board approval; 70 projects; FY74-83.



ANNEK 2
44 -h1e
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proposed Allocation of Credit Proceeds
(USe million)
Costs          Proposed
Category                                           Total    foreign   IDA credit
Plantation Establishmnt
Establistment                                     12.03     0.60        5.90
Physical contingency                               1.20     0.06        0.59
Expected price increases                           2.01     0.10        0.99
Subtotal                                       15.25     0.76.       7.48
Forest Road Construction
Constructlon to Class III standards               18.62     0.93        4.77
Physical contingency                               1.86     0.09        0.48
Expected price increases                           3.12     0.16        0.80
Subtotal                                       23.60     1.18        6.05
Chemical Fertilizer
Cost, CIF basis                                    2.69     2.69        2.69
Domestic transport and handling                    0.46      -           -
Expected price increases                           0.53     0.45        0.45
Subtotal                                        3.67     3.13        3.13
Equip ent and Vehicles
veihtles                                          10.24     8.19       10.24
Heavy mobile equipment                             1.17     0.94        1.17
Logging and other equipment                        1.06     0.85        1.06
Wood processing equipnent/plymill                  3.40     3.40        3.40
Equipment/research and extension                   6.00     6.00        6.00
Soil laboratories/SFFe                             0.30     0.30        0.30
Physical contingency                               2.22     1.97        2.02
Expected price increases                           3.71     3.29        3.71
Subtotal                                       28.10    24.94       28.10
Technical Assistance
Overseas study tours and training/SFFs             0.73     0.73        0.73
Consulting services/SFFs                           0.05     0.05        0.05
Overseas study tours/research and extension        1.01     1.01        1.01
Consulting services/research and extension         0.39     0.39        0.39
Expected price increases                           0.36     0.36        0.36
Subtotal                                        2.54     2.54        2.54
Other
Forest improvement                                11.69     0.58         -
Forest track construction (non-Class III)          5.25     0.26         -
Wood processing (buildings, equipment except
plymill)                                         7.16     0.86         -
Domestic training/SFFe                             0.20      -           _
Buildings and utilities/SFFe                      11.24     1.21         -
Management and overheads/SFEs                      2.37      -           -
Construction and operation/research and
extension                                       12.04     1.20         -
Ph:  cal contingency                               4.31     0.97         -
Exp_nted price increases                           8.36     0.67         -
Subtotal                                       62.62     5.62         -
Total                                         135.77    38.17       47.30



ANNEX 2
Table 7
- 45 -
CHINA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Unit Costs of Plantation Establishment, by Province /a
(Yuan in mid-1985 values)
Heilongjiang            Sichuan           Guangdong
Plants /b                         73                   140                220
Site preparation                 109                   173                113
Planting /c                       89                   186                 71
Supervision /d                    58                  106                  88
Total                       329                 -605                 492
/a  Source:  Ministry of Forestry, Compilation Report of September 27, 1984.
Costs of fertilizer and of weeding not included. These costs cover only
the first year of planting and are weighted averages for normal and fast-
growing plantations. In Heilongjiang, Sichuan and Guangdong fast-growing
piantations cost about 300Z, 50% and 110%, respectively, more than normal
plantations.
/b  Average planting density - 3,500 plants per ha.  Costs include truck
transport at 20 yuan/ha and 20% replacement of failed plants.
/c  Including cost of application of fertilizer.
/d  Direct supervision at 21% of labor cost.



- 46-                                    ANNEX 2
Table 8
CHINA
FORESTY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Unit Costs of Road Construction /a
Heilongjiang           Sichuan              Guangdong
Z     Cost/km       Z     Cost/km         x    Cost/km
Construction, Hard-Top Forest
Roads, Grade 3
Labor                            60    27,060         80  48,400            70   34,650
Materials                        20      9,020         20  12,100           10    4,950
Equipment operating costs         20     9,020         -        -           20    9,900
Total                        100    45,100        100  60,500           100   49,500
Upgrading of Forest Roads to
Grade 3 /b
Labor                            50    11,920         80   8,700            50    3,720
Nateriala                        20      4,770        20   2,175            20    1,490
Equipment operating costs        30      4,770         -        -           30    2,230
Total                        100    21,460        100  10,875           100    7,440
Construction of Forest Tracks
Labor                            90    10,300          -        -           60    3,780
Materials                         -          -         -        -           10      630
Equipment operating costs         10     1,140         -        -           30    1,890
Total                        100    11,440          -        -         100    6,300
/a In mid-1985 yuan.
/b May include some maintenance.



ANNEX 2
Table 9
-47 -
CHINA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Cost of Equipment and Vehicles /a
Number Unit cost, CIF
of     or ex-factory     Total
Item                                            units       (US$'000)    (US$'000)
Vehicles
Field vehicle, 4 WD                              14          16.0         224.0
Pickup, crew cab, 1.5 t, 2 WD                   34           12.0         408.0
Microbus, 10-12 seats                           20           16.0         320.0
Timber truck, 7 t, diesel                      408           20.0       8,160.0
5-t truck with hydraulic crane                   4           25.0         100.0
5-t truck with dump body                         5           20.0         100.0
Spare parts, special tools, etc. @ 10% of
above                                                                   931.2
Subtotal                                                          10.243.2
Heavy Mobile Equipment
Articulated front-loader with log fork,
wheel-type, 125 hp                             5           48.4         242.0
Articulated log skidder, wheel-type, 75 hp       2           45.0          90.0
Bulldozer, 140 hp with attachments               2           90.0         180.0
Crawler tractor, 75 hp                           1           25.0          25.0
Farm tractor, 50-60 hp, 4-wd                    21           25.0         525.0
Spare parts, special tools, etc. @ 10% of
above                                                                   106.2
Subtotal                                                           1,168.2
Logging and Other Equipment
Cable crane, 2 t, 1.5 km reach                  42           20.0         840.0
Automatic cable crane, 3 t                       2           40.0          80.0
Chain saws                                      98            0.4          39.2
Miscellaneous, including survey instruments,
portable generators, microcomputers                                     100.0
Subtotal                                                           1,059.2
Total                                                             12.470.6
/a In mid-1985 prices.



ANNEX 2
Table lO
- 48 -
CHINA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Costs of Timber Processing Equipment /a
USS
('OOQ)
Plywood Mill
Preparation and production                                            2,810
Adhesive manufacturing                                                  150
Electrical, boilers, maintenance equipment,
miscellaneous                                                         400.
Subtotal                                                      3,400
Tannin Extract Factory
Crushers, centrifuges, conveyor                                         120
Evaporators, condensers, compactors                                     100
Power supply, miscellaneous                                              40
Subtotal                                                        260
Wood Shuttle Factory
Equipment for cutting, impregnation, drilling,
drying and assembly                                                  6no
Equipment for insertion of ironwork and finishing                        70
Subtotal                                                        610
Bamboo Processing/Wood-Working Shops
Small-scale wood-working equipment                                      340
Total                                                         4,760
/a In mid-1985 prices.



AlU 2
Mable 11
49                                               Page I
CHIA
FORESTRY DEWELOPHENT PROJECT
Estimated Costs and Phasing of the Technical Assistance Component
(mid-1985 values)
Total              Phasing of an-months by
man-      Total          project year   la   Technical subject and
months   cost    1985  1986   1987   1988    proposed countries
(USS'OOO)
A. Study Tours /a
1. Beilongjiang staff              5       31.5       5    -       -       -    Silviculture and management of fast-
grwing plantations of Larix app.,
Japan.
5       31.5       -     5      -      -    Management and operations of forest
nurseries, Japan.
4       25.2       -     -      -      4    Collection and utilization of residues
from forest exploitation, Scandinavia.
5       31.5       -     -      -      5    Thinning and tending of managed natural
forest and plantations, Japan or 9Seden.
5       31.5       5     -      -      -    Management of forest plantations, U.S.A.
2. Sichuan staff                   6       37.8       6     -      -       -    Silviculture and management of fast-
growing plantations of Cryptomeria
japonica and Larix spp., Japan.
5       31.5       5     -      -      -    Silviculture and management of planta-
tions of southern pines, -.S.A.
5       31.5       -     -      5      -    Thinning techniques in plantations of
fast-growing species, Australia and NM
Zealand.
3. Guangdong staff                 4       25.2       4     -      -       -    Management and operation of forest
nurseries. Japan.
4       25.2       -     4      -      -    Silviculture and management of fast-
growing plantations of coniferous
species. Australia.
4       25.2       -     4      -      -    Silviculture and management of planta-
tions of southern pines. U.S.A.
4       25.2       -     4      -      -    Silviculture and management of
Eucalyptus plantations, Brazil
4. Combined groups from           28       44.1      14      7      7      -    Industrial forest plantations; U.S.A.
all three provinces                                                      Management of cooperative forest farms;
(4 tours)                                                               Japan. Logging and forest road con-
struction; Austria and West Germany
5. Research scientists/admini-    14       88.2      14     -      _       _    Research planning/management; USA,
strators from four research                                               Canada, Japan
institutes and MFO
/a Beginning about July 1 of the year indicated.



ANNEX 2
50                                                 T Ible- 11
Page 2
Total          *    Phasing of man-uonths by
man-      Total           project year    /a   Technical subject and
months    cost      1985  1986   1987   1988    proposed countries
(US$ ooe)
6. Extension specialists/aduini-  14         88.2       14     -       -      -    Planning/management of forestry exten-
strators from ten exten-                                                      sion; Japan, Canada. Sreden, Notway. USA
sion units and HFO (2 tours)
7. Extension administrators from  18        113.4       18     -       -      -      lannaing/management of extension for
county/provinciai levels                                                      smallholder forestry; 9weden, Japan
(2 tours)
8. Combined groups from four        14       88.2             14       -      -    Visits to researcb institutes to deter-
research institutes & MFO                                                     mine equipment needs; USA, Japan, ;est
Europe
9. Research scientists/admini-    29        182.7       10    10       9      -    To study on-going research in special-
strators from four research                                                   ized topics including soil management.
institutes and MFO;                                                           tree breeding, forest management and
several tours                                                                 forest products extraction and utiliza-
tion. Countries to be determined.
B. Overseas Training /b
1. Combined groups from Sichuan   70        126.0       15    35     20       -    Soil analysis and plant nutrition,
and Heilongjiang (SFFs)                                                       U.S.A. and U.K.  Maintenance of soil
laboratory equipment, U.S.A and U.K.
2. Guangdong staff (SFFs)           40       72.0        -    40      -       -    Operation and maintenance of plywood
mill machines, Italy
3. Research & extension:
PhD program (2 persons)       72       129.6       6    14      23      29    Teehnical and managerial courses,
MSc program (5 persons)       120      216.0       10    24     38      48    Including soils. genetics. silvicultural
Other university level        58       104.4       4    12      19      23    practices and economis; USA, West
or post-graduate                                                              Europe. Japan
C. Conulting Services /c
1. Soil scientist (SFFs)             4       51.1        -     -      4       -
2. Research scientists and          30      383.1       11    10       5      4    About fifteen n-i for research (site
extension specialists                                                         classification and soil management; tree
improvement; silvicultural management);
fifteen i-m for extension (extension
organization; development of training
materials; extension planning).
Consulting needs would be further
defined with project implementation.
Summry
Overseas study tours                173    1,089.9       90    62      12      9
Overseas training                   360      648.0       35   125    100    100
Consulting services                  34      434.2       11    10       9      4
Totals                    567    2,172.1      136   197    121    113
Ia USS6,300 per man-oonth }
7T  US$1,800 per man-oonth   >   All including travel, per diem, fees, processing and printing of
7   US$12,770 per man-month  J   consultants' reports, etc.



ANNEX 2
- 51 -                        Table 12
CHINA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Indicative Costs of Equipment for Research and Extension /a
US$
Item                                                               (million)
Forest Research
Equipment and vehicles for soil management
and classification                                                     1.6
Equipment and vehicles for tree
improvement and tree breeding                                          1.1
Equipment and vehicles for silvicultural
research                                                               1.1
General support equipment                                               0.2
Subtotal                                                          4.0
Forest Extension
Equipment for ten county level extension centers                        2.0
Soil Laboratories lb
Equipment for two laboratories (one each in
Heilongjiang and Sichuan)                                             0.3
Total                                                             6.3
/a   Details to be prepared in first year of project operation after comr
pletion of overseas study tours by research and extension staff and
consultation with specialists. In mid-1985 values.
/b   To serve SFFs in Heilongjiang and Sichuan.



ANNEX 2
-52-                               Table 13
CEMIA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Costs and Phasing of Building Construction la
Cost/
Total     unit        Phasing ('000 yuan)
Item                            Unit   units     (Yuan) 1985   1986   1987   1988   Total
Heilongjiang
Buildings
Hos=ing and schools          sq m  84,850      143  1,982  4,318  1,879  1,805    9,984
Service buildings /b        sq m  44,960       135  2,180  2,000  1,180    690    6,050
Other construction
Logyard extension            no.        5  410,000    220  1,150    680             2,050
Logyard railway               km        2  450,000            450    450              900
Bridges                      no.       12   90,000    730      30    200    120    1,080
Fire towers                  no.        9   63,300    130    330    110               570
Telephone lines              km       739    3,000  1,386    399    261    171    2,217
Power lines                   km      215   10,000    900    330    520    400    2,150
Miscellaneous /c                                        60    350    175              585
Subtotal                                            7,588  9,357  5,455  3,186   25,586
Sichuan
Buildings
Housing and schools          sq m  15,150      110    151    417  1,098             1,666
Service buildings /b        sq m  11,600       110    990    270                    1,260
Other construction
Power lines                  km       130   10,000    330    970                    1,300
Miscellaneous /c                                       320    600    450    300    1,670
Subtotal                                            1,791  2,257  1,548    300    5,896
Total                                               9,380 11,613  7,003  3,486   31,482
/a In 1985 yuan.
/b Includes the soil laboratories.
/c Includes equipment for the repair workshops and fire fighting.



ANNEX 3
Table 1
- 53 -
CHINA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Plantation Establishment and Forest Improvement by Province
(000 hectares)
Forest improvement
Plantation establishment           Tending of     Thinning of exist-
Fast groving      Other       Total      existing         ing forest and
plantations    plantations   area      plantations /a    plantations /b
Heilongjiang           3.1             44.0       47.1         40.6            36.4
Sichuan                3.7              3.9        7.6         12.0             2.6
Guangdong             17.1             10.5       27.6         20.4             9.6
Totals           23.9             58.4       82.3         73.0            48.6
/a Including weeding and noncommercial first thinning.
/b Including commercial thinning in plantations and stand improvement in natural forest.



Annex 3
Table 2
- 54 -
CHINA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Location and Phasing of Afforestation and Road Construction la
Activity                          1985       1986       1987       1988        Total
Afforestation ('000 ha)
Guangdong                        6.9        6.9        6.9        6.9         27.6
Heilongjiang                    11.8       11.7       11.8       11.8         47.1
Sichuan                          1.8        2.3        1.7        1.8          7.6
Subtotal                      20.5       20.9       20.4      20.5         82.3
Road Construction (km) /b
Guangdong                          0        210        188        188          586
(of which Class 3)               0         20          0          a          20
Heilongjiang                     228        135        132        115          610
(of which Class 3)             126         92         91        70          379
Sichuan                          230        171        151        176          728
(of which Class 3)             102        164        151       112          529
Subtotal                       458        516        470       479        1,923
(of which Class 3)             228        276        242       182          928
/a  Beginning July 1 of year indicated.
_b  Includes upgrading.



ANNEX 3
Table 3
CHINA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cutting Regimes and Yields on New Plantations
Heilongjiang                Sichuan          Guangdong North /a       Guangdong South /b
Age of       MAI - 6      MAI - 4   MAI - 7.5   MAI = 6   MAI -'5    MAI - 6    MAI - 12   MAI a 15
plantation   P /c   L ic    P   L         P    L    P    L      P    L      P   L       P    L      P    L
________________---___-------------------- m3/ha -----------~---------------------------
5          -      -     -    -    10       -   10    -    10-         10    -    10      -   10      -
10          -      -     -    -    10      -   10    -    10-          10    -    10    10   15    10
15          -      -     -    -      5      5    5    5      5   5      5    5    20   130   15    20
20         15      -     -    -      -   120    -   10       -  70      -   10      -     -   30   200
25         20      -    10    -                      110                   110
30         20      -    15    -
35           5    15    15    -
40               165      5   10
40                            15
50                           130
Total    60   180    45  155    25   125   25  125    25  75    25  125    40   140   70   230
/a Beijiang and Xijiang.
79 Leizhou.
__ P: poles; L: logs.



ANNEX 3
- 56 -                        Table 4
CHINA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Tree Species, Mean Annual Increments and Rotations by Province
Name of Species                 Mean annual
Province                   Botanical              Common        increment /a  Rotation
(cu m/ha)    (years)
Heilongjiang       Larix gmelini           Larch                      6.0           40
Pinus koraensis        Korean pine                6.0           40
P. sylvestris           Scots pine                4.0           50
var. mongolica
Fraxinus mandshurica   Manchurian ash             4.0           50
Juglans mandshurica    Manchurian walnut          4.0           50
Sichuan            Cunninghamia            Chinese fir               7.5          25-30
Lanceolata
Pinus armandii          Armand's pine             6.0          30-35
Cryptomeria japonica   Japanese cedar            11.0         30-35
Guangdong          C. Lanceolata           Chinese fir               5.0          25-30
(North)          Pinus massoniana        Masson's pine             6.0          30-35
Guangdong          Eucalyptus exserta                               12.0            15
(South)          E. citriodora                                    15.0            20
E. Leizhou No. 1                                 15.0           20
/a  With fertilizers and more intensive management, growth rates should increase over
the rates shown.



ANNEX 3
Table 5
CHINA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Domestic Trainino Program /a
(YW000 s)
Total /b           1985               1986                1987              1988            Total
Province            man-months   Man-months  Cost  Man-months  Cost  Man-months  Cost  Man-months  Cost           cost
Heilongjiang             160           -        -       160     64.0                    -       -         -      64.0
Sichuan                  925         425    170.0       150     60.0       150      60.0      200     80.0      370.0
Guangdong                375         300    120.0        75     30.0         -          -       -         -     150.0        -.
Total           1,460/c        725    290.0        385    154.0       150      60.0      200     80.0      584.0
/a  Source:  MFO Final Compilation Report of September 27, 1984.
/b Man-months based on estimated cost per man-month of Y 400, including salaries, travel, daily subsistence, etc.
/c Up to 10% of the training program in each province would be allocated to members of collectives (townships).



CHINA
FORESTY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Design Standards for Forest Roads
Heilongjian^_         _           Siclhuan                Guangduutg
Class I   Class 2   Class 3   Class 4   Class 3   Class 2   Class 3           Class 3
-------------- (flat) ---------------         a         lb       (hilly)  (mountainous)
Transported volume in
'000 m /year
(one direction)              >100      60-100     20-60       <20        <20        <20        <20          <20
Maximum slope (X)               4-5        4-6       5-7        6-8         9          13         9            9           X
Total width (m)                 7.5        7.5                  4.5        4.5        4.5        4.5          4.5         c
Gravelled width (m)             6.5         4         3.5         3         3         none        3            3
Curve radius (m)                300        200        130       90<         20         15         30           20
Maximum load (t)                20         20         20         20
Maximum speed (km/h)                                                                              30           15
Surface thickness
cm stone                       -         -          -          -          20         -
cm gravel                    10-30      10-30     10-30      10-30        10         -        10-30        10-30
Type of surface               ---   Clay-bound macadam -------    Stone base  Earth    Clay-bound macadam
+ gravel
/a From state farm to work section.
lb From work section to logging area.
Source:  Provincial Bureaus of Forestry.
*o W



- 59-                                      ANNEX 4
Table I
CHINA
FOREnsRY DEVELOPMENr PROJECT
Financial and Economic Prices of Roundwood
(1985 yuan per cu a)
1985                  2005
Financial  Economic  Financial  Fconomic
Guangdong Province
CIF for sawlogs oE comparable quality                           250/a                 305/b
Plus port charges and distributor's margin
(P 5%)                                                         22                    27
Plus transport to wholesaler in Guangzhou                         7                     7
Equals wholesale price In Guangzhou                             279                   339
Less transport from project area to wholesaler
in Guangzhou /c                                                20                    20
Price in project area                                 175/d     259         319       319
Hellongliang Province
CIF. Tianjin (Beijing's port)                                   250                   305
Plus port charges and distributor's margin
(9 92)                                                         22                    27
Plus transport to wholesaler in Beijing /e                       10                    10
Equals wholesale price in Beijing                               282                   342
Less transport from project area to wholesaler
in Beijing /f                                                  44                    44
Price in project area                                 100/d     238         298       298
Sichuan Province
CIF, Guangzhou (nearest port)                                   250                   305
Plus port charges and distributor's margin
(0 9%)                                                         22                    27
Plus transport to wholesaler In Chengdu and
Chongqing k                                                    40                    4n
Equals average wholesale price at main markets                  312                   372
Less transport from project area to wholesaler
in main markets /h                                             43                    43
Price in project area                                145/d      269         329       329
/a USS90/cu m; USS - Y 2.8.
7T; Assuming a real increase of 1! p.a. from 1985 to 2005.
7W By truck and river or rail transport, totaling about 300-350 km; includes handling.
7d  Weighted average prices recelved by the State Forest Farms (SFFs) in the three project
provinces for roundwood delivered at roadside or logyard in 1985; i.e., for tLe
respective mixes of big and small dimensions, of hard- and softwood, of quota and
negotiated prices, and of wood from plantations and from natural forests. At present,
the output from the project SFFs consists mainly of different species of hardwoods
from the natural forests. With the passage of time, thinnings and clear-fellings from
coniferous plantations will make up a larger part of the product mix.
Ie The distance between Beijing and its port at Tianjin is about 100 km.
77 40 km by truck at 20 fen/cu u/ku, plus 1,800 km by train at 2.5 fen/ton/km and at
700 kg/cu m. Loading and unloading Included.
These two cities would be the main markets for the timber produced at the SFFs in
Sichuan, except for the flanjiang timber base which sells most of its timber locally.
Calculation base: 2,000 km by rail at 2.5 fen/ton/ku, 700 kg/cu m, and Y 5/cu a for
loading and unloading.
/h 250 km by truck at 20 fen/cu m/km (much less for Nanjiang), plus loading and unlodd-
ing.



ANNEX 4
-60-                            Table 2
CHINA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Economic and Financial Prices
of Major Project Inputs and Outputs
(Yuan at 1985 constant values)
1985                 2005
Unit    Financial  Economic  Financial  Economic
Project Out uts
Timber /a
Guangdong                 cu m         175       259         319       319
Beilongjiang              cu m         100       238         298       298
Sichuan                   cu m         145       269         329       329
Plywood /b                   cu m        860       869         961       961
Tannin extract /c        metric ton   1,400      1,400       1,400     1,400
Wood shuttles               unit           6         6           6         6
Project Inputs
Chemical fertilizer /d
Guangdong              metric ton      706       706
Sichuan                metric ton      854       854
Rural labor
Guangdong                man-day      3.50      1.75        3.50      1.75
Beilongjiang             man-day      5.00      2.50        5.00      2.50
Sichuan                  man-day      2.50      1.25       2.50       1.25
/a  Weighted average oflogs and poles from natural forest and plantations, and
sold at state fixed and negotiated prices. See Annex 4, Table 1.
/b  Ex-mill, inland Guangdong, 1,220 mm x 2,440 mm x 4-9 mm; sanded.
/c  Price at factory, Leizhou; no international price data available.
/d  In terms of product weight of 15-15-15 fertilizer, delivered at the SFF.



ANM= 4
- 61-                                                           Table 3
CHINA
PORFSTRY DEVEWPWENT PROJECT
Cash Flov for Timber Production and Wood ProcessinR /a
Average
1985    1986    rg87    1988    19R9    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995 1996-2007
Cash Inflow
Central Governmeat:
From IDA credit                  28.0    42.4    33.6    28.5        -        -       -        -       -        -       -
From own budget                  22.6    34.2    27.1    23.0        -        -       -        -       -        -       -
Total IDA & Own iudget         50.6    76.6    60.7    51.6        -        -       -        -       -        -
PFRs and SPFs,
excluding res. and ext.          24.5    15.8    10.1      8.9       -        -       -        -       -        -       -
Sale of incremental log
production                         -     15.3    45.3    83.3   107.2   122.8   136.5   151.5   168.4   187.3   208.3   272.3
Sale of processed forest
products /b                        -      0.4    11.0    17.6    20.8    21.8    22.7    23.7    24.7    25.8    27.0    32.1
Total rash Inflow              75.1   10.1   127.1   161.3   127.9   144.6   159.1   175.3   193.1   213.1   235.3   304.4
Cash Outflow
Timber Production Costs:
Investment                       51.8    68.3    61.8    62.7    29.8    30.1    31.0    32.0    32.Q    33.9    34.9    42.5
Operating cost (final
cutting)                         -      1.4      7.9    15.5    19.0    20.3    20.9    21.5    22.1    22.8    23.5    28.6
Subtotal                       51.8    69.7    69.7    78.2    48.8    50.4    51.9    53.5    55.1    56.7    58.4    71.2
Wood Processing Costs;
Investment                       12.1    19.9      0.3       -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -
Operating costs                    -      0.8      6.8    11.0    13.1    13.R    14.5    15.3    16.2    17.1    18.0    22.8
Subtotal                       12.1    20.7      7.1    11.0    13.1    13.8    14.5    15.3    16.2    17.1    18.0    22.8
Total Wood Prod. & Proces.   63.8    90.4    76.8    89.1    61.8    64.2    66.4    6R.8    71.3    73.8    76.5    94.0
Debt service /c                        -        -       -        -               4.2    10.6    15.7    20.0    20.0    20.0    17.5
Tax                                    -       1.5     4.A      8.3    10.3    11.4    12.2    11.1    14.0    15.0    16.1    17.2
Net Cash Inflow/Outflow        11.2    16.2    45.5    63.9    55.8    64.8    69.9    77.7    87.8   104.2   122.7   175.8
Debt service ratio /d                  -        -       -        -       -       0.07    0.15    0.20    0.23    0.19    0.16    n.11
/a  All items in current value terms.
/b  Plywood. tannin extract, wood shuttles.
/C  On lending of funds from Central Goverment at 3% annual interest, 5 years Rrace period and repayment over the following 15
years.
/d  Ratio of d^.bt service to net cash Inflow/outflov.



-62-~~~~~~ 4V4
Table 4
FORESTR  D&EYIORT P2OIEr
FEmosIC Cast-e sd  llneflts t-    Timber Prodctlon and Wood Proness-ng  la
(1983 val-s)
Aerage
1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  t992  1993  1994  1995  1996-2007
A. Timber Production
Incremental Costs
Plantanion es-ablishwent               Y *In       5.6   5.7   5.5  5.6   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9            0.9
Forest iprovent
Tending (Incl. protection)             '         1.4   2.3   2.7  5.7   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0             3.0
Thinning                                         2.0   1.9   1.9  1.9   1.9   1.9   1.9   1.9   1.9   1.9   1.9             1.9
Final cutting (not In project)                      -    0.9   4.8  9.2  11.0  11.4  11.4  11.4  11.4  11.4   1.4    11.4
Forest roads &                                     7.3  10.3   9.5  8.4   1.3   1.3   1.3   1.3   1.3   1.3   1.3             1.3
Equiapent/vehicles                       '         5.1   9.1   8.1  7.8   7.5   7.0   7.0   7.0   7.0   7.0   7.0             7.0
Relldingslutilitiee                                9.4  11.6   7-0  3.5   3.6   3.6   3.6   3.6   3.6   3.6   3.6             3.6
Fertilizer                                         4.8   4.3   4.4  4.0    -        -      -      -     -      -      -       -
Training and tech assistance (SFFO)                0.9   1.2   0.5  0.3    -        -      -      -     -      -      -       -
Project amnagement                                 1.4   2.0   1.7  1.5   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9            0.9
Physical contingeocies                             3.1   4.1   3.7  3.7   2.4   2.4   2.4   2.4   2.4   2.4   2.4             2.4
Total Incremental Costs                         0.9  53.4  49.8  51.6  32.6  32.4  32.4  32.4  32.4  32.4  32.4    32.4
Incremental Revenue
Log production
Total                                  '000 *3   507   507   580  660   734   750   750   750   750   750   750              750
without project                                   507   406   304  203   204   204   204   204   204   204   204             204
Incremental                              -         -    101   276  457   530   546   546   546   546   546   546            546
Unit value (weighted average)           YT/3        249   252   255  259   262   265   268   27i   274   277   280            300
Total Incremental Revenue           Y aln        -   25.5  70.4 118.2  138.9  144.7  14.3  147.8  149.4  151.0  152.7   163.6
.et Ineremental Revenue,              -       -40.9  -27.9  20.5 66.6  106.4  112.3  113.8  115.4  117.0  118.6  120.2   131.2
Tinber Production
S. Vood Processins
Costs
Investents
Equipment                                         4.5   7.S   0.1    -      -      -      -      -     -      -    0.6
Buildings and site preparation          -         6.5   9.8   0.2   -       -      -      -         -     -      -       -
Total Investments                              11.0  17.4   0.3   -       -      _      _     _      _      _    0.6
Operating Costs (not ln project)                    -    0.9   7.5  11.5  13.2  13.3  13.4  13.4  13.5  13.6  13.7    14.3
Physical contingencles                             0.9   1.7   0.4  0.6   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7             0.7
Total Costs                                    11.9  20.0   8.2  12.1  13.8  13.9  14.0  14.1  14.2  14.3  15.1    15.0
Revenues
Sa-Les                                                -    0.4  11.0  16.9  19.3  19.4  19.5  19.6  19 6  19.7  19.8    20.3
Residual value 2f buildings and land                  -      -      -    -      -      -      -     -      -     -      -       0.8
Total Revenues                                   -    0.4  11.0  16.9  19.3  19.4  19.5  19.6  19.6  19.7  19.8    21.1
Net Incremental Revenue,
hood Processig                      '       -11.9 -19.5   2.9  4.8   5.5   5.5   5.5   5.4   5.4   5.4   4.7            6.1
C. Total Net Incremental Revenue lb                     -52.8 -47.4  23.4  71.4  111.9  117.8  119.3  120.8  122.4  124.0  124.9   137.3
/a Economie rates of return and net present values (lIP?) for components are:
Cexlponenit              2ate of return (S) NPf 6 122 (T =ln)
Timber Production
Guangdong                           >5D                   186.8
Reilongjisng                        >50                   271.2
Sichuan                              38                    99.9
Subtotal                          67                   557.9
Vood Proce-s ing
Plywnod sill                         14                     2.6
Tanin extract factory                19                     0.9
Shuttle factory                      14                     1.1
Subtotal                          14                     4.6
Details of these calculations are available In Item 8.1Z of the Projeer File.  No rate of return was calculated for the bamboo and wood working
equipment (0.37 of project cost) because of the wide range of products which are to be produced.
lb Total project
Economic rate of return:    >50m
NW e 122: T 562 million.



ANNhEX 5
-63 -                             Table 1
CHINA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Example of Statement of Expenditure for Reimbursement
Against IDA-Financed Works
Name of State Forest Farm:                                       Ouarter
Province:               E_nding
Unit        Number      Total
cost /a       of          cost
Task and provinces                            (yuan)       units       (yuan)
Plantation establishment (per ha) /b
Guangdong                                   492
Heilongjiang                                329
Sichuan                                     605
Construction of Class 3 forest
roads (per km) /c
Guangdong                                49,500
Heilongjiang                             45,100
Sichuan                                  60,500
/a  Figures indicated are in 1985 yuan and are assumed to be generally valid
for the 12-month period beginning July 1, 1985. Figures would be updated
-nnually by the PFBs of the three provinces and agreed to by IDA.
/b  These costs cover only the first  year of the plantings and are weighted
averages for normal and fast growing plantations. Costs of fertilizer and
of weeding are not included. For details, see Annex 2, Table 7.
/c  Includes labor, materials and equipment operating costs.  For details, see
Annex 2, Table 8.



ANNEX 5
-64 -                             Table 2
CHINA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Progress Reporting Form for SFFs
Provincial bureau:
Semester covered:
For period covered
Unit                      Cumulative
Work completed                    Unit  cost  nuantity  Value  Quantity  Value
Plantation establishment            ha
Forest improvement                  ha
Chemical fertilizer application   ton
Forest road construction
Grade 3 standard                  km
Upgrading to Grade 3
Forest tracks                     of
Acquisition of equip/vehicles
Vehicles                         no.
Heavy mobile equipment           no.
Logging and other
equipment (specify)
Construction of buildings/utilities
Housing and schools              sq m
Service buildings                 "
Telephone and power lines         km
Other (specify)
Construction of wood processing
facilities (specify)
Training and tech. assistance
Domestic training             man-months
Overseas study tours
Overseas training
Consulting services               i
/a  To be completed twice yearly by each of the three provincial forestry
bureaus on the basis of similar information provided by participating
SFFs.  Information collected by the PFBs would be submitted to the PM) in
Beijing which would prepare twice yearly project reports for IDA.



- 65 -                           ANNEX 5
Table 3
CHA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Progress Reporting Form for Research and Extension /a
Provincial research institute:
County extension center:
Province:
Semester covered:
For period covered
Unit                     Cumulative
Work completed                   Unit  cost  Quantity  Value  Quantity  Value
Construction of buildings          m2
Acquisition of equipment
(specify)
Training and tech. assistance
Overseas study tours         man-months
Overseas training                of
Consulting services
/a To be completed twice yearly by each of the provincial research institutes
and county-level extension centers in the project and forwarded by the
respective PFBs to the PMO in Beijing. This information would be
incorporated by the PMO into its twice yearly project reports for IDA.



ANNEX 6
-66 -                            Page 1
CHINA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Glossary of Technical Terms
Annual Allowable Cut:              The calculated volume of wood which may be
removed from the forest each year under a
sustained yield system.
Final Cutting:                     Includes both selection felling and clear
felling of areas of natural forest and
plantations.
Final Yield:                       The volume of utilizable wood removed when
plantations are clear felled at rotation
age, expressed in cubic meters per hectare.
Growth Rate:                       The volume of production expressed in cubic
meters per hectare per annum and measured
either over a short period (current annual
increment) or over the whole rotation (mean
annual increment).
Improvement Felling:               A practice applied to middle aged natural
forest. It is the removal of unmerchantable
species and malformed trees and the opening
up of dense stands to provide better growing
conditions.
Intermediate 'iield:               The volume of utilizable wood removed during
thinning operations; usually expressed in
cubic meters per hectare.
Logging:                           Involves all timber harvesting activities
from felling to road transport.
Logging Track:                     Non-hard surfaced roads of 1.5-2.0 meter
width for tractor and/or hand cart log
extraction.
Natural Regeneration:              Regrowth of a forest through natural
seedfall and the establishment of seedling
growth.
Pruning:                           The removal of side branches in a young
plantation in order to give access to the
plantation, to reduce fire hazards, and to
improve the quality of final crop trees.



ANNEX 6
- 67 -                           Page 2
Road Dens ity:                     The relation between total forest road
length in a given forest area and the forest
surface. Expressed as meters per hectare.
Rotation:                          The age to which a crop of trees shall be
grown before harvesting; frequently
determined by the optimum size of log
required by a particular industry.
Seeding Felling:                   Removal of most of the trees in a mature
stand, leaving a few scattered seed trees in
order to obtain natural regeneration.
Selection Felling:                 Removal of individual final crop trees,
usually from natural forest, after they have
attained a predetermined minimum diameter or
girth.
Skidding:                          The transport of timber from stump to
roadside. In Chinese project documents, the
terms "cropping" and "skidding" are used for
the same operation.
Tending:                           The maintenance of young plantations by
weeding, but including the first thinning of
young plantations when the produce from that
thinning is not saleable.



ANNEX 7
- 68 -                          Page 1
CHINA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.   General Reports and Studies on the Forestry Sector
A.1   FAO, Forestry in China, FAO Forestry Paper (Rome, 1982).
A.2   FAO, China: Integrated Wood Processing Industries, FAO Forestry
Paper (Rome, 1979).
B.   General Reports and Studies Related to the Project
B.1   FAO/CP, China:  Forestry Development Project-Preparation Report,
20/84, CP-CPR 3 (Rome, February 27, 1984).
B.2   Melhuish, A.D., China:  Forestry Development Project-Proposed Wood
Industries, (Washington, November 8, 1984).
B.3   Devit, J.G., China:  Forestry Development Project-Plantation
Development and Forest Management, (Washington, October 31, 1984).
B.4   Ladurner, M., China:  Forestry Development Project-Forest Road
Construction, Buildings and Utilities, Loin  and Transport,
(Washington, October 31, 1984).
B.5   FAO/TCP, China:  Proposed FAO Technical Assistance Program-
Strengthening of Forestry Research Education, Training, Extension
and National Forestry Sector Planning, (Washington, undated, about
September 1984).
B.6   Forest Survey and Design Institute of Sichuan Province, A Research
Report on the Feasibility of Exploiting and Building the Commercial
Timber Base on Sichuan State Forest Farm. (Chengdu, June 30,
1984). This report includes separate annexes consisting of
feasibility studies, maps, engineering drawings, etc. for Fubao-
Simianshan, Hongya and Nanjiang commercial timber bases.
B.7 Heilongjiang Forestry Survey and Design Institute, Report on
Feasibility Investigation of Constructing Timber Production Base of
State-owned Forest Farms in heilongjiang Province: Project No.
84-07 (Harbin, 1984). This report includes annexes consisted of
feasibility studies, maps, engineering drawings, etc. for
commercial timber bases in Bin, Bao Qing, Fang Zheng, Shang Zhi,
Tang Yuan and Yi Lian counties.



ANNEX 7
- 69 -                            Page 2
B.8   China Engineering Consulting Corporation of Forest Products
Industry, Pre-Feasibility Study Report on Physiology Laboratory for
Analyzing Soil and Plant in Forestry on Six Bases of Merchantable
Timber of Heilongjiang Provinces; Project No. Consul 84-009
(Beijing, .May 1984).
B.9   China Engineering Constulting Project of Forest Products Industry,
Pre-Feasibility Study Report on Wooden Shuttle Workshop Expansion
in Woodworking Plant of Woodyard of Bin County Commerical Wood Base
in Heilongjiang Province; Project No. Consul 84-011 (Beijing, June
1984).
B.10  Forestry Prospecting and Planning Institute of Cuandgdong,
Compilation Report on the FeasibiLity Investigations of Timber
Bases on Leizhou, Sijiang and Baijiang, Guangdong Provinces;
(Guangdong, June 1984).
B.11  Designing Institute of Forestry Exploration of Guangdong Province,
Feasibility Research Report of Leizhou Tannin Extract Factory of
Commercial Timber Base in Leizhou Region of Guangdong Province;
(Guangzhou, June 1984).
B.12  Appraisal Mission, Working Tables for Calculating Economic and
Financial Returns to the Project; (Washington, DC, December 1984).
B.13  China Engineering Consulting Corporation of Forest Products
Industry, Feasibility Study Report on Shaoguan Plywood Plant of
Beijiang Commercial Wood Base in Cuangdong Province; Project No.
Consul 84-010 (Beijing, September 1984).



CHINA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
RSCAL YEAR  11984jj98 I                                  119887J 988Jj989                                                        I 0
CALENDARYEAR                  198                195                1986               1987              1988               1939               1990
QUARTER   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4               | 2   3   4   i   2   3   4            2   3   4   1    2   3   4
i. CML WORKLSI
a) Design                                 -                         
b) Construction                                                       -                                   ~       
2. PIAMATION ESTABUSHMENTb
a) Seedling Production
b) Land Preparation
c) Planting and Fertilizing
3. FOREST IMPROVEMENT & LOGGINGb 
4. EQUIPMENt. VEHICLES & MATERiALSC
a) reparation of Bid Documents
b) Invitation to Bld
c) Bid Evaluation and Award
d) Manufocture and Delivew
5. TRAINING7
a) Domestic
b) (Overseas
6. CONSULTING SErPVCES
Erredhre Dat h                                                         Completion Date       Closing Date
a Buldings, utilities, roads.                                                                                                                                                           ,
b Timing of rield operations will vary tron province to province. depending on climate and weather conditions
c Bidding and procuerment would be corried out in two phoses. The first phase would cover equipment. vehicles and
materials for the SFFs. the second would cover the equipment for the prvirncial reseorch Institute and would be done after
return of the research and extension sludy tours.                                                                                                              World Bank - 26946



CHINA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organization of the Mlnistry of Forestry
[    Minister of Forestry
Sclerve &            SltvlcultLxo IN         Planning               Forelgn                Forest             Machinery &           Protection &
| Technology'   || Managemnent  |                 F_:n ric|             Affolnr    l         Industry    l  l       Sply               Mo|ilntermce o|
I                      ~~~~~~      ~~supply  Plantatlons
|  hreshy  |                                                             l    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Bureau3
Reco__Res__h                                                                                 Peci                      .                                       H
County
&     _nng  R _eIrchhrestry
Natkonal              Regional              Proainclol
Reseach               Research               Rearch
Institutes             Centers              Instiutes
Cdocttee             State Fort
Legend:                                                                                         Foresty                Fa_ns
-  - -      Unes of Responsbllty
Lines d Indirect Retionships
Notwe 'Includes the DMons d Fcretrv Educatlon & Technkal Exchange & Externio                                                            Wor Bank-26779 



CHINA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organization of a Typical State Forest Farml
monowM(i2
Assistant Mornge (1)
|   Gfoup (5)                                      F irnc Grou (3)T chnolog Gru&2
Power  Clinic                        ~~~~~~~~~~~ Forest
Pdmory  Power   cilnlc           Guest          ~~~~~~~Protection  Owto
Sch,ool 1       Sttn 2               3Hose (1) nInwsiA                      )       Awu're (28
'Refems to DoJionkou SFF. Slchuaon Provlnce. os od Octobwe '1983.
2FIgLze in porenthese dernote numrbws of person In post.WxiBrk268
1i;71<<S;0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Wol Bon-27



- 73 -
Figure 4.^
CHINA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organizaon for Project Implementatlon
Office dfthe DepuY
|Mhister od Faesh
Pje Mag tOffice.'                      Various Deptment
Ministry f Fa1esy                   Mlnisty  Fresty
Pwincal Foedy.
Research hintitutes &
County Eael Centes
Proc Manogament                     Projet Monagemen                    Project M anagemen
Groups at`Counlty                   Goupsact County                     Group at CountyV
__                                         __t                  I              __M      o          I
&SFFLwel                            &SFFLevel                           &SFFlLee
Nole
1The Dbector& Deputy Deectard the Poct Management OMice re ftrm the Depotment d SMacudtue& Maonrement
Other shtd hclude an accountant & fetay engrieer.
2 The PMOs atplncia krelwuld generflybe headed bytheChlefofthe Planning DMilon otthe Rovnclal FoSts Bureau
& would hicludea rcpsentatoe of the Provincial Planrng Co amrm    a teter. meohanica industrici & chv engineers
anccountant. an econorast&a caoiher. The lRoinical PMOwaLud be responsble to and osisbd by. a Pojct lodng
G6o   consrisg of dpreetves thx m the Forety teaum the Rnance Bureau the RPvindal Plannrng Commlsn
the Ccpltd Constuctin xe&the Provndal Forer Design InsItute Shiaaga tlmwouldexst athecouyWlei.
World Bam*-26780



_IBRD 18511
5 O V I E T          U  N  I O  N                                              t     <_^ \/                                          >   
|                  \                           2~~~~~~~~~~~~~hw  M    O   N   G   O   L   I  A                                         
0 ~           ~~~~~~~~~ 91°<us-                                                                       _                           Je"  .r>
fAFGHANI5T1N            r                                                 T                     97 s c t"= DE/@SR^TIC                               /  g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E TI
k r E   s E Z v o w a i ) S  r   , r~~~~~ ,'4  e    s     s~E 9  REUSI
TP -0 r tPe 3>iz4 J,t8 OM 000,.d by           -  vl                               1                                   a5 
rho d" All" . rOt ::m.                                                                                                        a    &         Or      rsC              
t r4r tte41nr of  i^t
W~ ~   ~      ~     CHI      - of; rh                                             ,* 9,&*,>                                 i          
an~PRJC VW ~  ck   t.1* 2 "I                                                                                        J                         Ft 'C7  ,Rh i / ip pa n
wo"ba"~~~~           Provncic Fott* RtcOnc Initra inSoos                                 ^°                             >XON
VW *dw amutlvlottvxninznttiPoc                                                   1, "a us"t                              9 'tttsT                         lzee  d             t qt        4       0
:- @                                                                        UNI   g       t            *      A 9';'                                         Stt i          ll  ' fimlOyi
adwsertv &,/ amoomm of_rLoEPEt->                                                                                     SJv    LSt#e'          .     <
acurt__"mel  tt                                               TALN   tlnuLl                       v                      **'          '      i Hi+I
Lp~,                                                                                                                      NOVMil R 1 9s



n                                                                                                                                                           e~~~~~~~on
4   '   itngnou    \   , /  9  / \ &oalsou   /   t  ff ~~~~~~~~~ tA  . sI^^C^O,~~~~RT.          er ,a
<                 '-\            _t       .    ,    ?              q       'f    \
g.:; i ~~~~~~~~GUANGXOGPOINE-::
;Oe                                X e                                                                     Natlonal Rords                   . ...TongX in  ayan
F  ' > InIsmtu'                                                        no                           HU    Pil 
;kw*"          ~     ~~ ~ I,                      I ,                   -- arwn cmneiz--
_--w          \>ato        v<_                              ,                             XILsOlETlitS I I  K10IM9                     | Sh 
VIE NOAMeR 9



IBRD 18612
12S                                    z3oeCHINA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
HEILONGJIANG PROVINCE
E1Z   :   _  COMME RCIAL TIMBER BASE
/   : Gdi  3     J   >t      ,                                         ,&     NUMBER OF STATE FOREST FARMS
ROADS
> 4 <                    /  -i    >   rS                                         . .   -RAILWAYS
E  t  5  W  ( \ \ Rl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IVERS
,.-      8B~ui  1       \ \-    -   COUNTY BOUNOARIESIoncompImim)
* -o, -  f  PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
H  4  8   J  - r INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
rOI          -_LOBtETERS150  1
t1   ob                    ~~~~~~~~                ~        ~~MILES i     
100  ISO~ ~~~10
-sr            N    E  J't(4
/U O /8/ G    G         O z  .
u.sis.R.   SN._    /                             _     U. S. S. R.
-~ ~                    , If 9  , ~ II                               , N7
fLOJ-J,A0        .o M.,                                T.
'I,                                                                                                    - Ic .Ic -M
S - /     t~           .5 tpO             rm. m<, .!.. u.u  s s. R
U.:R u    -~ x                                 /ol  BWmffnm-
~~~~-,                    -'        _    9Th.MIn*'ffiCAC{|y/t7r  .                                             -_ 
KeDMP
To T f z
4     00a7-~~~~~ d             \ ~REPUBLK OF KOREA
NOVEMBER 1984



bmNu 1MG
.34-                                                                                 -N.. t                 too  * t    i,   *  T   W  to  *l e   ?I,  t                      gg     t   34*
X ^< ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANSU/ _                                                                                           nSal
N ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~N
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AS                                                                             'eg         ro
Fe 0~~~~~~~~~~~~eUq
tr ~     ~       \*    \  I              i:-/,                                                                        ICUNPOIC
XIZANG
SICHYU AUANtttl PROVINCE
" _~~~~~~~~~~,~   *.4                                              ,J                                     r,l7hrI                           Suwolittty eGO
___ -p ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GO~~~~~~~~~eWMw                I      ~      ~       ~      ~     ~      Cflmilum    u
___q                  *                                         T 1me-*                                                                          atmmesuit Aul Oed
.~~~.    -  .        YUNNAN                                                                        :: ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~memeAn~ab   IM
-u-rn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UZOUsWa od
ftft~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~a.1W1                                                                                                                  'O
AltWo~ ~ ~ ~~~SCUIRh



