DOGUMENTS iREDIT NUMBER 1605 CHA
Project Agreement
(Forestry Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
GUANGDONG PROVINCE
HEILONGJIANG PROVINCE
and
SICHUAN PROVINCE
Dated                       5      , 1985


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1605 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1985, between
INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT   ASSOCIATION  (the  Association)  and
GUANGDONG PROVINCE, HEILONGJIANG PROVINCE and SICHUAN PROVINCE
(the Provinces).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between People's Republic of China (the Borrower) and
the Association, the Association has agreed to make available to
the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
forty-seven million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 47,800,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that the
Provinces agree to undertake such obligations toward the Associa-
tion as are set forth in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Provinces, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
have agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "PFD" means the Provincial Forestry Department of each
of the Provinces;
(b)  "Provincial PMO" means the Provincial Project Manage-
ment Office established within each of the PFDs; and
(c)  "Local PMO" means the local Project Management Office
established within each of the SFFs.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. Each of the Provinces declares its commitment
to the objective of the Project relating to Part A thereof as set
forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to
this end, shall carry out its respective part of Part A of the
Project described in said Schedule through its PFD with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and forestry practices,
and shall provide, or*cause to be provided, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
its respective part of Part A of the Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for Part A of the Project and to be financed out, of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. Each of the Provinces shall carry out the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07
and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of
goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the
Project Agreement and Part A of the Project.
Section 2.04. For the purposes of carrying out its respec-
tive part of Part A of the Project, each of the Provinces shall:
(a) maintain the Provincial PMO within such Province, with
competent staff in adequate numbers and with functions and
responsibilities acceptable to the Association; and
(b) cause each of the SFFs within its jurisdiction to main-
tain the Local PMO within such SFF with competent staff in ade-
quate numbers and with functions and responsibilities acceptable
to the Association.
Section 2.05. (a) Each of the Provinces shall, at the
request of the Association, exchange views with the Association
with regard to the progress of Part A of the Project, the per-
formance of its obligations under this Agreement and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.


﻿(b) Each of the Provinces shall promptly inform the Asso-
ciation of any condition which interferes or threatens to inter-
fere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, or the performance by such Province of
its obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Each of the Provinces shall maintain
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices its operations and financial condition in
respect of activities related to Part A of the Project.
(b) Each of the Provinces shall:
(i) have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section including the Special Account for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate   auditing   principles   consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said accounts and the audit thereof and
said records as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements
of expenditure, each of the Provinces shall:
(i) maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this
Section, separate records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until one year after the Closing Date, all
records  (contracts,   orders,  invoices,  bills,


﻿receipts and other documents evidencing such
expenditures;
(iii) enable    the  Association's   representatives  to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by the said auditors as to whether the
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of
such expenditures have been used for the purpose
for which they were provided.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of the Provinces thereunder shall terminate on
the earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) the date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
the Provinces of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the.parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For Guangdong Province:
Guangdong Provincial Forestry Department
Guangzhou, Guangdong Province
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Guangdong Provincial Forestry Department
Guangzhou, Guangdong
For Heilongjiang Province:
Heilongjiang Provincial Forestry Department
Harbin, Heilongjiang Province
People's Republic of China


﻿-6-
Cable address:
Heilongjiang Provincial Forestry Department
Harbin, Heilongjiang
For Sichuan Province:
Sichuan Provincial Forestry Department
Chengdu, Sichuan Province
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Sichuan Provincial Forestry Department
Chengdu, Sichuan
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of any of the Provinces may be taken or
executed by the Deputy Director of the PFD of such Province or
such other person or persons as such Deputy Director shall
designate in writing, and each of the Provinces shall furnish to
the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.


﻿IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
GUANGDONG PROVINCE
HEILONGJIANG PROVINCE
SICHUAN PROVINCE
By
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198-3
FOR SECRETARY


