Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  11/06/2009 
Report No.:  51599
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Colombia 
Project ID:  P083075 
Project Name:  Colombia: Integrated National Adaptation Program 
Task Team Leader:  Walter Vergara 
GEF Focal Area: Climate change 
Global Supplemental ID:  
Estimated Appraisal Date: February 13, 
2006 
Estimated Board Date: April 11, 2006 
Managing Unit:  LCSEN 
Lending Instrument:  Technical Assistance 
Loan 
Sector:  General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (41%);Central government 
administration (28%);Health (17%);Sub-national government administration (14%) 
Theme:  Climate change (33%);Biodiversity (17%);Malaria (17%);Land administration 
and management (17%);Water resource management (16%) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
5.40 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER/RECIPIENT 
7.20 
 
Foreign Private Commercial Sources (unidentified) 
2.30
9.50 
Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
or OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies) 
Yes [ ] 
No [ ] 
2. Project Objectives 
The project development objective is to support Colombia#s efforts to define and 
implement specific pilot adaptation measures and policy options to meet the anticipated 
impacts from climate change. These efforts will be focused on high mountain 
ecosystems, insular areas and on human health concerns related to the expansion of areas 
for vectors linked to malaria and dengue, as identified as priority areas in the National 
Communications and other studies.  
 
The project restructuring operation involves changing the location of the activities to be 
implemented from the former pilot site of Las Hermosas Massif to the Chingaza Paramo. 
Furthermore, the National Natural Park of Los Nevados is included for modeling efforts.  
 
Also as result of project restructuring, two new safeguard policies have been triggered: 
Pest Management OP4.09 and Indigenous Peoples OP4.10.  
 
Page  2
Key performance indicators:  
 
#
Strengthened capability to produce and disseminate relevant climate change 
information through availability of continuous and reliable climate information of 
relevance to major climate change vulnerabilities in health, mountain ecosystems and 
insular areas (157 climate stations modernized)  
 
#
At least six pilot adaptation activities have been implemented and monitored, 
addressing vulnerabilities to climate change in high mountain ecosystems, insular and 
coastal areas and health, including:  
 
#
Maintenance of the hydropower generation ability, measured through sustained 
water regulation, at the Chingaza paramo.  
 
#
Adaptation program designed and incorporated in regional development plans for 
the Chingaza paramo. Positive impacts on biodiversity and land degradation documented.  
 
#
Adaptation program designed and incorporated in regional development plans for 
the Colombian Caribbean insular areas including increased management performance of 
key marine ecosystems and  reduced vulnerability in water supply to local communities; 
and  
 
#
Strengthened public health program incorporating management measures to meet 
the increased threats from dengue and malaria induced by climate change resulting in a 
30% reduction of Malaria and Dengue morbidity within the pilot areas by project closure.   
 
3. Project Description 
a) 
Making climate, climate variability, and climate change information available for 
adoption of adaptation measures and policies (total cost $3.3 m; GEF funding $1.0 m). 
This component seeks to strengthen Colombia#s capabilities to produce and disseminate 
climate information (useful for resource allocation and operational decision making), in 
support of adaptation to climate change measures and programs.  The component will 
strengthen IDEAM#s and INVEMAR#s capabilities to provide: (i) forecasts to improve 
resource management and biodiversity conservation decisions in high mountain 
ecosystems; (ii) climate scenarios to develop ecosystem management plans land 
conservation and adaptation options in Paramo, insular and coastal areas; and (iii) 
warnings for Malaria and Dengue. Under the component, the following activities will be 
supported: (i) improvements in technical and scientific capabilities at IDEAM and 
INVEMAR to produce information relevant to climate change; (ii) development of local 
climate change scenarios in support of selection of adaptation measures; (iii) 
strengthening the existing climate data network of relevance to climate change by 
supporting equipment renovation for 157 key climate stations (out of 3100 operated by 
IDEAM) with at least 20 years of high quality data (for 1961-1990), including quality 
control and assurance; (iv) strengthening scientific and technical personnel to ensure long 
term sustainability of the project activities.  
 
b) 
As a result of a restructuring, project activities for this component have been 
shifted to Chingaza Paramo:  
 
Design and implementation of an adaptation program that supports maintenance of 
environmental services (including hydropower potential) in the Chingaza paramo (total 
cost $4.3 m, GEF funding $1.6m).  The Chingaza paramo is a very humid, high altitude 
moorland, a highly diverse biotope of particular concern for climate change impacts.  It is 
Page  3
also important for potential hydro-power generation.  The selection of the Chingaza 
Paramo was made on the basis of the significant biodiversity in the ecosystem, and its 
relevance for water supply to the city of Bogot·.  The component supports the following 
activities: (i) Ecosystem planning and management in Chingaza paramo, seeking to 
maintain its high biodiversity assets; (ii) Maintenance of potential for hydropower 
generation through adoption of measures to protect the associated watershed; (iii) 
Adaptive land-use planning model seeking to reduce impacts from climate change on 
land degradation; (iv) Improvement of productive agro-ecosystems and reduction of their 
socioeconomic vulnerability to GCC impacts  
 
c) 
Adaptation measures in Caribbean Insular areas (total cost $3.5 m, GEF funding 
$1.2 m).  The objective of this component is to support the implementation of physical 
adaptation measures in order to reduce the vulnerability of the Caribbean Insular area, 
especially with regard to changes in rainfall and temperature and sea-level rise.  The 
activities under this component consist of: (i) Implementation of GLOOS (Global Ocean 
Observing System)-based monitoring stations in the Western Caribbean (complementing 
the regional network under CPACC); (ii) Integrated water resources management to 
enhance the availability of fresh water in the Caribbean insular areas (San Andr√©s 
island); (iii) Implementation of the marine protected areas system in the Seaflower 
reserve and the CRSBeIF in order to contribute to the conservation of marine ecosystems 
in the face of climate impacts; and (iv) Integrated Coastal Management to reduce the 
vulnerability of ecosystems, infrastructure and population living close to the coast.  
 
d) 
Responses to the increased exposure to tropical vector-borne diseases (malaria 
and dengue) induced by climate change (total cost $6.1 m, GEF funding $1.0m). The 
objective of this component is to address the increased exposure to tropical vector-borne 
diseases (malaria and dengue) induced by climate change through the implementation of 
an Early Warning System for Malaria and Dengue Surveillance and Control (DMEWS) 
seeking a 30% reduction in both malaria and dengue morbidities in pilot areas. During 
the INAP, the DMEWS will be implemented in approximately 12 pilot municipalities for 
malaria and 12 for dengue, selected based on perceived climate threats.  The project will 
support the design, implementation and operation of the DMEWS: developing a 
framework that permits the continuous evaluation of the local risk of dengue and malaria 
transmission in the face of global climate change and the determination of the most 
appropriate actions in order to prevent epidemics before they begin. (See Annex 1 for 
further details). The project will contribute to the strengthening of the institutional 
capabilities through the evaluation and strengthening of local (municipal) health agencies 
and through the strengthening the National Health (M&D) Surveillance System 
ultimately changing the current reactive institutional organization into a proactive public 
health system.  
 
e) 
Administrative and Financial Management (total cost $ 0.72m, GEF funding 
$0.5m).  This component will support the administrative and financial management of the 
project activities and will include goods; consultancy services; travel and operational and 
incremental costs undertaken by the NCU and CI-Colombia. Specifically this component 
Page  4
will finance the project manager, the procurement specialist, other required personnel for 
the project management, and the project external audits.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
The project will be located in different areas according to each component:  
 
Component a) IDEAM - climate stations: 157 key climate stations have been selected as 
reference network all over the country for equipment renovation (out of 3100 operated by 
IDEAM)  
 
Component b) As a result of a restructuring, the activities will take place at High 
Mountains Ecosystems in Chingaza paramo, in the central range of the Andes. Modelling 
efforts at the National Natural Park of Los Nevados.  
 
Component c) Archipielagos of San Andres, Providencia and Santa Catalina, as well as 
of the Rosario, San Bernardo and Isla Fuerte.  
 
Component d) During the INAP, the EWSDM will be implemented in approximately 12 
pilot municipalities for malaria and 12 for dengue, already pre-selected based on climatic 
and epidemiological characteristics.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Mr Walter Vergara (ENV) 
Mr Alonso Zarzar Casis (LCSSO) 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
X
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
X
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
X
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
Safeguard policies. The safeguard policies Environmental Assessment and Natural 
Habitats were triggered under the parent project. As result of the restructuring, Pest 
Management and Indigenous Peoples are also triggered by the project.  
 
Page  5
Safeguard policies triggered after restructuring  
 
Related to the health component, during project preparation no Indigenous Peoples had 
been identified in project areas. However, during implementation the client decided to 
include a small indigenous community living in San Jose del Guaviare as a pilot in the 
implementation of activities. The team social specialist visited the area and discussed 
with the Instituto Nacional de la Salud (INS) the preparation of an Indigenous Peoples 
Plan with the Guayabero Indigenous Peoples. The IPP has been prepared and is 
acceptable to the Bank. Appropriate consultation processes took place, and the 
community agrees to work on the project and is committed and engaged throughout the 
whole project cycle. All outcomes of the project are expected to be positive on the 
population, i.e. supporting them in efforts to reduce cases of malaria, with no negative 
impacts foreseen (see IPP publicly available in Infoshop for more information).  
 
Also in relation to the health component, the project supports the implementation of 
early warning systems and improved surveillance and control of vector borne diseases, 
dengue and malaria. If successful, morbidity rates should decrease (main objective), and 
as an indirect result, there should be an associated net reduction on the use of pesticides 
once the systems are implemented and functioning. However, it is important to note that 
the project does not aim at reducing pesticides, nor does it support the purchase and use 
of such products. Project due diligence indicated that Colombia has a comprehensive 
regulation on the use of pesticides, that their procedures follow the World Health 
Organization standards and international good practices, and that the existing monitoring 
institutional capacity is adequate. However, it has been agreed with the client that the 
safeguard policy be triggered, on a proactive and conservative way. For those reasons, a 
full Pest Management Plan is not required. To comply with the policy, the Government, 
through the INS, will include, in the design and implementation of the early warning 
system, a strategy to inform people and institutions on how to deal with an outbreak of 
dengue or malaria, to avoid indiscriminate and improper use of pesticides or of pesticides 
that are not allowed under OP 4.09.  
 
The community communication strategy is part of what has been termed #response 
measures# to the different early warning signals. With the help of world experts (selected 
with the concourse of WHO and PAHO) the response measures will be designed. As a 
pilot activity great emphasis will be given to monitoring and learning: What works and 
what does not. Not a single strategy is envisioned (given the very diverse target groups). 
The INAP-Health team will seek advice from communication experts and will implement 
monitoring protocols to learn for the pilot activities.  
 
Safeguard issues under parent project  
 
Natural Habitats  
 
The conservation of natural habitats like other measures that protect and enhance the 
environment, is essential for long-term sustainable development. INAP promotes and 
supports natural habitat conservation and improved land use by financing activities 
designed to integrate into local development the conservation of natural habitats and the 
maintenance of ecological functions. INAP activities are sited on lands already 
deteriorated of natural habitats, or in buffer areas aiming at protecting the sustainable 
Page  6
flow of environmental services. INAP does not support pilots involving the significant 
conversion of natural habitats  
 
INAP has adopted a community embracing strategy. The implementing agencies take 
into account the views, roles, and rights of groups, including local non-governmental 
organizations and local communities, and involve such people in planning, designing, 
implementing, monitoring, and evaluating such activities. Community participation is 
based on sharing data and information.  
 
The adaptation measures to be implemented for the Seaflower Marine Protected Area 
under Component C are based on a previously agreed zoning with the local marine 
resource users that establishes no-take and no entry zones as well as areas for traditional 
artisan fishing, which resulted from the implementation of the GEF/WB project 
Colombia Caribbean Archipelago Biosfere Reserve: Regional Marine Protected Area 
Systems.  
 
During the implementation of the above mentioned project the overall methodology 
emphasized community participation at the decision-making level to resolve resource use 
conflicts, empower the native community, integrate threat mitigation into management 
planning, and achieve equitable distribution of benefits with emphasis on local nature-
based tourism and fishing. The ICR states that participatory zoning agreements were 
obtained with local stakeholders, demarcating no-take, no-entry, special use, and artisanal 
fishing zones. Conservation action plans and monitoring action plans were written with 
high levels of community involvement to support the conservation of key species and 
MPA enforcement. As a direct result of this Project, artisanal fishers have regained 
access to traditional fishing sites, artisanal fishing zones have been legally enacted in 
collaboration with the Departmental Fishing Board, and agreements have been 
established with industrial fishers and the tourism industry.  For the native community, 
sustainable access to the MPA is economically and culturally essential to survival. The 
Project Team obtained over 90% support from active fishers in the area.  This high 
stakeholder backing was achieved as a result of incorporating fishers in the Project#s 
planning and execution.  Indeed, the fishers and other marine resource user groups agreed 
that establishing a marine protected area was their preferred management alternative even 
before the PDF A was designed.  
 
A
series of stakeholder consultations incorporating conflict resolution and local 
empowerment were realized. A total of 47 meetings and workshops were conducted 
regarding zoning, threats, enforcement and monitoring. The demarcation of zones in the 3 
MPAs included stakeholder formal agreements. The management structure of MPAs was 
enacted by stakeholder agreements and includes 4 advisory committees. Management 
agreements were established with 2 stakeholder#s advisory committees (fishers, artisanal 
and industrial, and water sports and marina and tourism).  
 
As stated in the ICR, CORALINA#s principal success in designing and obtaining 
ratification for the Seaflower MPA was in its thoroughness and effort to obtain high 
community participation in every aspect of project execution, including design, 
monitoring, zoning, outreach and capacity building.   
Page  7
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
Social  
 
As a result of restructuring, the Indigenous Peoples of San Jose Guaviare will benefit 
from component D. The client has prepared an IPP for this purpose. Component D does 
not entail adverse effects on the Indigenous peoples but rather the opposite.  
 
The whole project is expected to generate social benefits from an increased adaptive 
capacity of ecosystems, as well as from reduced incidence of malaria and dengue.  The 
increased availability of information on Global Climate Change (GCC) impacts as well as 
the management associated with the uncertainties related to GCC impacts will enable 
decision makers to implement adaptation measures oriented towards the protection of 
vulnerable populations.  The specific adaptation measures will work against the collapse 
of vulnerable productive systems thereby avoiding migration of populations or adoption 
of unsustainable practices. In the Caribbean insular and coastal areas the project will 
improve sustainable access to fresh water. Without adaptation strategies, it is expected 
that GCC impacts would increase poverty; not only because local economies (tourism, 
fishing) depend on productive coastal and marine resources but also because local public 
and private sectors do not have the funding or expertise to deal with the potential damage 
to coastal human settlements and infrastructures. Finally, the project is expected to reduce 
malaria and dengue incidence by 30%.  
 
Environment  
 
As a result of project restructuring, the Pest Management safeguard is triggered, and the 
Government is committed to prepare a full communication strategy to inform population 
and institutions of best behavioral practices during malaria and dengue outbursts, in order 
to avoid an increase use of pesticides during an alert produced by the early warning 
system.  
 
No major adverse environmental impacts are expected as a result of this project. Minor 
environmental impacts might be expected from some on-the-ground investments. The 
project is designed to be entirely positive from an environmental point of view, 
particularly by protecting vulnerable ecosystems from the impact of GCC. Some 
expected direct positive impacts include: (i) reduced vulnerability of the high mountain 
ecosystems and Caribbean insular and coastal areas in the face of the climatic variations 
and of GCC, as well as contribution to the maintenance of the environmental services; (ii) 
reduced uncertainty of impacts of GCC and formulation of adequate adaptation measures; 
(iii) mitigation of impacts of unsustainable agricultural practices and development and 
implementation of sustainable alternatives; (iv) reduced vulnerability of agro-systems and 
planning and management of water supply; (v) increased public awareness building on 
adaptation needs and increased social and institutional capacity to manage the 
ecosystems; (vi) environmental benefits from the rationale and selective use of 
insecticides . An Environmental Assessment will be performed as part of the preparation 
of the adaptation measures.   
 
Page  8
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
N/A   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
As result of project restructuring, the borrower has prepared an IPP acceptable to the 
Bank, serving as a full strategy to work with the Indigenous peoples of San Jose del 
Guaviare. They have also expressed full commitment to comply with all safeguard 
requirements. Colombia complies with all international standards in pesticide handling 
and management, and is adding all that know-how through the INS into project 
development.  
 
The project is being implemented by the Colombian Ministry of Environment and local 
environmental authorities which provides a guarantee that the project is in line with high 
environmental objectives. In addition, Colombia has exacting environmental standards in 
place. Where required the Environmental Assessment of the project will be 
complemented with Bank environmental requirements. The EA will be done for each 
adaptation measure during the first project year which is dedicated to the formulation of 
the measures.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
The Indigenous Peoples of San Jose del Guaviare have participated through a process of 
consultation in the preparation of the IPP that the Instituto Nacional de la Salud has 
prepared with guidance from the Bank#s team social specialist.  
 
Extensive consultations have been undertaken and continue to be held with key 
stakeholders. Two workshops were held in the Archipelagos of San Andres and Rosario-
San Bernardo with local governmental representatives (disaster preparedness and 
attention offices; planning and public services authorities); communities and 
representatives of the local governments, tourism, fisheries and water supply sectors. 
Information on GCC scenarios and possible local effects was presented by the PDFB 
coordination team. Adaptation options to GCC were discussed and a short list of 
adaptation measures was recommended for further analysis and possible inclusion in the 
project.  
 
The scientific community, marine and insular component, also was consulted through a 
technical workshop during project preparation. Main topics addressed included the 
identification of research topics, description of the expected social benefits and the design 
of the monitoring system for the Western Caribbean Colombian insular areas.  
Consultations continue to be held with key stakeholders (including local government 
authorities and non-governmental organizations) in Chingaza paramo. Proposed 
implementation agencies have held many coordination meetings and consultations.   
 
Page  9
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 Yes 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
06/01/2006 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
06/01/2006 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
06/01/2006 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 No 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
10/27/2009 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
10/27/2009 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
11/02/2009 
 
Pest Management Plan: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 N/A 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
N/A 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
N/A 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
N/A 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources, 
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
No 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM) 
review and approve the EA report? 
N/A 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
N/A 
OP/BP 4.04 - Natural Habitats 
 
Would the project result in any significant conversion or degradation of 
critical natural habitats? 
No 
If the project would result in significant conversion or degradation of other 
(non-critical) natural habitats, does the project include mitigation measures 
No 
Page  10
acceptable to the Bank? 
OP 4.09 - Pest Management 
 
Does the EA adequately address the pest management issues? 
N/A 
Is a separate PMP required? 
No 
If yes, has the PMP been reviewed and approved by a safeguards specialist or 
SM?  Are PMP requirements included in project design?  If yes, does the 
project team include a Pest Management Specialist? 
N/A 
OP/BP 4.10 - Indigenous Peoples 
 
Has a separate Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework (as 
appropriate) been prepared in consultation with affected Indigenous Peoples? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional unit responsible for safeguards or Sector 
Manager review the plan? 
Yes 
If the whole project is designed to benefit IP, has the design been reviewed 
and approved by the Regional Social Development Unit or Sector Manager? 
N/A 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
No 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
No 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Yes 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
Yes 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
Yes 
Page  11
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Walter Vergara 
11/06/2009 
Environmental Specialist: 
Mr Walter Vergara 
11/06/2009 
Social Development Specialist 
Mr Alonso Zarzar Casis 
11/06/2009 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
 
 
Comments:   
Sector Manager: 
Mr Glenn S. Morgan 
11/06/2009 
Comments:   
