Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF056350 
 
Global Environment Facility 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement 
 
(Integrated National Adaptation Project) 
 
between 
 
CONSERVATION INTERNATIONAL COLOMBIA 
 
for the benefit of the 
 
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility 
 
Dated June 15, 2006 
 
Page  2
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF056350 
 
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
 
AGREEMENT, dated June 15, 2006, between CONSERVATION 
INTERNATIONAL COLOMBIA (the Recipient), for the benefit of the REPUBLIC OF 
COLOMBIA (the Beneficiary), with the participation of the Republic’s 
Agencia 
Presidencial para la Acción Social y la Cooperación Internacional
 
(Acción Social)
 (in 
fulfillment of its role set forth in the Beneficiary’s Presidential Decree No. 2467, dated 
July 19, 2005) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as an implementing agency of the Global 
Environment Facility (GEF) in respect of grant funds provided to the GEF Trust Fund by 
certain members of the Bank as participants of the GEF. 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991 of 
the Executive Directors of the Bank, established the GEF to assist in the protection of the 
global environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable 
economic development; 
 
(B) 
following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements continued in 
place on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94-2 of May 24, 1994, of the Executive 
Directors of the Bank which, 
inter alia
,
established the GEF Trust Fund and appointed 
the Bank as trustee of the GEF Trust Fund (Resolution 94-2);  
 
(C) 
the Beneficiary, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
assistance from the resources of the GEF Trust Fund for funding the Project pursuant to 
the letter from the 
Ministerio de Medio Ambiente, Vivienda y Desarrollo Territorial
 dated 
May 8, 2003, and said request having been approved in accordance with the provisions of 
the Instrument for the Establishment of the Restructured Global Environment Facility 
approved under Resolution 94-2; and 
 
(D) 
the Project will be carried out by the Recipient and the Executing 
Agencies (as hereinafter defined), in the interest of the Beneficiary, as provided in this 
Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend a grant (the GEF Trust Fund Grant) to the Recipient upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01 (a) The following provisions 
of the “General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 
30, 1995 (as amended through May 1, 2004), with the modifications set forth in 
paragraph(b) of this Section (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
 
(i) Article 
I; 
 
(ii) 
Sections 2.01 (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), (8), (14), (15), (16), (18) 
and (21), 2.02 and 2.03; 
 
(iii) Section 
3.01; 
 
(iv) 
Sections 4.01 and 4.06; 
 
(v) Article 
V; 
 
(vi) 
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i), (l), (m), (n), (o) and 
(p), 6.03, 6.04 and 6.06; 
 
(vii) 
Section 8.01 (b); 
 
(viii) 
Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09; 
 
(ix) 
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04;  
 
(x) 
Article XI; and 
 
(xi) 
Sections 12.01 (c), 12.03 and 12.04. 
 
(b) 
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows: 
 
(i) 
the term “Bank”, wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 2.01 (6), 6.02 (f) and 5.01 (a) thereof, means the 
Bank acting as an implementing agency of the GEF, except that 
in Section 6.02, the term “Bank” shall also include the Bank 
acting in its own capacity; 
 
(ii) 
the term “Borrower”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(iii) 
the term “Guarantor”, whenever used in Section 9.01 of the 
General Conditions, means the Beneficiary; 
 
(iv) 
the term “Loan Agreement”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement; 
 
(v) 
the term “Loan” and “loan”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant; 
 
(vi) 
the term “Loan Account”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account; 
 
(vii) 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is amended to read as 
follows: 
 
“Section 5.08 Treatment of Taxes 
 
Except as otherwise provided in the Loan Agreement, 
the proceeds of the Loan may be withdrawn to pay for taxes 
levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower or the Guarantor on 
the goods or services to be financed under the Loan, or on their 
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply.  Financing of 
such taxes is subject to the Bank’s policy of requiring economy 
and efficiency in the use of the proceeds of its loans.  To that 
end, if the Bank shall at any time determine that the amount of 
any taxes levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan is excessive or otherwise 
unreasonable, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust 
the percentage for withdrawal set forth or referred to in respect 
of such item in the Loan Agreement as required to be consistent 
with such policy of the Bank.”; 
 
(viii) 
a new subparagraph is added after subparagraph (o) in Section 
6.02 of the General Conditions, as follows: “an extraordinary 
situation shall have arisen in which any further disbursement 
under the GEF Trust Fund Grant would exceed the resources 
available for disbursement from the GEF.”; 
 
(ix) 
the words “corrupt or fraudulent” in paragraph (c) of Section 
6.03 are replaced with the words “corrupt, fraudulent, collusive 
or coercive”; 
 
(x) 
the first sentence of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions is 
deleted; and 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
(xi) 
Section 10.04 of the General Conditions is amended to read as 
follows:  
 
“Section 10.04 Arbitration 
 
Any dispute arising out of or relating to this Agreement 
which is not settled by agreement of the parties shall be finally 
settled by arbitration in accordance with the UNCITRAL 
Arbitration Rules in force on the date of this Agreement.  The 
place of arbitration shall be Washington, D.C.  In the event of a 
conflict between the UNCITRAL Arbitration Rules and the 
terms of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall 
govern.” 
 
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional 
terms have the following meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Annual Operational Plan” means any of the plans referred to in Section 
3.07 (a) (i) of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
“Caribbean Insular Areas” means the Beneficiary’s archipelagos of San 
Andrés, Old Providence, Santa Catalina, Corales del Rosario, San Bernardo and Isla 
Fuerte; 
 
(c) “CORALINA” 
means 
Corporación para el Desarrollo Sostenible del 
Archipiélago de San Andrés, Providencia y Santa Catalina
 (Corporation for the 
Sustainable Development of the Archipelago of San Andrés, Old Providence and Santa 
Catalina), a public corporation of the Beneficiary with the mandate of managing the 
environment and natural resources and promote sustainable development; 
 
(d) 
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1) to (5) as set forth in the table 
in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(e) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(f) 
“Environmental Assessment” means the Borrower’s environmental 
framework for the Project, dated December 8, 2005, that contains specific environmental 
rules and procedures for the implementation of the Project, as said plan may be updated 
from time to time; 
 
(g) 
“Executing Agency” means either CORALINA, IDEAM, INS or 
INVEMAR (as hereinafter defined) and the Recipient; “Executing Agencies” means 
collectively the plural thereof; 
Page  6
-
5
-
(h) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each financial 
monitoring report prepared in accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(i) “IDEAM” 
means 
Instituto de Hidrología, Meteorología y Estudios 
Ambientales
,
the Beneficiary’s Institute of Hidrology, Meteorology and Environmental 
Studies; 
 
(j) “INS” 
means 
Instituto Nacional de Salud
,
the Beneficiary’s National 
Health Institute; 
 
(k) 
“Inter-Institutional Agreement” means the arrangement of even date 
herewith, referred to in Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement; 
 
(l) “INVEMAR” 
means 
Instituto de Investigaciones Marinas y Costeras
,
the Beneficiary’s Institute for Marine and Coastal Research; 
 
(m) 
“MPA” means the marine protected areas of the Beneficiary designated 
as such by Ministerial Resolutions 0876 of July 23, 2004, and 0679 of May 31, 2005, 
respectively, issued by the Beneficiary’s 
Ministerio de Ambiente, Vivienda y Desarrollo 
Territorial
;
(n) 
“Operational Manual” means the manual for the operation of the Project 
referred to in Section 3.05 of this Agreement as the same may be amended from time to 
time by agreement between the Bank and the Recipient; 
 
(o) 
“Performance Indicators” means the set of performance indicators, to be 
used for purposes of monitoring the progress of the Project, set forth in the Operational 
Manual, as such indicators may be revised with the agreement of the Bank; 
 
(p) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan, dated 
February 16, 2006, covering the initial 18-month period (or longer) of Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18-month periods (or 
longer) of Project implementation; 
 
(q) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means the Recipient’s option for 
withdrawal of funds from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account referred to in Part A.5 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(r) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement. 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
ARTICLE II 
 
The GEF Trust Fund Grant 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the GEF Trust Fund Grant in an 
amount equal to five million four hundred thousand Dollars ($5,400,000). 
 
Section 2.02. The amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant may be withdrawn from 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2011, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later date. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. The Beneficiary and the Recipient declare their commitment to the 
objective of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, the 
Recipient shall carry out Part E.2 of the Project, and shall enter into the Inter-Institutional 
Agreement to require the following: 
 
(a) 
IDEAM to carry out Parts A, B and E.1 of the Project; 
 
(b) 
INVEMAR to carry out Parts C.1 and C.4 of the Project; 
 
(c) 
CORALINA to carry out Parts C.2, C.3 and C.5 of the Project; and 
 
(d) 
INS to carry out Part D of the Project; 
 
all in accordance with the terms of the Operational Manual, with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, social, financial, public 
utility and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
 
Section 3.02. (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, as said 
provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
 
Page  8
-
7
-
(b) 
The Recipient shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank not later than 12 
months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s approval. 
 
Section 3.03. The Recipient shall: 
 
(a) 
enter into one written agreement with all the Executing Agencies, on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, setting forth respective responsibilities for 
the implementation of those Parts of the Project in which each of the Executing Agencies 
participates; said arrangement to include, 
inter alia
,
the obligation of each Executing 
Agency to, with respect to its corresponding Part of the Project: (i) provide the necessary 
facilities, services and other resources to supplement those provided through the 
Recipient; (ii) assist the Recipient in the implementation of the corresponding Annual 
Operational Plan and in achieving Recipient’s compliance with the terms of this 
Agreement; and (iii) follow the provisions of the Operational Manual; 
 
(b) 
exercise its rights and comply with its obligations under the Inter-
Institutional Agreement throughout Project implementation in such a manner as to protect 
its interests, the interests of the Beneficiary and the Bank, and to accomplish the objective 
and purposes of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, and except as the Bank may otherwise agree, 
the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate, suspend, waive, terminate or fail to 
enforce the Inter-Institutional Agreement or any provision thereof; and 
 
(c) 
In case of any conflict among the terms of the Inter-Institutional 
Agreement and those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
Section 3.04.  At all times during Project implementation, the Recipient shall 
require IDEAM (pursuant to the Inter-Institutional Agreement) to maintain: 
 
(a) 
a team, responsible for overall Project planning, coordination, 
implementation, supervision, technical monitoring and evaluation, and with a structure, 
functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, with staff in adequate numbers and 
with adequate qualifications, operating under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank; 
and 
 
(b) 
a committee, with structure and functions satisfactory to the Bank, co-
chaired by representatives of the Beneficiary’s Ministries of the Environment, Social 
Protection, and Energy, the Executing Agencies and other public sector representatives, 
for the overall supervision and guidance of Project execution, all in accordance with the 
terms of the Operational Manual.  
 
Section 3.05.  Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Recipient shall issue an operational manual satisfactory to the Bank, 
containing, 
inter alia
,
specific provisions on detailed arrangements for the carrying out of 
the Project, including:  
 
Page  9
-
8
-
(a) 
the procurement, financial management and disbursement requirements 
thereof;  
 
(b) 
a model to be used in the preparation of FMRs; 
 
(c) 
the Inter-Institutional Agreement; 
 
(d) 
a model to be used in the preparation of the Annual Operational Plans; 
 
(e) 
the Performance Indicators; and 
 
(f) 
the Environmental Assessment. 
 
In case of any conflict among the terms of the Operational Manual and those of 
this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
Section 3.06. 
The Recipient shall require IDEAM (pursuant to the Inter-
Institutional Agreement) to: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Performance Indicators, the carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank (and to 
Acción Social
), not later than six months after the Effective Date and 
every year thereafter during the period of Project implementation, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of 
this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof during 
the period following such date;  
 
(c) 
review with the Bank, shortly after such reports’ preparation or such later 
date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and 
the achievement of the objective thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations 
of said report and the Bank’s views on the matter; and  
 
(d) 
carry out an in-depth Project review (the mid-term review), jointly with 
the Bank by not later than June 30, 2009, of such scope as set forth in the Operational 
Manual, on the progress achieved in the implementation of the Project. 
 
Section 3.07. (a) The Recipient, with the assistance of, and in agreement with the 
Executing Agencies shall:  
 
Page  10
-
9
-
(i) 
not later than November 30 of each year of Project 
implementation, starting on the Effective Date, furnish to the 
Bank, for its review, a Project operational plan for the following 
calendar year, such plan to specify: (A) the activities to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant during 
the respective calendar year; (B) the implementation schedule; 
and (C) the required financial and human resources; and  
 
(ii) upon 
the 
Bank’s approval, carry out the Annual Operational Plan 
in accordance with its terms.  
 
(b) 
The Bank may refrain from approving any Annual Operational Plan if 
the Bank has determined that the Recipient and/or the Executing Agencies are not 
carrying out the Project as provided in this Agreement and no appropriate remedial 
actions, satisfactory to the Bank, have been taken therefor. 
 
Section 3.08. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall cause IDEAM, with the assistance of the 
Executing Agencies (pursuant to the Inter-Institutional Agreement) to: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose with the Bank, a plan to ensure the future sustainability of the 
Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views on said plan. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
 
(b) The 
Recipient 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and 
related statements) for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to 
by the Bank), audited, in accordance with consistently applied 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
 
Page  11
-
10
-
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank): (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account were made on the basis of reports referred to in Part A.5 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (Report-based Disbursements) or on the basis of 
 
statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: 
 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account was made, 
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
 
(iii) 
ensure that such reports and statements of expenditure are 
included in the audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed 
to by the Bank), referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section. 
 
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Recipient’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Section 3.06 above, the Recipient shall prepare and furnish to the 
Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, which 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both cumulatively and for the period 
covered by said report, showing separately funds provided under the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant, and explains variances between the actual and planned uses of such funds. 
 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank (and to 
Acción Social
)
not 
later than 45 days after the end of the first calendar semester after the Effective Date, and 
shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project 
through the end of such first calendar semester; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished 
to the Bank (and to 
Acción Social
)
not later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar 
semester, and shall cover such calendar semester. 
 
Page  12
-
11
-
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Bank
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely, that either of the Recipient, IDEAM, 
INS, INVEMAR or CORALINA shall have failed to perform any of their obligations 
under the Inter-Institutional Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Effectiveness, Termination
 
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as a condition to the effectiveness 
of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the General Conditions, 
namely that the Inter-Institutional Agreement has been duly executed by the parties 
thereto. 
 
Section 6.02. Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the 
date specified for purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions is the date ninety 
(90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no case later than the eighteen (18) 
months after the Bank's approval of the GEF Trust Fund Grant which expire on October 
11, 2007. 
 
Section 6.03. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their 
obligations hereunder. 
 
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
 
Section 7.01. The Executive Director of the Recipient and the 
Alto Consejero 
para la Acción Social y la Cooperación Internacional
 of the Beneficiary, are designated 
as representatives of the Recipient and the Beneficiary, respectively, for the purposes of 
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.  
 
Section 7.02 The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
Page  13
-
12
-
For the Recipient: 
Conservation International Colombia 
Carrera 13 
–71-41 
Tel: 571 – 345-2854 
Fax: 571 – 345-2854 
 
For the Beneficiary: 
Agencia Presidencial para la Acc
ión Social  
y
la Cooperación Internacional (Acción Social) 
Calle 7 No. 6-54 Piso 2 
Tel: 571 
–
596-0800 Ext. 7221 
Fax: 571 – 596-0800 ext. 7200 
 
For the Bank: 
International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 248423 
(MCI) 
 
(202) 
477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  14
-
13
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
Agencia Presidencial para la Acción Social 
 y la Cooperación Internacional
 
(Acción Social
)
By
 /s/ Luis Alfonso Hoyos Aristizábal 
Authorized Representative 
 
CONSERVATION INTERNATIONAL COLOMBIA 
 
By /s/ Fabio Arjona 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility 
 
By /s/ Pamela Cox 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  15
-
14
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
 
A. General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
GEF Trust Fund Grant 
% of 
 
Allocated (Expressed in  
Expenditures 
 Category
US Dollars)
to be Financed
(1) 
Goods, works, consultant’s 
1,000,000 
100% 
 
services, Training and Operating 
 
Costs under Part A of 
 the 
Project 
 
(2) 
Goods, works, consultant’s 
1,570,000 
100% 
 
services, Training and Operating 
 
Costs under Part B of 
 the 
Project 
 
(3) 
Goods, works, consultant’s 
1,300,000 
100% 
 
services, Training and Operating 
 
costs under Part C of 
 the 
Project 
 
(4) Goods, 
consultant’s 
1,000,000 
100% 
 
services, Training and Operating 
 
Costs under Part D of 
 the 
Project 
 
(5) Goods, 
consultant’s 
530,000 
100% 
 
services, Training and Operating 
 
Costs under Part E of 
 the 
Project 
 
________ 
 TOTAL 
5,400,000
Page  16
-
15
-
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “Operating Costs” means the reasonable costs of salaries, 
rentals, utilities and office supply, communications, vehicle fuel, small refurbishing of 
facilities, equipment and vehicles (as necessary), travel and 
per diem
 directly related to 
the performance of the Project activities, which would not have been incurred absent the 
Project; and 
 
(b) 
the term “Training” means the reasonable non-consultant expenditures 
incurred by the Borrower in connection with the carrying out of training activities 
(including workshops, conferences and seminars) under the Project, including travel 
costs, 
per diem
 of
trainers, trainees, facilitators and stakeholders, and training materials. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $100,000, may be made 
on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after February 15, 
2006. 
 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account to 
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: 
(a) goods and non-consulting services costing less than $250,000 equivalent per contract; 
(b) works costing less than $5,000,000 equivalent per contract; (c) services of individual 
consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent per contract; (d) services of consulting 
firms under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent per contract; and (e) Training 
and Operating Costs, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Recipient. 
 
5. 
The Recipient may request withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account 
to be made on the basis of reports to be submitted to the Bank in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient (Report-based Disbursements). In the 
case of the first such request submitted to the Bank before any withdrawal has been made 
from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, the Recipient shall submit to the Bank only a 
statement with the projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the six-
month period following the date of such request. 
 
6. 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the 
provisions of this Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund to the Bank for deposit into the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, an amount equal 
to the amount so used or the portion thereof as specified by the Bank. 
Page  17
-
16
-
B. Special 
Account
1. 
The Recipient may open and maintain in Dollars or in Colombian Pesos a special 
deposit account in a commercial Bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and 
attachment. 
 
2. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
if the Recipient is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
 
(b) 
if the Recipient is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.  
 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
 
(a) 
if the Bank, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to in Part 
A.5 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-based 
Disbursements;  
 
(b) 
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Recipient directly from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: 
(A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may 
be.  
 
5. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank 
shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of 
Page  18
-
17
-
the Recipient to make withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may 
be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Recipient of its determination. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit 
by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during 
the six-month period following such determination, the Recipient shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant Agreement. 
Page  19
-
18
-
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not  
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex
,
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the 
amount of $540,000 to be withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and 
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex. 
 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of 
each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the 
Recipient shall have requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible 
Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account under one or more of the Eligible 
Categories. 
 
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant minus the total amount 
of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 
of the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account 
of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall follow such 
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such further withdrawals 
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures. 
Page  20
-
19
-
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account shall be deposited by the 
Bank into the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.  
 
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser 
of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the amount which the Bank has determined, 
based on the reports referred to in Part A.5 of this Schedule 1 applicable to such 
withdrawal application, is required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible 
Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such reports. 
.
Page  21
-
20
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project
 
The objective of the Project is to support the Beneficiary’s efforts to define and 
implement specific pilot adaptation measures and policy options to meet anticipated 
impacts of climate change focusing on high mountain ecosystems, insular areas and on 
human health concerns related to the expansion of areas and vectors linked to malaria and 
dengue. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Recipient (in agreement with the Executing Agencies and the Beneficiary) and the 
Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objective: 
 
Part A
:
Production of Climate Change and Climate Variability Information
1. 
Preparation and publication of reports on the incidence of global warming in the 
Beneficiary’s territory, including studies of climate modeling and its variability. 
 
2. 
Elaboration of local climate change scenarios to support the design of adaptation 
measures to cope with expected effects of global climate change.
 
3. 
Improvement of the existing climate data network in selected stations, including 
the renovation of equipment relevant to climate change. 
 
4. 
Provision of scientific and technical training to personnel of the Executing 
Agencies.
 
Part B
:
Design and Implementation of an Adaptation Program in the 
Beneficiary’s Las Hermosas Massif Region
1. 
Collection of data, production of information and modeling of activities to 
simulate the climate functioning of the Beneficiary’s Las Hermosas Massif region. 
 
2. 
Implementation of pilot measures to protect the Andean highland water 
regulation system from climate change impacts, including the carrying out of small civil 
works for, 
inter alia
:
(i) conservation of natural vegetation; (ii) protection of soil cover; 
and (iii) design of management plans to prevent fires. 
 
3. 
Formulation of guidelines to incorporate global climate change issues on 
planning land use models focused on the use of climate scenarios. 
 
4. 
Design and implementation of pilot programs to promote environmentally-
friendly cattle raising practices, grass cultivation, ecosystem restoration and reduction of 
climate-related vulnerability to water variability in areas selected under defined 
ecological and social criteria. 
Page  22
-
21
-
Part C
:
Design and Implementation of an Adaptation Program in the 
Beneficiary’s Caribbean Insular Areas
1. 
Implementation and operation of an expanded oceanographic monitoring network 
and modeling of oceanic processes to explore the functioning of the Beneficiary’s 
Caribbean Insular Areas. 
 
2. 
Implementation of pilot adaptation measures related to fresh water conservation 
consisting of, 
inter alia
:
(i) design and implementation of a rainwater harvesting and 
wastewater recovery system; and (ii) improvement of the monitoring and operation in the 
management of aquifer reserves in the Beneficiary’s San Andrés island. 
 
3. 
Implementation of the Beneficiary’s marine protected areas system (MPA) in the 
Beneficiary’s Seaflower reserve through: (a) demarcation of coral conservation zones and 
significant coastal and marine ecosystems; (b) development of guidelines and 
implementation of actions for remote cays and banks; and (c) implementation of 
enforcement actions to prevent marine ecosystem degradation in the MPA. 
 
4. 
Implementation of the Beneficiary’s marine protected areas system (MPA) in the 
Caribbean Insular Areas through: (i) formulation of management plans for the marine 
protected areas in agreement with local communities; (ii) demarcation of highly-protected 
marine ecosystems within marine protected areas; and (iii) identification of thermo-
tolerance of the coral populations. 
 
5. 
Implementation of adaptation activities within the integrated coastal management 
plan for the Beneficiary’s San Andrés, Old Providence and Santa Catalina islands aimed 
at, 
inter alia
:
(i) installation of solar energy equipment; (ii) changing traditional cattle-
raising and agricultural practices to reduce soil erosion and impacts on the coastal and 
marine environment; and (iii) carrying out of studies on population to cope with the 
impact of climate change.   
 
Part D
:
Responses to tropical vector-borne diseases (malaria and dengue) 
induced by climate change
1. 
Design of an integrated malaria and dengue surveillance and control system (the 
IMDSCS) for the control and surveillance of vector-borne diseases (dengue and malaria), 
including tools development and a multi-tier communication strategy. 
 
2. 
Evaluation and strengthening of the Beneficiary’s National Health Surveillance 
System, the Beneficiary’s Health Information System and municipal health systems, 
along with full implementation of the IMDSCS in pilot municipalities.  
 
3. 
Optimization of the evaluation and monitoring system for the IMDSCS.  
Page  23
-
22
-
Part E
:
Project Management
1. 
Overall technical coordination of Project Activities (including the 
implementation of a technical monitoring system). 
 
2. 
Administrative and financial management of the Project. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2011. 
Page  24
-
23
-
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Procurement 
 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods, works 
and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
 
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
 
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
 
Section II
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Recipient and works to be carried out by domestic 
contractors. 
 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
Limited International Bidding
.
Goods which the Bank agrees can only 
be purchased from a limited number of suppliers may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Limited International Bidding. 
 
2. National 
Competitive 
Bidding.
Goods estimated to cost less than 
$250,000 but more than $50,000 equivalent per contract and works estimated to cost less 
than $5,000,000 but more than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding and the following 
additional provisions:  
 
(a) 
All bidders, irrespective of whether they are foreigners or Colombians, 
will be treated equally and, particularly, no preference will be granted to any bidder or 
group of bidders for bid evaluation purposes.  Bidders shall be allowed to submit their 
Page  25
-
24
-
bids by hand or through the post office or private mailing services.  There shall not be 
any requirement for any bidder to show evidence of the bidder's registration in any public 
registry, chamber of commerce or similar entity, whether in Colombia or elsewhere, or to 
appoint a representative domiciled in Colombia, unless and until such bidder is awarded 
the corresponding contract. 
 
(b) 
Bids shall be opened in a public meeting to which bidders and their 
representatives shall be allowed to attend if they so wish.  Date, time and place for the 
opening meeting shall be set forth in the bidding documents. Bid opening shall coincide 
with, or take place promptly after, the final date and time of the period for bid submission 
stipulated in the bidding documents. 
 
(c) 
Each bid shall be evaluated and the corresponding contract awarded to 
the responsive bidder who meets appropriate technical and financial standards of 
capability and whose bid has been determined to be the lowest evaluated bid.  Such 
determination shall be made exclusively on the basis of the specifications, conditions and 
evaluation criteria stipulated in the bidding documents.  If any factor additional to the 
amount or amounts of each bid is to be considered in bid evaluation, such factor or 
factors and the quantified manner on which they will be applied for purposes of 
determining the lowest evaluated bid shall be precisely stipulated in the bidding 
documents.  For purposes of bid evaluation and comparison, the only bid amount or 
amounts to be used as a factor shall be the bid amount or amounts as quoted in the 
corresponding bid, including correction of arithmetic errors. 
 
(d) 
The provisions of paragraph 2.46 of the Guidelines shall fully apply and, 
more specifically, bids shall not be disclosed to persons other than the persons officially 
charged with the task of comparing and/or evaluating the bids while they are performing 
their official duties, without the corresponding bidder's written authorization.  Moreover, 
bidders shall not be required to provide such authorization as a condition to be entitled to 
bid. This confidentiality requirement shall apply until the award of contract is notified to 
the successful bidder.  Thereafter, confidentiality of the bids shall be limited to those bid 
portions for which confidentiality has been specifically requested by the bidder in 
question. 
 
3. Shopping
.
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract and works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
 
4.  
Direct Contracting
.
Goods and works which the Bank agrees meet the 
requirements for Direct Contracting may be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of said procurement method. 
 
Section III
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
Page  26
-
25
-
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $350,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
 
B. Other 
Procedures
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to 
cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
2. Quality-based 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Bank 
agrees meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 3.2 of the Consultant Guidelines may 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality-based Selection in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
3. Least-cost 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Bank agrees 
meet the requirements of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
4. 
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
.
Services for work supervision contracts 
which the Bank agrees meet the requirements of paragraph 3.5 of the Consultant 
Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of a Fixed Budget in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
5. Single 
Source 
Selection
.
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet 
the requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source 
Selection, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
6. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the 
requirements set forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines 
may be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the 
circumstances described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts 
may be awarded to individual consultants on a sole-source basis. 
 
Section IV
.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
