Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  52422 
Project Name 
Colombia: Integrated National Adaptation Program 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Flood protection (80%); Health (20%) 
Project ID 
P083075 
GEF Focal Area 
Climate change 
Borrower(s) 
Conservation International Colombia 
Implementing Agency 
Conservation International Colombia as grant manager; IDEAM, 
INS, INVEMAR and Coralina as implementing agencies.  
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[X ] B   [  ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD 
Date PID 
Prepared/Updated 
November 30, 2005 / February 7, 2006 / December 8, 2009 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
November 21, 2005 
Date of Board Approval 
July 18, 2006 
Changes in parent project due to Project Restructuring 
The project has been restructured to reflect requests from Borrower and new issues that have 
arisen during project implementation. 
The restructuring of the project is promoting changes at two levels: 
 
1. Change in Location.
 The location of the activities under Component B, formerly planned for 
Las Hermosas, will be changed and carried out on other, equivalent locations, the Chingaza 
Paramo and the National Natural Park Los Nevados. This change has been requested by the 
client, due to security issues in Las Hermosas that prevent entrance to the site. 
This change in location arises from the delicate public security situation existing at Las 
Hermosas. Due to security issues, it has been impossible to work inside the area for any of the 
key partners of the Project. This social unease situation is expected to prevail during project 
implementation, imposing a barrier to its expected development. Alternative Project sites have 
been identified for this component (high mountain moorlands of high importance for water 
regulation and rich in biodiversity). The two new sites requested by the implementing agency are 
Chingaza Paramo and the National Natural Park of Los Nevados, they both meet the security and 
geographic conditions and are considered technically suitable for the purposes of the Project. The 
expected outcomes under Component B will thus be developed in those areas, but results will be 
valuable and directly used in Las Hermosas Massif. All on-the-ground activities and 
interventions will be carried out in Chingaza Paramo, and in Los Nevados only modeling efforts 
will be developed. 
 
2. Triggering of two safeguard policies. 
Two safeguard policies, Indigenous Peoples (OP4.10) 
and Pest Management (OP4.09), not triggered during Project appraisal, will now be triggered. 
More information can be found on section 9. 
Page  2
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
Global climate is changing rapidly
.
The Third assessment report of the Intergovernmental 
Panel on Climate Change (
IPCC’s Third Assessment Report, 2001
)
has concluded that with 
the continuing emission of
 greenhouse gases, the Earth’s mean surface temperature will increase 
between 1.5 to up to 5.8 degrees Celsius during the next 100 years.  Preliminary findings of the 
Fourth Assessment Report, due to be released by the year 2007, corroborate the range of the 
projected increase
1
.
A
change of this magnitude is unprecedented and represents the most 
serious challenge facing the global ecosystem.  The IPCC´s Third Assessment Report 
summarizes the anticipated climate changes, including warmer temperatures, alterations of the 
hydrological cycle, drier soils, changes in weather extremes, rising sea levels, changes in 
agricultural productivity and ecosystem composition.  Many of these changes will restrict access 
to natural resources and environmental goods and services, ultimately affecting both ecosystem 
stability, and human well-being. 
 
Colombia is particularly vulnerable to the impacts of climate change.  
The first national 
communication (NC1) to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change 
(UNFCCC) indicates the high vulnerability of Colombia to the expected impacts from climate 
change
2
identifying high mountain habitats, insular and coastal areas and health as the areas of 
primary concern.  More recently, studies commissioned as part of the preparation of the second 
communication and others have confirmed and indicated in more detail trends and impacts in 
these areas.  These vulnerabilities find echo in the findings of the IPCC.  Major vulnerabilities 
are described below: 
 
·
Highland Andean ecosystems are very vulnerable to climate change impacts
.
In 
particular, fragile moorlands, unique to the Northern Andes, with endemic and abundantly 
diverse flora and fauna, as well as with storage capacity for water and carbon in the soil are 
expected to be seriously affected by increases in temperature.  In some moorlands, IDEAM 
has recorded a net increase of 0.2 - 0.3 °C per decade during the period 1961-1990 and a 
decrease in monthly rainfall of between 2 to 3 mm per decade (IDEAM
3
).   Projections 
recently made with the assistance of the Meteorological Research Institute (Japan) indicate 
that this trend will worsen. Hydrological and temperature changes in the mountains would 
result in a loss of global biodiversity (“no way up” for unique mountain species) and also in a 
loss of much of the environmental goods and services provided by these habitats, especially 
water supply, basin regulation, and associated hydropower potential. Many rivers that are 
used to generate hydroelectricity in the region are fed by high altitude lagoons and snow 
caps.  Colombia’s power sector is particularly vulnerable, as two thirds of all power is hydro-
generated.  Destruction of water regulation systems will contribute to a net decrease in the 
hydropower potential of the country and therefore eventually lead to  a higher level of GHG 
from the power sector as it turns to thermal power capacity to make up for the difference.   
 
1
The SRES scenarios have been criticized for overestimating future emissions; however, the Post-SRES literature 
shows an even higher emission range (IPCC, FAR workshop, February, 2005) 
2
Primera Comunicación Nacional al UNFCCC.  IDEAM.  2001.  
3
Páramos y Ecosistemas Alto Andinos de Colombia, en Condición Hotspot & Global Climate Tensor. IDEAM 2002 
Page  3
·
Sea level and sea surface temperature increases will affect insular areas of the country.
 
The National University of Colombia analyzed possible impacts of a doubling of the Carbon 
Dioxide (CO2) emissions between the years 2050 to 2080 and projects a sea level rise of 2 to 
5
mm per year, and a temperature increase between 0.7 and 0.9 C for the western Caribbean, 
in comparison to the averages for the period 1961-1990.  These projections have been 
confirmed by NCCAP Project executed by the Marine and Coastal Research Institute of 
Colombia (INVEMAR)
4
are in line with observations made under the Caribbean Planning for 
Adaptation to Climate Change Project.
5
Sea level increases will likely cause saline intrusion into aquifer-based freshwater supplies in 
insular and coastal areas. Consequently, the freshwater systems and their biological diversity 
will be severely affected.  In addition, prognostic modeling of small islands has identified 
major population displacement as one of the main threats of climate change.  By 2060, 
models have predicted a rise of 40 cm in the San Andres Archipelago.  In San Andres Island, 
for example, the NC1 estimates a loss of 17% of land area, including most of the coastal zone 
by 2060 (50 cm increase in sea level).  If no action is taken, small islands with dense 
populations and a lack of interior land on which to relocate coastal communities, will suffer 
social destabilizing impacts.  Finally, the subsidence of reefs and atolls in the western 
Caribbean may have implications on sovereignty of the oceanic area under domain. 
Increases in sea surface temperature are linked to the bleaching of corals in the Caribbean 
and are expected to induce a pole-ward shift of local fisheries.  Higher sea surface 
temperature is already threatening the viability of corals in the western Caribbean
6
,
much of 
it located in the Colombian territorial sea, which constitute the nursery of an estimated 65% 
of fish species in the area.  Coral beds in the western Caribbean, in particular at remote atolls 
and reefs are unique and include endemic species of global biodiversity value.  Coral losses 
will result in loss of biodiversity, an increase of vulnerability of coastal areas and serious 
threat to food security of island human population.  
·
Climate change is causing increased exposure to tropical vector diseases. 
 The two 
mosquito-borne diseases with the largest global impact on human health and well-being, 
dengue and malaria, have recently reemerged as significant public health burdens in 
Colombia. In the case of malaria, incidence during epidemic years increased from less than 
15 per 10,000 inhabitants in 1964 to 58 in 1983 and almost 156 in 1998 (Sistema Nacional de 
Vigilancia en Salud Pública (SIVIGILA), Ministry of Health). With regards to dengue, 
Colombia had is first case of dengue hemorrhagic fever (DHF) in 1989. Since nation-wide 
dengue surveillance began in the 1990s, there is a clear increasing trend in transmission, with 
4
“Defining vulnerability of bio-geophysical and social-economic system due to sea level change in the Colombian coastal zone 
(Pacific and Caribbean) and adaptation measures”, which was a significant input to the First National Communication to the 
climate change convention (UNFCCC).
 
5
Caribbean Planning for Adaptation to Climate Change Project. Implementation Completion Report. World Bank. 
2003. 
6
Climate Change impacts are already taken place. 
During the month of June 2005, Climatic changes that had never occurred 
before have been observed: The surface sea temperature of the Caribbean Sea showed an increase by 2 C during several weeks.  
This phenomena generated a massive bleaching of the coral reefs (between 70 and 90% of the registered coral coverage located 
in a depth of less than 12 m) and lead to the mortality of a very special type of coral populations denominated “Acropora” 
situated in the Rosario and San Bernardo islands.(INVEMAR, 2005). 
 
Page  4
a
four-fold increase from 1997 to 2002, year in which 81,831 Colombians fell ill to dengue 
and DHF (SIVIGILA, Colombian National Health Institute (INS)/MPS).  
Almost half of the population in Colombia, over 20 million people, live in areas where mean 
temperatures range between 15-
26°C, well within the range of dengue and malaria vectors.  
Within this area, an increase in mean temperatures of 2°C, is likely to result in an increase in 
of the exposure to both diseases.  Moreover, climate change also has the potential to 
significantly increase epidemics in temperate climates that currently experience no 
transmission. Accordingly, mountain populations that have largely escaped these diseases, 
because of the effect of cold weather, are likely to see exposure to dengue and malaria 
significantly increased.  The implications for an already stressed health sector are serious.   
Policies and measures that address climate changes need to be mainstreamed into national 
sector policies to ensure their sustainability
.
The NC1 was approved by the 
National 
Environmental Council (NEC
), the highest decision making and coordinating body on 
environmental matters.  Furthermore, the NEC incorporated the recommendations of the NC1 in 
the guidelines for a National Policy on Climate Change.  However, further sensitization of policy 
makers on the GCC issue is needed and consequently the integration of the climate dimension in 
sector policies has yet to take place (health, energy, water supply). 
Uncertain and insufficient information on GCC prevents the adoption of cost-effective 
adaptation measures.  
The potential impacts and associated economic costs of GCC effects may 
result in significant challenges to Colombia’s prospects for sustainable development.  While 
these impacts result from no action of its own (Colombia’s emission of greenhouse gases is 
relatively low), urgent actions are required to document - with a higher level of certainty - the 
anticipated impacts, and to formulate cost-effective policy actions and measures as well as 
implement key pilot adaptation measures.  However, historical data and observations on climate 
trends are not available, for local and regional areas of the country, sufficiently enough to 
provide a basis on which to take decisions and make projections. In addition, climate 
discontinuities and recent trends present anomalies that make correlation with the past difficult 
and uncertain.  Also, information on climate trends is barely in the public domain and there is 
little awareness of local implications. 
 
Institutional arrangements for vector disease control in Colombia are relatively weak.
 
The 
Colombian health sector has responded to the need for timely, locally adapted interventions 
through the use of Basic Action Plans (BAPs), which grant autonomy to municipal and state 
health authorities in the planning and administration of public funds for vector-borne diseases. 
Nevertheless, other health sector reforms, such as the decentralization of a unified, vertically 
oriented vector control program, have resulted in massive staff reductions and a decrease in 
capacity building and supervision at the local level, thereby debilitating decision making and 
surveillance of vector-borne diseases. Thus, BAPs have not been adequately exploited. 
Deficiencies in local inter-sectoral partnerships and information flow within the health sector 
itself have further compromised the viability and sustainability of interventions. However, one 
promising aspect of health sector reform is the transfer of the National System of Public Health 
Surveillance (SIVIGILA) from the Ministry of Health (MoH) to the National Institute of Health 
of Colombia (INS) as of 2004. 
Page  5
2. Objectives 
 
The project development objective
 is to support Colombia’s efforts to define and implement 
specific pilot adaptation measures and policy options to meet the anticipated impacts from 
climate change.  These efforts will be focused on high mountain ecosystems, insular areas and on 
human health concerns related to the expansion of areas for vectors linked to malaria and 
dengue, as identified as priority areas in the National Communications and other studies.  
 
Key performance indicators
:
·
Availability of continuous and reliable climate information of relevance to major climate 
change vulnerabilities in health, mountain ecosystems and insular areas (157 climate stations 
modernized), through data and analysis provided routinely by IDEAM   
·
Six pilot adaptation activities have been implemented and monitored, addressing 
vulnerabilities to climate change in high mountain ecosystems, insular and coastal areas and 
health, including:  
o
Maintenance of the hydropower generation ability, measured through sustained water 
regulation of the Las Hermosas Massif on the Amoya river watershed. 
o
Adaptation program designed and incorporated in regional development plans for the 
Las Hermosas Massif.  Positive impacts on biodiversity and land degradation 
documented.  
o
Adaptation program designed and incorporated in regional development plans for the 
Colombian Caribbean insular areas including increased management performance of 
key marine ecosystems and  reduced vulnerability in water supply to local 
communities; and 
o
Strengthened public health program incorporating management measures to meet the 
increased threats from dengue and malaria induced by climate change resulting in a 
30% reduction of Malaria and Dengue morbidity within the pilot areas by project 
closure. 
 
The project follows the operational guidelines for the Strategic Priority "Piloting an Operational 
Approach for Adaptation" (SPA).  The project is in accordance with the guidelines 2, 3, 6 and 9, 
stating that activities to be funded should be pilots or demonstration projects integrated into 
national sustainable development and poverty-reduction strategies. The project would include: (i) 
activities within natural resources management context that generate global environmental 
benefits, and (ii) adaptation measures that provide other major development benefits (e.g. 
WEHAB, i.e. water, energy, health, agriculture, biodiversity). 
 
The project activities aim at preventing degradation of global commons
.
For example, the 
insular component focuses on conservation of globally important biodiversity in the Seaflower 
reserve and the Marine Protected Area (MPA) Corales del Rosario, San Bernardo e Isla Fuerte in 
order to contribute to the conservation of marine ecosystems.  In the mountains habitats, the 
project focuses on the area of Las Hermosas Massif, a highly diverse mountain biotope, seeking 
to protect biodiversity, prevent land degradation and conserve environmental services linked to 
the ability of the ecosystem to support hydropower generation.   
 
Page  6
The health component protects the global commons by addressing the increase in exposure to 
tropical vector diseases associated with  a warming climate, and therefore mitigates the social 
and economic consequences of climate change.  Colombia contributed almost 35% of reported 
DHF cases in America during the period 1996-2004, and 25% of the continental malaria 
transmission in 2003 alone (PAHO, 2005). A 30% reduction of dengue and malaria incidence in 
selected pilot areas  of Colombia will contribute to reducing the regional burden of both diseases 
that largely affect children below 5 years old. In malaria endemic areas, for example, it is 
estimated that nearly 25% of all mortality in children 0-4 years old can be attributed to malaria 
(Sachs, 2002; Malaney et al, 2004). The health component directly addresses the Millenium 
Development Goals of reducing infant and child mortality, reducing infectious diseases.  Better 
surveillance will improve assessment of transmission risk nation-wide, thus facilitating the 
effective allocation of health resources and more cost-effective preventive responses. This 
process, in turn, will provide information of global value on how to tackle anticipated increased 
exposures to tropical vector diseases. 
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
1. 
Rationale for Bank involvement
.
The last full Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) was 
published in December 24, 2002.  It considers three priorities: achieving fast and sustainable 
growth; ensuring that all Colombians benefit from growth, particularly those living in poverty; 
and building an efficient, accountable and transparent governance.  This project contributes to 
the CAS’ strategic focus on protection and conservation of strategic ecosystems, increasing their 
adaptive capacity with regard to global climate change (GCC) impacts.  Adaptation activities are 
designed to strengthen local adaptive capacity, reducing risks and contributing to the adoption of 
sustainable practices within current programs.  Also, the Millennium Development Goals (MDG) 
include as a key issue (under ensuring environmental sustainability) combating HIV/AIDS, 
malaria and other diseases. 
 
In addition, the project responds to the guidelines of the Strategic Priority on Adaptation (SPA), 
a
separate Global Environmental Facility (GEF)-funding mechanism for adaptation measures, 
recently adopted by the Conference of the Parties (COP) to the UNFCC and made available to 
support the implementation of specific adaptation measures, clearly identified as national 
priorities, to address impacts from climate change.  The guidelines require the establishment of 
“pilot or demonstration projects to show how adaptation planning and assessment can be 
practically translated into national policy and sustainable development planning.”  Colombia is a 
fitting choice, as first country, to use this new instrument, given that key vulnerabilities to 
climate change have been clearly identified and specific pilot measures to address these impacts 
have been formulated in the context of development programs. The project will assist in the 
implementation of pilot actions that would address unsustainable impacts of climate change.   
 
The World Bank has been involved in climate change mitigation and adaptation projects and has 
significant knowledge on the subject.  Besides the wide range of its Climate Change projects 
funded by the GEF, the Bank has been managing different carbon funds of about $US 1,000 
million.  Projects that are particularly relevant to the proposed project are 
the Colombia Amoyá 
River Project 
for the high mountain habitat, 
the Planning for Adaptation to Global Climate 
Change Project 
(
CPACC) and
 the Mainstreaming Adaptation to Climate Change Project
Page  7
(MACC)
 in the Caribbean for the insular areas. Also the Bank’s extensive portfolio in the health 
sector will complement and add a global overlay on the existing health sector strategy in the 
country.  The Bank also supports the GEF-funded project 
Conservation and Sustainable Use of 
Biodiversity in the High Andes
 
which intends to increase conservation, knowledge and 
sustainable use of globally important biodiversity of the Colombian Andes.  The project does not 
address climate change issues.  The proposed project would complement these activities on 
biodiversity conservation in high mountain habitats by adding the climate change aspect. Other 
GEF-funded project executed by the “Corporación para el desarrollo sostenible del Archipielago 
de San Andres, Old Providence and Santa Catalina” (CORALINA) and implemented trough the 
Bank is the 
“Colombia Caribbean Archipelago Biosphere Reserve: Regional Marine Protected 
Area System” ( P023881)
.
Within this project a large Marine Protected Area (65,000 km2), the 
largest in the Americas, was declared and management and zoning plans were formulated to 
ensure biodiversity, ecosystems and habitats protection within the Seaflower Biosphere Reserve.  
The proposed project would complement these activities by incorporating the climate change 
issue. The Bank’s portfolio in Colombia also includes activities in Disaster Management that are 
complemented by the scope of the proposed operation. 
 
Specifically under the PCF-funded 
Amoyá River Project
,
carbon revenues have been earmarked 
to contribute to the conservation of the Paramo Las Hermosas, its source of water. Resources 
allocated for conservation would support implementation of specific measures, which would be 
complemented with the assistance of the proposed GEF project.  Therefore the Amoyá project 
would provide complementary resources for specific application of adaptation measures in a 
local ecosystem.  Likewise, the GEF project would contribute to the maintenance of the 
mitigation potential of this ecosystem, through the generation of clean hydroelectric power. This 
opportunity is unique and would likely constitute a global observatory for specific application of 
adaptation measures on a highly vulnerable ecosystem that is also a sought source of clean 
energy, supported through carbon finance, under the Clean Development Mechanism. 
 
4. Description 
 
Project components   
 
a) 
Making climate, climate variability, and climate change information available for 
adoption of adaptation measures and policies (total cost $3.3 m; GEF funding $1.0 m). 
This 
component seeks to strengthen Colombia’s capabilities to produce and disseminate climate 
information (useful for resource allocation and operational decision making), in support of 
adaptation to climate change measures and programs.  The component will strengthen IDEAM’s 
and INVEMAR’s capabilities to provide: (i) forecasts to improve resource management and 
biodiversity conservation decisions in high mountain ecosystems; (ii) climate scenarios to 
develop ecosystem management plans land conservation and adaptation options in Paramo, 
insular and coastal areas; and (iii) warnings for Malaria and Dengue. Under the component, the 
following 
activities
 will be supported: (i) improvements in technical and scientific capabilities at 
IDEAM and INVEMAR to produce information relevant to climate change; (ii) development of 
local climate change scenarios in support of selection of adaptation measures; (iii) strengthening 
the existing climate data network of relevance to climate change by supporting equipment 
renovation for 157 key climate stations (out of 3100 operated by IDEAM) with at least 20 years 
Page  8
of high quality data (for 1961-1990), including quality control and assurance; (iv) strengthening 
scientific and technical personnel to ensure long term sustainability of the project activities. 
 
b)  Design and implementation of an adaptation program that supports maintenance of 
environmental services (including hydropower potential) in the Las Hermosas Massif in the 
central range of the Andes (total cost $4.3 m, GEF funding $1.6m).  
The Massif is the most 
humid high altitude moorland in the planet, a highly diverse biotope of particular concern for 
climate change impacts.  It is also important for potential hydro-power generation.  The selection 
of the Massif was made on the basis of the significant biodiversity in the ecosystem, including 
endangered or threatened species.  The selection of Las Hermosas enables synergies between this 
project and the Amoya River project, already approved, which seeks to reduce greenhouse gas 
emissions from the power sector. The component supports the following 
activities
:
(i) 
Ecosystem planning and management  in Las Hermosas Massif, seeking to maintain its high 
biodiversity assets; (ii) Maintenance of potential for hydropower generation through adoption of 
measures to protect the Amoya watershed; (iii) Adaptive land-use planning model seeking to 
reduce impacts from climate change on land degradation. (iv) Improvement of productive agro-
ecosystems and reduction of their socioeconomic vulnerability to GCC impacts 
 
c) 
Adaptation measures in Caribbean Insular areas (total cost $3.5 m, GEF funding 
$1.2 m).  
The 
objective
 of this component is to support the implementation of physical 
adaptation measures in order to reduce the vulnerability of the Caribbean Insular area, especially 
with regard to changes in rainfall and temperature and sea-level rise.  The 
activities
 under this 
component consist of: (i) Implementation of GLOOS (Global Ocean Observing System)-based 
monitoring stations in the Western Caribbean (complementing the regional network under 
CPACC); (ii) Integrated water resources management to enhance the availability of fresh water 
in the Caribbean insular areas (San Andrés island); (iii) Implementation of the marine protected 
areas system in the Seaflower reserve and the Corales del Rosario, San Bernardo e Isla Fuerte 
(CRSBeIF) in order to contribute to the conservation of marine ecosystems in the face of climate 
impacts; and (iv) Integrated Coastal Management to reduce the vulnerability of ecosystems, 
infrastructure and population living close to the coast. 
 
d)
Responses to the increased exposure to tropical vector-borne diseases (malaria and 
dengue) induced by climate change (total cost $6.1 m, GEF funding $1.0m). 
The 
objective
 of 
this component is to address the increased exposure to tropical vector-borne diseases (malaria 
and dengue) induced by climate change through the implementation of an Early Warning System 
for Malaria and Dengue Surveillance and Control (DMEWS) seeking a 30% reduction in both 
malaria and dengue morbidities in pilot areas, as a result of improvements in health management 
and prevention of additional exposure caused by climate change. During the Integrated National 
Adaptation Program (INAP), the DMEWS will be implemented in approximately 12 pilot 
municipalities for malaria and 12 for dengue, selected based on perceived climate threats.  The 
project will support the design, implementation and operation of the DMEWS: developing a 
framework that permits the continuous evaluation of the local risk of dengue and malaria 
transmission in the face of global climate change and the determination of the most appropriate 
actions in order to prevent epidemics before they begin. (See Annex 1 for further details).  The 
project will contribute to the strengthening of the institutional capabilities through the evaluation 
and strengthening of local (municipal) health agencies and through the strengthening the 
Page  9
National Health (M&D) Surveillance System ultimately changing the current reactive 
institutional organization into a proactive public health system. 
e) 
Administrative and Financial Management (total cost $ 0.72m, GEF funding $0.5m).        
This component will support the administrative and financial management of the project 
activities and will include goods; consultancy services; travel and operational and incremental 
costs undertaken by the National Coordination Unit (NCU) and Conservation International (CI) -
Colombia. Specifically this component will finance the project manager, the procurement 
specialist, other required personnel for the project management, and the project external audits. 
 
Sector issues addressed by the project 
 
The project addresses key vulnerabilities to climate change as identified in vulnerability 
assessments and other studies. The project also addresses the need for better information on 
climate.  The project contributes to mainstreaming of climate concerns into the health sector and 
the development plans for the Las Hermosas Massif and insular and coastal areas. Protection of 
the Massif will contribute to maintain its hydropower potential, which in turn can be used to 
displace carbon emission reductions from the power sector. 
 
Mainstreaming adaptation measures into policies and development plans.  
Sustainability of 
project activities depends on the success in mainstreaming adaptation as a key element in local 
and regional development plans. The table summarizes the intended process.  Policy linkages 
will be of use for sector interventions in the power sector, disaster management, and bio-
diversity and water management.  The close coordination sought between these sectors will 
support a coherent policy context. . 
 
Measure  
Responsibility 
Mainstreaming 
Sector policy linkages 
1
Improving IDEAM’s 
technical and scientific 
capacity  
IDEAM 
GCC into day to day 
operations at IDEAM. 
Project provides support to 
obtain sustainability. 
Change in IDEAM main thrust 
from data collection and 
archiving, towards an agency 
producing climate information 
required for critical decision 
making. 
2.1.   Mainstreaming GCC 
information into ecosystem 
planning and management  in 
Las Hermosas Massif 
IDEAM, with 
Cortolima, 
Corporacion 
Autonoma Regional 
del Vall del Cauca 
(CVC), National Parks. 
Pilot on mainstreaming GCC 
in NRM planning. 
GCC in Natural Resource 
Management (NRM) and 
power sector policy and 
planning. 
2.2.   – Maintenance of water 
regulation capability of 
relevance for hydropower 
potential 
IDEAM  
Water resource management 
and GCC in the Las Hermosas 
Massif 
Learning to manage high 
altitude ecosystems for water 
regulation.  Linkage to Power 
sector planning.  
2.3.   
–
Improvement of 
productive agro-ecosystems 
and reduction of 
socioeconomic vulnerability in 
high altitude moorland 
“paramo” and sub-paramo 
area of Las Hermosas Massif. 
IDEAM, with 
Cortolima, CVC, 
National Parks, local 
community 
GCC in management of 
productive agro-ecosystems. 
Adoption of financial 
instruments for sustainable 
environmental services.  Input 
to National Parks Policies 
regarding buffer areas.  
Linkage to poverty alleviation 
policies. 
3.1.   Mainstreaming GCC 
information into NRM for 
INVEMAR, in 
coordination with 
GCC concerns will be 
mainstreamed in planning and
GCC in NRM planning. 
Linkage to National Park 
Page  10
decision-making processes, in 
Colombian Caribbean Insular 
Areas.    
Sistema Nacional 
Ambiental (National 
Environmental System 
–
Colombia) (SINA) 
and for municipalities 
and communities. 
managing marine protected 
areas. 
policies and to Ocean Resource 
Management Policies. 
Linkage to disaster 
management policies.  
3.2. Availability of fresh water 
in the Caribbean insular areas, 
as well as contribute to its 
more efficient use. 
Coralina, in 
collaboration with 
State government 
Climate mainstreamed into 
aquifer operational decisions.  
Alternative Water Resource 
Management options for island 
communities. 
3.3. Support the 
implementation of the marine 
protected areas system in the 
Seaflower reserve and Corales 
del Rosario, San Bernardo e 
Isla Fuerte (CRSeIF)  MAP 
National Park Unit  
(NPU) and Coralina, 
with the participation 
of: INVEMAR, 
(Corporacion 
Autonoma Regional 
del Canal del Dique) 
CARDIQUE and 
Direccion General 
Maritima (DIMAR) - 
Colombia’s Maritime 
Authority. 
GCC concerns will be 
mainstreamed in planning and 
managing marine protected 
areas. 
Improved marine reserve areas 
management and control. 
Input to National Park policies. 
Linkage to Biodiversity 
policies.  
3.4.   Reduce the vulnerability 
of economic activities, 
infrastructure, and population 
living close to the coast: 
Testing small scale pilots to 
adapt to GCC and monitor 
coastal impact. 
Coralina, with local 
communities and key 
stakeholders. 
Pilot small pilots and assessing 
lessons learned and policy 
implication in highly 
populated islands. 
Assessment of adaptation 
options for insular areas. 
Linkage to disaster 
management policies. 
4.    Early Warning System to 
improve Malaria and Dengue 
Surveillance and Control 
(DMEWS) 
National Institute of 
Health with the support 
of IDEAM, Ministry of 
Health, State 
governments and 
municipalities. 
International expertise 
will be provided 
through WHO/PAHO, 
International Research 
Institute for Climate 
Prediction (IRI) and 
CDC. 
Mainstreamed GCC into day 
to day decision making. 
Integration of the  Integrated 
Malaria and Dengue 
Surveillance and Control 
System () into state and 
municipal operational action 
plans in order to assure the 
funding and intersectoral 
collaborations necessary for 
implementation of 
interventions.
 
Linkage to Health Sector 
Planning. 
5. Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 7.2 
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY 
5.3 
LOCAL AND FOREIGN PRIVATE COMMERCIAL SOURCES  
5.4 
 Total 
17.9 
 
6. Implementation 
 
Implementation Period: 
The Grant is expected to become effective in March, 2006 for a five 
year period.  The expected project completion date in March 2011). 
General implementation arrangements:  
The GEF grant beneficiary (the Beneficiary) will be 
the Republic of Colombia 
represented by the Agencia Presidencial para la Acción Social y la 
Cooperación Internacional (APASCI). The grant recipient (the Recipient) will be Conservation 
Page  11
International Colombia (CI-Colombia) for the benefit of the Beneficiary. The project will be 
executed by the 
Instituto de Hidrología, Meteorología y Estudios Ambientales
 (IDEAM) with the 
support of other executing agencies (Invemar, Coralina and Instituto Nacional de Salud (INS)) 
and CI-Colombia. The National Coordination Unit (NCU) will be in charge of the overall 
operational coordination of the project activities. The 
administrative and financial 
coordination 
will be carried out by CI-Colombia
7
.
CI-Colombia successfully executed the PDF 
B
resources, and has been assessed to have sufficient experience and the adequate organizational 
capacity for the administrative and financial management of the project. The 
technical 
coordination
 will be performed by IDEAM. The executing
 
agencies are: IDEAM (components 
(a) and (b)), Coralina and Invemar (component c); Instituto Nacional de Salud (component d) 
and CI-Colombia (component e: administrative and financial management).  CI-Colombia will 
enter into a subsidiary agreement with the executing agencies.  The subsidiary agreement will 
include the financial and administrative obligations of CI-Colombia, the obligations of IDEAM 
as technical coordination unit, and the obligations of each executing agency. For activities 
related to the Amoyá watershed, IDEAM will coordinate with ISAGEN. 
 
Technical implementation arrangements:
Steering Committee of INAP.
 The main responsibility of the Steering Committee (SC), 
involving representatives from key ministries and CARs
8
,
will be to assure the attainment of the 
projects objectives and targets. The SC will also provide guidance on the implementation of 
INAP and take high level decision regarding the project’s development, technical difficulties and 
management issues.  The SC will approve the Annual Operating Plans (AOP) of the project. 
Practitioners and scientists could be invited to participate in the SC meetings to provide technical 
support for decision-making processes regarding the project.  
 
The 
National Coordination Unit (NCU)
 will be in charge of the overall operational 
coordination of the project activities. The NCU will assess the overall project progress; provide 
technical guidance and ensure the financial, conceptual and methodological coherence among all 
activities and the integrity of the project.  The NCU will guide executing agencies in the AOP
9
preparation process and submit AOP to the SC for approval. Within the NCU,
 CI-Colombia
 will 
provide the services of secretariat for administrative and financial management of the project, 
while
 IDEAM
 will act as the technical secretariat providing the overall technical coordination of 
the project, developing the progress reports and preparing the AOP. The secretariat for the M&E 
system will be among IDEAM’s responsibilities.   
 
For each component, an 
executing agency
 (see figure below) will be responsible for the 
technical execution of the activities under the respective component
10
.
This will be done with 
7
CI-Colombia is a recognized NGO with broad environmental experience in high mountains and insular ecosystems 
8
The SC will be constituted by the following entities:  Viceminister of Environment; Viceminister of Social Protection, Vice 
Minister of Energy, Director of IDEAM; Director of Coralina; Director of Invemar; Director of Instituto Nacional de Salud; 
Director of National Parks, or their delegates.
 
9
The AOP will include statement of specific objectives for the year, a description of the activities, expected outputs, 
monitoring indicators, detailed estimated budgets, a procurement plan, indicating the sources of financing in the 
budget.  
 
10
 
Component coordinator: 
Each executing agency will assign a coordinator as part of the organizational structure of the 
component.  The coordinator will be responsible for the following activities: organizing the working groups of the component, 
ensuring the participation of all the involved partners in the development of the component; develop the AOP of the component 
Page  12
the support of project partners including national, regional and local governmental entities, 
(Ministry of Social Protection, Ministry of Agriculture, National Park Unit, autonomous regional 
authorities (CARs); Secretary of Health, etc) and local and regional organizations (CI-Colombia; 
other NGOs, universities and associations). 
 
Executing agencies: 
 
IDEAM
 is a national research institute which coordinates the Colombian Environmental 
Information System and which is responsible for meteorology, hydrology, and related 
environmental studies.  In this project IDEAM will on the one hand be in charge of the technical 
project coordination and on the other hand be the executing agency for the Climate Scenarios 
and the High Mountain Ecosystems components. 
 
INS
 is a governmental agency with administrative autonomy affiliated to the Colombian Health 
Ministry. It is responsible for the public health surveillance and control system. Specifically INS 
implements and operates the processes of the National Surveillance System; supports the MH  in 
developing regulations, technical guidelines and strategies for public health surveillance; 
supports public health surveillance actions in departments, municipalities and districts of the 
country; coordinates, advices and supervises the National Laboratory Network. INS will be in 
charge of the Health component.  
INVEMAR
 is the national coastal and marine research institute, manages a reference laboratory 
in the areas of their competency; and supports policy development in coastal and marine areas. It 
undertakes basic and applied research on conservation and sustainable use of natural resources in 
Colombia’s coastal and insular areas and oceanic ecosystems, and it is responsible for GCC 
issues in marine areas. INVEMAR will be responsible for relevant oceanic data gathering and for 
the continental insular and coastal component in the project. 
 
Coralina.
 The Corporation for the Sustainable Development of the Archipelago of San Andres, 
Old Providence and Santa Catalina is the CAR for this archipelago. Its mandate is to manage the 
with the support of the NCU; develop the TORs of the required consulting services and specifications for required equipment. 
Other responsibilities are described in Annex 6.
 
GEF/World Bank Grant 
Executing Agency 
IDEAM  
Executing Agency 
INS 
 
Conservation International
 
(Grant Recipient) 
Executing Agency 
INVEMAR  
Executing Agency 
Coralina 
CI-Colombia through 
APASCI 
(Beneficiary) 
IDEAM 
(Technical Coordination)  
Page  13
environment and natural resources so as to promote sustainable development in its jurisdiction.  
In this project Coralina will be responsible for the oceanic Caribbean Insular Area component. 
 
CI-Colombia
 will be responsible of the administrative and financial component. CI-
Colombia’s 
experience in conservation work in critical habitats will facilitate an efficient management of the 
project. CI’s technical advice on conservation issues will complement the skills of the project 
team.   
 
7. Sustainability 
 
Sustainability
:
Impacts from climate change are gradual and long term. Adaptation measures are 
intended to result in long-term benefits, ensuring the sustainability of development processes.  
On the other hand, adaptation does not always yield net benefits in the immediate future, but can 
not be postponed until it is too late.  The measures supported under this project take into account 
this long-term character and specifically aim to support Colombia’s efforts to define and 
implement policy options to meet the anticipated impacts from climate change. The project with 
its partners will ensure the mainstreaming of adaptation measures into development plans and 
regional policies in the Las Hermosas Massif and the San Andres Archipelago, as well as within 
the health sector for tropical vector-borne diseases.   
 
The long term strategic goal of the project is to promote sustainable, climate resilient 
development.  The project will assist in the development of a framework of activities and the 
implementation of specific actions that would address unsustainable impacts of climate change in 
the natural resource base of the country and in the human health. There is also a near-term 
benefit in the expected 30% reduction of Malaria and Dengue morbidity, in selected pilot areas, 
by project closure. The commitments being made at the national level, through the MoE and at 
the technical level through IDEAM and Von Humboldt Institute, are long term.  The formulation 
of adaptation programs with GEF resources provides a basis for long term actions by current and 
future administrations.  The monitoring program will provide the basis of long-term follow up of 
outcomes and eventual corrective actions.  The adaptation measures implemented under the 
project would provide useful practical examples on how climate change impacts can be 
addressed and information useful for the design of future adaptation programs. 
 
Replicability:
As the first SPA operation, the project has a lot of replication potential within and 
outside of Colombia. Thus, the project will emphasize its learning nature. It will include a 
comprehensive monitoring system and dissemination activities.  The MTR will be scheduled to 
coincide with the production of substantial initial assessments of the activities, with added stress 
on the initial assessment of the impacts associated with pilot activities, and the completeness of 
data gathering efforts. 
 
During project preparation each component and each pilot adaptation measure was developed 
with participation of local institutions with close links to the affected communities, and key 
stakeholders were consulted.  The project takes into account community perceptions to social 
well-being and threats to their economic development. Pilot site selection has been given careful 
consideration: criteria have been developed to include community participation, and in many 
Page  14
cases beneficiaries co-finance is sought.  Each component has allocated resources to critically 
assess the action taken, draw lessons learned, and define a strategy on how best to replicate and 
scale up the pilot.  Replicability has been mainstreamed in project preparation and is at the top of 
the priorities of the deliverables sought by the Government of Colombia. 
 
8.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
The Bank’s work on environmental issues in Colombia builds upon opportunities provided under 
the Kyoto Protocol through sources such as Carbon Finance (CF) and the Global Environment 
Facility (GEF). Climate Change Mitigation initiatives, supported through carbon finance include: 
Jepirachi Carbon Offset Project
11
,
Rio Amoya Environmental Services Project,
12
 The Rio Frio 
Carbon Offset Project
13
,
San Nicolas Carbon Sequestration Project
14
,
and Furatena Agroindustry 
Carbon Offset Project
15
.
INAP will benefit from the strengthened capacity of environmental 
institutions on climate issues, and will complement the ongoing operations by mainstreaming the 
climate change challenge into the decision making structure of participating agencies. 
Climate data collection is a long term activity that demands long term commitments
.
The 
implementation of adaptation programs in the Caribbean (CPACC and MACC) highlight the 
need to ensure sustainability and local ownership of any monitoring and data collection activity 
and reliable methods to secure and compile data collected.  These aspects have been incorporated 
in the project. 
 
Climate change adaptation is a long-term venture that will in the best of cases just 
ameliorate irreversible changes.  
As illustrated by the work in adaptation to climate change in 
the Caribbean, many years of continuous work are required to establish the basis for successful 
adaptation programs.  The process in Colombia is being jump-started on the basis of an excellent 
diagnosis made through the national communication and other vulnerability assessments.  Yet, it 
is clear for all project agencies that the project is the first step of a long haul process and 
therefore that long-term commitments are required to meet the growing challenges of adaptation 
to climate change many of which are likely to result in irreversible changes. 
 
Close coordination, clear management and technical leadership are required for 
multifaceted projects
.
Bank experience with multi-sector activities has shown the importance 
of having a clear, yet simple management structure.  The project applies experience on project 
management in Colombia and applies a structure that combines clear coordination and technical 
leadership through specialized sector agencies. 
 
Relationship to Other Bank Operations in Colombia. 
The Bank has a significant environment 
portfolio of climate related interventions, mostly related to environmental management.  This 
includes: 
 
11
 Project No. P074426, Emissions Reduction Purchase Agreement signed January 27, 2003. 
12
 Project No. P078220, Emissions Reduction Purchase Agreement signed June 28, 2004.  
13
 Project No. P088752, Emissions Reduction Purchase Agreement signed June 30, 2005. 
14
 Project No. P098615 
15
 Project No. P086455 
Page  15
·
Colombia National Protected Areas Conservation Trust Fund Project
.
The Project 
supports the consolidation of the Colombian National Protected Areas System through 
the Protected Areas Conservation Trust Fund (
FONCAP)
.
The fund is mandated to 
execute public-sector conservation policies related to the National Protected Areas 
System
16
.
FONCAP is envisioned to contain a mixed composition of endowment and 
sinking funds. Total Project cost is US$42.4 million.
 
The project is expected to establish 
at least 2.8 million hectares of core conservation areas in National Parks. 
 INAP’s 
activities in the Las Hermosas Massif and the San Andres Archipelago will be taken 
under this context.  
·
National Disaster Vulnerability Reduction Project - Phase 1 of the National Disaster 
Vulnerability Reduction Program.
The ten-year program aims to reduce the fiscal 
vulnerability of the state to adverse natural events by strengthening national capacity to 
manage disaster risk and by reducing vulnerability in key municipalities that combine 
high exposure to disaster risk and high contributions to national income and productivity. 
INAP’s institutional activities in the San Andres Archipelago will be taken under this 
context.     
·
The ongoing Programmatic Development Policy Loan for Sustainable Development, 
SusDevDPL
complements these operations through overarching support for the 
government’s National Development Plan to achieve the Millennium Development 
Goals, particularly Goal 7 (ensure environmental sustainability) and Goal 4 (reduce child 
mortality). CARs involved will be establishing the baseline and monitoring the 
development of sustainable objectives, as per agreement with the Ministry of 
Environment (MoE).  INAP’s involvement with regional CARs will be undertaken in this 
context.  More importantly, the next phase of the DPL will be developed taken into 
account the climate change dimension of development.  
 
9. 
Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
Social.  
The project is expected to generate social benefits from an increased adaptive capacity of 
ecosystems, as well as from reduced incidence of malaria and dengue.  The increased availability 
of information on GCC impacts as well as the management associated with the uncertainties 
related to GCC impacts will enable decision makers to implement adaptation measures oriented 
towards the protection of vulnerable populations.  The specific adaptation measures will work 
against the collapse of vulnerable productive systems thereby avoiding migration of populations 
or adoption of unsustainable practices. In the Caribbean insular and coastal areas the project will 
improve sustainable access to fresh water.  Without adaptation strategies, it is expected that GCC 
impacts would increase poverty; not only because local economies (tourism, fishing) depend on 
productive coastal and marine resources but also because local public and private sectors do not 
have the funding or expertise to deal with the potential damage to coastal human settlements and 
infrastructures.  Finally, the project is expected to reduce malaria and dengue incidence by 30 % 
within pilot areas. 
 
As a result of project restructuring
,
the Indigenous Peoples safeguard is triggered. During a 
supervision trip, performed by the end of June 2009, the Bank team identified that the client has 
started a process to include as beneficiaries of the health activities an Indigenous group of the 
16
 The proposed fund structure, described in Annex 18, finds adequate support in Colombian legislation.   
Page  16
Guayaberos, located in San Jose del Guaviare. This group represents a new social actor and 
beneficiary of the activities under this component. During project preparation the Bank team did 
not identify Indigenous Peoples as beneficiaries because project activities did not initially 
include them. 
 
The Guayaberos live in their traditional territory and are estimated to be around 1,200 people. 
The project will work with one community of 150 people as a pilot experience. This particular 
community selected for project activities is a group of families that were displaced by the 
violence from a neighbor district and have been hosted by the other Guayabero communities 
living in San Jose del Guaviare. 
 
The team social specialist visited the community and confirmed their willingness to participate in 
the project.  The client has prepared an Indigenous Peoples Plan and has started a process of 
consultation to include this community under this component. It is worth mentioning that project 
activities do not entail adverse effects on these people, but on the contrary they will promote 
benefits from monitoring and preventing malaria outburst in the area. 
 
Also 
as result of project restructuring
,
the Pest Management safeguard (OP4.09) will be 
triggered. The project supports the implementation of early warning systems and improved 
surveillance and control of vector borne diseases, dengue and malaria. If successful, morbidity 
rates should decrease (main objective), and as a result, there should be an associated net 
reduction on the use of pesticides once the systems are implemented and functioning. The project 
does not aim at reducing pesticides, nor does it support the purchase and use of such products. 
Project due diligence indicated that Colombia has a comprehensive regulation on the use of 
pesticides, that their procedures follow the World Health Organization standards and 
international good practices, and that the existing monitoring institutional capacity is adequate. 
However, it has been agreed with the client that the safeguard policy be triggered, on a proactive 
and conservative way. For those reasons, a full Pest Management Plan is not required. 
 
Extensive consultations have been undertaken and continue to be held with key stakeholders. 
Two workshops were held in the Archipelagos of San Andres and Rosario-San Bernardo with 
local governmental representatives; communities and representatives of the local governments, 
tourism, fisheries and water supply sectors. Information on GCC scenarios and possible local 
effects was presented by the PDFB coordination team.  Adaptation options to GCC were 
discussed and a short list of adaptation measures was recommended for further analysis and 
possible inclusion in the project. 
 
The scientific community, marine and insular component, also was consulted through a technical 
workshop during project preparation. Main topics addressed included the identification of 
research topics, description of the expected social benefits and the design of the monitoring 
system for the Western Caribbean Colombian insular areas.  Consultations continue to be held 
with key stakeholders (including local government authorities and non-governmental 
organizations) in Las Hermosas Massif.  Inter-agency meetings have taken place to define 
activities and involvement during INAP´s implementation phase. 
 
Proposed implementation 
agencies have held many coordination meetings and consultations. 
Page  17
Environment. 
There are no major adverse environmental impacts expected as a result of this 
project.  Minor environmental impacts might be expected from some on the ground investments.  
The project is designed to be entirely positive from an environmental point of view, particularly 
by protecting vulnerable ecosystems from the impact of GCC.  Some expected direct positive 
impacts include: (i) reduced vulnerability of the high mountain ecosystems and Caribbean insular 
and coastal areas in the face of the climatic variations (CV) and of GCC, as well as contribution 
to the maintenance of the environmental services; (ii) reduced uncertainty of impacts of GCC 
and formulation of adequate adaptation measure; (iii) mitigation of impacts of unsustainable 
agricultural practices and development and implementation of sustainable alternatives; (iv) 
reduced vulnerability of agro-systems and planning and management of water supply; (v) 
increased public awareness building on adaptation needs and increased social and institutional 
capacity to manage the ecosystems; (vi) environmental benefits from the rationale and selective 
use of insecticides  An Environmental Assessment will be performed as part of the preparation of 
the adaptation measures. 
 
Safeguard policies.  
The safeguard policies Environmental Assessment and Natural Habitats are 
triggered by the project.  No social safeguard policies are triggered. The adaptation measures to 
be implemented for the Seaflower Marine Protected Area under Component 3 are based on a 
previously agreed zoning with the local marine resource users that establishes no-take and no 
entry zones as well as areas for traditional artisan fishing, which resulted from the 
implementation of the
 GEF/WB project “Colombia Caribbean Archipelago Biosphere Reserve: 
Regional Marine Protected Area System”
.
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project
 
Yes
 
No
 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
/
GP
4.01) [X] 
[ 
] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04) [X] 
[ 
] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[X] [ 
] 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
,
being revised as OP 4.11) 
[ ] 
[ ] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12) 
[ ] 
[ ] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
,
being revised as OP 4.10) 
[X] 
[ ] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36) 
[ ] 
[ ] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37) 
[ ] 
[ ] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.60)
*
[
]
[
]
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.50) 
[ ] 
[ ] 
10. List of Factual Technical Documents 
·
Primera Comunicación Nacional ante la Convención Marco de las Naciones Unidas sobre 
el Cambio Climático. IDEAM 2001. 
·
Elaboración de Escenarios de Cambio Climático para el Territorio Colombiano. 
Universidad Nacional de Colombia para el IDEAM, 2005. 
·
Información Climatológica (Línea Base, Período de Prueba y Escenarios Climáticos) para 
Estudios de Impacto del Cambio Climático. Universidad Nacional de Colombia para el 
IDEAM, 2005.  
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  18
·
Estudios del Clima del Páramo de las Hermosas. Universidad Nacional de Colombia para 
el IDEAM, 2005. 
·
El Clima y la Salud. Universidad Nacional de Colombia para el IDEAM, 2005. 
·
Aproximación a la Vulnerabilidad de los Ecosistemas de Alta Montaña del Macizo Las 
Hermosas. Germán Andrade para el IDEAM, 2005. 
·
Estrategia de Adaptación de los Ecosistemas de la Alta Montaña Colombiana al Cambio 
Climático Global – Macizo de Las Hermosas. Germán Andrade para el IDEAM, 2005. 
·
Medidas de Adaptación de la Agricultura frente al Cambio Climático. Francisco Boshell 
para el IDEAM, 2005. 
·
Agroforestería para la Producción Animal Sostenible.  Fundación Centro para la 
Investigación en Sistemas Sostenibles de Producción Agropecuaria. CIPAV, 2003  
·
Sistemas Silvopastoriles, Establecimiento y Manejo. Fundación Centro para la 
Investigación en Sistemas Sostenibles de Producción Agropecuaria. CIPAV, 2004. 
·
Programa Holandés de Asistencia para Estudios en Cambio Climático: Colombia 
Definición de la Vulnerabilidad de los Sistemas Biogeofísicos y Socioeconómicos debido 
a
un Cambio en el Nivel del Mar en las Zonas Costeras Colombianas y Medidas para su 
Adaptación. Informe Técnico Final. VII Tomos. INVEMAR, 2003 
·
Diseño de un Sistema de Monitoreo Climático en el Area Insular del Caribe Colombiano, 
Carlos Andrade para INVEMAR, 2003. 
·
Areas Coralinas de Colombia. INVEMAR, 2000. 
·
Análisis de Datos sobre Niveles Piezométricos, Período 1997 – 2003. Andrea Piñeros 
para CORALINA, 2003. 
·
Análisis de Base de Datos (1996-2004) de Pozos Concesionados en la Isla de San 
Andrés. Leonardo Osorio para CORALINA, 2005. 
·
Plan de Manejo de Aguas Subterráneas para la Isla de San Andrés 2000-2009. 
CORALINA.  
·
Evaluación del Sistema de Vigilancia Epidemiológico, SIVIGILA. Fabio Rivas para el 
INS. 
·
Análisis Institucional para la Implementación de las Medidas de Adaptación. 
ECOVERSA, 2005. 
·
Análisis de Costos Incrementales. ECOVERSA, 2005.  
·
INTEGRATED DENGUE AND MALARIA SURVEILLANCE AND CONTROL SYSTEM, 
COLOMBIA, INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE SALUD DE COLOMBIA MINISTERIO DE LA 
PROTECCION SOCIAL, Harish Padmanabha   and   Salua Osorio Mrad,  January 2006. 
 
11. Contact point 
Contact: Walter Vergara 
Title: Lead Chemical Engineer 
Tel: (202) 458-2705 
Email: Wvergara@worldbank.org 
 
12. For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Page  19
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
