Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATA SHEET 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AC2073 
 
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 11/06/2009 
 
I.  BASIC INFORMATION 
 
A.  Basic Project Data 
 
Country: Colombia 
Project ID: P083075 
Project Name: Colombia: Integrated National Adaptation Program 
Task Team Leader: Walter Vergara 
GEF Focal Area: Climate change 
Global Supplemental ID:  
Estimated Appraisal Date: February 13, 
2006 
Estimated Board Date: April 11, 2006 
Managing Unit: LCSEN 
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance 
Loan 
Sector: General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (41%);Central government 
administration (28%);Health (17%);Sub-national government administration (14%) 
Theme: Climate change (33%);Biodiversity (17%);Malaria (17%);Land administration 
and management (17%);Water resource management (16%) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
5.40 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER/RECIPIENT 
7.20 
 
Foreign Private Commercial Sources (unidentified) 
2.30
9.50 
B.  Project Objectives [from section 2 of PCN] 
The project development objective is to support Colombia's efforts to define and implement 
specific pilot adaptation measures and policy options to meet the anticipated impacts from 
climate change. These efforts will be focused on high mountain ecosystems, insular areas and on 
human health concerns related to the expansion of areas for vectors linked to malaria and 
dengue, as identified as priority areas in the National Communications and other studies.   
 
C.  Project Description [from section 3 of PCN] 
a) Making climate, climate variability, and climate change information available for adoption of 
adaptation measures and policies (total cost $3.3M; GEF funding $1.0 M). This component seeks 
to strengthen Colombia's capabilities to produce and disseminate climate information (useful for 
resource allocation and operational decision making), in support of adaptation to climate change 
measures and programs. The component will strengthen IDEAM's and INVEMAR's capabilities 
Page  2
to provide: (i) forecasts to improve resource management and biodiversity conservation 
decisions in high mountain ecosystems; (ii) climate scenarios to develop ecosystem management 
plans land conservation and adaptation options in Paramo, insular and coastal areas; and (iii) 
warnings for Malaria and Dengue. Under the component, the following activities will be 
supported: (i) improvements in technical and scientific capabilities at IDEAM and INVEMAR to 
produce information relevant to climate change; (ii) development of local climate change 
scenarios in support of selection of adaptation measures; (iii) strengthening the existing climate 
data network of relevance to climate change by supporting equipment renovation for 157 key 
climate stations (out of 3100 operated by IDEAM) with at least 20 years of high quality data (for 
1961-1990), including quality control and assurance; (iv) strengthening scientific and technical 
personnel to ensure long term sustainability of the project activities.  
 
As a result of a project restructuring, the activities formerly planned for Las Hermosas Massif 
will now take place in Chingaza paramo, and some minor modelling efforst will be conducted at 
the Parque Nacional de los Nevados.  
 
b)
Design and implementation of an adaptation program that supports maintenance of 
environmental services in the Chingaza Paramo in the central range of the Andes (total cost 
$4.3M, GEF funding $1.6M). The Paramo is a humid high altitude moorland, a highly diverse 
biotope of particular concern for climate change impacts. The component supports the following 
activities: (i) Ecosystem planning and management in Chingaza, seeking to maintain its high 
biodiversity assets; (ii) Maintenance of potential for hydropower generation through adoption of 
measures to protect the watershed; (iii) Adaptive land-use planning model seeking to reduce 
impacts from climate change on land degradation. (iv) Improvement of productive agro-
ecosystems and reduction of their socioeconomic vulnerability to GCC impacts  
 
c) Adaptation measures in Caribbean Insular areas (total cost $3.5M, GEF funding $1.2M). The 
objective of this component is to support the implementation of physical adaptation measures in 
order to reduce the vulnerability of the Caribbean Insular area, especially with regard to changes 
in rainfall and temperature and sea-level rise. The activities under this component consist of: (i) 
Implementation of GLOOS (Global Ocean Observing System)-based monitoring stations in the 
Western Caribbean (complementing the regional network under CPACC); (ii) Integrated water 
resources management to enhance the availability of fresh water in the Caribbean insular areas 
(San Andres island); (iii) Implementation of the marine protected areas system in the Seaflower 
reserve and the CRSBeIF in order to contribute to the conservation of marine ecosystems in the 
face of climate impacts; and (iv) Integrated Coastal Management to reduce the vulnerability of 
ecosystems, infrastructure and population living close to the coast.  
 
d) Responses to the increased exposure to tropical vector-borne diseases (malaria and dengue) 
induced by climate change (total cost $6.1M, GEF funding $1.0M). The objective of this 
component is to address the increased exposure to tropical vector-borne diseases (malaria and 
dengue) induced by climate change through the implementation of an Early Warning System for 
Malaria and Dengue Surveillance and Control (DMEWS) seeking a 30% reduction in both 
malaria and dengue morbidities in pilot areas. During the INAP, the DMEWS will be 
implemented in approximately 12 pilot municipalities for malaria and 12 for dengue, selected 
based on perceived climate threats. The project will support the design, implementation and 
operation of the DMEWS: developing a framework that permits the continuous evaluation of the 
Page  3
local risk of dengue and malaria transmission in the face of global climate change and the 
determination of the most appropriate actions in order to prevent epidemics before they begin. 
The project will contribute to the strengthening of the institutional capabilities through the 
evaluation and strengthening of local (municipal) health agencies and through the strengthening 
the National Health Surveillance System ultimately changing the current reactive institutional 
organization into a proactive public health system.  
 
e) Administrative and Financial Management (total cost $ 0.72M, GEF funding $0.5M). This 
component will support the administrative and financial management of the project activities and 
will include goods; consultancy services; travel and operational and incremental costs 
undertaken by the NCU and CI-Colombia. Specifically this component will finance the project 
manager, the procurement specialist, other required personnel for the project management, and 
the project external audits.   
 
D.  Project location (if known) 
The project will be located in different areas according to each component:  
 
Component a) IDEAM - climate stations: 157 key climate stations have been selected as 
reference network all over the country for equipment renovation (out of 3100 oeprated by 
IDEAM)  
 
Component b) as a result of restructuring, the activities formerly planned for Las Hermosas 
Massif will take place in Chingaza Paramo, a High Altitude Moorland ecosystem with simlar 
characteristics as the former site.  
 
Component c) Archipielagos of San Andres, Providencia and Santa Catalina, as well as of the 
Rosario, San Bernardo and Isla Fuerte.  
 
Component d) During the INAP, the EWSDM will be implemented in approximately 12 pilot 
municipalities for malaria and 12 for dengue, already pre-selected based on climatic and 
epidemiological characteristics.   
 
E.  Borrower’s Institutional Capacity for Safeguard Policies [from PCN] 
The implementing agency, Conservation International (CI), is a renowned organization in the 
field of environmental protection, and its performance throughout project execution has always 
been rated as Satisfactory. IDEAM, which is the recipient, is an entity whose mandate is to veil 
for Colombia's environment. The Instituto Nacional de la Salud has a long record working with 
indigenous communities.   
 
F.  Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Mr Walter Vergara (ENV) 
Mr Alonso Zarzar Casis (LCSSO) 
 
Page  4
II.  SAFEGUARD POLICIES THAT MIGHT APPLY 
Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No TBD 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
No major adverse environmental impacts are expected as a result of this project. Minor 
environmental impacts might be expected from some on-the-ground investments. The project is 
designed to be entirely positive from an environmental point of view, particularly by protecting 
vulnerable ecosystems from the impact of GCC. Some expected direct positive impacts include: 
(i) reduced vulnerability of the high mountain ecosystems and Caribbean insular and coastal 
areas in the face of the climatic variations and of GCC, as well as contribution to the 
maintenance of the environmental services; (ii) reduced uncertainty of impacts of GCC and 
formulation of adequate adaptation measures; (iii) mitigation of impacts of unsustainable 
agricultural practices and development and implementation of sustainable alternatives; (iv) 
reduced vulnerability of agro-systems and planning and management of water supply; (v) 
increased public awareness building on adaptation needs and increased social and institutional 
capacity to manage the ecosystems; (vi) environmental benefits from the rationale and selective 
use of insecticides . An Environmental Assessment will be performed as part of the preparation 
of each of the adaptation measures.   
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
X
The conservation of natural habitats like other measures that protect and enhance the 
environment, is essential for long-term sustainable development. INAP promotes and supports 
natural habitat conservation and improved land use by financing activities designed to integrate 
into local development the conservation of natural habitats and the maintenance of ecological 
functions. INAP activities are sited on lands already deteriorated of natural habitats, or in buffer 
areas aiming at protecting the sustainable flow of environmental services. INAP does not support 
pilots involving the significant conversion of natural habitats  
 
INAP has adopted a community embracing strategy. The implementing agencies take into 
account the views, roles, and rights of groups, including local non-governmental organizations 
and local communities, and involve such people in planning, designing, implementing, 
monitoring, and evaluating such activities. Community participation is based on sharing data and 
information.   
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X  
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
X
As a result of project restructuring, the Pest Management safeguard is triggered, and the 
Government is committed to prepare a full communication strategy to inform population and 
institutions of best behavioral practices during malaria and dengue outbursts, in order to avoid an 
increase use of pesticides during an alert produced by the early warning system.  
 
However, it is important to note that the project does not aim at reducing pesticides, nor 
does it support the purchase and use of such products. Project due diligence indicated that 
Colombia has a comprehensive regulation on the use of pesticides, that their procedures follow 
the World Health Organization standards and international good practices, and that the existing 
monitoring institutional capacity is adequate. For those reasons, a full Pest Management Plan is 
not required.   
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X  
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
X
Related to the health component, during project preparation no Indigenous Peoples had been 
identified in project areas. However, during implementation the client decided to include a small 
Page  5
Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No TBD 
indigenous community living in San Jose del Guaviare as a pilot in the implementation of 
activities. The team social specialist visited the area and discussed with the Instituto Nacional de 
la Salud (INS) the preparation of an Indigenous Peoples Plan. Appropriate consultation processes 
took place, and the community agrees to work on the project and is committed and engaged 
throughout the whole project cycle. All outcomes of the project are expected to be positive on 
the population, i.e. supporting them in efforts to reduce cases of malaria and dengue, with no 
negative impacts foreseen.   
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X  
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X  
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X  
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X  
Environmental Category:
 
B
-
Partial Assessment 
 
III.  SAFEGUARD PREPARATION PLAN 
 
A.  Target date for the Quality Enhancement Review (QER), at which time the PAD-stage ISDS 
would be prepared:  N/A 
 
B.  For simple projects that will not require a QER, the target date for preparing the PAD-stage 
ISDS:  11/05/2009 
 
C.  Time frame for launching and completing the safeguard-related studies that may be needed.  
The specific studies and their timing
1
should be specified in the PAD-stage ISDS. 
Safeguard-related studies have been completed.   
 
IV.  APPROVALS 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Walter Vergara 
11/05/2009 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Reidar Kvam 
11/05/2009 
Comments:   
Sector Manager: 
Mr Glenn S. Morgan 
11/05/2009 
Comments:   
1
Reminder: The Bank's Disclosure Policy requires that safeguard-related documents be disclosed before appraisal (i) at the 
InfoShop and (ii) in-country, at publicly accessible locations and in a form and language that are accessible to potentially affected 
persons.
 
Page  6
