                                                                                                                              52263


                                            COLOMBIA 

                               Integrated National Adaptation Program 


                                                         CONTENTS




I. Introduction ..................................................................................................................... 1 

II. Background and Reasons for Restructuring ................................................................... 1 

III. Proposed changes .......................................................................................................... 3 

IV. Analysis ........................................................................................................................ 4 

V. Expected outcomes ........................................................................................................ 5 

VI. Benefits and risks .......................................................................................................... 5 

                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS 




ACCION   Agencia Presidencial para la Acci6n Social y la Cooperaci6n Internacional
SOCIAL   (Presidential Agency for Social Action and International Cooperation)
CI       Conservation International
FY       Fiscal Year
GEF      Global Environmental Facility
IDEAM    Meteorological, Hydrological and Environmental Studies Institute
INAP     Integrated National Adaptation Program
INS      Instituto Nacional de Salud (Colombian National Health Institute)
PDO      Project Development Objective
TF       Trust Fund




                    Vice President:      Pamela Cox
                  Country Director:      Gloria Grandolini
                   Sector Manager:
                         PROJECT RESTRUCTURING DATA SHEET 


  Date: December 17, 2009                   Task Team Leader: Walter Vergara
  Country: Colombia                         Sector Manager: Karin E. Kemper
  Project Name: Integrated National         Country Director: Gloria Grandolini
  Adaptation Program, INAP                  Environmental category: Partial
  Project ID: P083075                       Assessment
  Borrower: Conservation International Colombia
  Responsible agency: IDEAM
  Revised estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$m)                  NO CHANGE
  FY             6            7             8             9              10
i Annual         0.50         2.50          2.00          0.30           0.10
  Cumulative     0.50         3.00          5.00          5.30           5.40

    Current closing date: December 30, 2011
    Revised closing date: N/A

    Indicate if the restructuring is:
    Board approved          X
    RVP approved
    Does the restructured project require any exceptions to Bank policies?   Yes X No
    Have these been approved by Bank management?                             Yes   No
    Is approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?              Yes XNo

    Revised project development objective/outcomes

    The   PD~   does not change, nor the outcomes and key indicators.

    Does the restructured project trigger any new safeguard policies?
    Yes, the restructuring includes triggering two new safeguard policies: Indigenous
    Peoples, OP4.10; and Pest Management, OP4.09

i   Revised Financing Plan (US$m.)                      NO CHANGE IN FINANCING
    Source                                         Local        Foreign  Total
    Borrower                                       7.20       i 0.00     7.20
    Global Environmental Facility (GEF)           .2.90         2.50     5.40
    Co-Financing                                  !1.30         1.00     2.30
    Total                                          11.40        3.50     14.90
I. Introduction

1. This Project Paper seeks the approval of the Executive Directors to introduce two
changes in the Colombia, Integrated National Adaptation Project, GEF Trust Fund Grant
Number TF056350, Project P083075 and any accompanying amendments to the Project's
legal documents.

Change in location
2. The location of the activities under Component B, formerly planned for Las
Hermosas, will be changed and carried out on other, equivalent locations, the Chingaza
Paramo and the National Natural Park Los Nevados.

Triggering of two new safeguard policies
3. Two safeguard policies,· Indigenous Peoples (OP4.l 0) and Pest Management
(OP4.09), not triggered during Project appraisal, will now be triggered. Following the
Bank's guidelines, the inclusion of new safeguard policies requires a first order
restructuring.


II. Backgrou.nd and Reasons for Restructuring

4. A Grant, in the amount ofUS$ 5.4 million, was approved by the Board on April 11,
2006. It became effective in July 13, 2006, and currently has a closing date of December
30,2011. The objective of the Project as stated in the Grant Agreement is "to support the
Beneficiary's efforts to define and implement specific pilot adaptation measures and
policy options to meet anticipated impacts of climate change focusing on high mountain
ecosystems, insular areas and on human health concerns related to the expansion of areas
and vectors linked to malaria and dengue."

5.  The Project has five components:
   a) Making climate, climate variability, and climate change information available for
   adoption of adaptation measures and policies (total cost US$ 3. 1million; GEF funding
   US$ 1.0 million).
   b) Design and implementation of an adaptation program that supports maintenance of
   environmental services (including hydropower potential) in the Las Hermosas Massif
   in the central range of the Andes (total cost US$ 3.47 million, GEF funding US$ 1.57
   million).
   c) Adaptation measures in Caribbean Insular areas (total cost US$ 2.9 million, GEF
   funding US$ 1.3 million).
   d) Responses to the increased exposure to tropical vector-borne diseases (malaria and
   dengue) induced by climate change (total cost US$ 4.7 million, GEF funding US$ 1.0
   million).
   e) Project Management (total cost US$ 0.73 million, GEF funding US$ 0.53 million).

6. The Project is being implemented in a satisfactory manner. Around US$2.9 million
have been disbursed to end of September 2009. The implementation of physical measures
is well advanced in most of the components. A thorough mid-term review of the Project
                                            1

was conducted during June 2009, which confirmed the satisfactory implementation pace
of the Project, with a well-advanced status of the physical progress of the adaptation
activities. Discussions are currently underway with the Swiss Government on additional
financing in the amount of US$ 5 million to expand the identified adaptation measures in
high mountain ecosystems given their importance in terms of water regulation and
biodiversity. This additional financing would be approved by early 2010 and may require
a further amendment to the Grant agreement.

7. The performance of Conservation International (CI), the implementing agency, has
been satisfactory and no auditing report for this Project is outstanding.

8. The change of location related to Component B, arises from the delicate public
security situation existing at Las Hermosas. Due to security issues, it has been impossible
to work inside the area for any of the key partners of the Project. This social unease
situation is expected to prevail during project implementation, imposing a barrier to its
expected development. Alternative Project sites have been identified for this component
(high mountain moorlands of high importance for water regulation and rich in
biodiversity). The two new sites requested by the implementing agency are Chingaza
Paramo and the National Natural Park of Los Nevados, they both meet the security and
geographic conditions and are considered technically suitable for the purposes of the
Project. The expected outcomes under Component B will thus be developed in those
areas, but results will be valuable and directly used in Las Hermosas Massif. All on-the
ground activities and interventions will be carried out in Chingaza Paramo, and in Los
Nevados only modeling efforts will be developed.

9. The Project has already achieved important progress towards its objective. The
change in project site for Component B would not represent any change of the objective,
nor any threat to its proper accomplishment.

10. IDEAM (Instituto de Hidrologia, Meteorologia y Estudios Ambientales de Colombia)
and CI (Conservation International Colombia), which are recipient and implementing
agency of the Grant, respectively, have requested the Bank through a letter dated
December 23, 2008 to consider the Chingaza high mountain ecosystem and the Natural
Park of los Nevados as the new pilot sites under Component B. Both sites meet the
security and geographic conditions. Acci6n Social representing the Government of
Colombia has approved the amendment request.

11. The Las Hermosas Massif Project site will benefit from the Project activities. The
guidelines to incorporate global climate change issues on land use planning for the
Chingaza Paramo can be directly applied to Las Hermosas as well. Furthermore, the
valuable experience obtained from the implementation of the adaptation measures in
Chingaza can be of direct use in the future to Las Hermosas.

12. Triggering of Indigenous Peoples OP4.10: during the Mid Term Review, performed
by the end of June 2009, the Bank team identified that the client has started a process to
include as beneficiaries of the health activities an Indigenous group of the Guayaberos,
located in San Jose del Guaviare. This group represents a new social actor and
                                            2

beneficiary of the activities under this component. During project preparation the Bank
team did not identifY Indigenous Peoples as beneficiaries because project activities did
not initially include them.

13. The Guayaberos live in their traditional territory and are estimated to be around 1,200
people. The project will work with one community of 150 people as a pilot experience.
This particular community selected for project activities is a group of families that were
displaced by the violence from a neighbor district and have been hosted by the other
Guayabero communities living in San Jose del Guaviare.

14. The team social specialist visited the community and confirmed their willingness to
participate in the project. The client has prepared an Indigenous Peoples Plan and has
started a process of consultation to include this community under this component. It is
worth mentioning that project activities do not entail adverse effects on these people, but
on the contrary they will promote benefits from monitoring and preventing malaria
outburst in the area.

15. Triggering of Pest Management OP4.09: The project supports the implementation
of early warning systems and improved surveillance and control of vector borne diseases,
dengue and malaria. If successful, morbidity rates should decrease (main objective), and
as a result, there should be an associated net reduction on the use of pesticides once the
systems are implemented and functioning. The project does not aim at reducing
pesticides, nor does it support the purchase and use of such products. Project due
diligence indicated that Colombia has a comprehensive regulation on the use of
pesticides, that their procedures follow the World Health Organization standards and
international good practices, and that the existing monitoring institutional capacity is
adequate. However, it has been agreed with the client that the safeguard policy be
triggered, on a proactive and conservative way. For those reasons, a full Pest
Management Plan is not required.

16. To comply with the policy, the Government, through the INS (Instituto Nacional de la
Salud) will include, in the design and implementation of the early warning system, a
strategy to inform people and institutions on how to deal with an outbreak of dengue or
malaria, to avoid indiscriminate and improper use of pesticides or of pesticides that are
not allowed under OP 4.09.

17. The Government of Colombia, through the Instituto Nacional de la Salud (INS), has
expressed its commitment to comply with the requirements imposed by the triggering of
the two new safeguards through a letter sent on September 14, 2009.

III. Proposed changes

18. For the change in location of the activities in Component B, the proposed change to
the Project design includes shifting the activities initially planned for Las Hermosas to
two other sites, Chingaza Paramo and the National Natural Park of los Nevados. All
implementation of adaptation measures will be carried out in Chingaza, whereas the
modeling efforts will be performed in both.
                                            3
19. The scope of Component B will not be changed, nor the substance of the respective
outcome indicator except that the same indicator will be measured at a different site,
which presents the same environmental characteristics as those of Las Hermosas Massif.
This site change will not imply any changes in the procurement, disbursement and
financial management arrangements for this component nor in the allocated budget.

20. The contents and approach of the restructuring proposal have been discussed between
the Project implementation unit and the Bank team, as reflected on the Aide Memoire of
the Mid Term Review. The Bank team considers that the requested modifications are
justified, acceptable and necessary.

21. For the triggering of Indigenous Peoples safeguard, all recommendations included
on that safeguard will be followed. An Indigenous Peoples Plan agreeable to the Bank
has been prepared and will be enforced by the client.

22. For the triggering of Pest Management safeguard, the INS will include in the early
warning system a strategy to inform people and institutions on the proper use of
pesticides during outbursts. Furthermore, the existing procedures on pesticides, adopted
by Colombia following the World Health Organization standards and international good
practices will be included in the Operations Manual of the Project.

IV. Analysis

23. None of the proposed changes have a major effect on the original economic,
financial, technical, institutional, or social aspects of the project as appraised. The
proposed changes imply substituting the parent project site with others (mostly Chingaza
Paramo) of the same characteristics. It therefore does not have major effects on the
Project design. Th e two new safeguards triggered imply gaining a better control of
Project activities and outreach, and guaranteeing that activities have only positive impacts
on communities and environment.

24. None of the proposed changes raise the environmental category of the Project. The
parent Project was rated Category B. The first change proposed, the change of location,
does not change the Category rating. The location of both Los Nevados and Chingaza
Paramo do not trigger social safeguards or other policies. The triggering of Indigenous
Peoples safeguard implies including the Guayaberos indigenous community in project
activities. This does not change the rating of the Project category, because the envisaged
project activities only have positive impacts on the health of the communities, and no
adverse effects on these peoples. The triggering of Pest Management safeguard will
prevent misinformed actions by population and/or institutions to take place when the
warning system raises an alarm.

25. This restructuring does not involve any exceptions to Bank polices.




                                             4

V. Expected outcomes

26. The Project Development Objective is not changed by any means. The outcome
indicator related to Component B will not change in nature, it will just be measured in a
different site. All information subtracted from the new sites is directly applicable to the
former site, the Las Hermosas Massif. The data collected in the new sites can be used for
modeling in Las Hermosas. From this point of view, the proposed changes can enrich and
complement the formerly expected outcomes.

27. The inclusion, decided by the client, of an indigenous community will not change the
outcomes of Component D, focused on increasing resilience of local communities to
malaria and dengue outbursts. On the contrary, it will provide valuable results using an
indigenous community as a pilot study.

28. The triggering of Pest Management will not change scope or outreach of Component
D, and will improve the capacity of INS to control individual actions during an outburst.


VI. Benefits and risks

29. Regarding the change in location for Component B, The Chingaza Paramo is a very
important strategic area. Within its environmental services, it supplies fresh water to
almost 20% of Colombians, principally in Bogota. Given its key importance to the
country, a significant number of public and private institutions are undertaking a number
of actions in the area, which would be complimentary to the adaptation measures of the
Project. There is thus a direct benefit because of the increased likelihood of success of
pilot adaptation actions. The Parque Nacional de Los Nevados is a protected area, in
which many scientific studies have been conducted, facilitating the access to data and
resources.

30. Both areas present adequate security conditions for the normal unfolding of the
Project.

31. The Chingaza Paramo is closer to Bogota than the former Las Hermosas Massif,
facilitating access to the working area, with consequent significant savings in operational
costs initially foreseen for Las Hermosas.

32. Regarding the trigger of two new safeguard policies, the Project is expected to
gain on quality information and control on actions and outcomes, through an Indigenous
Peoples Plan that enables the inclusion of the Guayaberos on pilot activities, and through
a strategy to inform population and institutions on good practices during malaria and
dengue outbursts.

33. No significant risks are foreseen at this point.




                                               5
