Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 13491-MAI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THE REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
MARCH 3, 1995
Energy and Infrastructure Operations Division
Southern Africa Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(as of November, 1994)
Currency Unit = Malawi Kwacha (MK) and Tambala
US$1.0 = MK 16.0
MK 1.0 = 100 Tambala
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 to March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 foot (ft) = 0.305 meters (m)
i mile (mi)  =  1.609 kilometers (km)
1 square mile (mi2)  =  2.590 square kilometers (kin2)
1 ton (t) = 0.907 metric tons (m ton)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BOD           =  Board of Directors
CIR           =  Country Implementation Review
EMP           =  Environment Mitigation Plan
GDP           =  Gross Domestic Product
CFM (N)       =  Caminhos de Ferro de Mocambique (North)
CFM           =  Empresa Nacional de Portos e Caminhos de Ferro de
Mocambique EE
GOM           =  Government of Malawi
IDA           =  International Development Association
IMF           =  International Monetary Fund
KfW           =  Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
LS            =  Lake Services Department
MLS           =  Malawi Lake Services Limited
MK            =  Malawi Kwacha
MOTCA         =  Ministry of Transport and Civil Aviation
MR            =  Malawi Railways
MR (M)        =  Malawi Railways (1994) Limited
OA            =  Operations Agreement
ODA           =  Overseas Development Administration
PA            =  Performance Agreement
RRP           =  Railways Restructuring Project
USAID         =  United States Agency for International Development
ZR            =  Zambia Railways



REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page Nos.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ..................................... i
CHAPTER 1. SECTOR BACKGROUND .1
A.    Country Setting  ..........................................  I
B.     The Transport Sector .......................................  2
C.    Transport Policy  .........................................  8
D.    Previous Bank Involvement ...................................  9
E.     Lessons of Past Experience ...................................  9
CHAPTER 2. THE PROJECT  ........................................   10
A. Project Objectives .10
B. Main Project Outcomes .10
C.  Rationale for IDA Involvement .10
D. Project Strategy .11
E. Project Description .12
F. Project Cost .22
G. Project Financing .23
CHAPTER 3. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  .............................  24
A.  Implementation Arrangements .24
B.    Role of Technical Assistance in Implementation .25
C.  Status of Project Preparation .25
D. Procurement .26
E. Disbursement .28
F.  Auditing and Accounting .29
G. Monitoring and Reporting .29
H. Supervision .29
CHAPTER 4. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS ............................  30
A. Scenarios .30
B. Traffic Projections .30
C. Financial Benefits .31
D. Economic Benefits .32
E.  Key Indicators of Success .34
F. Environmental Impact .35
G. Sustainability .35
H. Project Risks .36



... / cont'd
CHAPTER 5. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  ...                         ..........  37
A.  Conditions of Effectiveness .37
B.  Conditions of Disbursement .37
C.   Assurances Provided at Negotiations .37
D. Recommendation .39
ANNEXES
Annex 1
1.1   Trend of Performance Indicators in Malawi Railways
1.2    Letter of Transport Sector Policy
1.3    Completed and Active World Bank/IDA-Financed Transport Projects
1.4    Active World Bank/lDA-Financed Projects
Annex 2
2.1    Project Cost Summary
2.2    Project Cost by Years
2.3    Project Financing Plan
Annex 3
3. 1   Project Implementation Plan
3.2    Project Mission Plan
Annex 4
4.1   Traffic Projections
4.2    Profit/Loss and Profitability Projections
4.3    Economic Benefits and ERR
4.4    Key Indicators of Success
4.5    Environmental Mitigation Plan
Annex 5
5.1    Documents in Project Working Files
Maps: IBRD Nos. 26395 and 26396
This report is based on the findings of a Bank appraisal mission which visited Malawi in April 1994,
comprising Messrs. Yash Pal Kedia (Senior Railway Engineer and Mission Leader), Sture Karlsson (Port
Engineer), R. Gopalkrishnan (Senior Procurement Specialist), Carlos de Castro (Transport Specialist),
Wim Spit (Transport Economist), Duane Lougee (Transport Specialist, USAID), Samuel Mintz (Transport
Economist, USAID), Tony Davis (Financial Analyst, USAID), Bill Brands (Project Officer, USAID) and
John Craik (Railway Specialist, ODA). Ms. Josiane Luchmun provided administrative support. Mr. Ian
Heggie, Mr. Lou Thompson, and Mr. Yusupha Crookes were the peer reviewers. Mr. Jeffrey S. Racki
and Ms. Katherine Marshall are the managing Division Chief (Acting) and Department Director,
respectively.



- j -
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Republic of Malawi
Implementing
Agencies:           Malawi Railways (1994) Limited and Malawi Lake Services Limited
Beneficiaries:      Ministry of Transport and Civil Aviation
Malawi Railways Limited
Malawi Railways (1994) Limited
Malawi Lake Services Limited
Poverty:            Not Applicable
Amount:             SDR 11.2 million (US$16.16 million equivalent)
Terms:              Standard IDA terms with 40-year maturity
Onlending
Terms:              To Malawi Railways (1994) Limited and Malawi Lake Services Limited at 7.1 %
interest rate and 13 years repayment period including five years of grace
Financing
Plan:
(US$ million)
Local      Foreign         Total
IDA                    0.75         15.41         16.16
USAID                  8.92          3.06         11.98
Government             0.66          0.20          0.86
Total                 10.33         18.67         29.00
Economic Rate
of Return:          88% for Privatization scenario and 67% for Restructuring scenario
Staff Appraisal
Report:             Report No. 13491-MAI
Maps:               IBRD Nos. 26395 and 26396






REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
CHAPTER 1. SECTOR BACKGROUND
A.    Country Setting
1.1    Malawi, with a per capita income of around US$210, is one of the poorest countries in the world.
The economy is fragile, as it depends on a limited range of exports and small domestic markets; the
population growth rate is high; and social indicators are low. Agriculture is the mainstay of the economy,
accounting for more than 30% of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP), 90% of exports, and 85% of
employment. Foreign trade is important, as the value of exports and imports is roughly 50% of GDP
overall. These conditions render Malawi's economy vulnerable to internal and external shocks, and, in
particular, to fluctuations in terms of trade.
1.2   Indeed, after one and a half decades of economic growth, Malawi's economic performance
faltered between 1981 and 1987 due in part to a number of exogenous factors which included declines in
terms of trade, a prolonged drought, and an influx of about one million Mozambican refugees. The
insurgent activity in Mozambique also led to closure of the shortest and least expensive rail routes to the
ports of Nacala and Beira. The alternative route to the port of Durban being three times longer, the
average transport margin for imports (transport and insurance cost as a percentage of the total landed cost
of imports) increased from about 25% in 1975 to about 45% in 1987. The resulting burden on the
economy has been estimated to be between US$50 and US$80 million per annum, about 4 to 6% of GDP.
1.3    A broad-based recovery, however, began in 1988, aided by well implemented stabilization and
structural adjustment programs that gradually liberalized foreign trade and domestic regulations. In
addition, increased external capital inflows and higher export prices financed needed imports of
intermediate and capital goods. and raised investment. In response, growth rates of GDP increased from
0.5% in 1987 to 4.8% in 1991. Average transport margins on imports also decreased to about 40% due
to: (i) increased use of the all-road and the rail/road routes to the port of Dar Es Salaam resulting from
the implementation of the Northern Transport Corridor (NTC) Project (Cr. 1879-MAI) (formally called
Transport I Project) by the Government of Malawi (GOM); and (ii) more foreign road transport operators
competing for Malawi's international traffic under the liberalized transport policy.
1.4    After 1991, Malawi's economic situation again deteriorated mainly due to two droughts in the last
three years (which led to a sharp fall in aggregate output) and terms of trade losses cumulatively
amounting to around 10% of GDP over two years. In recent months, the poor functioning of the foreign
exchange market and a large fiscal deficit caused mainly by the costs of the political transition have also
contributed to macroeconomic difficulties. However, the newly elected GOM has shown its commitment
to stabilization and structural reforms through coming to an agreement on a medium term policy
framework with the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. This framework calls for
measures to increase revenue collections, and tighten controls on government borrowing and expenditure,
and for a return to fiscal stability and lower inflation. In the sphere of structural reforms, the framework
seeks to increase burley quota allocation to smallholders, improve the transparency of quota allocation,
encourage private sector participation in domestic trade, remove fiscal subsidies to fertilizer, and publicize
policies that have been liberalized and deregulated. A fully functional Nacala rail route would greatly
help in promoting economic growth by bringing the transport margin on overseas imports down to about
30%, resulting in annual savings of US$25 to US$35 million in transport costs.



-2 -
B.      The Transport Sector
Geographic Setting and Transport System
1.5     International Traffic. Malawi, as a landlocked country, must depend on neighboring countries
for all imports and exports to the sea. The rail routes to the ports of Nacala and Beira were the main
routes used by Malawi until their closure in 1984. Since then Malawi has tried various road and rail/road
routes to the ports of Durban, Dar Es Salaam, and Beira (Table 1.1), the share of traffic on the different
routes varying according to the security situation in Mozambique, the overall transport cost, and
perceptions about the reliability of operations on these routes. Currently: (i) the 640-km long rail route
to the port of Beira, the shortest of all the routes available to Malawi for external trade, is closed and is
likely to remain closed for a long time due to the heavy investments required to rehabilitate the track on
both the Malawi and Mozambique sides of the route; (ii) the road and rail/road routes to the port of
Durban via Tete and Harare continue to be used most followed by the road and rail/road routes to the port
of Dar Es Salaam; (iii) the abnormally long road and rail/road routes via Zambia to the port of Durban,
though used extensively between 1990 and 1993 due to poor security conditions prevailing on the Tete-
Harare section, are not in much use any more; (iv) the multi-modal route to the port of Dar Es Salaam
using Lake Malawi is not fully operational due to problems of draft in the main ports of Chilumba and
Chipoka though the road and rail/road routes continue to maintain their share of traffic; (v) the traffic to
the port of Beira using the recently-opened direct road route via Tete/Vanduzi is gradually increasing; and
(vi) the Nacala rail route, which reopened in 1989 but where commercial operations were resumed only
in 1993 after restoration of peace in Mozambique, is attracting increasingly more traffic (IBRD Map No.
26396).
Table 1.1: Transport Routes from Blantyre for Malawi's
External Trade
Port Served    Mode(s)          Key Points en Route   Countries Transited  Malawi Border Point  Length (Kmn)
Beira          Rail             Luchenza            MOZ                  Nsanje                  640
Beira          Road             Tete, Vanduzi       MOZ                  Mwanza                  884
Beira          Road/Rail. Road   Tete, Harare, Mutare   ZIM, MOZ         Mwanza                 1,500
Nacala         Rail             Nayuci              MOZ                  Nayuci                  815
Durban         Rail/Road        Tete, Harare        MOZ, ZIM, RSA       Mwanza                 2,667
Durban         Rail/Road        Lusaka, Harare      ZAM, ZIM, RSA        Mchinji               3,467
Durban         Rail/Road        Lusaka, Gaborone    ZAM, BOT, RSA        Mchinji               3,806
Durban         Road             Lusaka, Harare      ZAM, ZIM, RSA       Mchinji                3,500
Dar Es Salaam    Rail/Road/Lake    Chipoka, Chilumba    TAN              Kaporo                1,728
Dar Es Salaam    Rail/Road      Mbeya               TAN                 Kaporo                 1,770
Dar Es Salaam    Road           Mbeya               TAN                 Kaporo                 1,789
Dar Es Salaam    Road           Mbeya               ZAM, TAN            Mchinji                3,030
Dar Es Salaam    Rail/Road      Lusaka, Mbeya       ZAM, TAN            Mchinji                3,100
Source: Malawi NTC Project, World Bank Staff Appraisal Report No. 6022-MAI, January 27, 1988.
Note 1: The Beira rail route is currently closed.



- 3 -
1.6     Of the total estimated imports of 1,150,000 tonnes in 1993 (both regional and overseas), the share
through different border posts was as follows: (i) through Mwanza, the entry point for regional imports
originating in the southern African countries and overseas imports through the ports of Durban and Beira
via Harare - 65 %; (ii) through Kaporo, the entry point for overseas imports through the port of Dar Es
Salaam - 14%; (iii) through Mchinji, the entry point for regional imports originating mostly in Zambia
but also in other southern African countries and overseas imports through the ports of Durban and Beira -
9%; (iv) through Nayuci, the entry point for overseas imports through the port of Nacala - 8%; and (v)
through Mwanza, the entry point for overseas imports through the port of Beira via the direct road route -
4%.
1.7     The total estimated exports (both regional and overseas) of 250,000 tonnes were shared as follows:
Mwanza - 6%, Kaporo - 48%, Mchinji - 8%, and Nacala - 38%. Most imports and exports, other than
those moving over the Nacala rail route, moved by road. The future projections are that the share of
regional imports passing through Mwanza would increase further at the cost of Mchinji, while the bulk
of overseas imports and exports would move through the ports of Nacala and Beira.
1.8     The average surface transport cost of overseas imports (inclusive of port charges) through the port
of Nacala is less than 50% of the cost through the port of Durban (Table 1.2) even after adding an
average feeder service charge of US$360/container from the port of Durban to the port of Nacala. For
a total shift of 300,000 tonnes of overseas imports from the port of Durban to the port of Nacala, which
is quite possible if the Nacala rail route operates efficiently, the savings to the Malawian economy could
be about US$20.0 million per year assuming that 50% of the total import traffic is containerized and
subject to additional feeder service change. The savings to the economy could go even up to US$45
million per year with the privatization of Malawi Railways and consequent increase in traffic on the
Nacala rail route and more conference lines calling on Nacala.
Table 1.2: Comparative surface costs on various corridors, Blantyre to Port (US$)
TRANSPORT CHARGES FROM BLANTYRE TO
Dar       Nacala      Beira via Harare   Beira via Chingara   Durban
Distance (Kms)                       1,789         815               1.500                  800     2,667
Average Transit Time (Days)             7            4                  6                     3         6
Min-Max Transit Time (Days)           4-15         2-7                4-8                    2-4      4-8
Cost of General Traffic/mt
Road                                  70                              60                   n.a.       60
Rail                                  35           43                 56                   n.a.       73
Port                                  27           18                 18                   n.a.       15
Total                                132           61                134                   n.a.      148
Cost of Imports/Twenry-foot
Equivalent Container Unit (TEU)     1,050                            900                   651       900
Road                                 525          647                833                   n.a.    1,094
Rail                                 407          269                269                   269       226
Port                                1,982         916              2,002                   920     2,220
Total
Cost of Exports/TEU
Road                                 840                             720                   651       720
Rail                                 361          518                667                   n.a.      875
Port                                 326          215                215                   269       181
Total                               1,527         733               1,602                  920      1,776



- 4 -
1.9    Despite the Nacala rail route being the shortest and least expensive of the currently available
routes, the route has so far attracted only 15% of Malawi's overseas freight traffic. Apart from a 77-km
section of the track on the Mozambican side of the Nacala rail route which is reported to be in poor
condition and is adversely affecting reliability of operations, the main impediments to cost-efficient
operations on the rail route are: (i) low frequency of conference lines calling on the port of Nacala; (ii)
problems concerning revenue collection and distribution between Malawi Railways Limited (MR) and the
northern railway system in Mozambique, Caminhos de Ferro de Mozambiqe (North) (CFM (N)); (iii)
inadequacy of managerial and operating skills as well as management and operating systems on both MR
and CFM (N); and (iv) inadequate level of computerization on both the railway systems and consequent
difficulty in providing timely information about the consignments or ship's arrival to the customers.
Nevertheless, there are visible signs of improvement in operational efficiency and, on many occasions,
the train transit time from Blantyre to the port of Nacala has been less than one day.
1.10   Domestic traffic. Malawi is one of the smallest countries in southern Africa, measuring some
120,000 km2, of which some 20% (24,200 km2) is covered by Lake Malawi (IBRD Map No. 26395).
The aerial distance between the northernmost point at the border with Tanzania and the southernmost point
at the border with Mozambique is some 900 km; the longest east-west distance is about 250 km. The
major cities are the capital, Lilongwe, located in the central region, and Blantyre in the south. The
distance between the two cities is about 300 km by road and 370 km by rail. Other major population
centers are Zomba, the former capital, in the south (70 km northeast of Blantyre) and Mzuzu in the
northern region, some 360 km north of Lilongwe. The population, presently about 10 million, resides
primarily in rural areas and is growing rapidly, at about 3.4% p.a.
1.11   According to GOM's Economic Report 1994, the road share of the domestic freight traffic
increased from 44% in 1990 to 57% in 1993 almost entirely at the cost of railways which declined from
52% to 40% (Table 1.3). However, due to difficulties in collecting road traffic data, the road share
appears to be understated and could, in fact, be as much as 70%. The domestic freight traffic carried on
Lake Malawi has declined by 50% over the last four years. The share of air mode, despite showing a
gradual increase, remains insignificant.
Table 1.3: Domestic Freight Traffic Distribution by Transport Mode
|_____________  000 Tonnes                           % Share
Transport Mode   1989   1990    1991    1992   1993     1989   1990   1991    1992   1993
Road             278    310     379     267    424        41     44     57      51      57
Rail             374    368     264     237    303        55     52     40      45      41
Lake              28     24      19      17      13        4      3      3       3       2
Air                I      I       1       2       3        0      0      0       0       0
Total            681    703     663     523    743       100    100    100     100    100
Source: Economic Report 1994, Department of Economic Planning and Development, Malawi.
1 .12   The passenger traffic by road has almost tripled in 1993 compared to 1992 (Table 1.4). The
passenger traffic by air also increased by 45%  in one year. The passenger traffic by rail, however,
showed a sharp decline and has led to cancellation of a number of regular trains. This trend is likely to
continue.



- 5 -
Table 1.4: Passenger Traffic Distribution by Transportation Mode
'000 Passengers                         % Share
Transport Mode              1990         1991      1992       993  __1990 F _1991-1992 _    _1993
Road                       18,191       16,453    17,841    57.757    90.8    90.6  93.8    98.3
Rail                        1,622        1,469      901       734     8.1      8.1   4.7      1.2
Lake                         179          169       199       115     0.9      0.9   1.0    0.2
Air                           52           62        71       129     0.3      0.3   0.4        0
Total                      20,004      18,153    19,012     58,735    100      100   100      100
Source: Economic Report 1994, Department of Economic Planning and Development, Malawi.
Transport Sector Development and Performance
1.13   Development Expenditure. Transport infrastructure has dominated development expenditure
since Independence, often absorbing one-third or more of the development budget for all sectors. For the
last four years, i.e., from 1990/91 to 1993/94, the allocation of development expenditure for the transport
sector as a percentage of the total for all sectors has, however, shown a gradual decline from 40 to 25 %.
Expenditure on roads accounted for about two-thirds of total transport development expenditure until
1991/92 and almost 80% since then. These figures do not reflect the total government spending on
transport, as they do not include either implicit or explicit subsidies to the transport parastatals. The
government subsidies to MR have averaged Malawian Kwacha (MK) 10 million per year since 1990/91.
1.14   Transport Sector Performance. Despite a number of encouraging developments in the past few
years - reopening of the shorter and less expensive Nacala rail and Beira road routes, entry of a number
of foreign transport operators in the Malawian international transport market, and the emergence of a
competitive environment for international traffic - the overall performance of the Malawian transport
sector continues to be much below expectation and is proving to be a serious constraint to the growth of
the national economy in general and of exports, industry, and agriculture in particular. The below-
expected performance of the sector is reflected in (i) high cost of international traffic; (ii) high cost of
domestic freight traffic; and (iii) inadequate and unreliable supply of domestic transport particularly in
the rural areas and during peak periods. Additionally the following are also indicators of the inadequate
performance of the sector: (i) poor profitability and sustainability of many of the domestic transport
operators in spite of the very high unit freight rates; (ii) dominance of international freight traffic by
foreign transport operators almost to the complete exclusion of the Malawian operators; (iii) heavy losses
suffered by the GOM-owned MR and its subsidiary department, the Lake Services Department (LS),
imposing a substantial subsidy burden on GOM; and (iv) a very poor safety record. The main reasons
are policy-related and formulating an appropriate transport policy needs to be a government priority.
Transport Sub-sectors and Main Issues
1.15    Highways and Road Sub-Sector. Malawi has a road network of about 14,000 kms - 2,480
(17 %) bitumen, 1,480 (11 %) gravel, and 10,200 (72 %) earth. The main road network of about 2,900
kms is concentrated in the south, but with an important spinal link to the north. Road density is about
1.5 km per 1,000 inhabitants, above average for southern and eastern Africa. The road coverage is
considered adequate for the country's present needs. Even though various initiatives aimed at improving
maintenance practices and upgrading programs are underway, the frequent violation of the axle load limit
of 8.2 tonnes by transport operators is causing considerable damage to roads.



- 6 -
1.16   The Road Traffic Department, one of the agencies of the Ministry of Transport and Civil Aviation
(MOTCA), is responsible for all aspects of road transport through enforcement of the Road Traffic Act,
Trend of Performance Indicators                                       -    Operating rato
350   r                                                                       O   Freight traffic
-- --Staff prod.otivit
300 -        \                                                                    Locoot.v utto
=  --  Wg   ut.Wg  1 lz9 ation
2 250
t-                                                             --A  -   k density
197        190     18a96            197      18d99            190     19       92      19
c200~
~150~
E
A~~~~~~~~~~A
50
1975    1980    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993
Years
e.g., implementing policy relating to road transport; enforcing safety regulation pertaining to road traffic;
collecting road user charges such as road tax, road service permit fees, driving license fees, and
certificates of fitness fees; and controlling and monitoring of investments through road service permits.
The Road Traffic Act is, however, outdated and there is an urgent need to revise and improve
enforcement of regulation.
1.17   While there is no regulation for international traffic, the maximum and minimum tariffs for the
domestic traffic are being set by MOTCA, partly under pressure from the Road Transport Operators
Association. This is directly against GOM's policy of transport rate liberalization and is resulting in high
cost of domestic freight traffic. Difficulty of fresh entry into the market due to inadequate availability
of credit, restrictions on import of second-hand equipment, and high cost of spare parts and tyres have
also contributed to the continuing problems of availability and high cost of road transport within Malawi.
A Transport Sector Policy and Implementation Strategy is required to address the main issues of the road
sub-sector.
1 .18   Rail Sub-Sector. The main railway line lies entirely in the south, extending from the southern
border northward through Blantyre to Lake Malawi and then west through Lilongwe to the Zambian
border. At the southern border, this line is connected to the Mozambique rail line (Sena Line) serving
Beira port. An eastern extension of MR connects to the Mozambique rail line serving the port of Nacala.
There is no rail connection to Zambia Railways (ZR), other than a 24-km extension from Mchinji to
Chipata, which is under construction. A link with the main ZR network would require a costly 390 km
track construction project, which is unlikely in the foreseeable future.
1.19   Freight traffic (both international and domestic) on MR has steadily declined from its peak of 1.35
million tonnes in 1975 to 340,000 tonnes in 1992/93. The passenger traffic also declined from a peak
of 1.7 million passengers in 1987 to 0.9 million in 1992/93. As MR maintained the full complement of



staff and physical resources despite the declining traffic in the hope of reverting back to its 1975 status,
the decline of financial performance was even steeper; the operating ratio (expenditure/income) increased
from 80% in 1975 to 150% in 19931/. Other key performance indicators - staff productivity, track
density, and locomotive and rolling stock utilization - also showed similar sharp decline to between 50
and 70% of their original value. The trend of seven key performance indicators is shown graphically in
the figure below. Almost all key performance indicators have shown a deteriorating trend. The freight
traffic has dropped from a level of 250 in 1975 to just 52 million net tonne-km (NTK) in 1993, staff
productivity from 62,000 to 14,000 NTK per staff, and locomotive utilization from 250 to 55
kms/locomotive day. Trend of all key indicators is given in Annex 1.1.
1.20    MR is currently implementing a Restructuring Plan (which preceded the Project), as a result of
which: (i) 1,200 staff have already been retrenched; (ii) passenger services have been substantially
reduced; (iii) the Lilongwe-Mchinji and Limbe-southern border sections have been relegated to a siding
status; (iv) many uneconomic stations have been closed; (v) international trains are being operated as
block trains; and (vi) LS has been separated from MR in terms of financial reporting and management.
The Restructuring Plan is scheduled to be fully implemented by December 1994. Despite these gains,
MR would still continue to be a loss-making entity. There is an urgent need for a more intensive
restructuring of MR followed by its revitalization and eventual privatization.
1.21   Lake Sub-Sector. At present, transport on Lake Malawi plays a relatively minor role in both
freight and passenger transport (about 13,000 tonnes and 115,000 passengers p.a.). Lake Malawi has a
complex of 21 ports and landing points. Chipoka is the only port served by the railway; the other main
ports of Chilumba, Nkhata Bay, and Monkey Bay are served by the main road. For ship repair, LS has
a maintenance facility at Monkey Bay.
1.22   The transport services provided by LS include passengers and parcels, and freight cargo
comprising general break bulk cargo and fuel. Traffic evolution of LS's passenger services has been
volatile during the last two decades. In the 1970s, annual passenger volumes fluctuated between 105,000
and 147,000. With the addition of a new vessel to the fleet in the beginning of 1980s, volumes increased
substantially, ranging between 180,000 and 220,000 per annum. In 1993/94, however, the number of
passengers dropped to 115,000 due to MV Ilala being sidelined for major overhaul. Freight traffic on
Lake Malawi has dropped significantly during the past 10 years - from around 40,000 tons in 1983/84,
to its lowest level of around 6,000 tons in 1993/94. This decline in freight traffic, while partly being a
result of the development of road transport in the areas traditionally served by MR and LS, has to a
greater extent been caused by the poor performance of LS in competing with other modes of transport,
and in particular by LS's failure to carry out the required dredging works in the two ports of Chilumba
and Chipoka.
1.23   LS's financial performance, never satisfactory, has progressively become worse during the last
few years, the operating ratio (cost/income) gradually increasing from 107% in FY1990/91 to 150% in
FY1992/93. LS is heavily overstaffed, and its current fleet, with the exception of the new container
vessel, is old and in many cases unsuitable for today's traffic requirements. A restructured LS, owned
by or with the involvement of the private sector in its core business, would have a potential for attracting
more traffic and becoming commercially viable. The lake services component of the proposed Project
will address the issues of the lake services sub-sector.
1/    The operating ratio, computed by providing for depreciation on the book value of the fixed assets, is grossly understated and
correctly computed on the basis of depreciated replacement value of assets could be as much as 240%.



- 8 -
1.24   Air Sub-Sector.  Air transport, another minor player, operates on a limited route network,
presently consisting of five regional - Nairobi, Harare, Dar Es Salaam, Lusaka, and Johannesburg - and
four domestic destinations - Lilongwe, Blantyre, Mzuzu, and Mangochi. Lilongwe's share of both
passenger and freight traffic has declined since 1991, passengers by 15% and freight by 27%, while
Blantyre's share is gradually increasing. Even so, Lilongwe remains the largest airport in Malawi having
handled about 250,000 passengers, about 70% of the total, and about 6,700 tonnes of freight, 80% of the
total in 1993. The proposed Railways Restructuring Project (RRP) does not address this sub-sector except
through the Transport Policy component.
C.     Transport Policy
1.25   In the case of international road haulage, GOM has actively promoted a competitive and efficient
industry, but the policy framework for MR and its subsidiary LS, as well as for Air Malawi, has not been
conducive to sustained commercial viability. For domestic transport, GOM has avoided many of the
pitfalls of excessive government control and bureaucratic procedures that inhibit operating flexibility,
management efficiency and incentives to increased productivity. Nonetheless, there are a number of areas
in which improvements could be made, especially with respect to the pricing of domestic transport
services, both passenger and freight. Further removal of regulatory and licensing impediments, price
liberalization, and improved access to finance are all examples of policy-related changes that could have
a substantial positive impact.
1.26   A sound policy environment is essential for the success of MR's plans to become commercially
viable.  While MR, like all other competing transport modes, needs to operate in a competitive
environment without depending on any direct or indirect subsidy or support from GOM, its potential of
becoming commercially viable could be undermined if GOM's policies were to stimulate or actively
support investments in uneconomic alternative routes2/. Similarly, MR could be at a disadvantage if the
transport policy failed to identify and enforce payment of appropriate road user charges by road haulers
and/or safety and environment-related regulations applicable to all modes of transport. Consequently,
there is a need for MOTCA to formulate and implement a clear and transparent transport policy.
1.27   Policy changes need to aim at:  (a) avoiding creation of new and continuation of existing
uneconomic international routes and options; (b) creating a genuinely competitive environment both in the
international and the domestic transport market; (c) facilitating a fair inter-modal and inter-route
competition; (d) removing capacity constraints for domestic traffic; (e) improving access to credit, hence,
facilitating the entry of newcomers into the transport business; (f) permitting the use of second-hand
equipment and direct import of spare parts and tyres, thus, enabling the indigenous Malawian transport
operators to become more cost-effective and, consequently, more profitable; and (g) promoting
restructuring, commercialization, and eventual privatization of transport parastatals. MOTCA also needs
to be strengthened to enable it to undertake policy analysis on a continuing basis, to monitor the transport
sector's performance more closely, and to enforce safety-related regulation more rigorously.
1.28   GOM has already initiated steps for strengthening MOTCA, refining its transport sector policy,
and enforcing safety-related regulation. Some progress has been made towards reorganizing the Road
Traffic Department, revising the Road Traffic Act, restructuring MR, and easing restrictions on import
of equipment, spare parts and tyres. However, domestic freight transport policies continue to be
protective and restrictive. GOM has also requested the Bank to include transport policy formulation as
2/     The low level of overseas freight traffic does not justify opening of many alternative rail or road routes to Nacala and/or Beira.
The existence of a well-functioning alternative road route to the port of Beira is adequate to provide effective competition and
ensure that the Nacala rail route does not function as a monopoly.



- 9 -
a component of RRP. GOM has already submitted to the International Development Association (IDA)
a Letter of Transport Sector Policy (Annex 1.2) which will provide the basis of future policy reforms.
D.     Previous Bank Involvement
1.29   The Bank Group has been involved in the transport sector in Malawi since 1966 largely in the
highway subsector although some of the projects included significant technical assistance and studies
concerned with the entire transport sector. The Bank has been involved with the railway and the lake
services subsectors through the transport sector review of 1990/91 and to a limited extent with the lake
services subsector as a part of the NTC Project (Cr. 1879-MAI). The Bank group has financed a total
of 11 transport projects in Malawi so far. All closed and active IDA-financed transport projects, as well
as projects with a significant transport component, are listed inAnnex 1.3 3/and all currently active IDA-
financed projects (all sectors) are listed in Annex 1.4.
E.     Lessons of Past Experience
1.30   Lessons have been learnt in designing and implementing recent railway projects in Tanzania,
Ghana, Kenya, Zambia, Zimbabwe, and Mozambique, many of which had a strong restructuring element.
While there are no complete success stories concerning railway restructuring, some of the important
lessons of the past projects have been taken into account in the design of this project.
1.31   The main lessons are: (i) successful restructuring of railways requires a firm commitment to the
objectives of restructuring by their respective governments; (ii) the railway managements have in general
found it difficult to simultaneously manage two key elements of restructuring, viz., downsizing and
stimulating business growth through increased efficiency and effective marketing, and separation of these
tasks can lead to better implementation; (iii) a change in the legislative framework which affects the
railways is important as most past legislation is generally restrictive of railways' autonomy, particularly
with regard to its organizational restructuring, commercialization, and privatization; (iv) better results are
achieved when the governments, instead of providing direct control, exercise control through Boards of
Directors (BOD) and the BODs comprise of members with proven record of performance; and (v)
sufficient attention must be paid to developing appropriate organizational structures, appointing qualified
personnel to key managerial positions, and upgrading management and operating systems.
1.32   Additionally, massive investments in infrastructure, locomotives, rolling stock, and communication
systems have generally been ineffective in improving reliability or efficiency as the railways' capacity to
handle big projects, modern technology or complex equipment such as locomotives has proved to be
inadequate. Involvement of the private sector in managing big projects and modern technology is
absolutely essential. The usually large and complex organization structures associated with the railways,
apart from adding to the costs of operation, have also generated a massive inertia against any effort at
improvement. In this respect, identifying a core group of persons within the existing organization or
establishing a separate group or an entity at an early stage to manage the process of restructuring is more
likely to prove helpful.
3/     Refer Staff Appraisal Repon No. 6022-MAI on the Transport I Project (Cr. 1879-MAI) also known as the Northem Transport
Cotridor Project for detailed description of the IDA-financed highway projects in Malawi.



- 10-
CHAPTER 2. THE PROJECT
A.      Project Objectives
2.1     The primary objective of the Railways Restructuring Project (RRP) is to contribute to Malawi's
economic growth through: (a) revitalizing the much shorter, less expensive, but poorly-operated Nacala
rail route and increasing its share of Malawi's overseas traffic, thus, reducing the landed cost of
exports/imports and enhancing Malawi's competitive advantage4/; and (b) restructuring, commercialization
and eventual privatization of the Railways and the Lake Services, enabling them to operate more
efficiently and without depending on government subsidies, thus, reducing the drain on the national
economy. To achieve these objectives, two subsidiary objectives of RRP are to: (i) formulate and
implement a transport policy which encourages genuine inter-modal and inter-route competition; and (ii)
set up an institutional mechanism for close coordination among the entities managing the Nacala rail route,
viz., MR, CFM (N), and the Port of Nacala, to ensure sustainability of improved operations on the
Nacala rail route.
B.      Main Project Outcomes
2.2     The main outcomes expected at RRP's completion by the end of FY1997/98, i.e., March 1998,
are:
(a)     a minimum yearly overseas (both exports and imports) freight traffic of 300,000 tonnes
on the Nacala rail route;
(b)     transport margin (transport cost element of the landed cost of exports and imports) of
35% as compared to the current 40% on all overseas traffic;
(c)     a minimum return on capital employed of 1.7%  on the Railways, the capital employed
being computed on the basis of the current replacement value of fixed assets;
(d)     a minimum working ratio of 80%  for the Lake Services;
(e)     a transport policy aimed at creating a genuinely competitive environment in the transport
sector in Malawi;
(f)     substantial progress towards privatizing the Railways and the Lake Services; and
(g)     completion of the process of retrenching surplus staff, disposing surplus assets, closing
the existing MR, and liquidating its liabilities.
C.      Rationale for IDA Involvement
2.3     The project would make a significant contribution towards improving Malawi's macroeconomic
situation by lowering the final costs of Malawian exports, improving foreign exchange balances, and
assisting in reducing inflation through reducing the cost of imported materials. It would also promote
improved public sector management. IDA has played a significant role in assisting GOM and MR in
clarifying and concretizing the concept behind restructuring and in providing continuous analysis of project
features. By continuing its involvement during the implementation phase, IDA would be able to assist
4/      Direct investment suppon under RRP, viz., civil and mechanical works, equipment and spare parts, and technical assistance will
be restricted to the Malawi side of the Nacala rail route. The Government of Mozambique with the support of donor agencies,
mainly USAID and Caisse Francaise de Developpment (CFD) , is in the process of defining an appropriate rehabilitation and
restructuring project for the Mozambique side of the Nacala rail route. Some definite support, in the meantime, is proposed to be
provided to CFM (N) under this and some other projects and programs to enable CFM (N) to upgrade its information and control
systems (more details in paras 2.25 to 2.27).



- 11 -
GOM and MR in consolidating this process, helping ensure appropriate donor coordination, and ensuring
that lessons from other regional railway projects are being taken into account.
2.4    The project meets the core objectives of the Bank's country assistance strategy (discussed at the
Board on June 9, 1994) as it will enhance the domestic supply response in two ways. First, the project
will lead to a significant reduction in transport costs for imported inputs, thus reducing production costs
and increasing profitability in Malawi's manufacturing sector. Second, reduced transport costs for
Malawi will enhance the country's external competitiveness and will enable Malawian producers to reap
higher export revenues and retain a larger proportion of the cif export price. Both factors will encourage
economic diversification.  Moreover, the substantial reduction in transport costs will be a major
contributing factor to improved public and private savings which in turn will be necessary to sustain
higher rates of investment in the medium term.
D.    Project Strategy
2.5    The RRP design is based on the recognition that: (a) it would be impossible to have an efficiently
functioning Nacala rail route, if only 40% of the route on the Malawi side were to be revitalized, which
is the main focus of RRP, and no attention were to be paid to removing the operating constraints on the
60% of the route on the Mozambique side; (b) the tasks of restructuring and downsizing the railway with
a view to reducing losses and eliminating the need for subsidies on the one hand, and corporatizing and
commercializing the railway to increase its share of traffic on the other, require different specialized skills
and dedicated resources; it is difficult, if not impossible, for one implementing agency to handle both of
these at the same time in an efficient manner; (c) as a part of the restructuring plan, a very high
percentage of staff, close to 60%, would be rendered surplus; their satisfactory retrenchment, retraining,
and redeployment is essential for the success of RRP; (d) the success of RRP in turning the railway
around would also depend on the extent to which Malawi's transport sector policy succeeds in promoting
a healthy inter-route and inter-modal competition, market-based pricing, full cost recovery for all modes,
investments based on economic justification, and enforcement of safety-related regulation; and (e) the
Lake Services, though a minor player in the transport sector, has, nevertheless, an important role in
serving certain categories of passengers, reducing costs of freight traffic moving to the port of Dar Es
Salaam, and efficiently using the huge investments already made in this sector and, thus, reducing its
losses and resulting subsidies.
2.6    The main features of the RRP design, therefore, include: (a) use of indirect methods to improve
performance on the Mozambique side of the Nacala rail route such as signing of an Operations Agreement
between MR and CFM (N), setting up wagon tracking and management information systems on the whole
corridor under the regional program of the United States Agency for International Development (USAID),
setting up a Joint Review Board (JRB), employing a transit facilitation expert for short durations to assist
in setting up mechanisms for effective coordination, computerization of commercial transactions, and
providing other forms of technical assistance to CFM (N) by the donor agencies towards preparation and
formulation of an appropriate project for the Mozambique side of the Nacala rail route; (b) incorporation
of a new railway company to be responsible for revitalization of the Nacala rail route, leaving the task
of downsizing to the existing railway company; (c) use of a fair and attractive compensation package for
the surplus staff to be retrenched which would include provisions for staff counselling with regard to
alternative employment including self-employment, staff retraining, support for housing, and equity
participation in the new railway company; (d) the development and implementation of a transport policy
component under RRP to enhance MOTCA's capacity for policy analysis and response; and (e) the
implementation of a separate lake services component under RRP to promote commercialization and
privatization of the Lake Services.



- 12 -
E.    Project Description
2.7    RRP comprises four components as follows:
(a)    Restructuring component, to be implemented by MR, includes (i) setting up of new
railway and lake services companies to be called the Malawi Railways (1994) Limited
(MR (M)) and the Malawi Lake Services Limited (MLS) respectively; (ii) transferring of
assets and staff to the new companies; and (iii) gradual downsizing and final closure of
the existing MR;
(b)    Revitalization component, to be implemented by MR (M), includes (i) commercialization
of rail operations; (ii) eventual privatization of MR (M); (iii) extension of the services of
the marketing and transit facilitation experts to CFM (N) to improve performance of the
whole Nacala rail route; and (iv) setting up of institutional mechanisms for effective
coordination with CFM (N);
(c)    Lake Services component, to be implemented by MLS, includes (i) commercialization of
its operations; and (ii) eventual privatization of MLS's core activities; and
(d)    Transport policy component, to be implemented by MOTCA, includes (i) developing a
transport policy that would provide a framework for efficient operations with particular
emphasis on restructuring and privatization of transport parastatals; and (ii) enhancing
institutional capacity for analyzing the performance of the transport sector and providing
adequate response.
Restructuring Component
Component Objectives
2.8    The main objectives of the Restructuring component are: (i) setting up of new railway and lake
services companies, viz., MR (M) and MLS respectively by January 31, 1995; (ii) transferring of assets
and staff to the new companies by March 31, 1995; and (iii) gradual downsizing and final closure of the
existing MR by June 30, 1996.
Component Description
2.9    The Restructuring Plan involves three separate entities:  (i) a new railway company to be
registered under the Companies Act of Malawi (referred as MR (M) as distinguished from the existing
MR registered in UK) that would be responsible for revitalizing the Nacala rail route and its
commercialization and subsequent privatization; (ii) a new lake services company to be registered under
the Companies Act of Malawi (referred as MLS as distinguished from the existing LS, an autonomous
department of MR) to be responsible for its commercialization and subsequent privatization; and (iii) the
existing MR to be responsible for completing the winding down operations, i.e., retrenching the surplus
staff and disposing of the surplus assets of the railways as well as the Lake Services and finally for its
closure. GOM provided assurances at negotiations that the new companies will not be declared Statutory
Bodies, either at the time of their incorporation or subsequentlv so as not to inhibit their subsequent
privatization (para 5.3 (a)).



- 13 -
2.10   The rationale for the approach indicated above, i.e., setting up two new companies in addition
to MR, is that: (a) this involves no legal status change to the existing Malawi Railways Holding Company
and MR; (b) there is no need to "wind down" MR or declare it solvent in the near term, thus facilitating
an orderly disposal of assets; (c) MR (M) management can focus on the task of turning around the
railway, without the "distraction" of managing the process of retrenching staff and disposing of assets;
(d) the new company will be more attractive to potential private buyers because: (i) it would not be a
statutory body and would be a more autonomous entity, which would be more "arms length" from the
Government; and (ii) it would have improved financial prospects (assuming complementary operational
improvements are made); and (e) no acts of Parliament are required for establishing MR (M).
Amendment of related legislation and regulations may, however, be needed to create an appropriate
enabling environment for privatization and efficient functioning of MR (M) and MLS after privatization.
The need for revising the legislation will be determined by the privatization study proposed to be
undertaken under the Project. The legislation requiring amendment could include the Railways Act and
also possibly the Statutory Bodies Control of Contracts Act, the Finance and Audit Act, and the
Companies Act. Preparing and presenting the revised legislation to the Parliament, if required, would
be a condition of disbursement of funds for the categories and amounts specified in Table 3.2 (para 5.2
(iii)).
2.11   Creating New Companies. This would involve three basic actions:
First, the current railway Management will need to decide which assets and staff are required
in the "new" companies to efficiently handle all current and projected future freight and
passenger traffic. All other assets and staff will be deemed "surplus" and remain in MR. To a
large extent this has been done and it is agreed that 1,130 staff (860 for freight operations and
the remaining for passenger operations), 12 mainline locomotives (4 for freight operations, 4 for
passenger, and 4 as stand-by), 400 wagons (300 required and 100 as stand-by), 30 coaches, and
full infrastructure including workshops and maintenance depots would be transferred to MR (M).
The staff and assets would be sufficient for the 300,000 tonnes of overseas traffic projected under
the restructuring scenario (see Chapter 4), 300,000 tonnes of domestic freight traffic, and the
minimum agreed level of passenger services. Provision of stand-by assets and expected increase
in operating efficiency and staff productivity subsequent to MR (M)'s privatization will ensure
that the assets and staff transferred to MR (M) would also be adequate for the increased overseas
freight traffic of 525,000 tonnes projected under the privatization scenario. The staff and assets
to be transferred to MLS would be based on the recommendations of the study on restructuring
and privatization of MLS. Completion of the MLS restructuring and privatization study, being
undertaken under the Infrastructure I Proiect (CR. 2069-MAI), would be a condition of
effectiveness (para 5.1 (a iii)). The provision for passenger services, though a loss-making
operation, is being made with the understanding that GOM would fully compensate MR (M) and
MLS for the losses computed on an agreed basis, the basis forming an integral part of the
Performance Agreements to be signed between GOM and MR (M)/MLS. GOM provided
assurances at negotiations that it would fully compensate MR (M) and MLS for the losses
incurred by them on account of passenger or other services undertaken at GOM's request (para
5.3 (e)).
Second, assets will be transferred to the new companies, after a professional inventory,
valuation, and clear title establishment has been done for the assets. In addition, the Government
would provide initial working capital (about MK 2.5 million for MR (M) and MK 0.5 million for
MLS), as equity to the new companies. Share capital of the new companies would also need to
be defined. GOM provided assurances at negotiations that it would make available the working
capital of MK 2.5 million and MK 0.5 million to MR (M) and MLS respectively (para 5.3 (b)).



- 14 -
Third, GOM will need to: (i) establish Boards of Directors (BOD) of the new companies as soon
as the new companies are incorporated; (ii) set in clear terms the procedures and the style of
functioning of the BODs; and (iii) ensure that BODs have adequate private sector representation.
GOM provided assurances at negotiations that it will set up appropriate BODs for the new
companies soon after their incorporation but no later than six months after RRP becomes effective
(para 5.3 (c)).
2.12   Winding Down Old Railway Company. Once the new railway and lake services companies are
operative, the existing MR will cease its transport activities and concentrate on winding down, viz., sale
of surplus assets including locomotives, rolling stock, workshop equipment, land, and buildings;
discharging its liabilities; and retrenchment of the surplus staff and eventually also of the "skeleton" staff
retained at MR to facilitate the winding down process. The process of winding down is recognized as
complex as it comprises: (i) staff retrenchment, counselling service for retrenched staff, facilities and
assistance towards retraining, and credit facilities for acquiring housing available with MR; and (ii)
disposal of locomotives, wagons, passenger coaches, physical railway assets, land, and houses in the most
efficient and transparent manner. The company will, therefore, continue to be managed in a professional
manner and the possibilities of involving the private sector in the management of the winding down
activities would also be considered.
2.13   An administrator/liquidator will be appointed for the old company, i.e., MR, for this purpose to
implement a transparent process for the orderly sale of the assets. The financial proceeds will go to the
Government to be used for various purposes, including settlement of debt. Creditors will also have their
financial claims settled from the sale of the assets. The value of non-Government debt is estimated to be
less than the value of surplus land owned by MR.
Component Inputs
2.14   RRP would support the restructuring of MR through: (i) financing the staff retrenchment package
including retraining of retrenched staff for redeployment; (ii) provision of consultancies including short-
term consultancy studies, legal and investment advisory services, short-term technical assistance, and staff
training to support the effective implementation of the component. The cost of this component of RRP
is estimated to be around US$8.27 million, i.e., about 29% of the total project cost.
2.15   Staff Retrenchment and Rationalization Package. This sub-component will support GOM in
(i) financing the retrenchment package; and (ii) extending retraining facilities to the retrenched staff.
Apart from covering the staff identified to be retrenched under this project (in the current restructuring
and subsequent privatization phases), the retrenchment support would also be extended to staff retrenched
in the recent past and whose retrenchment packages are found to be below the package to be finally agreed
under RRP. MR has already retrenched about 1,200 staff reducing the staff strength for the railway sub-
sector to about 2,300 from about 3,500. MR (M) will absorb only about 1,130 staff and the remaining
1,170 will be declared surplus. This sub-component is estimated to cost US$6.0 million including
contingencies, about 20% of the total project cost, and would be financed by USAID.
2.16   Consultancies for Project Implementation. Successful implementation of the restructuring sub-
component requires skills generally not available with the railways and as such a considerable amount of
project implementation support needs to be provided to MR. However, as the task of restructuring is a
one-time task, development of institutional capability would prove to be expensive and unnecessary.
Project implementation support would be provided through:



- 15 -
(a)    short-term studies during the restructuring phase of the project to assist MR in: (i) setting
up the new railway and lake services companies and providing the legal basis, valuation
of assets, and corporate financial structuring for this purpose; (ii) designing MR (M)'s
and MLS's organization structure, staffing concepts, and remuneration packages; (iii)
assessing ways to mitigate the hardship of the retrenched staff such as providing
assistance in housing, retraining of retrenched staff, and offering equity shares in MR (M)
to the staff; (iv) establishing computerized systems to expedite the restructuring work and
improve the quality of decision-making; and (v) other specific studies that may be
identified during the implementation period;
(b)    three short-term technical assistance experts, each for a period of one year divided into
two or three periods spread over the project:  (i) a corporate and organizational
restructuring specialist to assist MR in establishing the corporate structure subsequent to
setting up of MR (M) and MLS and monitoring the progress in revising the Railways Act,
the Statutory Bodies Control of Contracts Act, and other restrictive legislation; (ii) a staff
rationalization and retrenchment specialist to assist MR in effective implementation of
the staff retrenchment plans and organizing the functioning of special task groups to
provide counselling to the out-going staff; and (iii) an equipment expert to assist MR in
assessing the requirement of locomotives, rolling stock, and other assets during the
project life to facilitate further optimization and effective implementation of the plans for
disposal of surplus assets;
(c)    legal and investment advisory services throughout the restructuring phase to assist MR
in setting up the new companies, transferring staff and assets to the new companies,
meeting the current statutory and legal requirements, dealing with long- and short-term
creditors, and the sale of locomotives, rolling stock, land, residential accommodation, and
miscellaneous fixed assets; and
(d)    limited amount of staff training to ensure that the MR staff are able to complete their
tasks efficiently.
Revitalization Component
Component Objectives
2.17   The main objectives of the component are: (i) commercialization of rail operations enabling MR
(M) to capture by the end of the Project a minimum of 300,000 tonnes of overseas traffic, achieve a real
minimum return on capital employed of 1.7%, and reduce the transport margin from the current 40% to
35% on all overseas traffic; (ii) eventual privatization of MR (M) enabling it to increase the Nacala rail
route's share of the overseas freight traffic to 525,000 tonnes; (iii) indirect assistance to CFM (N) to
improve efficiency and reliability of operations of CFM (N) and ensure maximization of traffic on the
Nacala rail route; and (iv) setting up of an institutional mechanism for effective coordination with CFM
(N).
Component Description
2.18   The Revitalization of the Nacala rail route has two sub-components: (a) revitalization of the
Malawi side of the Nacala rail route through direct support including: (i) setting clear targets of
performance for MR (M) through a Performance Agreement between GOM and MR (M); (ii) increasing
efficiency and reliability of operations through upgrading of equipment and infrastructure; (iii) intensifying



- 16 -
marketing effort and client consultation; and (iv) eventual privatization of MR (M); and (b) revitalization
of the Mozambique side of the Nacala rail route through indirect support including: (i) increasing
efficiency and reliability of operations through inputs outside of RRP; and (ii) facilitating effective
coordination between MR (M) and CFM (N).
2.19   Performance Agreement. The Performance Agreement (PA), while reflecting GOM's and MR
(M)'s commitment to the commercial viability objective, would specify the obligations and responsibilities
of both GOM and MR (M). More specifically, the Performance Agreement would, inter alia, include
agreements regarding: (i) MR (M)'s authority to plan its level and pattern of services and manage its
operations; (ii) sale and acquisition of assets including land; (iii) financial and operating performance
targets; (iv) project implementation targets; (v) targets for implementation of the Environmental Mitigation
Plan; (vi) compensation by GOM to MR (M) for services provided by MR (M) at the direction of GOM
which are not commercially justified such as passenger services; (vii) reporting arrangements; (viii)
appointment of key personnel; and (ix) resolution of disputes. GOM provided assurances at negotiations
that it will conclude a Performance Agreements with MR (M) within six months of the RRP becoming
effective (para 5.3 (d)).
2.20   Efficiency and Reliability of Operations on the Malawi Side of the Nacala Rail Route.
Efficiency and reliability of operations is one of the most important determinants of the Nacala rail route's
share of freight traffic. Currently, the level of operating efficiency on the railways is quite low. Apart
from getting the physical assets in good shape, the MR (M) management would need to improve staff
attitudes towards quality, enhance staff competence and motivation, underscore staff accountability, and
upgrade operating and management systems. The component provides for a comprehensive package for
addressing these issues which includes: (i) track rehabilitation works; (ii) repair to key mechanical
equipment; (iii) new test and maintenance equipment; (iv) spare parts to build an optimal inventory; (v)
professional services; and (vi) consultancies for development of MR (M)'s institutional capacity.
2.21   An organization restructuring study for MR (M) has already been completed. The study has
recommended moving away from the traditional structures based on functional departments and almost
delinked from the nature and magnitude of business and adopting, instead, a flat, less expensive, and
functionally more efficient structure which will emphasize accountability, flexibility, and quick
adaptability to changing environment. The study has also recommended the actual steps to introduce the
new structure, which will be completed by March 31, 1995.
2.22   Effective Marketing. Improving operating reliability and efficiency alone would not be sufficient
to ensure an increase in the Nacala rail route's share of overseas traffic. An effective marketing strategy
would need to be adopted jointly by MR (M) and CFM (N) and will, inter alia, need to include: (i)
setting up systems for frequent and regular client consultation; (ii) setting up a system of keeping clients
informed about their shipments by installing a wagon tracking system and extending the terminals to
important clients; (iii) a continuing dialogue with the shippers, freight forwarders, and overseas
exporters/importers; and (iv) establishing a data bank on the international traffic. The component provides
for short-term technical assistance to improve the marketing capacity of MR (M).
2.23   Privatization of MR (M). A privatization study, to be managed by MR (M), is planned to
establish the process of privatization.  The privatization study will start with the assumption that
privatization of MR (M) is both feasible and desirable. The study will establish options for privatization -
buy out of stock/shares, leasing of stand-alone units, facilities, or business, a concession, or performance-
based contract by a private operator - and, in discussion with GOM and after discussing with interested
parties, zero-in on one option. This should take a maximum of 2-3 months. The remaining part of the
study will concentrate on defining the process of implementing the selected option: (i) preparing the



- 17 -
bidding documents including valuation of assets, operations, and facilities to be considered for
privatization, and setting up the main terms of privatization; (ii) developing a system of bid evaluation
and choice of operator; and (iii) recommending a system of managing the remaining assets and operations.
GOM provided assurances at negotiations that it will privatize MR (M) in accordance with the
recommendations of the privatization study (5.3 (h)). Initiating the process of privatizing MR (M) (issue
of bidding documents) will be one of the conditions of disbursement of specific items indicated in Table
3.2 (para 5.2 (iv)).
2.24   The whole process of privatizing MR (M) is likely to take three years, the key activity completion
dates being approximately as follows: (i) finalization of the terms of reference by March 1995; (ii)
commencement of the study by July 1995; (iii) finalization of the mode of privatization and preparation
of the bidding documents by February 1996; (iv) issue of the bidding documents by March 1996; (v)
selection of the private operator by March 1997; and (vi) taking over the management of MR (M) by the
selected operator by December 1997. Considerable private sector interest in MR (M) is expected to be
generated by the more agile and efficient, commercially oriented entity that MR (M) is anticipated to
become under the initial phase of RRP and with high potential for increasing the level of business.
Moreover, with MR (M) already incorporated under the Companies Act of Malawi, implementation of
a privatization plan would be greatly facilitated.
2.25   Efficiency and Reliability of Operations on the Mozambique Side of the Nacala Rail Route.
While improving operating efficiency of CFM (N) is not a direct objective of RRP, the same is,
nonetheless, crucial for the efficient functioning of the Nacala rail route.  The Government of
Mozambique is currently in discussion with a number of donor agencies for financing an appropriate
project for revitalizing CFM (N). Such a project should and, in all probability would, aim at improving
the reliability and efficiency of operations on CFM (N) and making CFM (N) a commercially viable
entity. While awaiting the outcome of these discussions, a number of actions have been proposed under
the Project to enable CFM (N) to upgrade its information and contol systems. These actions would
include: (i) studies for revaluation of fixed assets, and upgrading of cost accounting, financial, audit
systems under the Bank-financed Beira Transport Corridor Project (Cr. 2065-MOZ); and (ii) installation
of a wagon tracking and rolling stock management system on CFM (N) under USAID's regional railways
restructuring program. Additionally, MR and CFM have signed an Operations Agreement (OA) requiring
each to deliver certain minimum performance targets of operating efficiency and quality of service and
also set up JRB to facilitate regular review of operations on the Nacala rail route.
2.26   The new comprehensive Operations Agreement replaces all existing agreements between MR and
CFM and between the Governments of Mozambique and Malawi, signed or unsigned with a view to: (i)
avoid the persisting lack of clarity regarding the current applicability of the agreements; and (ii) to reflect
changes in operating conditions and operations since the signing of the last substantive agreement in 1984.
The new Operations Agreement provides for: (i) the minimum targets of performance to be achieved by
both MR, later MR (M), and CFM (N); (ii) frequency, level, and mode of review of operations; (iii)
penalties on failure to achieve specified targets; (iv) modalities for tariff restructuring; (v) the mechanism
for collecting revenue; (vi) running of contracted or sponsored trains with agreements for haulage charges;
(vii) through-running of trains with agreements for trackage charges, crew change, locomotive and train
examination, insurance of crew while operating outside their country and other relevant contingencies;
(viii) using each other's facilities such as training centers, computers, breakdown cranes, and special track
equipment; (ix) adopting a common strategy and using common resources for marketing, procurement,
and technical assistance etc; and (x) using common contractors and hired equipment to the extent possible.
GOM provided assurances at negotiations that the Operations Agreement will be properly implemented
(para 5.3 (f)).



- 18 -
2.27   The main function of the JRB  would be to:  (i) review  recurring problems with the
implementation of the Operations Agreement; (ii) facilitate sharing of each other's facilities and expertise
by MR (M) and CFM (N); (iii) suggest modifications in the Operations Agreement; and (iv) recommend
major strategic changes for improving performance. It would be necessary for JRB to have adequate
representation from major customers, freight forwarders, and private sector representatives. GOM
provided assurances at negotiations that it will set up an appropriate Joint Review Board within six
months of RRP becoming effective (para 5.3 (g)).
2.28   Involvement of Private Sector in Core Activities of CFM  (N). CFM (N) has plans to lease
certain port terminals and maintenance facilities on the railways. The proposals are expected to be
implemented after (i) the Government of Mozambique has implemented its corporatization plan as a result
of which CFM (N) will become an autonomous entity; and (ii) the donor-financed phase 1 of restructuring
project for CFM (N) has been completed. CFM (N) will also benefit from the privatization experience
of the Maputo rail route and port facilities as part of the IDA-financed Maputo Corridor Revitalization
Project (Cr. 2454-MOZ), currently under implementation.
Component Inputs
2.29   The project supports this component through: (i) track rehabilitation works and services and
repairs to key mechanical equipment; (ii) procurement of new test and maintenance equipment and spare
parts; and (iii) consultancies for development of institutional capacity. The cost of this component of the
project is estimated to be around US$18.0 million, about 63% of the total project cost. These inputs are
discussed in the following paragraphs.
2.30   Civil/Mechanical Works and Contract Services. These are aimed at improving the reliability
of the infrastructure  and productivity of equipment.  The input for improving the reliability of
infrastructure comprises: (i) rehabilitation of 44 kms of the track out of a total of 478 km of the core
railway, i.e., the portion of the track expected to be intensively used; (ii) bridge strengthening; (iii)
rehabilitation of points and crossings; (iv) hiring of tamping machine; (v) rehabilitation of concrete sleeper
plant; and (vi) rehabilitation of wheel lathe.
2.31   New Equipment and Spare Parts. These are aimed at improving the reliability and efficiency
of operations, locomotives, and rolling stock and comprise procurement of (i) gang and inspection
trolleys; (ii) hand-held tampers; (iii) test equipment; (iv) roller bearings for converting 100 plain-bearings
wagons; (v) service motor vehicles; (vi) safety-related equipment; (vii) spare parts for building the
inventory; (vii) equipment for rehabilitating and upgrading the Limbe PABX; (viii) micro link on Nkaya-
Nayuci section; (viii) telecommunication test equipment; and (ix) materials and components for
manufacturing 17,000 concrete sleepers.
2.32   Consultancies for Institutional Development. MR (M), as a new company, faces a challenging
task of capturing the maximum possible share of the overseas freight traffic in a relatively short period
of time. Additionally, the staff transferred to MR (M) would be shouldering new and extended job
responsibilities.  Short-term  consultancies are provided to accelerate the process of institutional
development. These consultancies include the following:
(a)    short-term technical assistance (TA) would comprise provision of four experts to MR
(M): (i) a trade and transit facilitation expert in implementing systems for transit
facilitation at the border, implementing the performance agreements between MR (M) and
CFM (N), and setting procedures and the style of functioning of a Joint Review Board
or similar entity; (ii) a general management expert to upgrade management, operating



- 19 -
and maintenance systems; (iii) a financial management expert to upgrade financial and
other support systems; and (iv) a marketing specialist to intensify marketing effort and
client consultation. These experts would be engaged for a period of one year divided into
two or three periods spread over the project. Additionally, some short-term TA, one to
two months each, may also be engaged to assist MR (M) in addressing some specific
issues identified during project implementation;
(b)    the privatization study is aimed at identifying the privatization option and preparing the
bidding documents for the selected option (also see para 2.22 and 2.23);
(c)    other consultancy studies are aimed at assisting MR (M) in conducting a series of
investigations into the most pressing problems of efficiency and reliability faced by MR
(M) and CFM (N). Not all the studies under this component have been identified so far
but would be identified after MR (M)'s restructuring gets underway. The studies already
identified include: (i) a training needs analysis study; (ii) a system reliability study to
identify the main constraints to achieving reliability on the rail route5/; (iii) a tariff
restructuring study; (iv) a study for rewriting the railway operating rule book; and (v) a
survey of customer needs and preferences, adequacy of facilities at the customers'
premises, and the adequacy of operating arrangements for handling the traffic offered by
the customers The studies will be short, focused and will build upon all previous studies
and previous experiences. This sub-component also involves setting up of: (i) a wagon
and consignment tracking system with terminals at major loading and unloading points
on MR (M), the control center of MR (M) and CFM (N), and the port of Nacala6/; (ii)
Personal Computer (PC)-based management information systems in MR  (M)'s key
departments and activity centers along with standard and railway-specific software to
improve departmental capability for analysis, and performance monitoring and
optimization; and (iii) computer-based training programs in key locations such as
workshops to support the quality management program;
(d)    investment advisory services would be required in the second phase of the project, i.e.,
after March 31, 1996 onwards to assist MR (M) in issuing the bidding documents for
privatization of MR (M), evaluating the proposals, negotiating with the successful bidder,
preparing the lease, concession, or equity participation agreements, and in getting the
private group commence operations; and
(e)    staff training will follow the completion of the detailed training needs analysis. After
almost 15 years of low-key activity, MR (M) now faces a complex task of: (i) improving
efficiency and reliability of performance necessary to remain in business; and (ii) coping
with gradually increasing traffic with comparatively less staff and equipment. A wide
variety of skills need to be upgraded to enable the staff to complete these tasks efficiently;
large numbers of staff in almost all disciplines need to be trained. Training consultants
will be engaged to assist MR (M) in defining effective training methodologies, in many
cases combining system redesign and training to operate under revised systems. More
use will be made of PC-based training. This sub-component will include: (i) consultant-
managed special training programs to improve staff skills in market analysis and research,
5/     Though financed under this project, the study will cover the entire rail route.
6/     Additional facilities on CFM (N) will be financed by CFM (N) if required by the Operations Agreement.



- 20 -
tariff restructuring, marginal pricing, simplifying and streamlining commercial
procedures, grade structuring, work study, work load analysis, capacity analysis, setting
standards, accident analysis, waste disposal analysis etc.; (ii) consultant-managed hands-
on training programs to improve operating and maintenance skills of staff in workshops,
offices, stations and yards, in field, and other workstations; (iii) management and
supervisory development training programs to be arranged in specialized institutions; and
(iv) refresher training programs to be arranged in the railway institutions but with revised
syllabus and training methodology.
The Lake Services component
Component Objectives
2.33   The main component objectives are: (i) commercialization of its operations enabling MLS to
capture 40,000 tonnes of freight traffic and achieve a working ratio of 80% before the end of the Project;
and (ii) eventual privatization of MLS's core activities enabling MLS to further increase its share of
freight traffic to 70,000 tonnes and improve its working ratio to 60% by FY1999/2000.
Component Description
2.34   Restructuring. Consequent to MR's restructuring, MLS would become a separate company with
its own management and a Board of Directors. Also, only the minimum staff and assets required for
efficient freight and passenger operations would be transferred to MLS and the remaining staff and assets
would be deemed as surplus and retained in MR for retrenchment and disposal respectively. The process
of restructuring by itself should lead to increased efficiency and productivity and consequently to increased
profitability.
2.35   Commercialization. However, even after becoming an autonomous company, MLS would need
further restructuring and rationalization of staff. MLS comprises two business activities, viz., freight and
passenger shipping service, and vessel maintenance. It is intended that, after being registered as a
separate company, MLS's business activities would be split into three separate result centers, viz., freight
services, passenger services, and vessel maintenance and different decisions would be taken as appropriate
for commercialization and privatization of these activities. To link the operation of the different ports
(currently under the Marine Department of MOTCA) to the shipping activities, the port operations would
be transferred to a concessionaire, if necessary, via MLS. To ensure that all the business activities of
MLS are run on commercial lines, it would be necessary for MLS to: (i) increase efficiency and
reliability of operations on MLS; (ii) discontinue uneconomic operations and activities; (iii) intensify
marketing effort and client consultation; and (iv) have special freight transport arrangements with MR
(M), road hauliers, freight forwarders and the main customers.
2.36   Performance Agreement.  To ensure that MLS performs effectively, GOM  would sign a
Performance Agreement with MLS, which, while reflecting GOM's and MLS's commitment to the
commercial viability objective, would specify the obligations and responsibilities of both GOM and MLS.
More specifically, the Performance Agreement would, inter alia, include agreements regarding: (i)
MLS's authority to plan its level and pattern of services and manage its operations; (ii) sale and
acquisition of assets including land; (iii) financial and operating performance targets; (iv) project
implementation targets; (v) targets for implementation of the Environmental Mitigation Plan; (vi)
compensation by GOM to MLS for services provided by MLS at the direction of GOM which are not
commercially justified such as passenger services; (vii) reporting arrangements; (viii) appointment of key
personnel; and (ix) resolution of disputes. GOM provided assurances at negotiations that it will conclude
a Performance Agreement with MLS within six months of the RRP becoming effective (para 5.3 (d)).



- 21 -
2.37   Privatization. The privatization plan would follow the lines of MR (M). However, privatization
of MLS may be done by activity or service as per the recommendations of the privatization study to be
undertaken under the Infrastructure I Project (C20690-MW) and for which the terms of reference are
ready and the letters of invitation to the short-listed consultants are being issued. GOM provided
assurances at negotiations that it will privatize MLS in accordance with the recommendations of the
privatization study (para 5.3 (h)). Initiating the process of privatizing MLS (issue of bidding documents)
will also be a condition of disbursement of specific items as indicated in Table 3.2 (para 5.2 (iv)).
Component Inputs
2.38   To enable MLS to achieve the main objectives, the component would provide support to MLS in
the form of equipment and consultancies for institutional development. The cost of this component is
estimated to be around US$1.23 million, about 4% of the total project cost. The equipment comprises
computers, safety and environment-related equipment, and some test equipment. Consultancies for
institutional development would comprise: (i) provision of a short-term specialist in corporate and
organizational restructuring, business restructuring, and capital assets restructuring; (ii) short-term
consultancy studies relating to restructuring and privatization or involvement of private sector in the core
activities of MLS; and (iii) staff training.
Transport Policy Component
Component Objectives
2.39   The main component objectives are: (i) developing a transport policy that would provide a
framework for efficient operations with particular emphasis on restructuring and privatization of
parastatals; and (ii) enhancing institutional capacity for analyzing the performance of the transport sector
and providing adequate response.
Component Description
2.40   Even though GOM's transport sector policy has in general avoided economic regulation and
encouraged inter- and intra-modal competition, three shortcoming are apparent: (i) the policy decisions
taken in the past are not adequately publicized and are amenable to different interpretations by transport
operators, customers, overseas exporters, and donor agencies; (ii) the enforcement of policies or their
correct interpretation is not ensured due to inadequate enforcement capability resulting in failure of these
policies to achieve their intended objective; and (iii) the policies in some cases continue to be restrictive
or protective. A comprehensive statement of transport policy has been provided by GOM in their Letter
of Transport Sector Policy (Annex 1.2). GOM provided assurances at negotiations that it will implement
the project and policy reforms according to the Letter of Transport Sector Policy (Annex 1.2) and the
project implementation plan (Annex 3.1) agreed with the Bank (para 5.3 (i)).
2.41   The commercialization of both MR (M) and MLS will shift MOTCA's role from management and
economic regulation to policy review and analysis, planning, and monitoring of activities in the transport
sector. Policy issues might include the setting of user charges, review of public service obligation
payments, evaluating the economic impacts of new transport taxes, determining the demand for, and
capacity of, the domestic freight industry, etc.  With increasing focus on efficiency, safety, and
commercial viability of transport operators, MOTCA will need to strengthen its capacity to adequately
perform  the above mentioned functions.  This component would therefore provide support for
strengthening the capacity of MOTCA.



- 22 -
Component Inputs
2.42    The main component inputs under the Project would include:  (a) collaboration with leading
international transport institutions and universities to facilitate staff exchanges, staff training, development
of appropriate software for analysis, holding of seminars, and provision of short-term consultancy services
for analysis of specific problems; (b) computer hardware and software; and (c) office equipment. The
projected cost of the component inclusive of contingencies is US$1.25 million, about 4% of the total
project cost.
F.      Project Cost
2.43    The total cost of the project, inclusive of physical and price contingencies but exclusive of local
import duties and taxes, is estimated to be MK 464.0 million or US$29.0 million, with a foreign exchange
component of US$18.7 million. The total project cost includes: (a) physical contingencies of 15% of
base cost on all items; and (b) price contingencies amounting to about 2.4% of base costs including
physical contingencies.   The price contingencies are based  on international inflation  rates and  an
implementation period of 3 years starting July 1995. Detailed project cost is given in Annex 2.1 and the
project cost summary in Table 2.1. The total import duty and taxes, excluded from the project costs, are
estimated to be about US$1.3 million.
Table 2.1: Project Cost Summary
(MK Million)                 (US$ Million)             -
-----------------  %     Total
Local-  -Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign    Total     Foreign      Base
Exchange     Cost
Restructuring of MR                       86.56     27.68   114.24     5.41       1.73      7.14          24       29
Revitalization of Nacala Corridor         53.71    192.69   246.40     3.36      12.04     15.40          78       63
Commercialization & Privatization of LS    1.66     14.98    16.64     0.10      0.94       1.04          90         4
Policy Formulation                         1.68     15.12    16.80     0.11       0.95      1.05          90        4
Total Baseline Costs                     143.62    250.46   394.08     8.98      15.65     24.63          64       100
Physical Contingencies                    21.54     37.57    59.11      1.35      2.35      3.69          64        15
Price Contingencies                         0.0     10.86    10.86      0.0      0.68       0.68         100        3
Total Project Cost                       165.16    298.90   464.05    10.32      18.68     29.00          64       118
Project Cost by Years
2.44       The year-wise project cost details are given in Annex 2.2 and a summary  in Table 2.2.
Disbursement during the three years of RRP is projected to be 55%, 35%, and 10% respectively.
Table 2.2: Project Cost by Years (June-July) (US$ Million)
I=Base Costs                                    Including Contingency
Component                          1995       1996        1997     Total       1995      1996      1997      Total
/1996     /1997      /1998                /1996      /1997    /1998
Restructuring of MR                 5.94       1.03       0.17      7.14       6.85      1.21      0.21      8.27
Revitalization of Nacala Rail Route  6.69     6.60        2.11      15.4       7.80      7.87      2.58     18.25
Commercialization & Privatization   0.52      0.48        0.04      1.04       0.61      0.57      0.05      1.23
of LS
Policy Formulation                  0.51      0.37        0.17      1.05       0.60      0.44      0.21      1.25
Total                              13.66      8.48        2.49    24.63       15.94     10.09      3.04     29.00



- 23 -
G.       Project Financing
2.45     The total project cost of US$29.0 million would be financed by IDA (56%), USAID (41 %) and
GOM (3%). USAID would reimburse 100% of the expenditure on its components, while IDA would
reimburse 95% of the total cost of its components. GOM's share would amount to 5% of all items
financed by IDA. GOM's contribution to the project financing has been kept low for the following
reasons: (a) GOM's poverty alleviation program would leave it with a severe domestic resource
constraint; (b) GOM would be required to spend an additional amount of US$3.0 million equivalent
outside of RRP (18% of the cost of IDA-financed components of RRP) as follows: (i) US$2.0 million as
subsidy to MR (M) and MLS for another two years, i.e., until the benefits of RRP are realized; (ii)
US$0.5 million as working capital for the new companies; and (iii) US$0.5 million for setting up the new
companies and implementing other components under the Pre-RRP Plan. The detailed financing plan is
indicated in Annex 2.3 and the summary in Table 2.3. GOM provided assurances at negotiations that
it will: (i) allocate and disburse its own share of agreed funds for the project; (ii) exempt goods imported
under the Project from import duties and other taxes: and (iii) exempt forei,en consultancy contracts from
all taxes (5.3 (1)).
Table 2.3: Project Financing Plan (US$ millions)
Component               IDA     %    USAID   %    GOM    %    Total    %          Foreign
I            I '                   Exchange
Restructuring of MR                      8.27   10                  8.27   29         25.0
Revitalization of Nacala  15.40  84      2.02   11    0.83    5    18.25   63         79.0
Rail Route                     l
l        ~      ~      ~~~~~I  I                        1
Commercialization and     0.76  61      0.44   35    0.03    4      1.23    4         90.0
Privatization of LS            l             l
Policy Formulation             l         1.25   10        I         1.25    4         90.0
. Total                  16.16  56    11.98  41    0.86    3    29.00   10            67.5
2.46     GOM would onlend to MR (M) and MLS US$15.4 and US$0.76 million respectively at an
interest rate of 7.1 % and 13-year repayment period including a grace period of 5 years, MR (M) and
MLS taking the foreign exchange risk. The execution of the subsidiary loan agreements will be a
condition of effectiveness of the IDA credit (para 5.1 (b)).



- 24 -
CHAPTER 3. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.       Implementation Arrangements
3.1      The four project components would be implemented according to the Implementation Plan
indicated in Annex 3.1 and managed as follows: (i) Restructuring component by the existing MR; (ii)
Revitalization of Nacala rail route component by MR (M); (iii) Commercialization and Privatization of
the lake services component by MLS; and (iv) the Policy formulation component by MOTCA. GOM
would designate MR, MR (M), MLS, and MOTCA as the implementing agencies for their respective
components and delegate full implementation authority to them. GOM provided assurances at negotiations
that it will not materially alter this delegation of authority without IDA's prior concurrence (para 5.3 (i)).
3.2      Though the project will be implemented as one project, two phases of the project are quite
clear. Milestones to be achieved during the first phase of about 18 months duration are: (i) retrenchment
of surplus staff from MR; (ii) closure of MR; (iii) preparation of bidding documents for privatization of
MR (M) and MLS; and (iv) issue of revised transport policy document. Milestones to be achieved during
the second phase also of 18 months duration are: (i) privatization of MR (M); and (ii) involvement of
the private sector in core activities of MLS.
3.3      The IDA Credit is expected to become effective by June 1995. The milestones under the first
phase of the Project are scheduled to be completed by December 1996 and the whole RRP by June 30,
1998. The length of the implementation period has been kept at 3 years, commencing July 1995. Even
though the implementation of railway projects in the past has taken much more time, the period of
implementation of RRP is expected to be less because the total outlay of the project is comparatively
small, adequate expertise is available within the implementing agencies, the implementing agencies have
had the advantage of technical assistance provided by ODA over a number of years, adequate
arrangements for consultancies for project implementation and institutional development have been
provided where considered necessary, and a Pre-RRP Plan (see para 3. 11) is already under
implementation. The project's closing date would be December 31, 1998. GOM would hold a Project
Launch Workshop during May/June 1995.
3.4      Systematic Beneficiary Assessments and local involvement will be built into the project so as
to maximize benefits under constraints. Regular feedback will be obtained from freight forwarding
agencies, importers, and exporters with regard to tariffs, availability of wagons, loading and unloading
facilities, transit time, damage and pilferage, process and time taken for settling claims. The frequent
client-consultations are scheduled to be a part of the more comprehensive marketing strategy to be adopted
by MR (M) and MLS. MR (M) and CFM (N) will also set up under the project a wagon and
consignment tracking system to keep customers better informed. Local involvement will be increased,
first, by nominating representatives of clients on the JRB, and, second, by installing, on a cost-sharing
basis, computer terminals in the premises of the main customers, these terminals being linked to the
wagon and consignment tracking system.
3.5      GOM provided assurances at negotiations that it shall, by June each year. carry out with IDA
and other participating donors annual Project implementation reviews, including the first review in June
1996. GOM further provided assurances at negotiations that it will submit to IDA. not later than four
weeks prior to the review, for its review and comments, a report including an evaluation of progress
achieved in proiect implementation, and to carry out the recommendations of these reviews as agreed with
IDA (para 5.3 (k)).



- 25 -
3.6      The annual review will cover, inter alia, the following: (i) improvements in the policy, legal
and regulatory framework for the transport sector; (ii) scope and effectiveness of institutional capacity
building programs, in particular, the utilization of technical assistance financed under the project; (iii)
performance achieved during the year under review with respect to the key indicators of success (Annex
4.4), principally, Return on Capital Employed (ROCE) and shift of overseas traffic to the Nacala rail
route for MR (M), and the working ratio and the increase in freight and passenger traffic for MLS; (iv)
operation of the Special Account; and (v) overall implementation of the Letter of Transport Sector Policy.
3.7      The reviews will also:  (a) examine the adequacy of budgetary allocations for:  (i)
compensating MR (M) and MLS according to the provisions of the PAs between GOM and MR (M)/
MLS; and (ii) local counterpart funds for implementing the project; (b) identify implementation issues and
propose appropriate solutions; (c) update project timetables, the implementation program and performance
indicators; and (d) confirm and agree with IDA on (i) a detailed action program of works to be carried
out for the next year; and (ii) a long-term capacity building program based on the results of a detailed
review of all institution building initiatives.
B.       Role of Technical Assistance in Implementation
3.8      A limited amount of long-term TA - General Manager, Financial Controller, and Marketing
Specialist - is currently available to MR through the ODA-financed program and is proposed to be
continued by ODA until March 31, 1995. In addition, a series of short-term consultancy studies have
been financed by USAID to assist GOM in implementing the Pre-RRP Plan discussed in para 3.11.
3.9      Seven experts are proposed to be provided for a period of one year each, one for transit
facilitation on the Nacala corridor, one to assist MOTCA in implementing the revised transport policy,
one to assist MLS in refining and implementing the restructuring plan, three exclusively to assist MR (M)
in general management, financial management, and marketing, and one to assist both MR and MLS in
staff rationalization and retrenchment. Even though a provision of one year has been made for each of
the specified TA experts, TA will actually be utilized in two or three phases - the first phase of between
4-6 months in the first year of the project, 2-3 months in the second year, and the remaining time, if
necessary, in the third year. The main objective is to increase the institutional capability of MR (M) and
MLS to implement the revitalization and restructuring plans. For this, the short, specific, and target-
oriented TA design is likely to be more effective. The total amount of TA-financed under the RRP is 123
manmonths at an estimated cost of US$2.95 million, distributed as follows (manmonths and cost): (a)
project implementation - 44 manmonths and US$0.97 million; (b) Institutional development - 57
manmonths and US$1.33 million; and (c) Policy support - 28 manmonths and US$0.65 million.
C.       Status of Project Preparation
3.10     Implementation of GOM's Limited Restructuring Plan for MR (preceding RRP and Pre-RRP
Plan), based on the Bank's Transport Sector Review of 1992 and studies financed by ODA and USAID
is progressing well. 1,200 staff have been retrenched, passenger services have been substantially reduced,
the Lilongwe-Mchinji and Limbe-Southern Border sections have been relegated to a siding status, many
uneconomic stations have been closed, international trains are being operated as block trains, and LS has
been separated from MR in terms of financial reporting and management.
3.11     A short-term Pre-RRP Plan is currently under implementation and is scheduled to be completed
by June 1995. The implementation of this plan will set the stage for a speedy implementation of RRP.



- 26 -
The Pre-RRP Plan includes the following: (a) incorporating MR (M) and MLS respectively under the
Companies Act of Malawi valuation and transfer of assets to new companies, transfer of the rights and
obligations in dealing with outside parties, and financial structuring; (b) designing an appropriate
organization and staffing structure for the new companies with revised grading structure, remuneration
packages, and job specifications; (c) identifying staff to be transferred to MR (M) and MLS and allocating
grades to newly transferred staff; (d) issuing a Letter of Transport Sector Policy; (e) finalizing a
comprehensive Operations Agreement between MR and CFM (N); (f) preparing a draft comprehensive
Performance Agreement between GOM and the newly created companies; (g) finalizing retrenchment
packages; and (h) liquidating urgent liabilities. Evidence of having substantially implemented the Pre-
RRP Plan will be a condition of effectiveness. The Pre-RRP Plan would be deemed to substantially
implemented if: (i) at least 250 appointment letters have been issued by MR (M); (ii) the process of
valuing the assets to be transferred by MR to MR (M) and MLS has been completed, and (iii) the study
on restructuring and privatization of MLS has been completed (5.1 (a)).
3.12     The following actions have been completed in part fulfillment of the conditions of Board
presentation: (i) finalization of Letter of Transport Sector Policy; (ii) incorporation of MR (M) and MLS;
(iii) signing of the comprehensive OA between MR and CFM (N); (iv) finalization of the organization
structure of MR (M) including staffing concepts and remuneration packages; and (v) finalization of the
staff retrenchment and rationalization package including supplementaries. The following documents are
at an advanced stage of preparation: (i) draft PAs between GOM and MR (M) and between GOM and
MLS; and (ii) terms of reference (TOR) for various studies to be undertaken during the first year of RRP
including a commercialization and privatization study for MR (M) and MLS.
D.       Procurement
3.13     Procurement arrangements, summarized in Table 3.1, would be as follows:
(a)  Procurement is proposed to be done in two phases, the first phase corresponding to the
projected expenditure in the first year of the Project and the second for the rest (Annex
2.2 and Table 3.2). Procurement under the second phase would be subject to fulfillment
of conditions indicated in para 3.17. Procurement packages will be prepared accordingly.
(b)  Procurement of all civil and mechanical works will be carried out under International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures except that: (i) the only civil works contracts
costing less than US$0.5 million may be procured under Local Competitive Bidding
(LCB) procedures; (ii) mechanical works contracts pertaining to rehabilitation of
equipment - repair to concrete sleeper plant (total estimated value - US$0.05 million) and
rehabilitation of wheel lathe (total estimated value - US$0.60 million)- may be procured
on a direct contracting basis as the possibility of getting spare parts from other than the
original manufacturers is remote; and (iii) works pertaining to power supply to quarry
(total estimated value - US$0.05 million) may be procured under international shopping
procedures. As the value of every civil and mechanical works contract is estimated to
be less than US$2.0 million, no pre-qualification would be required.
(c)  Equipment and spare parts with an aggregated value of US$7.66 million would be
procured using ICB procedures. Equipment and spare parts with an aggregate value of
about US$1.00 million may be procured using international shopping, or Inter-Agency
Procurement Service Organization (IAPSO) procedures, value of each individual contract



- 27 -
being restricted to no more than US$100,000. IAPSO procedures would be used only for
service vehicles and computers.
(d)  Consultants for technical and managerial services and studies would be appointed in
accordance with the "Guidelines for use of consultants by World Bank Borrowers" and
for consultants being financed by USAID would be appointed in accordance with USAID
rules for International Competitive Bidding and in consultation with the World Bank.
(e)   Contracts for consultants (firms) and consultants (individuals) above US$50,000, goods
above US$100,000, and civil and mechanical works above US$200,000 will be subject
to prior review by IDA. This represents about 95% of all IDA financing. All terms of
reference and sole source contracts for consultants will be subject to prior review. Bank
Standard Bidding Documents for all ICB procurement and Consultants Standard Form of
Contract for complex consultant assignments, wherever applicable, would be used. The
goods packages to be financed by USAID will be prepared according to USAID's
practices or guidelines.
Table 3.1: Procurement Arrangements (US$ Million)
PROCUREMENT METHOD
t   -- -------_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ -- - -- - -- - - -- - -- - -
International      Local                       N B F     TOTAL
Competitive      Competitive
Bidding          Bidding         Others
A. Works
1 Civil Works (Track & Bridge Rehab)    2 76              0 43                                   319
(2 64)           (0 39)                                 (3 03)
2 Mechanical (Repair to Equipment)      1 77                              0 70ab                 2 47
(I 70)                           (0 64)                 (2 34)
B. Goods
1 Equipment                             6 22                              0 63b       0 85      7 70
(5 91)                           (0 60)                 (6 51)
2 Spare Parts                           1 44                              0 42b                  1 86
(11 36)                          (0 40)                 (1 76)
C. Service Contracls                        1 30                                                    1 30
(1 23)                                                  (1 23)
D. Consultancies
1  Project Implementation                                                             1 18       1 18
2 Institutional Development                                               1 36        1 90       3 26
(1 29)                (1 29)
3 Policy Support                                                                      0 96       0 96
E. Restructuring Support                                                                 710        710
13 49            0 43            3 11        11 98     2900
TOTAL                                      (12 84)          (0 39)           (2 93)               (16 16)
a Direct Contracting
b International Shopping, APSO
3.14      MR's capacity for procurement has been considerably undermined in the past few years for two
main reasons: (i) constrained by availability of funds, MR had been resorting to crisis procurement: and
(ii) the procurement process for donor-financed spare parts and equipment has been primarily managed
by the donor agencies themselves. Reinstituting procurement and supply systems is one of the more
difficult tasks facing MR. The process is made more difficult by MR having to comply with different
and more demanding procurement procedures of the World Bank and the donor agencies supporting the
project. Two actions have already been initiated to develop MR's capacity to handle procurement on a



- 28 -
systematic basis. First, a short-term consultant worked with MR staff and established the current status
of institutional capability, identified major constraints to efficient procurement, and developed preliminary
recommendations for improvement. Second, a Bank Procurement Specialist offered a two-day seminar
to senior MR staff covering procurement processes in general and the Bank guidelines and procedures in
particular. More such seminars would be offered in future. The Bank's standard bidding documents were
also left with MR. The main actions proposed in RRP to improve the Railways' and the Lake Services'
capacity with regard to procurement include: (i) creating a small and cohesive supplies department in MR
(M) as well as MLS; (ii) writing new job specifications for all positions to be created in MR (M) and
MLS: (iii) filling the positions only with competent people; and (iv) providing MR (M) and MLS with
short-term technical assistance.
3.15      GOM  provided assurances at negotiations that it will carry out all procurement for the Proiect
(i) using standard bidding and contract documents agreed at negotiations with IDA and (ii) according to
the procurement arrangements set out in paras 3.13 to 3.14 (para 5.3 (p).
E.        Disbursement
3.16      Disbursement arrangements are summarized below in Table 3.2:
Table 3.2: Allocation and Disbursement of IDA Credit (US$ Million)
Amount to be disbursed    Amount to be         % of Total
Total IDA     before the first annual    disbursed after the first   Expenditure to be
Category               Amount             review             Annual review         financed
1. Civil Works & Services             3.36                    1.16                 2.20                95
2. Mechanical Works                   2.06                    0.42                  1.64                95
3. Equipment
(a) Railways                       5.11                   2.79                 2.32                 95
(b) Lake Services                  0.67                   0.27                 0.40                 95
4. Spare Parts inventory              1.57                    0.72                 0.85                 95
5. Institutional development
Support
(a) Consultancy                   0.72                   0.31                  0.41                95
Studies
(b) Training                      0.42                   0.17                  0.25                95
Total Base Cost                       13.90                   5.84                 8.07                95
Unallocated                           2.26
Total Project Cost                   16.16
3.17      Disbursement of funds allocated for 1996/97 and 1997/98, about US$8.07 million would be
contingent upon evidence of satisfactory progress at the time of mid-project review regarding completion
of the milestones indicated in Annex 3.1. achievement of key performance targets indicated in Annex 4.4,
presentation of modified railway-related legislation to the Parliament, if required, and initiation of the
process of the privatizing MR (M) and MLS, i.e.. issue of bidding documents (para 5.2).



- 29 -
3.18    Disbursement of expenditure for consultants (individual), consultants (firms) and goods, and
works costing less than US$50,000, US$100,000 and US$200,000 respectively would be made against
statements of expenditures (SOE). Other disbursements will be made against standard documentation.
To facilitate disbursements, two Special Accounts, one for MR (M) and another for MLS, will be
established in a commercial Bank acceptable to IDA, with authorized allocations set at US$500,000 and
US$100,000 respectively Payment of initial advances would be tranched, with partial deposits of
US$250,000 and US$50,000 made after credit effectiveness and the remainder of the allocations to be paid
when the level of disbursements justifies the full advance. Replenishment applications will be submitted
at monthly intervals. GOM provided assurances at negotiations that it will delegate full authority for the
management of the Special Accounts to MR (M) and MLS and will annually review the efficiency of the
special account procedures with IDA and make amendments as agreed between IDA and GOM (para 5.3
(m)). The minimum size of direct payment and special commitment applications would be set at
US$50,000 for MR (M) and MLS.
F.      Auditing and Accounting
3.19    MR, MR (M), and MLS will manage all accounting records and will prepare supporting
documentation and statement of expenses (SOEs). Annual audits will be carried out by auditors acceptable
to IDA on the project accounts, including the Special Account and SOEs and the audited accounts together
with a management letter (including observations and recommendations regarding possible improvements
in financial management practices, and controls) will be forwarded to IDA and the other donor agencies
within six months of the close of the fiscal year. MR, MR (M), and MLS will also use the same auditor
to audit all the donor accounts at one time, hence saving resources and time.
G.      Monitoring and Reporting
3.20    All implementing agencies will prepare brief quarterly reports indicating quarterly and
accumulated physical, financial, institutional, restructuring, and training progress against agreed targets.
These reports will summarize the status of each component and the degree of compliance with covenants
and agreements, highlighting problems and offering recommendations for solving them. The reports will
be prepared in a format agreed with IDA and other donor agencies at negotiations and will be distributed
to the Bank and concerned donor agencies within ten days of the end of each quarter. Within six months
of the closing of the credit, all the implementing agencies will prepare a report on the implementation of
the project.
3.21     GOM provided assurances at negotiations that it will require the implementing agencies adopt
proiect reporting, auditing and monitoring procedures acceptable to IDA, including the timely preparation
and submission of guarterly and annual financial reports, and of external audits within six months from
the end of each fiscal year (paras 5.3 (n) and 5.3 (o)).
H.      Supervision
3.22    The project supervision will comprise on an average two 3-week missions of 3 persons each and
12 staff weeks in headquarters each year throughout the project life. Each mission will include a Railway
or Port Engineer and an Economist or Financial Analyst and, for specific review, specialists in the areas
of institution and human resource development, environment, legal, and procurement. The supervision
missions will typically be joint missions of the Bank and the donor agencies. The skill mix of the
missions would be optimized in discussion with the donor agencies before planning of each mission. The
supervision plan is given in Annex 3.2



- 30 -
CHAPTER 4. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.        Scenarios
4. 1      Projections of the overseas freight traffic, financial benefits, and economic rates of return (ERR)
under RRP have been made under two scenarios: (i) the Restructuring scenario; and (ii) the Privatization
scenario. While under the Restructuring scenario, MR (M) and MLS are assumed to continue operating
as GOM-owned but restructured companies, under the Privatization scenario, both MR (M) and MLS are
assumed to be fully or substantially privatized. All projections have been made for a five year period
starting FY1995/96, the first full year of operation under RRP. As privatization of the two companies
is planned for FY 1997/98, the impact of privatization on profitability of the companies and savings to the
economy has been considered only from FY1998/99 onwards. The economic rates of return for both
the scenarios have been computed by comparing the projected benefits and costs expected under the
Restructuring and Privatization scenarios with those under the "No Project" scenario.
B.        Traffic Projections
4.2       Overseas Freight Traffic through Nacala. In each of the two scenarios indicated above as
well as the "No Project" scenario, the Beira road route is assumed to remain operational with its share
of Malawi's overseas freight traffic being maintained at about 150,000 tonnes7/. The traffic projections,
detailed in Annex 4.1, are summarized below:
(a)    Under the "No Project" scenario, the traffic is projected to remain at the current level of
100,000 tonnes per annum, even though, due to continuing concerns of reliability and operating
efficiency without the Project, the level of traffic could gradually decline.
(b)    Under the Restructuring scenario, the freight traffic is projected to gradually increase to
175,000, 240,000 and 300,000 tonnes for the first, second, and third year of the Project
respectively. The traffic is projected to remain constant at this level after FY1997/98. The
maximum level of traffic projected under this scenario represents 40% of the total overseas
traffic of 750,000 tonnes projected for FY1999/2000.
(c)    Under the Privatization scenario, traffic is projected to increase to 400,000 in the fourth year
and to 525,000 tonnes in the fifth year of RRP. This would represent 70% of the total
projected overseas traffic. Since MR (M)'s privatization is scheduled for the third year of RRP,
the overseas freight traffic on the Nacala rail route under both the Restructuring and
Privatization scenarios for the first three years has been considered to be exactly the same.
4.3       Domestic Freight Traffic on MR (M). The volume of freight carried by MR has significantly
reduced during the past 10 years, from 390,000 tonnes in 1985/86 to about 210,000 tonnes in 1993/94.
Information derived from major shippers of domestic cargo does not indicate a change in this trend. It
is thus to be expected that in the near future the volume of domestic freight traffic by MR will, remain
stable. However, once the clinker mine of Portland Cement is depleted (within the next 10 years), MR
7/ It is assumed that the overseas traffic on the Beira road route would not exceed 150,000 tonnes. Even with almost no competition from
the Nacala rail route, the current Malawian traffic on the Beira road route has averaged about 50,000 tonnes per year. The main
constraining factors are the condition of the road, congestion on the road, since part of the same road also carries traffic from
Zimbabwe, Beira port capacity particularly for general cargo, and unwillingness of many road transport operators to offer their services
due to inadequate offering of export traffic towards Beira.



- 31 -
will loose a significant part of its domestic traffic (up to 60% in volume terms). It is thus tentatively
projected that domestic freight on MR would continue to be about 210,000 tonnes until 1999/2000, and
would probably reduce to 80,000 tonnes in 2004/05.
4.4     Traffic on MLS. Significant shipments of both domestic and freight traffic could be captured
by MLS if a restructured MLS develops an aggressive marketing strategy and, at the same time, provides
reliable service. There is potential for attracting some 30,000 to 50,000 tonnes of general break bulk
cargo, including fuel, and another 10,000 to 20,000 tonnes of containerized traffic. As a result, the
freight traffic on MLS is likely to increase to 40,000 tonnes under the Restructuring Scenario and to
70,000 tonnes under the Privatization scenario. With regard to passenger services, the demand is
projected to be as high as the level of services provided. With two vessels in service, flexibility in
adjusting routes to travel demand patterns, and revised tariff structure, MLS has the potential to attract
250,000 passengers annually.
C.      Financial Benefits
4.5     Assumptions. Profit and loss projections for MR (M) have been made for the Restructuring
and the Privatization scenarios for five years starting FY1995/96, the first full year of operation under
RRP (Annex 4.2). The basic assumptions of freight and passenger traffic, tariffs, fuel consumption,
maintenance costs, staff costs, capital employed, and depreciation are as follows:
(a)  freight traffic levels have been assumed as indicated in section B above;
(b)   passenger services have been excluded from the analysis as these services are proposed to be
operated on a public service obligation basis with MR (M) and MLS being fully compensated
by GOM for any losses;
(c)   tariff for the overseas as well as domestic freight traffic for the first year of performance has
been assumed to be as currently used but has been assumed to increase by about 2 % per year
to reflect the progressively increasing quality of service;
(d)  fuel consumption has been assumed to show a sharp reduction on account of the plan to run
fully loaded block trains with a gross load of 750 tonnes in place of the current average of 335
tonnes. However, the fuel consumption has been considered as proportional to gross tonne
kilometers ignoring any reduction in fuel consumption due to improvements in the gross to net
ratio as a result of the expected increase in the average payload of the wagons from the current
level of 19 to 38 tonnes;
(e)   maintenance cost has been adjusted as follows: (i) maintenance cost has been considered as
proportional to the holding of the locomotives and the rolling stock as determined on the basis
of optimal utilization; (ii) unit cost of maintenance has been increased to 130% of the current
level to compensate for the possible deferment of maintenance due to cash shortage resulting
in apparent reduced cost of maintenance; and (iii) since detailed data on maintenance cost is not
available, the equivalent units have been used with one locomotive being considered equal to
20 units, one coach to 5 units and one wagon to 1 unit;
(f)   staff costs have been assumed to be constant for all the scenarios even though staff is likely to
be reduced after privatization;
(g)   capitol employed has been computed on the basis of depreciated replacement cost; and
(h)   depreciation has been computed on assets valued on a depreciated replacement cost basis. This
gives a significantly higher asset base value than would be estimated using a historic book value
method as is currently done.
4.6     Restructuring Scenaro. Compared to FY1994/95, the year before the start of RRP, the
financial performance indicators at the end of RRP, i.e., FY1997/98, are estimated to improve as follows:



- 32 -
(i) gross margin from about MK 0.2 million to MK 17 million; (ii) gross margin to sales ratio from 1 %
to 34%: (iii) net profit from about (-) MK 11.0 million to MK 5.4 million; (iv) operating ratio from 138%
to 89 %; (v) return on sales from about (-) 38 % to 11 %; and (vi) return on capital employed (ROCE) from
about (-) 2.9 to 1.7%. Though financial performance is projected to show a substantial improvement, MR
(M) will still not be a commercially viable entity under this scenario as ROCE is still less than 3%, the
long-term interest rate in Malawi.
4.7      Privatization Scenario. Privatization is assumed to take place in the final year of RRP, i.e.,
FY 1997/98 and full benefits of privatization would be realized only in the two years after the completion
of RRP, i.e., FY 1998/99 to FY 1999/2000. Compared to FY 1997/98, the financial performance indicators
at the end of the Privatization, i.e., in FY1999/2000, are estimated to improve as follows: (i) gross
margin from about MK 17 million to MK 41 million; (ii) gross margin to sales ratio from 34% to 55%;
(iii) net profit from about MK 5.4 million to MK 29 million; (iv) operating ratio from 89% to 61 %; (v)
return on sales from about 11 % to 39%; and (vi) return on capital employed (ROCE) from about 1.7%
to 9%. Under this scenario, MR (M) is projected to become a commercially viable entity. To ensure
that the commercial viability of MR (M) and MLS is not adversely affected, GOM provided assurances
at negotiations that it will require them to consult IDA before making any investments exceeding US$0.2
million (para 5.3 (q)).
D.      Economic Benefits
4.8      Three clear benefits to the economy are expected from the project: (i) savings in surface
transport costs because of (a) the distance to the port of Nacala being only 800 km as compared to 2400
km to the port of Durban; and (b) more intensive use of the less expensive lake mode as compared to the
road mode for traffic moving through the port of Dar Es Salaam; (ii) reduction in operating costs
consequent to restructuring of MR and commercialization of MR (M) and MLS; and (iii) capacity building
resulting from experience gained from actually commercializing two transport parastatals supported by
suitable training programs and finally privatizing them .
Savings in Surface Transport Costs
4.9     Use of Nacala Rail Route.  Savings in surface transport costs have been computed by
comparing the total surface cost of Malawi's overseas traffic under the Restructuring and Privatization
scenarios to the "No Project" scenario.  The main assumptions of investment, traffic share, and
expenditure under different scenarios are as follow:
(a)   in the "No Project" scenario, the capital investment has been assumed to be US$1.0 million
equivalent per year, almost the same as annual depreciation, while for the Restructuring and
Privatization scenarios, the proposed RRP level of investment of US$29.0 equivalent has been
assumed for the RRP duration and US$1.0 million per annum thereafter;
(b)   in the "No Project" scenario, the share of the overseas traffic for the Nacala rail and Beira road
routes has been assumed to be 100,000 and 150,000 tonnes respectively, while for the other
scenarios the corresponding shares are as per projections indicated in section B above; and
(c)   staff and other costs in the "No Project" scenario are considered to be the same as for the other
scenarios.
4.10     For computing the total transport costs on different routes, the prevailing average surface
transport costs, viz., US$68/tonne for the Nacala rail route, US$84/tonne for Beira road route, and
US$148/tonne for the Durban rail/road route have been used. Since the frequency of conference lines
calling on the ports of Nacala and Beira is currently low, many consignments particularly of containers



- 33 -
have to be sent to Durban. An additional average service cost of US$15/tonne has, therefore, been added
for all traffic moving through the ports of Nacala and Beira.
4.11    The total savings to the economy under the Restructuring scenarios as compared to "No Project"
scenario could be US$12 million per annum after full implementation of RRP, i.e., from FY1998/99
onwards and US$26 million under the privatization scenario two years after the commencement of
operations by the private operator, i.e., FY1999/2000. With the increase in the level of traffic on the
Nacala rail route and the increased frequency of conference lines calling on the port of Nacala, less
containers would be required to be sent from Nacala to Durban and the total savings to the economy could
be much higher. The transport margin on overseas traffic ( percent of transport cost to the landed cost
of imports/exports) is also projected to drop from the current 41 % to: (i) 35% under the Restructuring
scenario; and (ii) 30% under the Privatization scenario. The functioning of the Nacala rail route would
also help maintain a competitive environment with the Beira road route and help prevent unreasonably
high tariffs.
4.12    Use of Lake Services. Tariffs for overseas freight traffic from/to Dar Es Salaam moving over
Lake Malawi are expected to be lower than for the traffic utilizing the road routes. This will also lead
to less maintenance expenditure on the main road linking Lilongwe and Blantyre to the northern border.
The savings, however, are expected to be small. These savings have not been taken into account while
computing the ERR.
Savings from Restructuring.
4.13    The net surplus (after depreciation) for FY1999/2000 and onwards from MR (M)'s operations
after full implementation of RRP under the Restructuring and privatization scenarios are estimated to be
about US$0.7, and US$4.0 million per annum respectively which otherwise, i.e., under the "no objection"
scenario would be (-) US$1.5 million. The net savings to the economy as a result of RRP would,
therefore, be US$2.2 and 5.5 million respectively. Even after deducting the interest on the loan taken
for revitalizing the Nacala rail route, the net gain to the economy would be to the tune of about US$3.0
million per annum. Since most of these additional benefits would arise as a result of increased
productivity, the savings to the economy would be real. Savings are also expected from the restructuring
and eventual privatization of MLS. The working ratio (cost/income) for MLS is projected to improve
from the current level of 140% to 80% under the restructuring scenario and to 60% under the
Privatization scenario. This would make MLS a commercially viable entity and the overall savings could
be of the order of US$0.7 million per year. These savings, though insignificant, have not been taken into
account while computing ERR.
Capacity Building
4.14    The net gain in experience in turning parastatals around would be useful in bringing about
similar economic benefits in other sectors.
Economic Rate of Return
4.15    ERR (Annex 4.3) for the Restructuring Scenario is 67%; and for the Privatization Scenario is
88 %. ERRs have been computed by taking into consideration only the savings in surface transport costs
and would definitely be much higher if the benefits of restructuring were to be included as well. RRP
is an economically viable project even under the Restructuring scenario without Privatization. However,
Privatization is considered essential, first, to exploit the full potential of the Nacala rail route and, second,
to ensure sustainability of the benefits.



- 34 -
4.16    The impact on ERR of reduced traffic, higher initial traffic on the Beira road route, higher
cabotage, and reduced net benefits has been indicated in Table 4.1. It is clear that even under the most
conservative case when traffic on Nacala is limited to 75% of projections and the benefits are restricted
to 75 % of the actual, ERR of 11 % would be achieved even for the Restructuring Scenario. The minimum
overseas traffic on the Nacala rail route at the end of RRP has to be about 175,000 tonnes to provide an
ERR of 10%.
Table 4.1: Economic Rates of Return
ERR (%)
Item             Description            Restructuring   Privatization     Comments
Scenario      Scenario
1.    The Base case                          67             88       -
2.1    Traffic projections take place with
a delay of 2 years                    50             65        -
2.2    Actual overseas traffic being 75%
of the projected                      31             53        -
2.3    Both 2.1 and 2.2                      28             51        -
3.1    Beira share with No Project is                                 This assumes that
300,00 tonnes and Nacala share                                 Durban would keep
increases at the cost of Beira and                             its share in
not Durban                            15             44        preference to Beira
4.1    Actual cabotage is US$30/tonne        45             64
4.2    Actual savings are 75% of those
computed                              44             63
4.3    Both 4.1 and 4.2                      29             48
5.1    Both 2.2 and 4.2                      11             29
E.      Key Indicators of Success
4.17    Key indicators of success for the next five years have been developed for all four components
of the Project and are indicated in Annex 4.4. For the Restructuring component, key indicators are: (i)
date of incorporation of the new companies; (ii) date of transfer of assets and staff to new companies; (iii)
date of retrenchment of all surplus staff; and (iv) date of disposal of surplus assets. For the Revitalization
component, assuming that MR (M) would be substantially privatized by 1997, the key indicators are: (i)
overseas freight traffic; (ii) domestic freight traffic; (iii) operating ratio; and (iv) return on assets. For
the Commercialization of LS component, assuming that MLS would be substantially privatized by 1997,
the key indicators are: (i) freight traffic; and (ii) working ratio. For the Policy component, key
indicators are: (i) completion date for issue of new policy; and (ii) the completion date for the use of
software for policy analysis.



- 35 -
F.      Environrental Impact
4.18     The project is environmentally benign. Not only is there no addition to the rail network, the
overall size of the fleet of locomotives, rolling stock, and other assets is being reduced, and this would
result in less noise and atmospheric pollution. Issues such as disposal of lubricants, use of certain
chemicals for weed control, pollution and noise in workshops and other activity centers, and enforcement
of safety regulations, however, still need to be adequately addressed. Even though the MLS component
is a project on international waterways, the project does not involve additions or alterations by way of
rehabilitation or construction and as such does not require notification to riparians.
4.19    The Environmental Mitigation Plan (Annex 4.5) takes into account the safety- and environment-
related regulation included in Malawi's transport sector policy, the Railways Act, and other railway-
related legislation. The plan would form an integral part of the RRP and its implementation would be
included in the Performance Agreements to be signed between GOM and MR (M)/MLS and would be
periodically reviewed. A total of US$0.8 million has been provided for procurement of safety- and
environment-related equipment for the railways and the lake services to enable MR (M) and MLS to
implement the Plan. The operating costs towards implementation of the Plan would be provided by the
implementing agencies. Provision has also been made for an environment specialist to supervise this
element during regular supervision missions. Short-term consultancy assignment and short-term technical
assistance will also be provided to ensure that the plan is fully implemented. GOM provided assurances
at negotiations that it will fully implement the Environmental Mitigation Plan (para 5.3 (r)). A broader
environmental assessment of the transport sector would be undertaken under the Infrastructure II Project,
currently under preparation.
G.      Sustainability
4.20    The primary focus of RRP is on establishing the long-term sustainability of the railways and
lake services in Malawi. To do this, RRP is designed to reorient the operations of MR (M) and MLS to
their most competitive and productive areas of operations, and to restructure these two entities to
eventually operate on a fully privatized basis. The process is paced to reflect existing capacity constraints
and emphasizes phased commercialization preceding full privatization and transparency of all processes
such as selection of the private operator and staff rationalization.
4.21     The long-term sustainability of operations on the Nacala route very much depends upon an
efficiently working CFM (N) and to ensure this, RRP emphasizes: (i) setting up an institutional
mechanism (the JRB) for close coordination among the entities managing the Nacala rail route, viz., MR,
the northern railway system in Mozambique (CFM (N)), and the Port of Nacala; and (ii) signing of the
OA between MR (M) and CFM (N).
4.22    Once privatized, the sustainability of the both the Railways and the Lake Services would be
assured.  To ensure sustainability if, for some reason, the two entities are not privatized, RRP
emphasizes: (i) correct assessment of staff and assets to be transferred to these new companies; (ii) terms
and conditions sufficiently competitive to attract suitable staff; (iii) selection of qualified and experienced
personnel for key managerial positions; (iv) staff training; (v) short-term technical assistance in key areas;
and (vi) computerization of management and operating systems.
4.23     Sustainability of transport policy component is being ensured by emphasizing: (i) long-term
comprehensive capacity building through collaboration of MOTCA with a reputable transport institute;
(ii) staff training; and (iii) introduction of computer-based programs for policy analysis.



- 36 -
H.          Project Risks
4.24         The project has identified some possible threats to the success of the project and the project
design incorporates features to minimize the risk of failure from these threats. Potential risks and
proposed actions are indicated in Table 4.2:
Table 4.2: Project Risks
RISK                                                             ACTION
a.    Inability of the MR (M) or GOM to ensure that CFM  (N) or the       MR and CFM  (N) have signed an Operations Agreement for
Govemment of Mozambique simultaneously undertakes a project or    achieving defined levels of performance and for undertaking
plan for the restructuring of CFM  (N) which controls greater part of   periodic joint reviews while at the same time CFM  (N) is being
the Nacala rail route as well as the Port of Nacala.               encouraged to implement a restructuring project/plan with the
assistance of major donor agencies; the signing of such an
agreement was be a condition of Board presentation.
b.    Inability or unwillingness of MR to control the pace of restructuring    The Lake Services is being separated from the Railways and
the LS.                                                            incorporated as a separate company, and thus is responsible for its
own commercialization and privatization; incorporation of the Lake
Services as a separate company under the Companies Act was a
condition of Board Presentation.
c.    Delay by GOM to process the revision of the railway-related         Preparation of the draft revised railway-related legislation was a
legislation through the Parliament which could delay privatization of   condition of Board presentation and presentation of the revised
the Railways and the L S.                                           legislation to the Parliament will be a condition of disbursement of
funds indicated in Table 3.2.
d.    Continued implementation of the project and injection of resources  Satisfactory growth of traffic on the Nacala rail route will be a
despite the increase in traffic on the Nacala rail route being below  condition of disbursement of funds for the second phase of the
the projected level.                                                Project.
e.    Possible erosion of the traffic share of the Nacala rail route in the  GOM provided assurances at negotiations that it will not undertake
event of GOM supporting subsidies to altemative routes or actively    investments in altemative routes without prior consultations with
promoting uneconomic investments in the development of altemative   IDA (para 5.3 (s)).
routes in direct competition to the Nacala corridor such as the road
alternative to Nacala and rail route to Beira.
f.    Possible reluctance, if not resistance, in implementing the project  The implementing agencies are required to establish special task
from staff who are likely to be retrenched.                        groups to handle the sensitive issues of staff reduction, the duties
of the task groups also including staff counseling and arranging for
retraining of staff.
g     MR (M) and MLS managements being less than effective.               GOM provided assurances at negotiations that it will appoint and
maintain key management staff of satisfactory qualification and
experience (para 5.3 (t)).
h.    Possible delay in completing the process of privatization despite   The implementing agencies are being required to continue the
GOM's willingness and support adversely affecting financial        process of intensive intemal reform while at the same time
performance of the Railways.                                       persisting with efforts for privatization.



- 37 -
CHAPTER 5. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
A.      Conditions of Effectiveness
5.1     There will be three conditions of effectiveness:
(a)  Pre-RRP Plan: evidence of having substantially implemented the Pre-RRP Plan which,
inter alia, would include: (i) issue of at least 250 appointment letters by MR (M); (ii) the
completion of the process of valuing the assets to be transferred by MR to MR (M) and
MLS; and (iii) completion of the study on restructuring and privatization of MLS (paras
2.11 and 3.11);
(b)  subsidiary loan agreements: execution by GOM of subsidiary loan agreements with MR
(M) and MLS for US$15.40 and US$0.76 million respectively at IBRD interest rate and
13 years repayment period including 3 years grace (para 2.46).
B.      Conditions of Disbursement
5.2     Disbursements of funds allocated for 1996 and 1997, about US$8.07 million as per Table 3.2
would be contingent upon evidence of satisfactory progress at the time of mid-project review regarding:
(i) completion of the milestones indicated in Annex 3.1; (ii) achievement of key performance targets
indicated in Annex 4.4 (para 3.17); (iii) presentation, if required, of modified railway-related legislation
to the Parliament (para 2. 10); and (iv) initiation of the process of privatizing MR (M) and MLS (paras
2.23 and 2.37) (para 3.17).
C.      Assurances Provided at Negotiations
5.3     GOM provided assurances at negotiations that it will:
(a)  not declare MR (M) and MLS as statutory bodies either at the time of their incorporation
or subsequently (para 2.9);
(b)  provide the working capital of MK 2.5 million for MR (M) and MK 0.5 million for MLS
(para 2.11);
(c)  set up appropriate BODs for MR (M) and MLS soon after their incorporation but no later
than six months after RRP becoming effective (para 2.11);
(d)  sign separate Performance Agreements with MR (M) and MLS within six months of RRP
becoming effective, the Performance Agreements including, inter alia, the performance
indicators, the Project Implementation Plan, the Environmental Mitigation Plan, and the
basis for computing compensation for services rendered by MR (M) and MLS at GOM's
request (paras 2.19 and 2.36);
(e)  fully subsidize MR (M) and MLS for losses incurred on account of passenger or other
services provided by MR (M) and MLS at GOM's request and computed according to the
basis included in the Performance Agreement (para 2.11);



- 38 -
(f) ensure that the Operations Agreement between MR and CFM (N) is properly
implemented (para 2.26);
(g) set up a Joint Review Board for reviewing the performance of the Nacala rail route within
six months of RRP becoming effective (para 2.27);
(h) initiate the process of privatizing MR (M) and MLS in accordance with the
recommendations of the Privatization Study as soon as possible but before the first annual
review (paras 2.23 and 2.37);
(i) undertake and implement policy reforms according to the Letter of Transport Sector
Policy (Annex 1.2) and the RRP Implementation Plan (Annex 3.1) (para 2.40);
(j) undertake not to materially alter the authority delegated to the Project implementing
agencies, specifically in respect of procurement, hiring of consultants, and implementation
of the restructuring plans (para 3. I);
(k) conduct annual reviews in June each year and a comprehensive major review in June
1996, submit status reports one month prior to these reviews, and implement
recommendations arising out of these reviews and (para 3.5);
(I) allocate and disburse its own share of agreed funds for the Project, exempt goods
imported under the Project from import duties and other taxes, and exempt all foreign
consultancy contracts under the Project from taxes (paras 2.45);
(m) delegate full authority to MR (M) and MLS to manage the Special Accounts and annually
review the efficiency of the special account procedures (para 3.18);
(n) require the implementing agencies to ensure timely preparation and submission of
quarterly and annual financial reports and ensure preparation and submission of externally
audited financial statements within six months from the end of each fiscal year (para
3.21);
(o) require the implementing agencies to adopt project reporting, auditing, and monitoring
procedures acceptable to IDA (para. 3.21);
(p) carry out all procurement for the Project (i) using standard bidding and contract
documents agreed at negotiations by IDA and (ii) according to the procurement
arrangements set out in para 3.13 and 3.14 (para 3.15);
(q) ensure that MR (M) and MLS do not undertake any investment estimated to cost more
than US$0.2 million without prior consultations with IDA (para 4.7);
(r)  fully implement the Environmental Mitigation Plan (para 4.19);
(s) not undertake investments in alternative international routes without prior consultation
with IDA (para 4.24 (e)); and
(t) appoint and maintain key management staff of satisfactory qualifications and experience
during the Project life (para 4.24 (g)).



- 39 -
D.      Recommendation
5.4     On the basis of the above actions, conditions, and agreements, the proposed project would be
suitable for an IDA credit of SDR 11.2 million (US$16.16 million equivalent).



J



REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Trend of Performance Indicators
PERFORMANCE                                                                 1984!    1985/    1986!    19871    1988/    1989/    1990/    1991/    19921
INDICATOR                       UNIT                    1975      1980      1985      1986      1987      1988      1989      1990      1991      1992      1993
1.   Operating Ratio                  %                         81        79       106       127       109       101       107        99       86       106       149
2.   Freight Traffic
-Tonnes                        Thousand                 1338      1303       543      461       550       415       347       420       418       337       340
- Net-Tonne-Kms                Milion                    252       247       109       99       132        93        71        69        76        56        52
-Average Haul                  Km                        188       190      201       215       240       224       205       164       182       166       153
3.   Passenger Traffic
-Passengers                    Thousand                 1211      1267      1720     1814      1639      1710      1664      1713      1501      1282       859
-Passenger Kms                 Million                    88        80       113       121      108       114       112       115       101        88        65
-Average Journey               Km                         73        63       66        67        66        67        67        67        67        69        76
4.   Staff Productivity
- Staff Strength               No.                      4054      4704     4161      3990      3982      4065      4101      3998      3915      3832      3658
- NTK/Staff                    Thousand                   62        53        26       25        33        23        17        17        19        15        14
- (NTK+PK)/Staff               Thousand                   84        70        53        55       60        51        45        46        45        38        32             O
5.   Motive Power Productivity
- Availability                 %                          62        78        79       88        79        78        78        77        75        75        75
- Utilization                  loco km/Loco day          250       116        86        68       87        82        82        82        79        64        55
6.   Rolling Stock Productivity
- Wagon Availability           %                          95        97        96       96        95        95        95        96        85        72        75
- Wagon Utilization            Wkrn/Wagon day           30.2      42.2      33.0      30.4      33.0     25.7      21.2      19.3      19.2      15.2      14.5
7.   Track Utilization
- Route Length                 Km                       789       789       789       789       789       789       789       789       789       789       789
- Track Density                NTK/km (Million)          319       313       138      125       167       118        90        87        96        71        66
8.   Operating Efficiency
-Av.Net Trailing Load          Tonnes                   228       221        147      133       158       129       102       106       111        98       123
-Av.Gross Trailing Load        Tonnes                   554       512       440       400       424       371       319       335       314       307       366
- Gross To Net Ratio           Number                   2.43      2.32      2.99     3.01      2.68      2.88      3.13      3.16      2.83      3.13      2.98
- Average Wagon Load           Tonnes                   23.9      24.9      21.9      20.9     23.4      21.4      20.2      19.9      22.0      21.4      21.7        In
- Derailments                  Number                    155       117        75       99        97        75       112        83       112        85        97            X
Source:    MR Compendiums and Corporate Plan                                                                                                                                   --
*           FY changed from  Jan.-Dec. to March-April



I 



- 41-                    Annex 1.2
Page I of 13
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Letter of Transport Sector Policy
Telegrams: Fo4k&scm. Lilongwe                               MiNISTER OF FINANCE
Telephone: Lilongwe 7S2 199                                   P.O. BOX  30049
Telex: 44402
LMLONGWE 3
MALAWI
Ref. No.: MF/6                                    8 November, 1994
Mr. E.V.K. Jaycox,
The Vice President,
The World Bank,
1818 H Street, N.W.,
Washington, D.C. 20433,
United States of America.
Dear Mr. Jaycox,
NATIONAL TRANSPORT SECTOR POLICY FRAMEWORK
I am writing to you in connection with the proposed credit for
the Railways Restructuring project (RRP), and especially to inform
you about policy decisions and measures that the Government has
already taken, or is about to take in order to support the project.
The credit, amounting to US$ 16.16 million, that we are seeking
from the International Development Association (IDA) in support of
the Railways Restructuring Project will enable us proceed with the
strategy of restructuring and creation of an environment conducive
to the management of Malawi Railways as a commercial enterprise.
As you are aware, recently the Government has made a number of
policy changes in the transport sector. Most of these changes have
been geared at promoting the operation of a competitive and
efficient transport system. These for example include approving
the freedom of Malawi Railways and Lake Services to set tariffs
without prior Government approval; retaining loss-making passenger
services on social grounds, deregulation of bus fares on all but
country routes, and removal of restrictions on entry to passenger
and freight transport industry. Access to foreign exchange is no
longer a problem as the foreign exchange market has also been
liberalized.



-42 -                     Annex 1.2
Page 2 of 13
Despite all these changes, it has become clear to Government
that in some cases policies continue to be restrictive, and quite
honestly they do also favor certain transport modes and carriers.
As a result of this, operators have found themselves competing (to
the extent that competition is present) on an unlevel playing
field. This has greatly contributed to poor performance in some
modes of transport, particularly rail and lake mode of transport
which are in very critical financial position with Government
having to inject in funds more or less on a monthly basis to bail
them out of imminent liquidation.
With this background, Government is committing itself to
further pursue a policy of economic deregulation and of treating
all modes of transport equitably.   This will entail the need to
further  minimize  controls  and  removal  of  all  forms  of
protectionism. Private sector investments and operations will be
promoted. Where private sector involvement is not feasible at this
time, promotion of a more business-minded approach by public sector
bodies will be given urgency.   In this respect the Government,
under the second Institutional Development Project(IDP II) will
develop a privatization policy covering statutory bodies and state-
owned bodies, which includes Malawi Railways(1994) Limited and
Malawi Lake Services Limited currently in the process of being
established.   To facilitate this,  the Government has already
established a privatization committee.
In summary the transport policy framework focuses on promotion
of competition and liberalization within the transport industry in
line with the rest of the economy. The Bank is invited to note and
accept the attached Transport Policy Framework.
Yours sincerely,
Aleke K. Banda
MINISTER OF FINANCE



-43 -                     Annex 1.2
Page 3 of 13
NATIONAL TRANSPORT POLICY FRAMEWORK
A.   Policy Objectives
1.   The policy objectives for the transport sector are:
*    To meet economic demand while minimizing the cost to the
economy;
*    To promote and ensure safety in the sector;
*    To minimize negative impact of sectoral activities on the
environment.
B.   Policy Principles
2.   The following principles shall prevail in the formulation of
transport policy guidelines:
*    There shall be no government regulation of such a nature
that it restricts the ability of any mode to compete
freely with any other mode of transport;
*    Each mode shall bear a fair proportion of all real costs
of resources, facilities and services provided at public
expense;
*    Each mode of transport shall receive fair compensation
for the resources, facilities and services that it is
required to provide in the public interest;
*    Private  sector  investment  and  operations  will  be
encouraged and promoted; when private sector involvement
is not feasible, more business-minded approach by public
sector bodies will be promoted;
*    Decisions on public investments will be based on economic
criteria.
C.   Policy Implementation Guidelines
3.   The policy framework will be the basis for more detailed
policy implementation guidelines including the following
important components:



-44 -                    Annex 1.2
Page 4 of 13
a)   Co-ordination of activities and authority of government
ministries and agencies, and private sector bodies active
in the transport and civil aviation sector.
Malawi's ministerial portfolios do not correspond
precisely with the sectors defined in its statement of
development policies.   This highlights the need for
interministerial consultation and co-ordination in policy
making and implementation.   The strategy will be to
heighten co-ordination between the transport and civil
aviation portfolio and the portfolios of works, finance
and economic planning, local government and a number of
others,   and   to   rationalize   certain   functional
assignments.
Numerous public and private sector organisations and
individuals are active in the transport and civil
aviation sector. As a result, ongoing consultation and
co-ordination between all interested parties will be
required if Malawi is to obtain the maximum benefits from
the sector.  Although Government may take the lead in
formulating national policies and strategies, private
enterprises and private voluntary organisations, such as
industry associations and consumer and trade unions have
a major responsibility to provide key inputs to policy
and strategy research and formulation.
b)   Ensuring that transport authorities and operators are
properly constituted and organized and have sufficient
resources to perform their functions.
Public and private bodies - be they state departments,
public enterprises, private companies or associations -
can not be expected to play their proper role in the



-45 -                    Annex 1.2
Page 5 of 13
sector unless they are properly constituted and
organized. That is, they must have:
a solid legal foundation or constitution, including
but not limited to a statement of objects,
purposes, duties and functions (assignments of
conflicting functions such as regulator and
operator should be avoided and responsibilities for
the operations of commercial versus uneconomic
services should be clearly spelt out;
a clear grant of the capacities and powers that are
necessary to perform those functions, and an
equivocal   assignment   of   decision-making   or
discretionary  authority,   including  powers  of
delegation,   as   well   as   other   procedural
requirements; and
a suitable organization framework for the execution
of assigned functions, including adequate posts,
internal management and information systems and
structures (e.g. a body responsible for economic
regulation should have or be supported by a staff
economist   and   an   appropriate   data   base),
appropriate    personnel    policies    including
competitive salaries and a code for disciplinary
procedures, and a proper organizational separation
of certain types of functions, such as regulatory
and operational functions.
The strategy to be adopted is one of continuous
institutional appraisal, report and capacity building
throughout the Ministry of Transport and Civil Aviation,
and the support of organizational capacity building and
human resource development in the private sector.



-46 -                     Annex 1.2
Page 6 of 13
c)   Ensuring responsible and independent decision-making, and
public accountability.
Various laws grant ministers, statutory bodies, boards of
public enterprise and companies and other decision-
maker's power with a certain ambit of discretion. It is
a fundamental principle of law and administration that
such decision-maker's should exercise the independent
judgement that the law permits. At the same time, those
decision-makers and their organisations should be held
strictly accountable for their decisions and general
performance in the management of the matters, finances
manpower and assets entrusted to them.
The strategy to be adopted is to clarify responsibilities
and to continuously assess the performance of all bodies
falling within the portfolio of the Ministry of Transport
and Civil Aviation through the implementation of
performance agreements with Malawi Railways and Lake
Services.
d)   Improve availability and utilization of freight and
passenger vehicles.
It will be the aim of Government to improve rural and
urban  mobility.    While  Government  will  review  all
restrictive practices affecting the growth of transport
services in urban and rural areas, non-motorised means of
transport will be encouraged especially for the rural
areas. In order to do this, government will need to give
operators freedom to set tariffs (fares and rates), allow
unrestricted   entry  upon   meeting   minimum   safety
requirements, improve credit availability, reduce duty
and surtax on imported vehicles and improve the transport
infrastructure, especially in the rural areas. In the



-47 -                    Annex 1.2
Page 7 of 13
trucking industry Government will encourage as much
foreign investment as possible. Indigenous entrepreneurs
will also be given all the opportunities to expand their
businesses as much as possible.
e)   Cooperation with other Southern African countries and
their transport and communication sectors.
A highly open economy has to continuously assess the
benefits and costs of (or threats and opportunities
presented by) regional co-operation and integration, and
carefully manage its involvement in such efforts. This
need is made even more pressing considering Malawi's
involvement  in such efforts.    Thus,  in many cases
Malawi's national interest can be properly served only by
well-designed efforts at regional co-operation and
integration.
To follow through with decisions and commitments: The
maintenance of a process of policy-making, strategic
planning, law-making, organizing, resource mobilization,
and general administration can be as important as any
given output (e.g., policy, budget etc).
The strategy is to initiate a process that can ensure
that policies and declarations of intent are embodied in
law, that laws are administered and enforced, and that
resources are mobilized and utilized in a timely fashion
(e.g. program and project management).  In short all
parties need to strengthen their commitment to follow
through; to turn decisions into actions.



-48 -                    Annex 1.2
Page 8 of 13
D    Sub-sectrol Issues
I    Road Transport
1.1 General
Road Traffic
Act           Will be updated and modified to take account
of new circumstances in the road transport
industry.
Road Service
Permits        System of Road Service Permits and Certificate
of Fitness will be strictly enforced.
1.2 Road Freight Transport
Axle
Overloading   Strict  enforcement  of  axle  limits   and
imposition of heavy penalties imposed for
violators.
Tariffs        Tariffs will be liberalized.
Credit         Credit facilities to local operators will be
improved to facilitate their entry into the
market.
Duties & Taxes The system of duties and taxes on vehicles,
spare parts etc. will be reviewed fully to
ensure that local truckers are obtaining an
incentive  to  increase  their  fleet  and
adequately maintain it.



-49 -                     Annex 1.2
Page 9 of 13
International
Freight   The shippers and receivers of freight will be
encouraged to use Malawian hauliers. Further
harmonization   of  rates   and  tariffs   on
international freight traffic with other
countries in the region in the case of road
tolls, transit fees etc will be pursued.
Committees     The Ministry of Transport and Civil Aviation
will   establish   the   Freight   Transport
Consultative    Committee    comprising
representatives from the Ministry of Transport
and  Civil  Aviation  (chairman),  the  Road
Transport Operators Association, the Police
(Traffic  Department),  Malawi  Railways,  and
other groups including users of road freight
transport to:
further   communication   between   the
Government and private sector bodies in
(and affected by) the freight transport
industry;
promote  the  development  of  the  road
freight transport industry;
assist the industry solve any problems
arising;
discuss the influence of new policies and
legislation   on   freight   transport,
including    intra    and    intermodal
competition;



-50 -                     Annex 1.2
Page 10 of 13
discuss issues regarding regional road
freight    transport,    including
intergovernmental relations under SATCC,
PTA etc.;
enhance quality and safety in freight
transport operations.
1.3 Road Passenger Transport
Entry to the
Market         The prime Route Policy will be abolished as it
has not had the desired effect on rural
passenger  transport.      "Matola"  will  be
legalized subject to safety requirements which
will be strictly enforced.
Deregulation
of Fares       The  remaining  fare  that  it  currently  not
deregulated is that of Country bus Service.
This will be deregulated in association with
the Prime Route Policy being abolished.
Credit         The Government will encourage and assist in
whatever way it can to increase in the supply
of passenger transport by giving assistance to
these new entrepreneurs.
Duties         The present rate of duties on importation of
vehicles and spare parts will be reviewed
further to be in line with those in the
trucking industry.



-51 -                     Annex 1.2
Page I1 of 13
Committees     A Passenger Transport Consultative Committee
will be established by the Ministry of
Transport and Civil Aviation. (Chairman), the
bus and minibus associations, Stagecoach
Malawi Ltd., the Police (Traffic Department),
industry representatives, and representatives
of other interested parties, particularly user
associations to:
-    discuss the influence of new policies and
legislation on public transport.
-    discuss issues regarding regional road
passenger transport, relations under
SATCC, PTA etc.
-    enhance quality and safety within the
public transport operations.
-    discuss  the need for public transport
facilities.
2.   Rail Transport
Tariffs        Malawi Railways will continue to have complete
autonomy in setting tariffs for it to be a
competitive mode in the transport industry.
Staffing       Malawi  Railways  will  have  autonomy  in
determining its staff levels.
Operational
Decisions      Decisions to change the nature and frequency
of services will be at the discretion of
Malawi Railways.



-52 -                     Annex 1.2
Page 12 of 13
Social
Service        If Malawi Railways runs a service at a loss
which is deemed a "social service"  then the
Government will purchase those services on a
commercial basis i.e. the Government would
reimburse the costs incurred.
Performance
Targets        Performance targets will be set for Malawi
Railways and agreed to by the Government.
Privatization  Malawi Railways will be privatized at the
earliest,    and    in    line    with    the
recommendations of the Railway Privatization
Study and IDP II Project.
3.   Air Transport
3.1 Air Passenger
Fares          Fare levels will be determined solely by Air
Malawi.
Routes         Air Malawi will be given control over their
route policy and allowed to pursue new market
routes that they deem potentially profitable.
Staff Levels   Staff level adjustments will be made at the
direct discretion of Air Malawi.
CAA            The Aviation Act will be updated and modified
to take into account new circumstances in the
Air Transport Industry.



-53 -                     Annex 1.2
Page 13 of 13
3.2 Air Freight
Access         The Government will lift the present policy of
dedicated freight air transporters having to
pay royalties to Air Malawi if they wish to
pick up air freight in Malawi.
4.   Lake Transport
Entry into
Market         Entrepreneurs wishing to enter into the lake
shipping services market in either passenger
or freight services will be given all
assistance possible to do so.
Tariffs        Lake Services will have complete autonomy in
setting these tariff rates.
Routes         Lake Services will have complete autonomy in
choice of routes.
Staffing       Staffing levels adjustment will be made at the
discretion of LS direct.
Social
Services       If the Government wishes to maintain certain
Lake Services that are non-profitable, but are
deemed to be a "social service" and in the
public interest, then it agrees to purchase
these services on a commercial basis.
Privatization  Malawi Lake Services to be privatized at the
earliest, and in line with the recommendations
of  the  Lake  Services  Organization  and
Privatization Study and IDP II Project.






- 54 -                                            Annex 1.3
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Completed and Active World Bank IDA-Financed Transport Projects
.Project   Loan/
Project      MIajor      Cost $    Credit
Proj. ID        Project Name    Project Description               FY         Status       Sector      NIilion    SMillion
3MALPA002    Highway              Detailed engineering of the     1967       Completed   TH           0.5        0.5
Engineering      Zomba-Lilongwe road (290
km)
3MALPA005    Highways             Reconstruction, bitumen         1968       Completed   TH           11.5       11.5
paving of the Zomba -
Lilongwe road. Consultants
study of road transport
licensing regulations.
3MALPA013    Highways 11          Construction of the Lilongwe-    1975      Completed   TH           10.0       10.0
Kasungu road (113km). First
phase of a District Roads
Improvement and Maintenance
l____________   Program (DRIMP).
3MALPA019    Highways Ill         Construction of Kasungu-Jenda   1978       Completed   TH           10.5       10.5
road (85km) feasibility study
& detailed engineering of
Jenda-Mzuzu road.
3MALPA026    Highways IV          Const. of main Jenda-Mzuzu-    1981        Completed   TH           42.2       33.0
Ekwendeni road & second
phase of DRIMP.
3MALPA035    Highways V           Road construction, third phase    1984     Completed   TH           78.5       44.9
of DRIMP: construction of
Luwawa-Champhoyo road;
provision of weigh bridges.
3MALPA048    Transport I          Upgrading north-south link      1988       Completed   TH           100.5      13.4
road and access transport
facilities in Blantyre-Dar Es
Salaam corridor.
3MALPA056    Infrastructure I   The project would finance a       1990       Active       TH          157.7      28.8
time slice of the agreed
infrastructure investment
program, including highways
and bridge rehabilitation,
district roads maintenance.
road safety, improved rural
transport services, urban and
rural water supply
rehabilitation.






- 55 -
Annex 1.4
Page 1 of I
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Status of Bank Group Operations in Malawi
Summary Statement of IDA Credits (as at January, 95)
Loan or Credit No.    Fiscal  Borrower   Purpose               Bank    IDA         Undisbursed  Closing Date
Year                                                        $Million
50 Credits closed
C17670-MAL            1987    Malawi      Ed. Sector Credit I            26.96           .47     12/15/94(R)
CI 8790-MAL           1988    Malawi       Transport I                   13.40           .74     06/30/94
C 19660-MAL           1989    Malawi      Agri. Marketing &              18.30          1 67     06/30/96
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ~ ~~ ~~~Est,
C 19900-MAL           1989    Malawi       Energy I                      46.70          7.76     02/28/96
C20360-MAL            1989    Malawi       Instit. Dev.                  11.30          1.20     06/30/95
C20690-MAL            1990    Malawi       Infrastructure I              28.80          4.99     12/31/95
C20830-MAL            1990    Malawi       Educ. Sec. II                 36.90         16.71     06/30/96
C22200-MAL            1991    Malawi       PHIN Sector Credit            55.50         31.56     06/30/97
C22210-MAI.           1991    Malawi       Financial &                   32 00         11.42     06/30/97
Enterprise c
C22250-MAI.           1991    Malawi       Fisheries Dev.                 8.80          4.95     06/30/99
C23790-MAI.           1992    Malawi       Local Govt.                   24.00         15.49     12/31/99
C23860-MAL            1992    Malawi       Power V                       55.00         35.89     06/30/98
*C25130-MAL           1993    Malawi      Financial Services             25.00         16.81     12/31/96
C25140-MAL            1993    Malawi      Agric. Services                45.80         29.63     09/30/99
C26240MAL             1994    Malawi       Instit. Dev. II               22.60         16.00     06/30/00
TOTAL = 16 Credits                                                   456.96        304.09
Total of which repaid                104.52  1,302.08
Total held by IDA, Amount sold        50.40  1,272.19
of which bepaid A
Total Undisbursed                                          304.28
Notes:
*         Not yet effective.
**        Total approved, and outstanding balance represent both active and inactive Loans and Credits.
v         Indicates formally revised Closing Date.
The Net Approved and Bank Repayments are historical value, all others are market value.
The Signing, Effective and Closing dates are based upon the Loan Department official data and are not takes from the Task
Budget file.






- 56 -                                                  Annex 2.1
Page 1 of I
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Project Cost Summary
%     % Total
(MK Million)              (USS Million)      Foreign   Base
Local  Foreign   Total   Local Foreign  Total Excang  Costs
A. RESTRUCTURING OF MR
Al. Retrenchment Support
1 Support for Retrenchment                                        83 95     9 33    93 28    5 25    0 58    5 83         10      24
2 Support for Redeployment                                          1 02     410      5 12     0 06    0 26    0 32       80        1
Subtotal                                                          84 98    13 42    98 40      5 31    0 84    615         1 4     25
A2. Project Implementation Support
t TA for 22 manmonths                                              0 70     634       704    0 04    0 40    0 44         90       2
2 Legal and Investment Advisory Services                           022       202      224      001     0 13    0 14       90        1
3 Consuntancy Studies                                              0 38      3 46     3 84    0 02    0 22    0 24        90        1
4 Training                                                         027       245      272    002    015    017            90        1
Subtotal                                                            1 58    14 26    15 84    0 10    0 89    0 99        90        4
Subtotal Restructuring OftMR                                      86 56    27 68   114 24      5 41    1 73    7 14       24       29
S. REVITALIZATION OF NACALA CORRIDOR
B1. Civil Works
1 Rehabilitation of 44 km Track                                   30 46      7 62    38 08     1 90    0 48    2 38       20       10
2 Bridge Strengthening                                              1 73     4 03     5 76    0 11    0 25    0 36        70        I
Subtotal                                                          32 19    I 165    43 84    2 01    0 73    2 74         27       1 1
B2. Mechanical Works
t Points and Crossings Rehabilitation                              2 38    21 46    23 84    0 15    1 34    1 49         90       6
2 Repairs to Concrete Sleeper Plant                                0 08      0 58     0 64    0 00    0 04    0 04        90        0
3 Power Supply to Nknozbvwa Quarry                                 0 06      0 58     0 64    0 00    0 04    0 04        90        0
4 Rehabiitation of Wheel Lathe                                     0 78      7 06     7 84    0 05    0 44    0 49        90        2
Subtotal                                                           3 30    29 66    32 96    0 21       1 85    2 06      90        8
B3. Services
I RentinggofTrackTemper                                            173    1555    1728    011    097    108               90        4
Subtotal                                                            173     1555    17 28    0 11    0 97    1 08         90        4
B4. Equipment
1 Gang and Inspection Trolleys                                     2 56    23 04    25 60    0 16    1 44    1 60         90        6
2 Hand - held Equipment                                            0 50      4 46     4 96    0 03    0 28    0 31        90        1
3 Test Equipment                                                   0 13      1 15     1 28    0 01    0 07    0 08        90        0
4 Roller Bearings for Modifying Wagons                             0 54      4 90     5 44    0 03    0 31    0 34        90        1
S Service Motor Vehicles                                            1 22    1094    12 16    008    068    076            90        3
6 Safety and Envron Equipment                                       0 67     6 05     6 72    0 04    0 38    0 42        90        2
7 Limbe PABX                                                       0 80      7 20     8 00    0 05    0 45    0 50        90        2
8 Nkaya Nayuci Micro Link                                           125    1123    12 48    0 08    0 70    0 78          90        3
9 MIS Package including Hardware                                   0 24      2 16     2.40    0 02    0 14    0 15        90        1
10 Wagon Tracking Package including Hardware                       0 51     4 61      5 12    0 03    0 29    0 32        90        1
11 Telecommunication Test Equipment                                0 51     4 6t      5 12    0 03    0 29    0 32        90        1
12 Computer Hardvware for Training                                 019       173       192    001    011    012           90       0
Subtotal                                                           91t2    82 08      91 20    0 57     5 13   5 70       90       23
15. Spare Parts
1 Spares for Building Inventory                                    1 25    11 23    12 48    0 08    0 70    0 78         90        3
2 Concrete Sleepers- 17000                                         253    1011    1264    016    063    079               80        3
Subtotal                                                           378    21 34    25 12    0 24    1 33    157           85        6
96. Institutional Development Support
1 TA-45 man-months                                                 160    14 40    16 00    0 10    0 90    1 00          90        4
2 Legal and Investment Advisory Services                           0 18      1 58     1 76    0 01    0 10    0 11        90        0
3 Consunancy Studies                                                115    10 37    1 152    0 07    0 65    0 72         90        3
4 Training                                                         0 67      605      6 72    004    0 38    0 42         90        2
Subtotal                                                           3 60    32 40      36      0 23    2 03    2 25        90        9
Subtotal Revitalization of Nacata Corridor                        53 71   19269    24640       336   1204    1540         78      63
C. COMMERCIALIZATION AND PRIVATIZATION OF LS
Cl. Equipment
1 Communication Equipment                                          0 53     4 75      5 28    0 03    0 30    0 33        90        1
2 Computer Hardware                                                0 10      0 86     0 96    0 01    0 05    0 06        90        0
3 Envronment Related Equipment                                     0 45      4 03     4 48    0 03    0 25    0 28        90        1
Subtotal                                                            1 07     9 65    10 72    0 07    0 60    0 67        90        3
2. C2. Institutional Development Support
1 TA-6 man-montlh                                                  019       1 73     1 92    0 01    011    012          90       0
2 Legal and Investment Advisory Senvices                           0 22      2 02     2 24    0 01    0 13    0 14        90        1
3 Consultancies Studies                                            013       115      1 28    001    007    008           90        0
4 Training                                                         0 05      0 43     0 48    0 00    0 03    0 03        90       0
Subtotal                                                           0 59      5 33      5 92    0 04    0 33    0 37       90        2
Subtotal Commerciailzation and Privatization of LS                  1 66    14 98     1664     010    094       1 04      90        4
D. POLICY FORMULATION
Dl. Equipment
1 Computers                                                        0 19       173     1 92    0 01    0 11    0 12        90       0
Subtotal                                                           0 19       173      192     001      011    012        90        0
D2. Institutional Development Support
I Computers                                                        0 19      173      1 92    0 01      011    012        90       0
Subtotal                                                           0 19       173      192     001      011     012       90        0
D3. Policy Support
I Consunancy Studies                                               0 42     3 74      416     0 03    0 23    0 26        90        1
2 TA-28 man-months                                                 0 88      7 92      8 80    0 06    0 50    0 55       90        2
Subtotal                                                            1 30    11 68    1296    008    073    081            90        3
Subtotal Policy Formulation                                         1 68     1512     16 80     011    o         T -      90        4
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                   14362   25046    39408        808   1565   24 63         64     100
Physical Contingencies                                                  2154    3757    5911         1353    5 5    369         64       15
Price ContIngencies                                                          -    10 86     10 86        -   068      08       100       3
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                                    I65 16   29890    46405    10 32    166    2900          64     118






- 57 -                                                Annex 2.2
Page I of 1
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Project Cost By Years
Totals Including Contingencies
Base Cost (USS Million)                (USS Million)
1995196 1996t97 1997198  Total  1995196 1996197 1997198  Total
A. RESTRUCTURING OF MR
Al. Restructuring Support
1 Support to Retrenchment                                     5 25    0 5s        -   5 83    6 05      0 67        -   6 72
2 Support for Staff Redeployment                              0 16    016         -   032      0 19     0 19        -   038
Subtotal                                                      5 41    0 74             615    623       0 86             710
A2. Project Implementation Support
1. TA for 22 man-months                                       0 22    0.15    0 07    0 44    026       0 18    0 09    0 52
2 Legal and tnvestment Advory Services                        0 14                -    0 14    0 16     0 00    0 00    0 16
3 Consuitancy Studies                                         0 12    0 08    0 04    0 24    01 4      0 10    0 05    0 29
4 Training                                                    0 05    0 06    0 06    017    0 r6       0 07    0 07    0 20
Subtotal                                                      053    029    017    099         062      035    021       118
Total                                                         5 94    1 03    0 17    7 14    6 85       1 21    0 21    8 27
B. REVITALIZATION OF NACALA CORRIDOR
B1. Civil Works
1 Rehabilitation of 44 km Track                               0 82    125    0 31    2 38    0 95       1 45    0 36    2 76
2 Bridge Strengthening                                        0 12    012    0 12    0 36    0 14       0 14    015    0 43
Subtotal                                                      0 94    137    0 43    2 74       1 09     1 59    0 51    3 19
82. Mechanical Works
1 Points and Crossings Rehabilitation                         0 37    0 75    0 37    1 49    0 43      0 90    0 46    1 79
2 Repairs to Concrete Sleeper Plant                           0 04       0       0    0 04    0 05      0 06    0 00    0 05
3 Power Supply to Nkhozt,wa Quarry                            0 04       0       0    0 04    0 05      0 00    0 00    0 05
4 Rehabiltation of Wheel Lathe                                   0    0 49       0    0 49    0 00      0 59    0 00    0 59
Subtotal                                                      0 45    1 24    0 37    2 06    0 53       1 49    0 46    247
B3. Services
1 Renting of Tramp Temper                                     0 36    0 36    0 36    1 08     0 42     0 43    0 44    130
Subtotal                                                      0 36    0 36    0 36    1 08    0 42      0 43    0 44    130
94. Equipment
1 Gang and Inspection Trolleys                                 0 8     0 8       0      1 6    0 93     0 96    0 06     189
2 Hand- heldEquipment                                         014    011    006    031    016           013    007    037
3 Test Equipment                                              0 08       0       0    0 08    0 09      0 00    0 00    0 09
4 Roller Beanngs for Moditying wagons                            0    0 11    0 23    0 34    0 00      0 13    0 28    0 42
5 Service Motor Vehicles                                      0 25    0 51       0    0 76    0 29      0 61    0 0      0 90
t Safety and Enviorn Equipment                                0 14    0 14    0 14    042      0 16     0 17    0 17    050
7 LimbePABX                                                    05        0       0      05     058     0 06     006    058
8 Nkaya-Nayuci Micro Link                                     0 78       0       0    0 78    0 91      0 00    0 00    0 91
9 MIS Package including Hardware                              005    005    005    015         006      006    006    018
10 Wagon Tracking Package including Hardware                  0 16    0 16       0    032      0 19     0 19    006    038
11 Telecommunication Test Equipment                           0 16    0 16       0    032      0 19     0 19    0W0    038
12 Computer Hardware for Training                             0 04    0 04    0 04    0 12    0 05      0 05    0 05    014
Subtotal                                                       3 1    2 08    0 52      5 7    3 62     2 50    0 64    6 76
95. Spare Parts
1 Spares for Building Inventory                               0 47    031        0    078      055      0 37    0 06    0 92
2 Concrete Sleepers - 17000                                   0 26    0 53       0    0 79    0 30      0 63    0 00    0 94
Subtotal                                                      0 73    0 84       0    1 57    0 85      1 01    o 00     1 86
96. Institutional Development Support
I TA-45-man-months                                             05    0 33    017         1    0 58      0 40    0 21    1 19
2 Legal and Investment Adcsory Services                       0 11       0       0    o 11    013       C 00    0 00    0 13
3 Consultancies Studies                                       036    024    0 12    072        042      029    0 15    086
4 Training                                                    014    014    0 14    0 42    016         017    017    0 50
Subtotal                                                      1 11    071    043    225        130      085    053    268
Total                                                         669      66    2 11    154       780      787    258   1825
C. COMMERCIALIZATION AND PRIVATIZATION OF MLS
Cl. Equipment
1 Communication Equipment                                     0 11    0 22       0    0 33    013       0 26    0 06    0 39
2 Compuler Hardcware                                          0 02    0 04       0    0 06    0 02      0 05    0 00    0 07
3 Envronment Related Equipment                                014    014         0    028      016      017    000    033
Subtotal                                                      027      04        0    067      032      048    000    080
C2. Institutional Development Support
1 TA-6-man-months                                             006    004    002    012         007      005    002    0 14
2 Legal and Investment Advisory Services                      0 14       0       0    0 14    0 16      0 00    0 00    0 16
3 Consuitancy Studies                                         0 04    0 03    0 01    0 08    0 05      0 04    0 01    0 10
4 Training                                                    001    001    001    003         001      001    001    004
Subtotal                                                      0 25    0 08    0 04    0 37    0 29      0 10    0 05    0 44
Total                                                         0 52    0 48    0 04    1 04    0 61      0 58    0 05    123
0. POLICY FORMULATION
DI. Equipment
I Computers                                                   006    006         0    012    007        007     00      0 14
Subtotal                                                      006    006         0    012    007        007    000    0 14
D2. Institutional Development Support
I Computers                                                   0 04    0 04    0 04    012      0 05     0 05    0 05    0 14
Subtotal                                                      004    0 04    0 04    01 2      0 05     0 05    0 05    0 14
D3. Policy Support
1 ConsutancyStudies                                           0.13    009    004    026        015      011    005    031
2 TA-28 man-months                                            0 28    0 18    0 09    0 55     0 33     0 22    0 11    0 65
Subtotal                                                        0 41    0 27    0 13    0 81    0 48      0 32    016    096
Total                                                           051    0 37    0 17    1 05    060        044    021       1 25
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                               1366    8.48    249   2463    1585    10 10    305   2900






- 58 -                                           Annex 2.3
Page I of I
REPUBLIC OF NIALAWI
RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Project Costs By Source of Finance
(US$  nillion)
IDA           USAID      The Government       Total
Amount   %    Amount  %    Amount   %    Amount   %
A. RESTRUCTURING OF MR
Al. Retrenchment Support
1. Support for Retrenchment                                  -       0    6 72    100        -      0    6 72      23
2. Support for Redeployment                                          0    0.38    100        -      0    0 38       1
Subtotal                                                     .       0    710     100        -      0    7.10      24
A2. Project Implementation Support
1.TA for 22 manmonths                                                0    0.52    100        -      0    0.52       2
2 Legal and Investment Advisory Services                     -       0    0 16    100               0    0.16       1
3. Consultancy Studies                                               0    0.29    100               0    0.29       1
4 Training                                                   -       0    0 20    100               0    0 20       1
Subtotat l                                                           0    1.18    100               0    118        4
Subtotal - Restructuring Component                                   0    8 27    100               0    8.27      29
B. REVITALIZATION OF NACALA CORRIDOR
B1. Civil Works
1 Rehabilitation of 44 km Track                           2.63     95        -      0    013        5    2 76      10
2 Bridge Strengthening                                    0 39      90       -      0    0 04      10    0 43       1
Subtotal                                                  3.02      95       -      0    0.17       5    3 19      11
B2. Mechanical Works
1. Points and Crossings Rehabilitation                    1.70     95        -      0    0.09       5    1 79       6
2. Repairs to Concrete Sleeper Plant                      0.04      95       -      0    0.00       5    0 05       0
3. Power Supply to Nkhozbwa Quarry                        0.04      95              0    0.00       5    0 05       0
4. Rehabilitation of Wheel Lathe                          0.56      95              0    0.03       5    0.59       2
Subtotal                                                  2.35      95              0    012        5    2.47       9
B3. Services
1. Renting of Track Temper                                1 23      95       -      0    0.07       5    1.30       4
Subtotal                                                   1.23     95              0    0.07       5    1.30       5
84. Equipment
1. Gang and Inspection Trolleys                           1.80      95       -      0    0.09       5    1 89       7
2. Hand - held Equipment                                  0.35      95       -      0    0.02       5    0 37       1
3. Test Equipment                                         0.09      95       -      0    0 00       5    0 09       0
4. Roller Bearings for Modifying Wagons                   0 39      95       -      0    0 02       5    0.42       1
5  Service Motor Vehicles                                 0.86      95       -      0    0 05       5    0 90       3
6  Safety and Environ. Equipment                          0.48      95       -      0    0.03       5    0 50       2
7  Limbe PABX                                             0 55      95       -      0    0 03       5    0 58       2
8. Nkaya Nayuci Micro Link                                0.87      95       -      0    0 05       5    0.91       3
9. MIS Package including Hardware                            -       0    0.18    100        -      0    018        1
10 Wagon Tracking Package including Hardware                 -       0    0.38    100        -      0    0 38       1
11. Telecommunicalion Test Equipment                      0.36      95       -      0    0.02       5    0.38       1
12. Computer Hardware or Training                                    0    0.14    100       -       0    0 14       0
Subtotal                                                  5.75      85    0 70      10    0 30      4    6.76      23
8S. Spare Parts
1 Spares for Building Inventory                           0.87      95       -      0    0.05       5    0.92       3
2. Concrele Sleepers - 17000                              0 89      95       -      0    0 05       5    0.94       3
Subtotal                                                  1.76      95       -      0    0 09       5    1.86       6
86. tnstitutlonal Development Support
1 TA-45 man-months                                                  0    1 19    100         -      0    1.19      4
2 Legal and Investment Advisory Services                             0    0.13    100        -      0    0 13       0
3. Consultancy Sludies                                    0 81      95       -      0    0 04       5    0.86       3
4. Training                                               048       95              0    0.03       5    050        2
Subtotal                                                  1.29      48    1.32     49    0.07       3    2.68       9
Subtotal - Revitalization of Nacala Corridor             1540       84    2.02     11    083        5   18 25      63
C. COMMERCIALIZATION AND PRIVATiZATION OF LS
Cl. Equipment
1. Communication Equipment                                0.37      95              0    0.02       5    0.39       t
2. Computer Hardware                                      0.07      95              0    0.00       5    0.07       0
3. Environment Related Equipment                          0.31      95       -      0    0 02       5    0.33       1
Subtotal                                                  0.76      95       -      0    0.04       5    0 80       3
C2. InstitutIonal Development Support
1. TA-6 man-month                                            -      0    0.14    100         -      0    0.14      0
2 Legal and Investment Advisory Services                     -       0    0.16    100               0    0.16       1
3. Consultancies Studies                                     -       0    0.10    100               0    0.10       0
4 Training                                                           0    0 04    100               0    0.04       0
Subtotal                                                     -       0    0.44    100        -      0    0.44       2
Subtotal - Commercialization &Privatization of LS         0.76      61    0.44     35    0 04       3    1.23       4
0. POLICY FORMULATION
Di. Equipment
1. Coempuers                                                 -      0    0.14    100        -       0    0.14      0
Subtotal                                                            0    014    100                 0    0.14       0
D2. Institutional Development Support
Computers                                                            C    0.14    100               0    0.14       1
Subtotal                                                            0    0.14    100                0    0.14       1
D3. Policy Support
1 Consullancy Studies                                               0    0.31    100        -       0    0.31       1
2. TA-28 man-months                                          -       0    0 65    100       -       0    0.65       2
Subtotal                                                              0    0.96    100        -       0    0.96      3
Subtotal - Policy Formulatlon                                         0    1.25    100        -       0    1.25      4
TOTAL DISBURSEMENT                                         16.16     56   11.98      4i   0.87        3   2900      100






REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Project Implementation Plan
1994         1995         1996         1997
ID    RailwaymrestructuringProject                                 Duration    Scheduled Start   Scheduled Finish     94           95           96           97
156w            10/1/94           9/26/97
2  Restructuring of MR                                       116w            10/1/94         12/20/96
3            Creation of MR (M)                                        26w            10/1/94           3/31,95           t
4            Creation of LS (M)                                        26w            10/1/94           3/31/95
5            Transfer of staff anid assets to MR (M) and LS (M)        12w             4/3/95           6/23/95
6            Retrenchment of surplus staff of MR                       12w            6/26/95           9/1 5/95
7            Disposal of surplus assets of MR                          78w            6/26/95          12/20/96
8            Discharging of outstanding liabilities                    65w            6/26/95           9/20/96
9            Closure of MR                                              2w            9/23/96           10/4/96
10       Revitalization of Nacala rail route                           156w            10/3/94          9/26/97
11           Track and Infrastructure rehabilitation                   104w             4/3/95           3/28/97
12           Macinery and Plant rehabilitation                          78w             4/3/95           9/27/96
13           Procurement of Equipment and Spares                        78w            4/3/95           9/27/96
14           Finalization of Operations Agreement                       26w            10/3/94          3/31/95              _
15           Finalization of Privatization Study                        39w             4/3/95         12/29/95
16           Biddtng documents for privatization of MR (M)              26w             1/1/96          6/28/96
17           Tendering and Selection of private operator                39w             7/1/96          3/28/97
18           Handing over to private operator                           26w           3/31/97           9/26/97
19       Commercialization and Proivatization of LS (M)                130w             4/3/95          9/26/97
20            Procurement of Equipment and spare parts                  78w             4/3/95           9/27/96
21           Finalization of Commercialization and Privatization Study  39w             4/3/95         12/29/95
22            Bidding documents for privatization of LS (M)             26w             1/1/96           6/28/96
23            Selection of private operator                             39w             7/1/96           3/28/97
24            Handing over to private operator                          26w            3/31/97           9/26/97
25   Policy Formulation                          117w              1/2/95          3/28/97              |                            _G
26            Review of current transport policy                        26w             1/2/95           6/30/95
27           Issue of revised policy document                           26w             7/3/95          12/29/95                                                        - _
28            Creating a framework for policy analysis                  52w             4/3/95           3/29/96
29            Building institutional capacity for analysis             104w             4/3/95           3/28/97
Project:                            Critical                       Progress   1                   Summary           _
Date: 1/3/95                        Noncritical                    Milestone  *                   Rolled Up






- 60 -                               Annex 3.2
Page I of I
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Mission Plan
Approx.
Date                       Main Activities                   Skills Required      SW
02/ 95    Project Launch; Works and Institutional Supervision.  Rly Eng., F.         6
Anal.,
05/95    Works and Institutional Supervision.                 Rly Eng.,             9
F. Anal., Legal
10/95    Works and Institutional Supervision; Environment.   Rly Eng.,              6
l                                                     F. Anal., Legal
02/96    Ist Annual (Mid Term) Review; Works and Institutional   Rly Eng.,         12
Supervision ; Definition of 2nd phase program;      F. Anal., Proc.,
Disbursement condition release; Policy and Capacity  Training, Legal,
Building progress; TA effectiveness and Transfer;   Instit. Environ
Previous years works performance; Next year's budget;
Annual beneficiary surveys; Compliance with targets and
key performance measures.
11/96    Works and Institutional Supervision.                Rly Eng.,              4
F. Anal.
02/97    2nd Annual Review; Works and Institutional           Rly Eng.,            12
Supervision; Policy and Capacity Building progress; TA    F. Anal., Proc.,
effectiveness and Transfer; Previous years works    Training, Legal,
performance; Nest year's budget; Annual beneficiary  Instit. Environ
surveys; Compliance with targets and key performance
measures.
09/97    Works and Institutional Supervision; Environment.    Rly Eng.,             6
F. Anal., Environ
02/98    Pre closing mission.                                 HW Eng.,              6
F. Anal..
07/98    PCR Mission.                                         HW Eng.,              6
F. Anal.,






REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Traffic Projections
Restructuring Casc                          Privatization Case
94/95*  95/96  96/97  97/98  98/99  99/20  95/96  96/97  97/98  98/99  99/20
OVERSEAS
Imports
Fertilizer           20      30     45      55     55     55      30     45      55     67      94
S alt                  4      7      8       9      9       9      7       8      9      12     1
W heat (Flour)       25      33     39      44     44      44     33     39      44      60     77
Vegetable Oils       10      15     18      20     20     20      15      18     20     25      35
OtherDry              10     19     25      31     31      31     19     25      31     40      54
Petrol                3       5     10      15     15      15      5      10     15     20      27
Diesel                6      11     22      32     32     32      11     22      32     42      56
Jet A-l               10     18     22      26     26      26     18     22      26      38     45
Subtotal             88    139    188    232    232    232    139    188    232    304    404
Exports
S ugar                 0      1      2       3      3       3       1      2      3       3      4
Tobacco                8     28     40      51     51      51     28      40     51      70     89
Tea                    1      2       3      4      4       4      2       3      4       6      8
Other                  3      6       8     10     10      10      6       8     10      17     20
Subtotal              12     37     52      68     68      68     37      52     68      96    121
Total Internatlo    100    175    240    300    300    300    175    240    300    400    525
DOM ESTIC
C linker            115    115    115    115    115     115    115    115    115    115    115
C oal                 17     17      17     17     17      17     17      17     17      17     17
F e rtilize r          4      4      4       4      4       4      4       4      4       4      4
M a ize              11      11     11      11     11      11     11      11     11      11     11 
Tobacco               18     18      18     18     18      18     18      18     18      18     18     o
Diesel                 6      6      6       6      6       6      6       6      6       6      6
Ethanol               6       6      6       6      6       6      6       6      6       6      6
Parafin &  Petrol    32      32     32      32     32     32      32     32      32      32     32
Total Domeslic    210    210    210    210    210    210    210    210    210    210    210
TOTAL               310    385    450    510    510    510    385    450    510    610    735






- 62 -                                      Annex 4.2
Page I of I
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Profit/Loss and Profitability Projections
(US$ 000)
Unit      1994/95    1995196    1996/97    1997/98    1998199    1999/2000
A. RESTRUCTURING CASE
1.  Overseas Trafflc                   Tons (000)       100        175        240        300        300          300
2.  Domestic Traffic                   Tons (000)       210        210        210        210        210          210
3   Total Traffic                      Tons(000)       310         385        450        510        510          510
4.  Revenue                             US$(000)     30660       38535     45360       51660      51660        51660
5.  Operating Expenditure               US$(000)     30461       30461      32268      34207      34207        34207
6.  Gross Margin                       US$(000)         199       8074      13092      17453      17453        17453
7.  Gross Margin as % - (7)/(4)                          1         21         29         34         34           34
8.  Depreciation                       US$(000)       12000      12000      12000      12000      12000        12000
9.  Total Expenditure                  US$(000)      42461      42461       44268      46207      46207        46207
11. Profit/(Loss)                      US$(000)    -11801        -3926       1092       5453       5453         5453
12. Assets                             US$(000)    403000    403000    387000    322000    322000            322000
13. Operating Ratio - (9)1(4)              .           138         110         98         89         89           89
14. Return on sales - (11)1(4)             %            -38        -10          2         11         11           11
15. Return on Assets - (11)/(12)           %           -2.9       -1.0        0.3        1.7        1.7          1.7
B. PRIVATIZATION CASE
1.  Overseas Traffic                   Tons (000)      100         175        240        300        400         525
2.  Domestic Traffic                   Tons(000)       210         210        210        210        210          210
3   Total Traffic                      Tons (000)       310        385        450        510        610          735
4.  Revenue                            US$(000)      30660      38535      45360       51660      62160       75285
5.  Operating Expenditure              USS(000)      30461      30461      32268       34207      34207       34207
6.  Gross Margin                       US$(000)        199        8074      13092      17453      27953       41078
7.  Gross Margin as % - (7)1(4)            %              1         21         29         34         45           55
8.  Depreciation                       US$(000)      12000       12000      12000      12000      12000        12000
9   Total Expenditure                  US$(000)      42461      42461      44268       46207      46207       46207
11. Profitl(Loss)                      US$(000)    -11801        -3926       1092      5453       15953       29078
12. Assets                             U S$(000)    403000    403000    387000    322000    322000           322G00
13. Operating Ratio - (9)/(4)          US$(000)        138        110          98         89         74          61
14. Return on sales - (11)/(4)             %            -38        -10          2         11         26           39
15. Return on Assets - (11)/(12)           %           -2.9       -1.0        0.3        1.7        5.0          9.0






REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Economic Benefits and ERRs
(US$ million)
No Project Case                                                            Proiect case                                            Benefits
Investments                                                                Investmtents                                                                Savingx in         Net
Without         'otal     Traffic     'I'raffic    Traffic  Transport         With        Total       Traffic    T'raffic     Traffic  'I'ransport  Iransport         Cash
Year         Project      Traffic     Nacala         Beira    Durban          Cost    Project        Traffic      Nacala        Beira    Durban           Cost        Cost        P'low
rooo  ITonnes                                                              (000  rounes)
A. Rcstructuring case
1996 *          1 00         650          100         100         450           85        15.94         650          175         100          375          80         4.73      -10.21
1997            1.00         675          100         125          450          88        10.09         675         240          125          310          79         8.82       -0.27
1998            1.00         700          100         150          450          90         3.04         700         300          150          250          78        12.60        10.56
1999            1.00         725          100         150          475          94         1.00         725          300         150          275          81        12.60        12.60
2000            1.00         750          100         150          500          98         1.00         750          300         150          300           85       12.60        12.60
2001            1.00         750          100         150          500          98         1.00         750          300         150          300           85       12.60        12.60
2002            1.00         750          100         150          500          98         1.00         750          300         150          300           85       12.60        12.60
2003            1.00         750          100         150          500          98         1.00         750          300         150          300           85       12.60        12.60
2004            1.00         750          100         150          500          98         1.00         750          300         150          300           85       12.60        12.60
2005            1.00         750          100         150          500          98         1.00         750          300         150          300           85       12.60        12.60
ERR       0 . 67                   W
B.  Privztiation case
1996'           1.00         650          100         100          450          85        15.94         650          175         100          375          80         4.73      -10.21
1997            1.00         675          100         125         450           88        10.09         675          240         125          310          79         8.82       -0.27
1998            1.00         700          100         150          450          90         3.04         700          300         150          250          78        12.60        10.56
1999            1.00         725          100         150         475           94         1.00         725          400         150          175          75        18.90        18.90
2000            1.00         750          100         150          500          98         1.00         750          525         150           75           71       26.78        26.78
2001             1.00        750          100         150          500          98         1.00         750          525         150           75           71       26.78        26.78
2002            1 00         750          100         150          500          98         1.00         750          525         150           75           71       26.78        26.78
2003            1.00         750          100         150          500          98         1.00         750          525         150           75           71       26.78        26.78
2004             1.00        750          100         150          500          98         1.00         750          525         150           75           71       26.78        26.78
2005            1.00         750          100         150          500          98         1.00         750          525         150           75           71       26.78        26.78
ERR       0.88
Trriff/Tonne (US5/Tonne)
Road                                  0            0          60                                                                                                                                s
Rail                                 52          68           73
Port                                 18          18           15
Cabotage                             15          15            0                                                                                                                               O 
Total tariff                         85          101          148
Year 1996 means IY 199.Y96 (I April 1995 - 31 March 1996) and soon






-64 -                                          Annex 4.4
Page 1 of I
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Key Indicators of Success
Item                                    Target                1994/95  1995196  1996/97  1997/98  1998/99   1999/2000
A. RESTRUCTURING OF MR
1  Incorporation of new companies          Completion Date      01/31/95
2. Transfer of assets to new companies      Completion Date      03/31/95
3. Retrenchment of surplus staff            Completion Date                         06130/95
4. Disposal of surplus assets              %                                   50       100
6. Revision of Railway-related Legislation  Completion Date                         03/31/96
S. REVITALIZATION OF NACALA
RAIL ROUTE
1  Overseas Traffic                        Tons (000)                145      175       240      300      400           525
2. Domestic Traffic                         Tons (000)               210      210       210      210      210           210
3. Total Traffic                            Tons (000)               355      385       450      510      610           735
4. Operating Ratio                          %                        138      110        98       89        94           61
5. Return on Assets                         %                        -2.9     -1.0      0.3       1.7      5.0          9.0
C. COMMERCIALIZATION/
PRIVATIZATION OF LS
1. Freight Traffic                         Tons (000)                 20       25        30       40       60            70
2. Passenger Traffic                        passenger Kms           9,600   10,000   10,500   11,000   12,000         12,500
3  Working Ratio                           %                          140     100        90       80       70            60
D. POLICY FORMULATION
1. Revised Transport Policy                Completion Date                          03/31/96
2  Use of software for policy analysis      Completion Date                         03/31/97






- 65 -
Annex 4.5
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI                                     Page I of 1
RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Envirommental Mitigation Plan
Action                                   Responsibility                   T'imeframe
Identify surface water discharges from workshops.                Malawi Railways.        First 2 months after initiation of
donor-supported project.
Correct oil separation system defects.                           Malawi Railways.        First 3 months.
Identify sources of groundwater contamination from               Malawi Railways.        First 4 months.
workshops.
Channel all oil-contaminated water into corrected separation     Malawi Railways.        First 5 months.
system.
Develop plan for intercepting groundwater contamination.         Malawi Railways.        First 6 months.
Improve monitoring and enforcement of local environmental        Local Government        First 6 months to I year.
impacts.                                                      authorities supported by
national Government.
Identify high priority environmental impacts from rail           Malawi Railways.        First 6 months to I year
operations, which may require:
* review of smoke emissions,
* review of hazardous material handling and transport,
* review of waste oil uses, and
* review of human waste discharges from passenger
services.
Implement plan for intercepting groundwater contamination.       Malawi Railways.        First year to two years.
Develop and implement plan for addressing high-priority          Malawi Railways.        First year to three years.
environmental impacts from rail operations.
Acquire necessary protective equipment.                          Malawi Railways.        First 2 months after initiation of
donor-supported project.
Replace missing and defective fire extinguishers and first aid   Malawi Railways.        First 2 months.
boxes.
Repair leaky roof in diesel overhaul building.                   Malawi Railways.         First 3 months.
Clear drainage system to make pits operable.                     Malawi Railways.         First 4 months.
Initiate analysis of experience with workshop accidents.         Malawi Railways.         First 6 months to I year.
Conduct safety inspections more regularly.                    Government of Malawi.      First 6 months.
Conduct audit of safety needs in workshops.                      Malawi Railways.        First 6 months to I year.
Increase the comprehensiveness of inspections under the       Government of Malawi.      First year.
Factories Act.
Establish more effective enforcement mechanisms for           Govemment of Malawi.    First year.
inspections under the Factories Act.
Design and implement a workshop safety improvement plan.         Malawi Railways.        First year.
Establish priorities for new safety investment program.          Malawi Railways.        First Year
Upgrade port facilities and vessels to improve the operating       Lake Services         First two years.
policies regarding control of pollutant discharges in the ports.






- 66 -                             Annex 5.1
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Documents in Project Working Files
1. Processing Documents (Black Book)
1.1 IEPS
1.2 FEPS
1.3  Authorization memoranda
1.4  Peer and Other Comments
2. Strategy and Historic Documents
2.1  Country Strategy
2.2  Transport Sector Strategy
2.3 RRP SAR
3. Standard Procurement Documents (To be obtained)
4. Feasibility and Detailed Design Studies
4.1  Malawi Railways Restructuring Project, Draft: Financial Analysis Technical
Working Paper by Abt Associates, Inc dated May 29, 1994
4.2  Malawi Railways Restructuring Project, Preliminary Draft: Valuation of Railway
Assets Paper by Abt Associates, Inc (undated)
4.3  Malawi Railways Restructuring Project, Preliminary Draft: Valuation of Lake
Services Assets Paper by Abt Associates, Inc (undated)
4.4  Malawi Railways Restructuring Project, Preliminary Draft: Housing Assessment
Paper by Abt Associates, Inc (undated)
4.5  Malawi Railways Restructuring Project, Preliminary Draft: Organizational
Analysis Paper by Abt Associates, Inc (undated)
4.6  Agreement of Cooperation entered into between The Direccao Nacional Dos
Nacional Dos Portos E Caminhos de Ferro and The Malawi Railways Limited
4. 7 Malawi Railways Restructuring Project (8/16) Memorandum of Understanding
between The Government and Republic of Malawi
4.8  Malawi Transport Sector Review Selected Issues (Two Volumes) Report No.
9909-MAI dated August 10, 1992
4.9  Transmark Draft Report -- Investment Plan for Malawi Railways (Three Volumes)
4.10 Malawi Railways Restructuring Project -- Draft Report dated 8/16/94 prepared by
E.C. Harrell Associates.
5. Policy Studies Completed
5.1 The Malawi Railway Restructuring Project, Preliminary Draft -- Transport Policy Analysis
Report prepared by Abt Associates, Inc (undated)
6. MR Statistics
6.1  Malawi Railways Limited, 1989/90-- Compendium
6.2  Malawi Railways Limited, 1992/93 -- Compendium
6.3 Malawi Railways Limited, Accounts and Statistics December 1993






MAP SECTION






MALAWI
N,k
RAI LWAYS
Nll; t \\RESTRUCTURING
PROJECT
PRINt If'Al RtAI)'
h    e                                              I'AS I I) k()AD) UlNDI R ( )NSl Rlf TIO(N
The  bou,ndo,es  colors ,                                i                                    I   I   RMIR tA,t
denom not,ons and  ony                 -                                                               R   R   t
othe, ,formotion shown                   I,                                                            I A, jM R..-
on  ths  mop  do  not            e                                                                     I F .IRh   II
mply, on  the  port of                            s - 
Thn  World  Bank  GroNp ONRIHIRN (O)RROI)tR Rl)l It
any ,dgment on the legal
stotus  of ony  terr tory,           ;
or ony  endorsement                 J                                                                  PORtS
or acceptonce of such              /'N,'  n                             '
boundores                                                                                              WVI Rl
rr,.,    t.5                           R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I SIR'AN 
L ~    ~~~~ 'P  t,It t4'                  .                                  A-'tIlNNN
\  4,  ,  \  *z   v  \  /                    @      I ~~~~~G ) DI SIR I  I  A I I IA I
,  2      }ot1~,t  : i        1t hl nnM7I                     W     0.511NAION     ( APIIAI
j  I , 9 ,<              Rlt l(tON BOUtNtlARII S
h  1t    9                |   /~~~~Nk 1
0                             t            -~~~
(___ _ __ __ _   /      _ .-   INliRNAlltN              OI            1 994
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~It I itR R4re o'55






IBRD 26396
a t BRZAILE-    X              K,      2                   e v      'n,
|   =NAi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
ZAI WE'  F-'AC 71C S>4a ~ '1
2t~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~No N- 7|,V                         'MAL\          / IN    NOC f 
ANGOLALWARL                                                          RESTRUCTURING
R.1 ZLF4BEM ~~~~~S - qI    <, A_  I \    SOUtHJ  'd    ) A   - - .:    j ~~~~~~~~-. + AIR MALAY4IROUTES
2  0 L A                 NdAC
L -7P
b.~~~~~~~~~S
NA&A. 1 8 A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~cft19



