Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 2958 CHA
(Phosphate Development Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated January 31, 1989
LOAN NUMBER 2958 CHA
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 31, 1989, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project;
(B)
Part A of the Project will be carried out by Guizhou Phosphate Company 
(the Company) with the Borrower's assistance, and as part of such assistance, the 
Borrower will make available to the Company the proceeds of the Loan as provided in 
this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 
deleted (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"MCI" means the Borrower's Ministry of Chemical Industry or any successor 
thereto;
(b)
"Company" means the Guizhou Phosphate Company, a state enterprise of the 
Borrower established and operating pursuant to the Charter;
(c)
"Charter" means the Charter of the Company, approved by Chemical Industry 
Bureau of Guizhou Province on May 12, 1988; 
(d)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and the Company 
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and  such term 
includes all agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(e)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and the Company, pursuant to Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement, 
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to 
such agreement;
(f)
"Special Account" means the account to be opened and thereafter 
maintained pursuant to Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
(g)
"tpy" means metric tons per year.
 
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to sixty-two million seven hundred thousand dollars 
($62,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars, a special account in a bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1993 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Page  3
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate per annum for each Interest 
Period equal to one-half of one percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings for the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such Interest 
Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
(c)
For purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means the six-month period commencing on each 
date specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, including the 
Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
 
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost of the outstanding 
borrowings of the 
Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, expressed as a 
percentage per annum, as 
reasonably determined by the Bank.
 
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on May 1 
and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end:
(i)
shall carry out Part B of the Project through MCI with due 
diligence and efficiency 
and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative and financial practices and shall 
provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project; and
(ii)
without limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the Loan 
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause the 
Company to perform all its obligations set 
forth in the Project 
Agreement, shall take or cause to be taken all action, 
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, 
necessary or appropriate to enable the Company to perform such 
obligations, and 
shall not take or permit to be taken any 
action which would prevent or interfere 
with such 
performance.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to the 
Company under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
the Company under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank and 
which shall include, inter alia: (i) interest payable at 105% of the variable rate 
payable under Section 2.05 of this Agreement; (ii) commitment charge calculated in 
accordance with Section 2.04 of this Agreement; (iii) repayment period of 20 years, 
including a grace period of five years; and (iv) the Company shall bear the foreign 
exchange risk for its subsidiary loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank 
and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement to affect the provisions of paragraph (a) above.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall maintain the Project Coordination Unit 
Page  4
established within MCI to coordinate implementation of the Project, with staff and 
responsibilities acceptable to the Bank.
Section 3.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and employment of engineering firms and consultants required for the Project, to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.05. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating 
to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports and maintenance, respectively) in 
respect of Part A of the Project, shall be carried out by the Company pursuant to 
Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.06. In order to assist in carrying out Part A of the Project, the 
Borrower shall:
(a)
furnish to the Bank semi-annually a report on the progress towards 
completion of downstream phosphate fertilizer plants necessary to assure full use of 
the output of phosphate concentrate of the project mine (Wengfu) including: the 
diammonium phosphate plant at Tonglin, Anhui Province; the diammonium phosphate plant 
at Guixi, Jiangxi Province; the diammonium phosphate plant at Dongting, Hunan 
Province; the nitrophosphate plant at Jinan, Shandong Province; and the nitrophosphate 
plant at Kaifeng, Henan Province; and
(b)
ensure that the Company completes the triple superphosphate plant at 
Wengfu in accordance with Section 2.08 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Part B of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, and 
those for the Special Account, for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months 
after the end of each such year, a certified 
copy of the report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
accounts and the audit 
thereof and said reports as the Bank 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, separate records and accounts reflecting 
such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for 
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account was made, all 
records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
Page  5
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such separate accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in 
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report thereof contains, in respect of 
such separate accounts, a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
proceeds of 
the Loan withdrawn in respect of such expenditures have been used for 
the purpose for which they were provided.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall allow the Company to sell its entire output of 
fertilizer and phosphate concentrate outside the state allocation plan at negotiated 
prices.
Section 4.03. Without limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall cover any cash flow deficits 
of the Company during its first three years of operations, provided such deficits do 
not result from inefficient management or operation, as determined by agreement 
between the Borrower and the Bank.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the Company shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement;
(b)
as a result of events which occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that the Company will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement;
(c)
the Charter  shall  have  been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the Company to perform 
any of its obligations under the Project Agreement; and
(d)
the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of the Company or for the 
suspension of any of its operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower and the Company; and
(b)
any event specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower's State Council has approved the Loan Agreement; and
 
(b)
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower 
and the Company.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
Page  6
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, executed 
and delivered on behalf of the Company, and is legally binding upon the Company in 
accordance with its terms; and
(b)
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Borrower and the Company, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the Company in 
accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing, 100820
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Han Xu
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
Page  7
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S. Javed Burki
Acting Regional Vice President
Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Equipment and              55,800,000      100% of foreign
     materials                                  expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory)
                                                and 75% of
                                                local expen-
                                                ditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured
                                                locally
(2)  Engineering,                1,200,000      100%
     licensing and
     technical
     services
(3)  Training for                  300,000      100%
     Part A.2 (ii)
     of the Project
     (Schedule 2)
(4)  Project                       200,000      100%
     management
(5)  Unallocated                 5,200,000
                                __________
           TOTAL                62,700,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$500,000, may  be made in respect of Categories (1) and (2) on account of payments 
made for expenditures  before that date but after February 5, 1988.
SCHEDULE 2
Page  8
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in: (a) establishing 
appropriate strategies for the development of an efficient phosphate industry, 
including investments to meet
fertilizer demand; (b) undertaking such major investments, providing a model for 
development of modern phosphate mines and beneficiation plants; and (c) strengthening 
central government staff capability for phosphate subsectoral planning.
Part A:
Wengfu Phosphate Mine
 
1.
Construction and equipping of: (a) an open-pit mine at Wengfu, Guizhou Province, 
to produce 2,500,000 tpy of phosphate rock; (b) a beneficiation plant to process 
phosphate rock into high-grade phosphate concentrate; (c) a slurry pipeline; (d) 
dewatering facilities; and (e) related infrastructure, including workshops, stores, 
offices, laboratory, power and water supply and housing.
2.
Strengthening the management and staff capabilities of the Company, through: (a) 
training of staff both (i) local and (ii) overseas; and (b) provision of consultants' 
services.
Part B:
Institutional Development
 
Strengthening the capabilities of central government staff and staff of the 
Company in project implementation, mine maintenance, sub-sector planning, and plant 
operation, through training of staff, and provision of consultants' services and 
equipment.
*        *          *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1993.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date of Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
November 1, 1993                                
1,145,000
May 1, 1994                                     
1,190,000
November 1, 1994                                
1,235,000
May 1, 1995                                     
1,280,000
November 1, 1995                                
1,330,000
May 1, 1996                                     
1,385,000
November 1, 1996                                
1,435,000
May 1, 1997                                     
1,490,000
November 1, 1997                                
1,550,000
May 1, 1998                                     
1,610,000
November 1, 1998                                
1,670,000
May 1, 1999                                     
1,735,000
November 1, 1999                                
1,805,000
May 1, 2000                                     
1,870,000
November 1, 2000                                
1,945,000
May 1, 2001                                     
2,020,000
November 1, 2001                                
2,100,000
May 1, 2002                                     
2,180,000
November 1, 2002                                
2,265,000
May 1, 2003                                     
2,350,000
November 1, 2003                                
2,440,000
May 1, 2004                                     
2,535,000
November 1, 2004                                
2,635,000
May 1, 2005                                     
2,735,000
November 1, 2005                                
2,840,000
May 1, 2006                                     
2,950,000
November 1, 2006                                
3,065,000
Page  9
May 1, 2007                                     
3,180,000
November 1, 2007                                
3,305,000
May 1, 2008                                     
3,425,000
 
________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of 
withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
 
Premiums on Prepayment
The following premiums are specified for the purposes of Section 3.04 (b) of the 
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed as a 
percentage per annum) applicable 
to the balance outstanding on the 
Loan on the day of prepayment 
multiplied by:
Not more than three years                          
0.15
before maturity
More than three years but                          
0.30
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                            
0.55
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not                         
0.80
more than 16 years
before maturity
More than 16 years but not                         
0.90
more than 18 years
before maturity
More than 18 years before                          
1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in China may be granted a margin of preference 
in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and 
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto. 
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
Page  10
1.
Equipment for which there are only a limited number of suppliers, as determined 
by the Bank, up to an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $8,000,000, may 
be procured under contracts awarded through limited international bidding procedures 
on the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids invited from a list of qualified 
suppliers, to be agreed with the Bank, eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance 
with the procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding 
paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
2.
Items or groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent of not more than 
$200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$3,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of 
price quotations solicited from at least three qualified suppliers from at least three 
different countries eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of more 
than $1,000,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank, pursuant to said 
paragraph 2 (d), shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first 
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract required together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the 
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply 
to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan 
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be retained in 
accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
In order to assist in carrying out the Project, the Borrower and the Company 
shall employ engineering firms and consultants, whose qualifications, experience and 
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures 
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank 
in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
Page  11
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $5,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the Special Account 
shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions 
of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a)
On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a deposit or 
deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for replenishment of the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. On the basis of such 
requests, the Bank shall withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special Account with 
amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan 
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for such 
deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account for which the 
Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to or at the time of such request, such 
documents and other evidence as the Bank shall reasonably request, showing that such 
payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.
(a)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, no 
further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by the Bank when either of the 
following situations first arises:
(i)
the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals should 
be made by the 
Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance
 with the provisions of 
Article V of the General 
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement; or
 
(ii)
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, 
minus the amount of any outstanding special 
commitment entered into by the Bank 
pursuant to Section 5.02 
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall 
be equal to the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b)
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures 
as the Bank shall specify
by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so 
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further deposit by the Bank into the 
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
Page  12
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount for crediting to the Loan Account.
