Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 2958 CHA
(Phosphate Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
GUIZHOU PHOSPHATE COMPANY
Dated January 31, 1989
LOAN NUMBER 2958 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 31, 1989, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND  DEVELOPMENT  (the Bank) and GUIZHOU PHOSPHATE COMPANY (the Company).
WHEREAS: (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the People's 
Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available 
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to sixty-two million seven 
hundred thousand dollars  ($62,700,000),  on  the terms and conditions set forth in 
the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Company agree to undertake such 
obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and the Company, the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will 
be made available to the Company on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS the Company, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Page  2
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context shall otherwise require, the several terms 
defined in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. The Company declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, the 
Company shall carry out Part A of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate  administrative,  financial  and engineering practices, 
and with environmental standards satisfactory to the Bank, and the Company shall 
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services 
and other resources required for its Part of the Project.
Section 2.02. The Company shall maintain the Project management team established 
for the purposes of carrying out Part A of the Project.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and employment of engineering firms and consultants required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Company shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement 
and Part A of the Project.
Section 2.05. The Company  shall duly perform all its obligations under its 
respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Company shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of 
amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement to affect the 
provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 3.02 of the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.06. (a) The Company shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views 
with the Bank with regard to the progress of Part A of the Project, the performance of 
its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and 
other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
The Company shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part A of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance of its obligations 
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.07. The Company shall:
(a)
prepare and furnish to the Bank for comment, by June 30, 1989, a 
comprehensive program to strengthen management and recruit and train staff; and
(b)
carry out such a program as agreed with the Bank, including the training 
under Part A.2 of the Project.
Section 2.08. The Company shall ensure that the triple superphosphate plant at 
Wengfu shall be constructed and ready for operations, in accordance with terms of 
reference and timing agreed between the Bank and the Company.
ARTICLE III
Page  3
Management and Operations of the Company
Section 3.01. The Company shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs 
in accordance with sound administrative, financial and engineering practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. The Company shall at all times operate and maintain its plants, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and 
administrative practices.
Section 3.03. The Company shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, 
or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and 
in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. The Company shall construct and operate the facilities under Part 
A of the Project with due regard to safety, ecological and environmental factors and 
in accordance with environmental standards satisfactory to the Bank.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Company shall maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, its operations and financial 
condition, including,
without limitation to the foregoing, separate accounts reflecting all expenditures for 
Part A of the Project.
(b)
The Company shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of 
income and expenses and related statements) 
and the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months 
after the end of each such year: (A) certified 
copies of its financial statements 
for such year as so 
audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and 
financial statements as well as the 
audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably 
request.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree:
(i)
the Company shall not incur any debt, unless the net revenues of 
the Company for 
the fiscal year immediately preceding the date 
of such incurrence or for a later 
twelve-month period ended 
prior to the date of such incurrence, whichever is the 
greater, shall be at least 1.2 times the estimated maximum debt service 
requirements of the Company for any succeeding fiscal year on all debt of 
the 
Company, including the debt to be incurred;
 
(ii)
the Company shall not incur any debt, unless a reasonable forecast 
of the revenues 
and expenditures of the Company shows that the 
estimated net revenues of the 
Company for each fiscal year 
during the term of the debt to be incurred shall be at 
least 1.2 
times the estimated debt service requirements of the Company in such year 
on all debt of the Company including the debt to be incurred;
Page  4
(iii)
the Company shall not incur any debt, if after the incurrence of 
such debt the 
ratio of debt to equity shall be greater than 
75 to 25;
(iv)
the Company shall maintain a ratio of current assets to current 
liabilities of not 
less than 1.2;
 
(v)
before October 31 in each of its fiscal years, the Company shall, 
on the basis of 
forecasts satisfactory to the Bank, review 
whether it would meet the requirements 
set forth in sub-paragraph 
(iv) in respect of such year and the next following 
fiscal year 
and shall furnish to the Bank the results of such review upon its 
completion; and
(vi)
if any such review shows that the Company would not meet the 
requirements set forth 
in sub-paragraph (iv) for the fiscal years 
covered by such review, the Company 
shall promptly take all 
necessary measures in order to meet such requirements.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the Company maturing by 
its terms more 
than one year after the date on which it is 
originally incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or 
other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms of 
payment on the date of such 
contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under a 
guarantee 
agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has 
been entered into.
(iii)
The term "net revenues" means the difference between:
 
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations 
adjusted to take 
account of the Company's prices in effect at 
the time of the incurrence of 
debt even though they were 
not in effect during the twelve-month period to 
which 
such revenues relate and net non-operating income; and
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration, 
adequate maintenance, taxes and payments 
in lieu of taxes, but excluding 
provision for 
depreciation, other non-cash operating charges and interest 
and other charges on debt.
(iv)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between:
 
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in the 
generation of revenues in (A) above.
 
(v)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments 
(including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and 
interest and other charges on, 
debt.
 
(vi)
The term "equity" means the sum of the total unimpaired paid-up 
capital, retained 
earnings and reserves of the Company not 
allocated to cover specific liabilities.
(vii)
The term "current assets" means cash, all assets which could in 
the ordinary course 
of business be converted into cash within 
twelve months, including accounts 
receivable, marketable 
securities, inventories and pre-paid expenses properly 
Page  5
chargeable to operating expenses within the next fiscal year.
(viii) The term "current liabilities" means all liabilities which will 
become due and 
payable or could under circumstances then 
existing be called for payment within 
twelve months, including 
accounts payable, customer advances, debt service 
requirements, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, and dividends.
(ix)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in terms 
of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such valuation 
shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such 
other currency is, 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of 
servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of 
exchange acceptable to the Bank.
(c)
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the obligations of the Company 
set forth in paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply until the end of the 
following fiscal years: (i) for sub-paragraph (a) (i), 1995; (ii) for sub-paragraph 
(a) (iii), 1997; and (iii) for sub-paragraph (a) (iv), 1996. 
Section 4.03. The Company  shall  prepare and review with the Bank, by October 
31 of  each  year,  starting October 31, 1989 and ending October 31,  1997,  its  
five-year rolling financial plans, including production, marketing and  investment 
plans, in the form of projected financial statements.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of the 
Companies thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its
terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify each of the Companies thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
440098 (ITT)
Page  6
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
For the Company:
Guizhou Phosphate Company
No. 170, Henan Town
Guiyang
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
4099
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or  permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of any of the 
Company may be taken or executed
by the General Manager of the Company or such other person or persons as such General 
Manager shall designate in writing, and such General Manager shall furnish to the Bank 
sufficient evidence
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S. Javed Burki
Acting Regional Vice President
Asia
GUIZHOU PHOSPHATE COMPANY
By /s/ Han Xu
Authorized Representative
