Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFCIAL USE ONLY
f>.je'viNv.!Ls  .H, u   N  -, tULiJ   j. [;   -jpQ *1 ' i ,   Report No.   10023
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
CHAMBAL (MADHYA PRADESH) IRRIGATION II PROJECT
(CREDIT 1288-IN)
OCTOBER 25, 1991
Agriculture Operations Division
India Department
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officia: duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       =     Rupee, Rupees (Rs.)
US$1                -     Rs. 9.00 at appraisal (December 1980)
US$1                =     Rs. 12.77 (average during project years 1983
through 1989)
US$1                =     Rs. 15.5 on March, 1989
Glossary of Terms and Abbreviations
CADA                Command Area Development Authority
cusec               Cubic meters per second
DRP                 Dam Safety Review Panel
ERR                 Economic Rate of Return
GOI                 Government of India
GOMP                Government of Madhya Pradesh
ha                  Hectare
km                  Kilometers
NEYRPIC            A French Proprietary Name
PMU                 Project Monitoring Unit
PTC                 Project Training Center
SAR                 Staff Appraisal Report
USAID               United States Agency for International
Development
WALMI               Water And Land Management Institute
FISCAL YEAR OF BQRROWER
Government of India and Government of Madhya Pradesh: April 1 to March 31.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.5.A.
Offic  ol Olrectol-. itIal
Opoatkhns Evaluatm
October 25, 1991
MEMORAUDUM TO. THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS A2D T PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on India
Cghbal (Madhva Pradesh) Irrieation II Project (Credi_ 128-IN)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on India - Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Irrigation II Project
(Credit 1288-IN)" prepared by the Asia Regional Office with Part II of the
report contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project has been made
by the Operations  Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document hu a restrcted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the perfomance
of their official dutl. Is contents may not othoewlse be disclosed without World Bank authodrAtlon.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPQRT
INDIA
CHAMBAL (MADHYA PRADESH) IRGATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1288-4N)
TABLE OF ONTENT
Preface .               ..........................................
Evaluation Summary .........                        .........................
PART 1: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity ......................................                                                   1
Background .......................................                                                        1
Project Objectives and Description ..........................                                             1
Project Design and Organization  ...........................                                             3
Project Implementation ................................. S
Project Results ......................................                                                   6
Project Sustainability ..................................                                                 8
Bank's Performance  ..................................                                                    8
Borrower's Performance ................................                                                  9
Project Relationship ...........9 9
Consulting and Support Services ............................                                             9
Project Documentation and Data ............................                                               10
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Comments on Bank's Review (Part I) ........................                                               12
Evaluation of Bank's Performance ..........................                                              29
Evaluation of Borrower's Own Perfornance ....................                                            30
Effectiveness of Relationship Between Bank and Borrower . ..........                                      30
Adequacy and Accuracy of Statistical Information  ................                                        30
PART Im: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Related Bank Loans and Credits (Table 1) .....................                                            36
Project Timetable (Table 2) .................,.,,..                                                       39
Schedule of Disbursements (Table 3) ........................                                             40
Project Implementation (Table 4) .........                  ..................                            41
Project Cost (Table SA) ................................                                                 44
Project Financing (Table SB) .............................                                               47
Direct: Benefits (Table 6A) .                    .................                                       48
Economic Impact (Table 6B) .............................                                                  49
Studies (Table 6C) .                                                                                      57
Status of Covenants (Table 7).............................                                               61
Staff Inputs (Table 8A) .................................                                                66
NMssions (Table 8B) ..................................                                                    67
Area Irrigated - Whole Command (Table 9A) ...................                                             70
AreaIrrigated-AIBD Area(Table9B) .......................                                                  71
Yields of Major Crops (Table 10) ..........................                                              72
Releases to Project Area (Table 1 1) .........................                                           73
Map IBRD 16044
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of theit official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
CHAMBAL (MADHYA PRADESH) IRRIGATION II PROJECT
(CREDIT 1288-IN)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Irrigation
U Project in India for which Credit i288-IN in the amount of SDRs 27.6 million was approved on
August 10, 1982. The c'.edit was closed on March 31, 1989, two years behind schedule. Final
disbursement was made on October 23, 1989 and SDR  1.1 million was cancelled.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the New Delhi Office of the Agriculture Operations
Division, India Department, Asia Region (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and HI), and the
Borrower (Part HI).
Preparation of the PCR was started during the Bank's final supervision of the project in
February 1989, and is based, inter alla, on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Credit and Project
Agreements, supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, and
internal Ba-k memoranda.



iii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
CHAMBAL (MADHYA PRADESH) IRRIGATION II PROJECT
(CREDT 1288-IN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Qbjetives
1.    The project's objectives were to improve the canal conveyance and drainage systems, to
construct additional roads, to prevent further encroachment of ravines into the project area, and to
provide a more reliable source of water supply to the tail end of the command area (para. 3).
Implementation E=prince
2.    From the start, the project was beset with management problems which slowed project
progress. However, the situation improved significantly in mid-1988 as a result of stable and
positive management, only to further decline during the project's final year. Major management
problems identified were: inherent weakness of the Ayacut Department's ability to control
activities of strong line agencies; and frequent changes in management staff in both the Ayacut
Department and the Command Area Development Authority (paras. 16-18).
Reults
3.    Project results were mixed. Canal security and capacity works, and aquatic weed control
works approached revised targets, while canal control works fell seriously short of target as did the
Ambah Intensive Block Development. Drainage, buildings, telecommunications and aerial seeding
(ravine arrestation) approached or exceeded their target, whereas roads and training facilities fell
short significantly (paras. 19 and 20). A major achievement of the project was the successful
integration of public sector tubewells into a canal irrigation project (para. 25). In addition, the site
investigations and studies of the Pagara, Kotinak and Pillowa dams recommended by the Dam
Safety Review Panel (DRP) which were carried out by the Ihrigation Department led to a firm
progiam for upgrading these dams (para. 22). The recalculated ERR for the project was 10.3%
compared to 35% estimated at appraisal for a total project area of 221,000 ha. For the Ambah
Intensive Block Development the recalculated ERR was 24.7% for a revised area of 35,000 ha
compared with 34% estimated at appraisal for 40,000 ha. For the remaining command area due to
canal and other improvements, the recalculated ERR was 7.9% for a revised area of 186,000 ha
compared with 35% estimated at appraisal for 181,000 ha. (para. 28).
Sustginability
4.    Benefits from the project may only be assured through adequate maintenance of project
works, and if outstanding prescribed works under state funding are completed. Urgent attention
should be paid to the drainage problem of the area to prevent environmental problems (para. 29).



iv
Findings and Lessons Lean
5.    The main lessons of the project are:
(i)    More time should have been devoted to the projec. preparation which could have
minimized management and technical problems encountered during prject implementation
(paras. 11-12, and 16-17).
(ii)   Project preparation and appraisal should have emphasized the condition of existing
dams that served the project area and the Bank's requirement for independent review of the
safety aspects of such structures (paras. 14 and 22).
(iii)  Field inspections during preparadon should have recognized waterlogging problems
in the project area, as well as the deterioration of drains constructed in Phase I, that could
cause environmental problems (paras. 12 and 29).
(iii)   Cost estimates should have been more realistic and adequate provisions for physical
contingencies and cost escalation should have been provided (para. 23).



PIOJECT COMPLETlONRjEPRQT
INDIA
CHAMBAL (MADHYA PRADESH) IRRIGATION 11 PROJECT
(CREDIT 1288-I
1PJABYJProiet Revw fOite Bnkll's P-ersDiective
Project Identity
Name        :     Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Irrigation II Project
Credit Number:     1288 - IN
RVP Unit    :     Asia Region
Country     :     India
Sector      :     Agriculture
Sub-sector   :     ITigation
Backoun-d
1.    Madhya Pradesh is the largest State in India geographically, and in 1981 had a population
of about 52 million, giving it a much lower population density than most other Indian states. The
State is rich in minerals and forests, and agriculture contributed some 55% of the State's domestic
production. Madhya Pradesh has a high hydroelectric generation capacity, and is one of the few
States in India without power constraints. Its population is about 84% rural, with about 20%
comprising tribal and backward classes. In 1979, about 66% of the population was below the
poverty line. In order to increase agricultural production and to make it less dependent on the
variable rainfall, the State has, since independence, given the highest priority to irrigation
development. In 1980, only 2.2 million ha had been provided with irrigation facilities out of an
estimated potential of about 12.9 million ha.
2.   In the 1970s, the Government of India (GOI) developed the concept of command area
development in response to the slow gestation rate of newly-developed irrigation projects and low
production generally. Authorities were created which were intended to focus on the lower
echelons of irrigation systems to carry out on-farm development, to organize and train farmers, and
to facilitate supplies of inputs. In Madhya Pradesh, a separate Command Area Development
Department (also known as the Ayacut Department) exists, whereas certain other States have
evolved a structure where the command area development element is the operating wing of the
Irrigation Department. The Ayacut Departnent was the lead agency in this project, and a senior
executive in the Indian Administrative Service of Commissioner status controlled all construction,
operation and maintenance activities within the Chambal Command Area Development Authority
(CADA). Under his administrative, but not technical, direction are units seconded from other line
departments, including the Irrigation Department, Agriculture Department, Public Works
Departnent, and Forest Department.
Pret. Qbjectives and Desgition
3.    The objectives of the Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Irrigation Project were: improvement of
both the canal conveyance and drainage systems; construction of additional roads; prevention of
further encroachment of ravines into the project area; and provision of a more reliable water supply
to the tail end of the command area.



2
4.    Phase II of the Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Irrigation Project consisted of the following
components:
a)    creation of the Ambah Intensive Block Development over about 40,000
ha in the Ambah Branch Canal command, incorporating augmentation
tubewells, the improvement of canals and water courses, and the
introduction of level top canal operation;
b)    upgrading of main canals and distribution network;
c)   improving main and link drainage;
d)    upgrading and extension of rural road network:
e)    ravine arrestation by plantations and conservation;
f)    canalside plantations;
g)   improvements to monitoring and evaluation activities;
h)    studies to examine supplemental water sources and to develop improved criteria for
operation and maintenance; and
i)    development of a training institute.
All the above components are defined in Table 4, (Project Implementation) and
Table 6C (Studies).
5J.    Te Ambah Intensive Block Development was the core of the project and consisted of the
following subcomponents:
a)    development of 24,000 ha in the Ambah Branch Canal distributary 33R
command in Morena district, and 16,000 ha at the tail of said Canal in Bhind
District;
b)   installation of 175 augmentation tubewells for supplemental supplies pumping
into the distributaries under public control;
c)    provision of level top canal operation on canals down to 6 cusecs to permit
ponding of water from augmentation tubewells as insurance against power
failures;
d)   installation of additional cross-regulators in canals down to 6 cusecs to permit
constant volume (constant level downstream control) mode of operation;
e)    trial installation of NEYRPIC hydraulically-operated gate cross regulators in
distributary 33R of the Ambah Branch Canal;
f)    full lining down to water course level and the installation of water control and
measuiing devices; and



3
g)    construction of 7 storage tanks at augmentation tubewell locatdons to examine
their efficacy in time of power failure.
6.    General canal improvement works outside the Ambai, Intensive Block Development areas
comprised the following:
a)    canal security works: to inhibit seepage and erosion by selectively lining the main
and branch canals;
b)    canal capacity works: to upgrade about 114 km of existing water courses to minor
canal status and about 176 km of disuibutary and minor canals with increased
capacides, together with improved head gates;
c)    canal control works: to install about 98 cross regulators, 7 escape structures, 21
bridges and 1375 chakl outlets; and
d)    aquatic weed control: to isolate breeding grounds from the main canals.
7.    The drainage component was intended to continue works initiated under the Phase I
project, and to relieve a further 4550 ha. Ravine arrestation was also a continuation of Phase I
over a further 11,000 ha. Canalside plantation was a newly-introduced component, intended to
prevent animals entering the canal, to reduce wind erosion, reduce evaporation from canals, and to
provide fuelwood over a length of 420 km of major canal banks.
8 .    The roads component was intended to improve project area communications by
construction of 25 km of new macadam roads, the widening and strengthening of 68 km of
macadam roads and of 183 km of black top roads, and ancillary structures. In addition to
miscellaneous buildings for the Irrigation and Public Works Departnents, some 47 building
complexes would be constructed throughout the project area for management, operation and
maintenance staff.
9.    The project c.st for the Phase II tize slice was estimated at Rs. 556 million (US$ 61.8
million). Detailed component costs are shown in Table 5A.
-roject Design and Organization
10.   The overall project concept was appropriate to the development requirements and the need
to improve equity of supply to project beneficiaries. It was a logical continuation of Phase I.
While the canal control works, canal capacity works, canal security works, weed control and
drainage, were all routine upgrading/improvement operations, the Ambah Intensive Block
Development was extremely innovative with respect to augmentation tubewells, level top canals,
and automatic gates. The canal and chak improvement works were to be to standards already
developed in northwest India. Other ancillary components, including road improvements,
buildings, studies and training were all infrastructural/support elements to raise project efficiency
and to provide institutional improvements.
I a "chak" is the lowest echelon in the system, commonly a 40 ha block, served by a
network of water courses and field channels and operated by the beneficiaries.



4
11.  'Ihe project management structure, with the Ay-^ut Department as the leadl agency for the
Government of Madhya Pradesh (GOMP), was prescr;bed by current and still existing GOMP
organization, and the project was framed around this structure.This same project inmanagement
structure worked reasonably well during the execution of the first phase of the project. However,
many of the difficulties experienced ;n the Phase II project may be directly ascribed to the
weakness of the systeia where the Ayacut Department had under its direction units fiom four major
departments (Irrigation, Agriculture, Forestry and Public Works Departments). This situation
resulted in a complex management structure, with staff nominally responsible to the command area
development authoiity (CADA) but with their careei strulcture in another. It would kave been more
appropriate for the Irrigation Depurtment to have been charg.d with irrigation and drainage works,
for the Public Works Department to have been responsible for roads and buildings, and the Ayacut
Department to have been in charge of conservation activities, infiastructural development and
studies. Other states have successfully assigned each specialty within a command area to the
appropriate line agency, with specified procedures for coordinadon. In general, this latter structure
was less dependent upon the individuials concerned.
12.   Except for the integration of groundviater component, the project could have benefitted if
more time was allowed for preparation. The feasibility of groundwater development was based on
inadequate information on groundwater quality presented to the appraisal mission which was not
critically examined by the mission and which resulted ini implementation delays. Reasons for
concern about preparation are:
a)    The project envisaged introduction of sophisticated "level-top" canal operation
procedures which required highly responsive gates and operations procedures,
which proved inappropriate to local conditions, and required either liniited trials in a
pilot area, or a far more detailed analytical basis for wider introduction. In
consequence, this central innovative element of the project was unsucc?ssful and
also resulted in delays in implementation.2
b)    In continuation of (a) above, NEYRPIC gates were specified to be installed in
distributarv 33R of the Ambah Branch Canal for demonstration purposes, but at
appraisal (Annex 7 para. 8 of the SAR) these were found to be too radical to be
introduced on a project scale. It was also determined during implementation that
importation of said gates were not feasible, and that they were unlikely to be
manufactured in India due to objections from the manufacturers and for
licence/patent reasons.
c)    40,000 ha specified for augmentation tubewells were not carefully reviewed for
groundwater quality. 16,000 ha area in the Ambah Branch Canal in the Bhind area
had to be abandoned due to high salir :ty. And only after further investigation was
the second augmentation tubewell area transfeiTed to the Bhind Main Canal.
d)    Based on a 1985 Landsat interpretation, waterlogging was a problem in areas
covering about 30,000 ha (about 9% of the command area). However, only 4550
2GOMP noted that it was at the Bank's recommendation that they agreed to electrically-
operated gates to provide uninterrupted supplies during shut-down periods. They considered this
to be too sophisticated for this type of operation. However, GOMP failed to come up with a
suitable alternative. At project closing, the test model installed by the Indian Institute of
Technology in New Delhi ha zI not been successfully demonstrated.



5
ha of drainage was included in Phase 11. It is likely that the area was marginally
smaller in 1980 at appraisal. However, the probletmi must have been well known to
the Agriculture Department at that time. In addition, field inspection would have
indicated how much dtterioration due to lack of maintenance had occurred on drains
constructed in Phase 1.
e)    The canal service road improvement component was not included at project
appraisal, though earlier identified. This was surprising in a project more
concerned with impro' ig operation and mainitenianice than with construction,
withiout which maintt,. . Bwould have been inhibited during the monsoon season.
The component was suu... .uently added with Bank agreemenlt.
f)    Funding of the training facilities was not included at initial project idendfication and
preparation, although it had been considered at appraisal. Following GOMP
recommendation, the Bank subsequently agreed to inclusion of this component in
September i983, a delay which was partly responsible for its slow development.
13.   The two most positive aspects of the project were the installation of augmentadon tubewells
and the formation of the Project Monitoring Unit (PMU). Due to power availability in Madhya
Pradesh, the augmentatior. tubewvei. had, under the project, improved production at canal tail
areas. The PMU had carnied out excellent monitoring and evaluation to assist project management
and state agricultural planners to improve project operation, and to draw conclusions generally on
the operation of projects of this type.
14.   The project is served by one major dam and three minor dams in Madhya Pradesh, and two
major dams and a barrage in Rajasthan. The Bank's operational guidelines required independent
review of the safety aspects of all dams serving the project. Given the age of some of these
structures (several were built in the early part of the century), preparation and appraisal did not
place adequate emphasis on their condition. It took Bank supervision missions until March 1987
to persuade the Irrigation Department of GOMP to take positive action in ensuring the safety of the
structures.
15.   The appraisal of the project was less than satisfactory: a central aspect of the project (the
advanced canal operation proposals) was poorly analyzed; the groundwater resource for
augmentation wells was not critically assessed and subsequently proved to be problematic; and the
proposal to introduce rotational water supply system was not understood or not supported by the
Borrower. This background affected implementation, which in any case was not smooth, by
adding uncertainties, revisions, and the basis for disputes. GOMi had commented that the advice
received from Bank's supervision missions was not always consistent, causing further delays and
confusion. However, the extent of reformulation requlired during execution presented supervision
staff with problems and issues to resolve. While the appraisal process was not as detailed as it
should have been, it was inevitably limited by the inadequacy of the preparation work available to
the appraisal staff.
Project Implementation
16.   Table 8B indicates that at no time did the project rise above 2/1 rating (under the old rating
system), and, between January 1985 and February 1987, it was close to being a "problem
project." Thereafter, in response to stable and positive management, it improved significantly until
mid-1988 when it commenced a further decline, only to be rated by the final supervision mission
as a "problem project" in February 1989. Two major reasons for the decline are:



6
a)    inhetent weakness of the Ayacut Department's ability to control the activities of
strong line agencies; and
b)    frequent changes in management of both the Ayacut Department and Chambal
Command Area Development Authority and associated project staff.
17.   Partly as a result of the somewhat complex management and funding structure of the
project, the paradoxical situation arose in several financial years where unit managers complained
of shertages of funds, yet at the end of the fiscal year unutilized funds were returned to GOMP. In
addition, staff responsible for the dam safety and quality control aspects of the project, felt that due
to the management structure. they were unable to impose their authoaity in the project which was
controlled by another department. Without Bank intervention, this would have had serious
consequences instead of just being a cause for delays.
18.   Table 7 shows that project covenants were generaily complied with satisfactorily, with the
exception of those pertaining to funding, studies, rotational water supply3, and submission of audit
reports.
Project Results
19.   Project physical achievements are shown in Table 4. Canal security works, canal capacity
works and aquatic weed control works almost reached revised targets. Canal control works on the
other hand fell seriously short of their targets. This last component is esseniial to better canal
operation on which the project rationale is based and therefore has serious implications. Ancillary
components had mixed results in that drainage, buildings, telecommunications, and aerial seeding
(ravine arrestation) almost reached or exceeded their targets, whereas roads and training facilities
fell short significantly.
20.  In the Ambah Intensive Block Development, most components fell significantly below
revised targets. In the case of augmentation tubewells, this was due to the need to relocate 71 units
from Bhind area of the Ambah Branch Canal to the Bhind Main Canal command due to salinity.
Water course lining has achieved dismal results due to indecision by the Irrigation Department on
designs and materials4, and to procurement delays. Indeed during the February 1989 supervision
mission, it was learned that the project had unilaterally decided to halt further works due to high
costs. However, it was fully demonstrated during the drought year of 1988 that the 103
augmentation tubewells now operational in 33R command of the Ambah Branch Canal provided
considerable irrigation potential and helped to maintain irrigation supplies.
21.   The Water and Land Management Institute (WALMI) had initially been intended for
locadon either at Gwalior or Raip?ir. Following GOMP request, the Bank agreed to relocation of
WALMI to a central location at Bhopal to serve the State more easily, provided a project training
3This project objective was consistently resisted by GOMP, and as a result there were
problems with the definition of the appropriate infrastructure. While GONlIP has noted that this
caused delays in execution, it was in fact resistance to an agreed project concept.
4GOMP notes that changes by the Bank in the specifications of materials allowed for lining
led to delays in this component: this is true, but the changes were an attempt to improve on the
quality of works, which were unacceptably poor based on the original standards.



7
center (PTC) was established in the project area to satisfy project needs. WALMI was
subsequently funded under the nationwide USAID program, and funding was deleted from the
Credit. To date only temporary premiises exist for demonstration farms. There are still no PTC
facilities at Morena to cater for project training requirements, although they are soon to be
constructed in the Commissioner's Complex. While WALMI, Bhopal has followed a highly
ambitious and successful training program, the programs at the proposed PTC facilities could not
be organized due to delays in completion of infrastructure. However, training programs were
temporarily conducted at the Agricultural Farm in Morena for departmental field staff and farmers.
22.   Dam safety requirements were neglected by the Irrigation Department until they were made
stringent conditions for the first Credit extension in March 1987. As a result, GOMP caused its
Dam Safety Review Panel (DIRP) to inspect all project related dams in Madhya Pradesh and
Rajasthan. Emerging from these reviews were recommendation for remedial works on the major
dams and barrage well upstream of the project. With respect to Pagara, Kotwal and Pillowa dams
within the project area, the Irrigation Department carried out all site investigations and studies
recommended by the DRP in a competent and diligent manner, such that an approved detailed
program of remedial measures on each dam had been developed. GOMP has committed to carry
out these works. The positive, albeit dclayed, studies leading to a firm program for upgrading
these dams is a major success for the project.
23.   Project costs are shown in Table 5A. From a time slice target of Rs. 556.3 million (US$
61.8 million), actual expenditure at the final closing date of March 31, 1989 amounted to Rs.
707.2 million (US$ 45.6 million), with an estimated additional Rs. 375.6 million (US$ 24.2
million) required to complete outstanding works prescribed under the time slice. This gives a
revised project cost estimate of Rs. 1082.8 million (US$ 69.8 million). Some of the reasons for
an almost doubling of project costs when actual prescribed q~.antities were in general reduced were:
inadequacy of cost estimates due to out of date unit rates and inaccurate quantities, increase in labor
and materials cost, and rise in establishment costs as a result of the two-year credit extension.
24.  In common with many other projects in India, studies were in general very delayed. Table
6C describes these fully. Studies under the direction of the PMU concerning project monitoring,
and those under the direction of the Irrigation Department on dam safety, were well-executed. The
Management and Maintenance Study which was awarded in June 1987, was suspended soon after
initiation due to funding problems. The Water Resources and Management Study was awarded in
June 1988. The study of the operation of NEYRPIC automatic gates was not possible as the
project imported only one gate instead of several as intended. The study of an electrically-
controlled gate was commenced after its installation in December 1988. In short, a most
disappointing record in a project designed to consider improved water management above all other
aspects.
25.   The major impact of the project has been the successful integration of public sector
tubewells into a canal irrigation project. Although it is still too early to quantify the impact of this
component, continued irrigation in areas served during the drought of 1988 is clear evidence of
their contribution as indicated in Table 9B. Since project inception, the improvement in reliability
of power for the augmentation tubewells has meant that the level top principle is no longer
important, in that pumping can reliably be made to coincide with canal releases. Indeed, in the
relocated augmentation tubewells in the Bhind Main Canal area, level top earthworks will not be
required. Another variation in this area is that the augmentation tubewells are situated such that
should farners on each minor canal form responsible and accountable cooperatives, the
auginentation tubewells would be handed over to them for operadon and maintenance, and
possibly for running costs payment. This is a most important experiment, which could have far-



8
reaching results in India.
26.   The Chambal Irigation System and the Chambal Inrigation Project have contributed
significantly to poverty-reduction and social improvement in the project area through increased
availabili.y of water for irrigation. This is especially true for the tail end areas previously so
tenuously supplied with water. The major adverse effect has been the large built-up of water
logging, which, if not corrected, will worsen.
27.   The results of the project must also be considered in the broader perspective of the Chambal
Irrigation System operation, which should not be considered totally in conjunction with
improvements under Chambal Irrigation Project. The objective of the project was to progress from
about 188,000 ha irigated (aggregate of two seasons) in the late 1970s to 221,000 ha at the end of
the current project. However, reference to Table 9A shows that there has instead been a decline to
124,000 ha in 1982/83, followed by a gradual rise again to over 169,000 ha during 1986/87,
1987/88 and 1988/89. The reasons for this disappointing achievement are excessive diversion to
powerful groups at the head end of the system, erratic supplies released at the Rajasthan/Madhya
Pradesh border at Parvatti aqueduct, (as shown in Table 11), and inappropriate canal operation.
Thus, by this criterion, the project has not been a success. However, yields over the same period
have dramatically increased as shown in Table 10. This increase was due to increased use of
fertilizer, improved agricultural extension, and in places, improved water reliability. Indeed,
Chambal is considered to have one of the highest yields of crops in the entire State.
28.   Reference to Tables 6A and 6B shows benefits derived from the project. Direct benefits in
Table 6A show a marked rise at the projected full development of 250,000 ha compared with
appraisal estimates. Table 6B shows the project's economic impact. The recalculated ERR for the
project as a whole was 10.3% compared to 35% estimated at appraisal for a total project area of
221,000 ha. For the Ambah Intensive Block Development the recalculated ERR was 24.7 for a
revised area of 35,000 ha compared with 34% estimated at appraisal for 40,000 ha. For the
remaining command area due to canal and other improvements, the recalculated ERR was 7.9 for a
revised area of 186,000 ha compared with 35% estimated at appraisal for 181,000 ha. The decline
in ERRs was mainly due to cost overruns, delayed benefits, and decline in economic prices of
some commodities.
Project Sustainability
29.   The project works, if adequately maintained, are likely to yield continued benefits. This is
contingent on all outstanding prescribed works being completed under State funding. A major
concern is the ominous development of waterlogging and consequent salinity, which would
develop into the serious "usar land" (wasteland) problem similar to that in neighboring Uttar
Pradesh. It is urgent that GOMP attends to the neglected drainage of the area to prevent
environmental problems.
Bank's P    ance
30.   The Bank should have allowed more time for GOMP to prepare the project, as evidenced
by the groundwater quality in Bhind area the Ambah Branch Canal and the increase in project
costs. Although the Ambah Intensive Block Development was the most important component, it
was undoubtedly over-imaginative and non-replicable with respect to automatic controls. Drainage
estimates were seriously below requirements.
31.   As Table 8B shows there was an almost total absence of agriculture input in project



supervision up until early 1985, when the multi-discipline task force concept was introduced by the
Bank's Agriculture Unit in New Delhi. Thereafter, all the required disciplines were involved in
project supervision. Partly as a result of this, perfoimance ratings improved. Its later decline was
due entirely to project management deterioration, which the Bank clearly pointed out but with
negligible effect. It was only at the first Credit extension that the Bank was able to persuade
GOMP to tackle the drainage problem pragmatically, to initiate the two major water resource and
management studies, and to initiate serious dam safety studies. On the subject of water
management training, the Bank provided technical assistance.
Borrower's Performance
32.   The project's performance was satisfactory under the following components: monitoring
and evaluation (due to a well-managed and staffed PMU), augmentation tubewell installation, canal
security and capacity works, and ravine arrestation. However, except between 1986 and 1987
when progress was reasonably satisfactory, the performance of project management and the
component units (with certain exceptions) was below optimum resulting in delays in filling staff
vacancies, equipment procurement, and construction, and delays in carrying out studies and dam
safety activities, and confused financial allocation to component units. This is not a criticism of
individual performance, but rather of the weakness of the project institution.
Project Relationship
33.   Personal and professional relationships between Bank and Borrower's staff were always
cordial. GOMP without exception provided promptly project data requested by the Bank.
Consulting and Support Services
34.   The following government organizations, acting as consultants, undertook the following
project-financed studies:
a)    Water Resources and      -      Central Water and Power Research Station
Management Study                (CWPRS), Pune in Association with Water
and Power Consultant Services (WAPCOS).
b)    Management and           -      WALMI, Bhopal
Maintenance Study
c)    Dam Safety Study         -      Central Soils and Materials Research Station
(CSMRS), Delhi and Central Water
Commission (CWC).
d)    Canal Bank Road Study    -      Central Road Research Institute (CRRI),
Delhi
35.   All project construction was undertaken by contractors. Watercourse lining and road
construction works, also carried out by contractors, were of substandard quality, and action is
being taken by GOMP to improve quality of works.



10
Project Documention and Data
36.   The SAR with its supplemental data volume were detailed with respect to institutional,
management and technical aspects, and provided Bank staff with adequate guidance on the
project's development and its components as intended at appraisal.
37.   As noted above, the PMU carnied out exemplary work in reporting, monitoring and
evaluation which were of high standard. GOMP's project staff prepared data required for the
project completion report.



11
PART II
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



12
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Comments on Bank's Review Contained in Part I
-…__ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _
Summary of observations                        Comments
recorded In the PCR
(a) Paras 1 to 9 deal with  lnttoduc    No comments.
-tion & broad outlines of the
'lihse-11 of Chambal Irrigatlon
Project.
(b) Para 10 and 11 of the               CADAs have been set up basically
Project Completion  Report -        to Induce and effect coordination
Many of the difficulties experi-   amonst different departments lik e
-enced In  Phase II   Project       Irrigation,Agriculture,Forest ,Public
may, be directly ascribed to        Works etc, to bring activities of
(1) tha weakness of the  system    all the major departments under
whereby the Ayacut Depart ment   the umsbrella ol Coiiiitnainft Are a
has to coordinate activities of     Development Autliority.Tiie Nni'sion
four major department (ID,AD,       has pointed out that credit should
FI) and PWVD),and (1i) having       have flown to the different dlepart-
non-technical IAS officers In       -ments for thelr sectoral works and
administrative charges. It Is       Ayacut Department for conservation,
considered more appropriate        ,infrastructur a 1 development and
that the Credit should have         studles   only.This  arrangement
been made with the Irrigation      ;for   credit  flow   could   have
Department as lead agency for       been  made  but the Coordination
all Irrigation and drainage  works ,by   the  Commissioner  at  the
the PVD rand the lead agency        CADA level Is Imperative because
for roads and buildings and        in  the  lack   of  coordination
Ayacut Department only with         at CADA level, the performance
respect to conservation,            would  be  still  worse.  It  is
infrastructual development,and    i Incorrect  to  say  that  having
studies. Each agency would have   a   non-technical   IAS   officer
had separate  tasks with            In  administrative   charge   was
appropriate fund allocations        not  propitl6us  to  the  ef ilcient
Implementation of various works.
Hlaving  various  sectoral  works
In command area to be Implemented
by   different  ciepartments.their
coordination  by  an  IAS  officer
at  CADA  level  Is  unavoidably
lmperative.Therefore,the observa-
-tion of the World Bank Mission
A. not based on a factual assess-
-ment and  practical  difficulties
pertaining to the Implementation
of  the  CADA   activities.T he
things  would  have  been  much
worse  if  the  arrangement  as
suggested  by  the  World  Bank
Milssion   were  to  be  made.I n
fact,  the   Ayacut   Department
should have had more powers
to   coordinate  the   activities
which  would  have  made   the role of
jCommissioner much more effective.



13
Summary of observatlons                        Comments
recorded In the PCR
(c)  Para 12 of the PCR - Reasons       The  Bank  have  Indicated  that
for concern abo.ut preparation      level. top canal and down-stream
of the Project.                     control principles of canal
regulation were not suited to
(I) Para 12(a) of PCR:              this project where automatic
gates or electrically operated
The level top canal and        gates manned constantly by
down stream  control princl-   vigilant staff would be required.
-ples require,automatic        This principle of canal regulation
gates or electrically operated was adopted only on the recommen-
gates manned constantly  by    -dation made by the World  Bank
vigilant staff.Automatic gates  and the entire plan In thils respect
are not manufactured in India  was prepared under the guldance
and their Import Is not        of the Bank. This system  of canal
permitted.As the cross         regulation   Is  suited   only  to
regulators on the distribution 'the most sophisticated projects
system(not the main canal      elsewhere In the World. Therefore
system) ,are large In number   there  was  an  inherent  draw-
it Is out of question to       back  In the  planning of Phase-I1
expect gate operators to        with  regard -to canal regulation
provide vigilant,round the     and the Bank cannot absolve Itself
clock operation.Thus it  Is,  from  this responsibility. We agree
not seenhow the systm could    with  the  observation   of  the
have operated In practice by   World  Bank   Mission   but  the
Installing manually operated    res ponsibility    for    pitfalls
standard cross regulators.      Is to be shared by the WVorld
Bank also.
(i)  Para 12(b) of PCR
Neyrpic ga.tes were specified   Neyrpic   gates   were  Installed
to be Installed In distri bu    only for demonstration purposes.
-tory 33R of ABC for demons- Later  on  It  was  reallsed  by
-tratlon purposes.In  suppleF.  the  Bank  that  It  could  not
-mental data volume It was    be   replicated    because   such
admitted by the Wlorld Bank   gates could  not be manufactured
that the gates were unlikely   In India  and  their  Import  was
to be manufactured  In India   also  not  feasible.  The  Bank
due to many reasons like        has  Itself  Indlcated   In  the
objections from  the manufactu- Proje6t-Completion-Report       In
-rers and grant of licence etc. this Para that It Is Inexplicable
as to why such non-replicable
(111)  Para 12(c) of PCR               system  was set up for demonstra-
-tion.This error was also committed
Two areas specified for ATW   only   on   the   recommendation
covering 40,000 hectares        of the  Bank  and  the  Bank  has
were hot carefully reviewed   to   share   the   responsibility
for ground water quality.Oniy  for this also.
one mention has been made
In very correspondence during 16000  ha.  area  In  ABC  Bhind
preparation and thereafter      area  had  to  be abandoned  due
It was assumed to be            to  high  salinity.In  any  ground
satisfactory.                   -water    Project ,water   quality
Is   Invariably   the   dominant
parameter.  In the  field  report
of December 29, 1983 the Milssion



14
Summary of observatlons                         Comments
recorded In the PCR
had observed that 'WVater quality
is not expected to pose problems,
particularly   as  the  augmentation
well  water  Is  blended   with
surface  water."  It shows  that
the   Bank   had  approved  the
site Initially which was changed
when chemical analysis of the
water quallty was done.
(lv) Para 12(d) of PCR             it has been  mentioned  In  this
Oara  of  the  PCR  Itself  that -
WVith the present extent       the   problem   of  water-logging
of water-logging covering      *as  not  well  apprehended  at
about 30,000 ha.(about         the time of formation of Phase-II
9% of the command area),       of Chambal Irrigtion Project.This
It is Inconceivable  how       was  also  an  Inherent  defect
only 4550 ha. of drainage      In the planning which envisaged
was specified for Phase-II.   Qnly   4550   ha.for   drainage.
Entire   planning   for   Phase-II
had been done under the guidance
of the  Bank.  Apart  from  the
officers of Agriculture & Irrigation
Department at the time of formation
of   Phase-II,the   officers   of
the Bank also did not foresee
this problem.
Now   direclives have been
lisued to the officers of Irrigation
Department to prepare a Master
Plan  for  drainage  In  Chambal
Canal System.
(v) Para 12(e) of the PCR          Undoubtedly canal service road
Improvement   Is   an   Integral
Canal Service Road Improve-  confiponent   of   Command   Area
-ment was  not Included In    development.This        shortcoming
the SAR but was subsequent-   had  been  made  at  the  time
-ly added with Bank agree    of preparation of SAR but later
-ment. This Is surprising in   reallsed  by  the  Bank.Against
a project more concerning      the target of 125S  Xms of WBM and
with Improving operation       183 Kns of Brroads,113.424    Kms
and maintenance than with      of WBM Roads have been construc-
construction. Without all      -ted  and  169.236  Kms. of  BT
weather service & Inspec       road   strengthening   has   been
-tion roads,maintenance        done till September.1989.
would necessaaily be
lhhibited In the Monsson
season.



15
Summary of observatlons                         Comments
recorded in the PCR
(vi) Para 12(f) of the PCR -        The funding  of   the    training
The funding of the training    facilities   should   have   t)een
facillties was not Included     Included at initial Credit composition
at Initial Credit composition   so  that  activlties  could  have
al though It had been consi-   been  started  right at the  time
-d,ored at appralsal.Pollow-   of Inception of       Phase-Il.lt
-Ing the representations        was neither thought out at
made by Govt. of M.P.           the   time   of  preparation   of
the Bank subsequently agreed  Phase-ll nor was It recommended
to this In September,1983,      by the Bank.It may he mentioned
a delay which was partly        here that the entire plan for
responsible for Its slow        Phase-I1   had   been   prepared
development.                    under the active supervision of
the  Bank.lIad  there  been  any
such  suggestion  from  the  13ank
It  would  have  found  a  place
In the Intitial Credit composition.
Therefore,it had been an error
on the part of the Bank also.
(d) Para 13 of the Project Completion  These  two  areas  which  lhave
Report - The two most positive    been  rated  by  the  Bank  as
aspects of the Project were  thel  areas  of  success  are  actually
Installation olf ATWs,and the        the  two  sectors  where  a  lot
formation of the Project Moni-       of  reformative   and  remedi al
-toring Unit(PMU).The  former        works have to be done to make
has,under the adequate power        them   useful   and   success  In
avallability  for the staff,been     a  true  sense.  Performance  of
demonstrated to have fully           ATWs   durlng   the   last  flabi
justified the rellance placed        season  and  the  current  season
In It to assist the production       cannot be evaluated to be ent-irely
at canal tall areas.The latter       satisfactory, If  a  cost - benefit
has carried out excellent            analysis  Is  done.  It  has  also
monitoring and evaluation to         been  noticed  recently  that  the
assist project management.           ground   water  level  in  wells
In  the . vicinity  of * some  of
the  ATWs has start ed  receding
which may pose drinking water
problem   in  future.So   Is  the
case  of  the  Project  Monitoring
Unit.Though many studies have
been  conducted,these  have  not
contributed   to   monitoring   of
the   different   programmes   of
Phase-lI.lf this Is the stanclard
of tating done by the Bank.then
peirformance   of  other   scintrs
should be classified as excellent,
If a factual analysis Is done.This
Is  only  a  subjective  analysis
of  the   Bank   officerh   which
Is not based on facts and fig4res.



16
StPImary of observatlons                        Comments
recorded In the PCR
(e)  Para 14 of the PCR - The             The Bank have  polnted          out
preparation and appraisal of         Its  own  deficiency   and  etror
Phase-II did not place adequate   for not giving adequate emphasis
emphasis on the safety aspect        to  dam   safoty  aspect  at  Ihe
of all dams serving the              time of preparation and appraisal.
Project .
(f)  Para 15 of the PCR - The             l'here  are undoubtedly Intia-
appraisal, given the weaknesses   contradictions,omisslons           and
In preparation was thosough          Inclusion of Impractical schemes
and the SAR and SDV are              In  the  SAR,  some  of  which
well documented and clear.           !have   been   reflected   in  the
There are certain minor contra-    aforesaid paras.
-dlctiong between the SAR and
SDV however on technical
issues and component sizes.
(g)  Para 16 of the PCR - Between         The  Bank  have  indlcated  t)iat
January,1985 and February,1987    between January,1985 and February
It was verging on being a            1$87.   the  project was nearing
"Problem project.' Thereafter        a status of "problem  project. "
In response to stable and positive lIhereafter It gained considerable
management,it Improved signi-        impiovement   till   1988,  after
-ficantly until mid 1988 when It   which  It commenced  the  further
commenced a further decline,         decline   and   acquired   status
only to be rated by the final        of a 'problem  project" In February
supervision mission as a             .1989.  This  observation  of  lhe
"problem  project' In February,    Bank Is not based on any factual
1989.Two major reasons may be    analysis. The Bank  In  Its  field
Identified.                          report  of  date   May  30,1988
has   termed   year   1987-88   a
(a) Due to the Inherent weakness  bad   year   and   year   1986-87
of the Ayacut Department's    having    a   satisfactory    pace
ability to control the acilvi-  of  Implementation. Para   2   of
-ties of stronger line         ,!he  Field  Report of the  Wolid
agencies; and                    Bank  Mission  April  19  to  28,
1Q88 reads as following
(b) Over frequent changes                   "The  Project  which   has
In management of both           recently developed a satisfactnry
the Ayacut Department and       pace  of  Implementatlion  In  FY
Chambal CADA and,associ.ated  1986-87    suffered    a   setback
project staff.                   In the following FY 1987-88.
The  World  Bank' Mission
had  Indicated  In  Para   3  of
Its Field Report of visit during
October 25 to 28,1988 mentioned
as follows t
" The    overall    physical
progress  In  the   Project  has
shown some marginal Improvement
since   the   last   revleiw   from
68% to 72% of the target amount."



17
Suinmar y of observations                         Comments
recorded In the PCR.
In  paia  3  of  the  Field
Report  of  World  Bank  Mission
(April 19 to 28,1988) ihe Mission
has lndlcated as follow;g
'The    overall    physical
progress   In   the   Project   Is
static   since  tho   last  review
at about 68% of the target amount.
The    excerpts   aforesaid
exemplify   that   thie   analysIs
of   thfe   Wor ld  Blank   Nil ssioni
In  the  PCR  Is  not  basedt on
actual  performance  and  fac:tial
informatlon  and  is  contiovetted
by   the   previous   findings   of
the  Bank  itself.ln  the  Pioject
Completion    Report   the   Bank
ha s  pointed   out  the   peuiod
between January,1985 and February,
1987  as  worse  and  April 1987
to mid 1988 as very good.while
In  the  Field  Repott  (April,19
to  28,1988)  It  has  mentloned
that   financial   year   1986-87
had   a   satisfactot y   pace   of
implementation  and  got  a  set-
back In the' following financial
year  1987-88.  Further  It  has
been   mentlioned   In  the   same
Field Repoit that overall physical
progress   was   static   at  68%.
In  the  Field  Report  of  visit
of  October  25  to  28,  1988  It
has  mentioned  that  there  was
some     marginal      Improvement
since   the  last  review   which
had   been   done  In  the  imonIh
of April,1988.The overall physical
progress which had been static
at  68%  till  April, 1988  shiowed
an improvement after April,1988
to come to 72%. Though it may
be    a    marginal   improvement
but  It  certainly  gained  some
momentum after April,1988 and
broke   an   Inertia    prevailing
In  the   preceding   year.These
Inferences  can  be  drawn  from
the  observations  of  tIhe  lVorld
Bank  Mission  which  have  been
narrated  In  the  previous  Field
Reports.
After mid 1988 a selective
review of the activities undergoing
In   phase-II   had   been   taken
up.   Works   like   earth   wotk



18
Summary observations                             Comments
_ _acorded Ln the PCR            -
ror wage storage, which Involved
only   a   wantnful   ox pondltitre
had    bcen    guspendlod.   Since
the   'Level   Top   Cana3'  and
'Down Stream  Control Principles'
of  canal  regulatlon  were  found
no longer suitable In the Chambal
command,therefore.such       wot ks
were  stopped.  Mote  emphasis
was   given   to  canal   conlrol
wot ks  which  was  the  pivotal
activity  to Introduce an effie lent
canal-regulation    In    Chamibanl
Canal  System.  Aftor  mid  1)88,
11  more  cross  regulators  were
constructed Increasing the nunibet
to 58, which further got increiased
to 66 till Decemb 'r.1989. Agenicies
were fixed for installing gntes
for the  ctoss  tegulators. Other
Impor tant   works   which   were
of  the   patamount   Importance
for the canal system like canal
protection     works.improvement
of  the   canal  service   toads,
drilling   and   energisation   of
ATWs ,construction of Commissioner's
Complex   at  Morena constructlon
of  WBM   roads  and   BT   road
strengthening were accelerated.Lining
of water cources in AIBD area
was found to be too expensive,
therefore,lt was suspended.
Rating   this   project   by
the   final  supervision   Mission
as  a  'problem  project" canlot
be  said  to  have  been  based
on  any  logical  method  and  It
is  not  known  what  parameters
have  been  considered  by  the
Bank for declaring the project
ag a Problem  Project. As admitted
by the Bank Itself In Its Project
Completion    Report .there   were
.some   Inherent   drawbacks   I n
the planning of Phase-I1 whilch
-compounded  the  problems during
the course of Its lmplementallon.
However.lt Is worthmentil;ning
here  that In  response  to better
management   practices   Intto4u
cod   during   the   year  1988-89
*the  crop   ylelds  have  showrtb
*  a  quantum   jump  In  the  year
1988-89  which  Is  evident  from
Annexute-1. It has been appreciated
by  the Bank also In        Project
Completion  Report  In  Para  27.
Tola i area  I ir r-Igated   by  tce
canls"lia   alo %own an increse



19
--------  --         -     --                ---     -------
Summary observations                           Comments
recorded In the PCR
durlng tho year 1988-89 - lAnnoxure- 21
(h) Para 17 of the PCR - The             The Chlief      Engineer.Irrisallon
Gwallor Zonal Chier Engineer        Department,Gwallot   was   also
of ID.who is responsible for the  actively involved In the lmplemen-
dam  safety and quality control    -tation  of  Phse-1I  as  well as
aspects of the projent. felt        the  water  management  practices
unable to Impose his authority    In Chambal command. Ills nurgotilons
In a project controlled by          were   always   welcomed   and
another depaitment and              It  Is  Incorrect  to  say  that
managed by a senior IAS officer..  he  felt  unablo  to  Impose  his
authorlty.  In  fact, on  ac.ouint
of the dual  control, the Chairman
of  the  CADA   sometimes  felt
It difficult io Impose authotity
over  the  officers  of 1 riganlon
Department   .  it  necessitates
that the power of the Chalrman
CADA  should  be  well  defined
In a system where dual control
exists.
(1)  Para 18 of the PCR - The            Delays  in  submission  of audit
status of. covenants during         reports   were  always   avolded
Project executlon Is given In       excepting when It was unavoidable
Table 7. From this,it Is noted      During   the   year   1988-89  an
that they were generally            area of 2665 Hectares was biought
complied satisfactorily,wlth        under   RW (Warabandi).In   the
the exception of those              preceding  3  years  area  uinder
pettaining to funding,studles       R%V  was nil. In the  year 1989-90
RWS, and submission of audit        having  been  directed   by  the
reports.                            Department   of  Command   Area
Development.Government of Miadhya
Pradesh,3hopal  vide  Its  letter
No.  6-2/82/Aya/40   dated
28-7-1989,   this   work   was
entrusted   to   the   It-rigation
Department I.e. Chief Engineer,
lrrigation.Gwallor.  ItALMI   and
CWPRS Pune were ala0 requested
to  expedite  completion  of the
studles entrusted to them under
Phase-II which showed a favourable
response durlng the year 1989-90.
(J)  Para 19 of the PCR - It is          Durlng  the   year  1988-89  and
noted that canal security  works , 1989-90, 19 more cross-regulators
canal capacity works and  aquatic were  constructed.  Agency  ror
weed control works were able tQ  Installation of gates was fixod
approach thelr revised targets. | reallsing   the   fact  that  this
Canal control works on the other  activity which was most essontial
hand fell seriously short of        to  better  canal  operplion  had
their targets.This last component  been lagging behind In past.Activi-
-ties pertalning to conRttirctt.ln



20
Suimmary of obser vatlons                      Coitments
tecorded In the Pt...
Is essential to better canal        of Project Training Cenire,Morena
operation on which the  project    was   also   accelerated   during
rationale Is based,and therefore   the  last  year.Likewise, undor
this has serious Implicatlons.       roads component, against a target
Ancillary components had mixed    of  125.5  Kms  of  WBM   road
results,in that drainage,buildings  115.14 Kms. have been constructed
telecommunications and aerial       till  December ,1989.  Under  nT
seeding (ravine arrestation) were  road   strengthening. against  a
approachIng or exceeded their        target of 183 Kms. strengthening
targets.whereas roads and training has  been  completed  In  169.236
facilities fell short signl-         Kms.  till   December,1989.  It
-ficantly.                           shows that these are only margi-
-nally behind the targets.
(k) Para 20 of the PCR - In the          Sites  Of 71  units of ATWs had
AIBD element,most components fell been  shifted  from   Shind  area
signilficantly below  their revised  of ABC to the command of Bhind
targets. In the case of ATWs,       Main Canal on account of salinity.
this was due to the need to         Water Courses lining got delayed
the shifting of sites of 71 units   not  merely  due  to  Indecision
of Bhind area of ABC to the Bhindby   IrrlIgatlon   Department  On
Main Canal command following       'designs and materials as mentlonei
abandonment of the former due        ln the PCR but It    also sufrered
to salinity. Water course lining    due   to   confusing   directives
has achieved dismal results,due   Issued   by  -the   Misslon   from
to Indecisions by ID on designs    time to time. In the SAR bricklining
and materialso and to procure-    was   permitted    which   later
-ment delays.Indeed during the    on  got  changed  to  first class
February,1989 supervision Mi3slon ,brIcks   after   being   directed
it was learnt that the Project had by the Milsslon during the course
unilaterally decided to halt furtherof  their  visits.
works due to 'high costs.'However,         Lateron  the  Bank  insisted
It was fully demonstrated durin8   upon    half    round-pipe-lining
drought year of 1988 that the        which   was  found  to  be  too
103 ATWs now operational In         expensive   and,therefore,   the
33R command of ABC provided          work was suspended after October,1988
considerable  Irrigation potentlal'  under intimation  to  the  Mission
and helped to maintaln  Irrigation  during  theli  visit In  the month
suppiLes.                            of. October.1988.
(1)  Para 21 of the PCR - There are   Building work for Project Training
still no PTC facilities at          Centre at Morena coule  not bed
Motena to cater for ptoject         started   early  due  to  delays
training requirements,although      in  site  selection.  This  Issue
they are soon to be consttucted   has  been  resolved  during  the
In the CommissLoner's Complex       preceding    year   and   concept
theze.While WALMI Bhopal has        plan for Project Training Centre
rollowed a highly ambitious and   has  been  submitted  to  WALMI
successful tralning program,         Bhopal, which has been forwatded
virtually nothing has been          to  EFCOS  for  further  scrutiny
Introduced at Morena.In this        and modificatlon.ilowevet, ttaining
the Project has seriously            programmes  had  been  regularly
defaulted.                          lorganised   In  the   Agricultute
Farm Miorena and In the 'dirfetent
villages making special effnits
dutrInt the ptecedinR Iwo ye.'r .whlrh
Is evidiencedi hy the ohqervnHinn



21
Summary of obser vations                         Cornmlcirt.
recorded *ln the PCR.
of the World  Bank Misslon
narrated  in  Para  62  of  the
Field  Repoi t  sent  after  their
visit   duirlng   October   25   to
28th October,1988.
"Project Training Centre at Morena
ha  continued to function effectively
b.y  Importing  organized  training
to field staff of related depaitments
In   project   specific   activity
as  well  as  to  large  body  of
farmers   on   various   essential
Inputs for planningcrop strategies."
Hence  this  obser va t Ion  of  the
Bank  Is  not  based   on  facts
and Is in contravention of the
previous  finding  of  the  World
Bank  M1ission  recorded  In  the
Field ReporI(Visit 25 to 28 Oct.88)
(in) Pata No 22 of the PCR- WVith         Nb comments
Xespect to Pagara,Kotwal
Pillowa tams within the Project
area tt ei ID cariled out all
site 1 'estigations and sludies
recommended by the DRP In a
competent and diligent manner,
such that an approved detailed
program of remedial measures
on each dam has been derived.
Government of Madhya Pradesh
has committed to carry out
these works.The positive(albeit
delayed) studies leading to a
firm program for upgrading
these dams Is a major success
of the Project.
(n)  Para No 23 of the PCR-The            It  seems   that  Initially   thle
reasons for an almost doubling        project cost was not realistically
of project cost estimate when         assessed.There  are  many factors
actual prescribed quantities          attributing    to   the    doubling
have In general reduced since        of the project cost like extension
project lnceptlon are not clear.    of the period of Phase-II which
It can only be assumed that           contributed  to  more expenditure
cost estimates at prepatation         on  establishment.Rise  In  labour
were grossly inadequate, due to   rates   and   material  cost  are
out of date unit rates and            some other factors.
inaccurate quantities.
(o)  Para No 24 of the PCR-In common  The Wlorld Bank have expressed
with many other projects in           satisfaction over the studies
India studies In general got          executed by PNIU and that regarding



22
Suniaz y of obser vations                       Comments
tecorded In the PCR
tics ci I bed             - - - - - - -
very delayrd. Table 6 C                    Dam Safety aspect . hec
decscribes these fully. Those under        was  an  initial  delay  in
the direction of the PMU on                awarding  studles regarding
project monitoring and those               water resources and manage-
on dam  safety by ID were well             ment  to  CWPRS  Pune.Now
executed.In spite of vets1stent            draft  reporls  have  bcen
Bank representatlon, It was not            prepared  and  final report
until the first credit extension           is  lo  be  submitted   by
was due In March,1987 that                 CWPRS,Pune.
the Water Resources and                           Neyrpic automatic
Mlanagement Study,and the M.anage          gates and electrically
-ment and Management Study                 controlled IIT gates weTt-
were finally ready for award.              Installed In the Chambal
The former was not actually                Command    Canal    Syslem
awarded until June,1988,but Is             on experimental basis. NC! ypic
now under actiVe and competent             gate   was   Installed   on
exetution by a competent                    the advice of the WVorld Bank.
Indlan consulting consortium.              It was a wasteful exercise
The latter awarded to WALMI                 which has been criticised
B3hopal In June,1987 was                    In   Para   12(b)   of  Ihe
suspended soon after  Initiation            PCR Itself.It seems that
due to non-release of funds by             the Bank also wanted to
Ayacut Department,and has since             conduct some experiments
,nade no further progress.Both             about the feasibility  of
the latter studies were the                Nerypic and IIT gates.
subject of covenants.The study              Such schemes which ate
of the operation of NEYRPIC automatic   only taken up on experimental
gates was not possible,as the               basis cannot be widely
project Imported only one gate              Implemented so long as
Instead of a group as Intended.             a firm conclusion Is not
The study pf an electrically                arrived at regarding   such
controlled gate has only  recently          experiments.The Bank
begun due to its late Installa4ion          have also now reallsed
In December,1988. In short,a most           that Installation of one
disappointing record In a  project          neyrpic automatic gate  was
designed to consider Improved               not   a   just  scheme   to
waler management above all                  Introduce In the Chambal
other aspects.                              Canal System  which Is not
po sophisticated.
(p) Para No 25 of PCR-The major                  During   the   course   of
Impact of the project has been              implementation   of  Phase-II
the successful integration of              It was reallsed titat the level
public sector tubewells Into a              top canal system  of waler
canal ltrigation project. Although          Regulation    was   not   a
It Is yet too early to quantify             success due to many factors.
the effect with confidence,the              Therefore this concept was
continued Irrigation In areas               abandoned In relocated ATWs
served during the drought of                of Bhind Main Canal area.Now
1988 Is a clear evidence of their           proposals have been sent
contribution as Indicated In table          to the Government for
9 B. Since Project Inception,the            providing direct irrigatlon



23
Summary of observations          X           Comments
recorded In the PCR     …-                        --
Improvement in iellability of              fiom  the ATWs In Bhind
power for the ATWs has meant               Main Canal area.It would
that the level top principle               be premature to arilve
Is no longer importait, in that            at any conclusion regarding
pumping can be reliably made to            the performance of AT%Vs
coincide with canal releases,              In Chambal Canal System.11
Itdeed, In the relocated ATW's             can be meaninpfully evaluated
to Bhind Canal area,level top              after a course of time  taking
earth works will not be required           into account Its cbst-benefit
Another variation In this area             analysis.
Is that the ATW's are sited such
that should the farmers on each
minor canal form responsible and
accountable cooperatives,the ATW's
would be handed over to them for
operation and maintenance.and
possible for running costs
payment.This Is a most important
experlment,which could have far
reaching results in India.
q) Para No 26 of PCR-Due to the                It  Is  agreed   that  thle
improvements brc'ght about by              Chambal irrigation Syslem
CIS genetally the Incidence of             and Chambal Ittigation  Ptoject
bn4idlttry In this notoriously lawless     have brcught prosperity  In
area Is markedly diminised.This            the area contrlbuting
is specially true for the tall             significantly to social
end areas previously so tenuously          Improvement.On account  of
supplied with water.Thus the               constant monitoring and
CIS and CIP have contributed               vigil ,Irrigation In tall
significantly to social lmprove-                Increased duilng  the
ment.Poverty In the tall end area          last  ygar.A   master  plan
has also been reduced.The n:ajor           Is   being   prepared   by
adverse effeot has been the                the Project-Engineers  to
large built up of water logging,           take curative measures In
which if not corrected will                the water-logged ateas.The
extend.                                    Project - Engineers   have
also   been   directed   to
prepare a Pilot Project
**  *tfor the same.
(r)  Para 27 of PCR - It Is recalled             In   Phase-I1,   a   target
that the Intention of the Project           of 2,21,000 ha. for irttigation
was to progress from  about                 was  envisaged.This  could
188.000 ha. irrigated(aggregate)            not  be  achieved  due  to
of two seasons) In the late                 many   factors,the    major
1970's to 221.000 ha.at the         i       being   that   area   undet
end of the current project.                 Kharif could not be incteased.
Ilowever,reference to Table 9A              People  have  also  suit ted
shows that there has Instead                growing  HY  ctops  which
beeh a decline to 124.000 ha.               have high delta. llowevetr
In 1982/83 followed by a                    area    Itrigated    dut ing
gradual rise again to over                  the  yeat  1988-89  is  the
169.000 ha.during 1986/87,                  highest after 1980-81.which



24
Summary or observatlons                        ConifncnIs
feco:ded In the PCR                 - _  _-__
disappolnting achievement are       The yeat 1988-89 also witnessed
throught to be excessive            a quantum  jump In the productivity
diversions to powerful groups       and  total   production   In  the
at the head end of the system,   Chambal    Canal    System,which
ertatic supplies released at         is evident from Annexure-3.Targe t
the Rajasthan/MP border at          of 2,21,000 ha.cannot be achieved
Parvati Aquaduct,(as shown           because of the ptevaillng cropping
In Table 11),and Inappropriate       pattein  in  the  area.Theze  Is
canal operation.Thus by this         also   under-reporting   by   the
criteria ,the Project has            lowet functionaries of Itigatlon
not been a success.However,          Departrment   peltaining   to  the
yields over the same period          lIrigation-statistics.
have dramatically Increased as             Cultivators In lhe command
shown In Table 10.                   have  switched  over to oilseeds
and cash crops malnly mustard.which
has increased faim Income In
the Chambal Coimmand System.While
growing mustaid ctop the cultiva-
-tors   keep   the   land   fallow
and  take  only  this  crop  In
a year. Therefore a latge area
remains     mono -cropped.Efforts
are afoot to' change the ciopping
pattern In the command.
Target of 221 Lakh ha.was
envisaged  In  the  SAR  at  the
time   of  evolution   of  Phase-II
keeping  in  view  of 'the  fact
that after completion  of Phase-lI
the  benefits  accrued  out ,would
lnctease  the  toal area litigated
to  2.21  Lakh  hectares.As  all
the  wor ks/activities  of  Phase-II
have  not  reached  their  state
of  completion,this  target  could
not be achieved at this transitional
s,tage  when  the  full  benefits
out 6f the activities  of Phase-II
remain still to be expected..
(s) Pata 28 of PCR - In spite of          (1) Economic  Rate   of   Return
Increased yield there is a                vwill   show    an   lnctease
depression In the Economic Rate           only   after  completlon   of
of Return due to serious cost             all the activities of Phase-1l
overrun and delayed benefit.              when   they   reach   their
full development stage.
(2) In  the  Bhind  Main  Canal
Main   Canal   area   whete.
direct     Irrigation     flom
the ATW Is also proposed,more
intensive.  cultivation   will
be  done  fortming  societies
of the farmers.



25
Suminaty of observations                       Comments
recor ded In the PCR
11t)  lala 29 of PCR-The Ptoject          Ptoposals have been sent to
wot ks if adequalely maintaitied    cieate two tDralnagc Dlvisions.
ate likely to yield continued             The concerning
benefits.This Is contingent on all  departments have been entiusted
outstanding prescribed works         with the tesponsibility of
belng completed undex State          completing the Incomplete wo kls.
funding.A major concern Is the            Howeve I,t may be mentioned
ominous development of water-        here that the maintenance funds
logging and consequent salinity      of the system are too scarce
which would develop Into the         for its fuither up-keep and
setious"Usar land'problem            maintenance.
similar to that In neighbouring
Uttat Pradesh.It Is of the
utmost urgency that GOMP
attends to the neglected
drainage of the area to prevent
such an envlionmental disastet.
(u)  Pare 30 of the PCR- The Bank         Performance of the Bank has
(did not ensure a sound prepara-   been evaluated In this Para
tion by GOMP,as evidenced by         by the Bank Itself. Apait fiotn
the groundwater quality in           this there have also been some
Bhind area ABC,and the sharp        intra contradictions in the
subsequent increase in costs.        directives Issued by the Bank.
Although the AIBD was the most   Misslonswhich created a state
Important component ,it was          of confusion and delay In tihe
undoubtedly ovetimaginative,         execution.Some of them  can
and non-repilcable with respect    be enumerated as follows:-
to automatic conttol.Drainage        (1) Relocation of the TVs
estimate were seriously below             from ABC to Bnf C ah ea.The
requitements.                             Bank had initially advised
that  water   quality  would
no. be expected to pose
problem  on the presumption
that the augmentation well
water Is blended with
sur face water.
(2) The' Bank had also agreed
initlially that APM outlets
would not be requited
throughout in the Chambal
Canal System(as mentioned
In Pata 6 of the Field Report
of the visit between Jan.31
and Fe.1,1984).Installation
of pipe.outlets had been
suggested at such places
where mlnors were llned.Latet
on the Bank Insisted on
Introducing only APM outlets
throughout In the command.
This caused delay In the
construction of outlets,



26
Summsi ty of observations                          Cominments
tecoidecd In the PCR
(3) As menttoned In Para 18 of
the SAR linilng by locally
manufactured bilcks had
been suggested,which was
later on changed to class-I
bricks and furthet to  Half
round pipes.
(4) Above all It may be mentioned
here as admitted by the t3ank
itself that level top canal
principle of water regulation
was too imaginative toq be
Implemented practically In
the Chainbal Canal System.
Canal Control-wotks was
the most Important activity
which,having got delayed,due
to a faulty planning,advetsely
attected   executlon   of  the
other allied activities.
(v)  I'ara 31 of the PCR- The               The conslusion of the Bank  Is
pet for mance ratings Improved         not based on  factual infor matIon
to their peaks In late 1987.   .            b
Later dlecline was due entirely        and Is controve ted by previous
to pioject management  deterl-         findings of thie Bank itself
oiaton,hichtheBankclerly     made from  time to time after
oiateon,which  the Bank clearly        visits of the World Bank Mission.
pointed out but wlth negligible        This has already been detailed
effect.It was only at the first        l   aa--o   h   omns
credit extension that the Bank         In Pata -g- of the comments.
finally Induced GOOMP to tackle
the drainage problem
pragmatically,to Initiate the
two major water resource and
management studies,and to
Initiate serious dam safety
studies. In the subject of
water management training,the
Bank made a large contribution
with Its consultants under Bank
financed technical assistance.
(w) Para 32 of the PCR- Apart               As Indicated In the foregoing  Pata
from a period ov er about              (g)the version of the Bank  is
1986 and 1987,the petformance          not Lased on facts.Undoubtedly
of the project management and          there   have   been   some  diaw-
the component uilts(with certain   backs in the execution of Phase-Il
exceptions)was below  optimum.         works.Reasons for this have  been
Long delays In filling staff           narzated In brief In the foregoing



27
Summary of observallons                     Comments
recorded In the PCR
vacancles,procurement of equip-    paas. \hen the project started
mcnts,delays to most component    on a wtong footing,the execution
consttuction,delays In carrying     alone  cannot  be  expected  to
out studies and dam  safety         rectify the Inhetent defects
activities,confused financial       and deliver best results.
allocation to component units       Regarding    the    reotganisation
etc. ,ate evidence of this.Only     of the Command Azea Development
in the field of inonitoring and    jAuthorlty,a thinking Is going
evaluation(due to a well           *at the Government level to
managed and staffed PMU) ATWs   reorganise and rejuvenate the
Installation,canal security and     stTucture.Pio' osals   have   also
capacity wor ks,and ravine aires-  been sent to the Goveinment that
tastion has the ptoject             the funding In the command
peiformed satisfactoilly.This       areas should be as enforced
Is r'at a cliticism  of Individual   in the Sub-Plan areas.
performance,but rather of the
weaknesses of the present mode           Proposals  have also been
of placing project development      sent zto     onment  form the
managmentwith  he Aacutmoder nization of the Chambal
Canal System  and other components
Depa *tment.                        which are considered necessary
after termination of Phase-II.
(x) Para 33 of the PCR-Inspite of        Relationship between the   Bank
perlods when the project was        and BorTower 's staff were
not per forming well and the        always     cordial .There     have
need for Bank Missions to make    been some Instances of lack  of
pertinent crlticism  of It,         efficiency at some levels for
personal and professional rela-    which the Government was
tionships between Bank and          tequested to take suitable action.
Borrower's staff were always        Performance of the Project  was
cordlal.GOMP without exception    also   affected   on  account  of
provided promptly any data          the fact that there was vatience
tequested by the Bank.              In the directives Issued by the
World Bank from time to time
as mentioned In the comments
of Para 30 of PCR.
(y) Parr 34 of the PCR- The              No comments
foll owing Govt.organizations
were concerned with study
executlon.acting as consultantst
(a) Water resources h Nanage-    CWPRS PUNE
ment Study.                     In associatioi wIth(WAPCOS)
(b) Management and Maintenance      WALMI BHOPAL
Study.
(c) Dam Safety Study                CSMRS & CWR
(d) Canal Bank Road Study           CRRI  NEW  DELHI



28
Stimmar y of obser vatlons                      Comments
recoided in the PCR
(z)  Pain 35 of the PCII-AlI              Action Is being taken regarding
conisltuction in the project         sub standard works.
was by contractois.Those
car1 ying out water course
lining and road constructlion
were not of adequate standard
generally.
(aa) Para 36 of the PCR-The SAR           Observations of the t3ank
witih Its SDV were detailed          a re  agreed excepting that
with iespect to Institutional,       thete were Inclusion of too
managenment and technical            Imaginative activities and
aspects,and provided both            omissions of some lmportant
project staff and Bank               activities.
supervisois with adequate
guldance on the project deve-
lopment and Its components as
intended at appialsal.Legal
documenits were very limited
In paillcular convenants,
and that covering dam safety
was particularly lacking.
(ab) Para 37 of the PCR-As noted          It cannot be denied that many
above,the PMU car r led out          studies had been conducted
exemplary work In the Ptoject,    by the PMU,but the monitoring
and repoiting,monitoring             aspect In the PMU was not
and evaluation were all to           effective as desired initlally.
high standard.At PCR
piepatation,the Project
staff pr-epared data require-
ments In the required format.



29
Evaluation of the Bank's  erformance durin  the
evolutioni an3  neienaoLothe Project -w th
s;ecia1 emhaqis on le-ssons i~earnt-
This point has been covered  -under the precedirgsection and
contains a detailed analysis regarding short-fall under
different activities and the areas of success, Some of the
areas where performance of the Bank was not propitious to the
efficient execution of the Phase-II works are mentionedr
belows
(1) The level-top canal and down-stream principle of water
regulation was too imaginative to be implemented
efficiently in the Chambal Canal System,which is not so
sophisticated. On account of this faulty planning other
important activities were also adversely affected.
(2) 75 Augmentation Tubewells. had to be relocated to Bhind
Main Canal area on account of salinity, The previous site
for the 74 Tubewells had been approved by the Bank on the
presumption that the Augmentation Tube-wells water is
blended with surface water. The Bank has to share the
responsibility for the same, Which delayed implementation
of this scheme.
(3) Initially the Bank had approved installation of pipe
outlets where minors were lined. Later on the Bank
insisted on introducing only APM outlets throughout in the
comnmand. This variance in the directives caused delay in
the construction of outlets and adver.sely affected the
.execution of water-regulation-system ultimately.
(4) In the SAR (Para 18) lining of water courses with locally
manufactured bricks was permitted. This was ohanged to
Class A bricks and further to half-round pipe lining. This
variance in the view taken by the Bank in respect of
water-course lining affected execution of this work.
(5)   Water-logging problem was not well apprehended at the
time of formation of Phase-Il Project and a provision was
made only     for 4550 Ha. of thte lind for 'Irat1iaqv. Now
gravity of the problem have been realised and the Project
Engineers have been directed to prepare a Master Plan
and a Pilot Project for drainage in consultation with the
officers of Department of Agriculture.
(6)   Proposals have also been made for modernisation of the
Chambal Canal System keeping in view the deficiencies
prevailing after the termination of Phase-Il.



30
Evaluation of the Borrower's-own performancesUndoubtedly
there have been some deficiencies on the part of Project
officers for which action has already been initiated.
However, it would not be out of context to mention here
that some of the problems were compounded on account of
the ermpneous planning. This point has been discussed at
ler    in the preceding sectiQns.   . TNe Bnk has been hypex
r  cal to dome ox tne areas p3rtaini g to
smpIementation of Phaso-Il. Fin Ings of the Bank have been
controverted by the previous observations made by the
World Bank recorded aftoe  the visits of the Utorld Bank
Missions from time to time.
Effectiveness of the relationship between: the Bank
an3 the Bo-rrowers
The relationship between the two has always been
cordial during the evolution and implementation of the
Project.
AdeQuacY and accuracy of the factual information
contained  n Part-III of,1the PCR.
- Table I                    Table No.1 relates to the Project.,
located in Madhya Pradesh for which
-World Bank Credit has been extended.
Table No.2 -               No comments.
Project Time Table
-  Table No.3 -               No comments.
Schledule of
disbursement.
-  Table t1oo4 -              Reasons for shortfall under different
Project Implementation   activities have been analysed and
detailed under Part II    prepared
by the CADA which specify the
comments on the analysis contained
in Part-I of the PCR.
-  Table 5-A                  Reasons for increase of the Project
Project costs,             cost have been mentioned under
Para (n) of Part II    of the report
prepared by CADA.
-  Table 5-B                  No Comments.
Project financing
-  Table 5-A                  No comments.
Direct benefit.



31
Table 6-B                  Benefits of Phase II have not
Economic impact.           accrued  fully on account of the fact
that all the activities of Phase II
have not reached their full develop.
ment stage, ERR will show an increase
only after completion of allPhase II
schomes.
- Table 6-C                   The matter is under considieretion
Studies Public Road         at the State Government level.
Study.
Drainage studies.           The Project officers have been
directed to prepare a Master Plan
and' a Pilot Project for taking
curative measures in the water-logged
areas. Proposals have also been sent
to the State Government for creating
two separate Divisions for drainage-
Work exclusively.
- Rest of observaLions        No comments.
made by the World Bank
under Sub-Head 6-C.
Table 7-Project             Full facts have not been given under
Agreement - Funds           this Section. Now adequate funds are
provided by the State       being provided under Fiepd Channel
bevernment were             Construction programme to improve
inadequate,                 quality of micro-network system.
- Rest of the points have
been covered under Part-II
report,prepared by CADA.
_ Table 8-A-Staff inputs.        No bomments.
- Table B-a                      No comments.
_ Table 9-A
- Table 9-B
- TableC1lO                      No comments.
- Table 11
- Table 11(b)                    See Part II: Coments on Bank's
Review Contained in Part I



32                 PART II
of te ruAn~gthe-Chambal C AsDo Programmne,
(i) seasonw.tse Area IrrIgtated b ChAmbal Canaig.
(Area in liectares)
-…-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ---   -  -   -   -   -   -   -  -a  -   -  -  a…
Year            Area irrigated during                   Total Irrigated
"'-IJil -              t-Rartui          Area
Ar-ea    -Pe-rene~t    Ar e-a    P e r ce-n t
to                    to
total                 total
-…-- - - - - --     - - - - - - ---   -  -    - - a   a  a   a   a  -   -  …-   -   -   -   -
Ci)     ~(2)        (3)          (4)       (5)        (6)      (7)
1974-75      14444      8.90       147938   91.10    162382   100.000
1975-76      19670    11.36        153426   88.64    173 096   100.000
1976-77      20945    11*59        159756   688.41    1607 01   100.000
1977-78      23986    12.74        164321   87.26    188307   100.000
1978.79      24076    13.53        153807   86.47    177883   100.000
i979-80      26025    14.38        154902   85.62      181007   100.000
1980-81      15110      9.99      .136099   90.01    151209   100.00
1981-82       7752      5.25       139872   94.75    147624   100.00
1982-83       6785      5e'47      117231   94.53      124016   100.00
1983-84       8939      7.15       116019   92.85    124958   100.00
1904-85      10045      6.90       135530   93.10    145575   100.00
j985-86      13182      8.48       142276   91.52    155458   100.00
1986-87      23944    14 a,14      145362   85.,86    169306   100.*00
1987-88      29491    17*43        139743   82.57    169234   100.00
1988-89      17846      9.94       153286   90.006    171132   100.00
- n    -  -a a    - aa a    a a- ana  ----         - - --



33
Part II
ANNEXUUtE - 2
(2) P_OLution of Princijpal       s,C  Chinbal Command Area.
(in tonnes,
So    Crop            1974-75   1987-08   1988-89   Percentage in-
Noe                                                    crease or
decrease in 1988-
89 over 1974-75*
(1)     (2)              (3)       (4)       (5)         (6)
1    Rice              19553      28773    52214    +  76*68
2*    Jowar             24270      11187    23769    -   2.06
3.    BaJra             38628      64029   100746    + 160.81
4.    Maize               240        530        59    -  75.42
o.    Wheat            163950    380895   403982    +  53.04
6*    Barley            33384      15440    19569    _413G
7.    Gram              73984      39537   175548         24*92
8.    Mustard           51556    159050   250948    + 386.75
O    i_    _  _  _                      -  



Part 11
ANNIEXURE - 3
(3) Productivity of Principal Crops in Chambal Command Area-
(In Quintals per he~ctare)
-…--  -  - - - - - -  - - - - - -  - - - - - -  - - - - - -  - - - - - --- …-   - - - -  - - - - - - -  -   
So  Crop          1974-75   2983-84   1984-85   1985-'86  1986-87   1987-88   1988-89  Percentage in-
No.                                                                                         crease or de-
crease in 1988
over 2974-75.
(i)    (2)           (3)        (4)        (5)       (6)      (7)       (8).       (9)         (lo)
- - - - -- -- - - - - -- - -- - - - -- -- - - -- - -- -- - ---   -   -   -  -   -  -   -  -   -   -   -   -   -…
lo    R*1.7                     362       146       15. 10    7.21    18472    3 1.67    +  173.*73
2.*   Jowar          8.74      10.70      los       -7.95     6.69      5.69    11.35    +   29.86
3.0   Bajra          6. 42     11.68      12.58      9.28     7.v17     8.24    13.-42    +  109.*03
4.0    Wheat        13.79      22.00      23.38    26.02'   31.42    27.28    30.*05    +  117.9 1
so    Barley        13.86      13. 18     13.84      8.92    14.24    13.-58    18.58    +   34.05
6.    Gramn          6.93      11.36      14.73    145S5    12.53       7.94    13.*42    +   93.*65
7.o   Tur            8.69      13.78      14.52    18.20    23.978    12.50    17.42    +  100.46
So    Mustard        5.79       9.68      11.92     7.46      9.38      9.16    13*49    +  132.99
-   -   -  -   - -  - - - - - - - - - ---   -   -   -  -…- -…               - - - -                      



35
PART III
STATISTICAL INFORMATION



Table 1
Page 1 of 3
TABLE 1
Related Bank Loans and Credits
Loan/Credit                       Purpose                       Date             Status                   Comments
Title                                                            of
Approval
1. Credit 391-IN:         To expand and improve the               June        Information not
Hadhya Pradesh            credit facilities available             1973        readily
Agricultural Credit       for farmers throughout the                          available.
Project                   state.
(US$ 33.0 H)
2. Credit 562-IN:         To increase agricultural                June        Project closed       Most prescribed project works a'
Madhya Pradesh            production and farm incomes             1975        on 06/30181          exceeded targets, but On-Farm
Chambal Command Area      through the upgrading of                            after two years      Development works was 522
Developmeat Project       irrigation facilities, and                          extension.           below targets.  Project
(US$ 24.0 H)              provision of drainage, On-Farm                                           failed to improve water
Development works and rural                                             management.
roads in the Chambal project.
3. Credit 712-IN:         To strengthen agricultural             June         Project closed       Some 4Z of Credit was not
Hadhya Pradesh            supporting services in the              1977        on 9/30/83 on        disbursed.  Project largely
Agricultural              state, particularly extension                       schedule.            achieved its objectives.
Extension and             and research.
Research Project
(US$ 10.0 H)
4. Credit 715-IN:         To assist provision of                  May         The Credit           The Credit was fully
National                  agricultural credit                     1977        closed on            disbursed, and substantially
Agricultural              nationwide.                                         12131/79 on          achieved its obiectives.
Refinance and                                                                 schedule.
Development
Corporation Project
II (US$ 200.0 M)



Table 1
Page 2 of 3
Loan/Credit                        'Lrpose                       Date              Status                    Comments
Title                                                             of
Approval
5. Credit 947-IN:          To assist provision of                  July         The project          The Credit was fully
National                   agricultural credit                     1979         closed-on            disbursed, and the project
Agricultural               nationwide.                                          schedule on          substantially achieved its
Refinance and                                                                   06/30182.            objectives. Certain problemns
Development                                                                                          were experienced with
Corporation Project                                                                                  agricultural credit
III                                                                                                  administration and high
(US$ 250.0 H)                                                                                        percentages of repayment
defaulters.
6. Credit 1108-IN:         To finance a time slice of the          March        The project          The project failed to achieve
Hadhya Pradesh             construction of 16 Medium               1981         closed on            more than a token irrigation
Medium Irrigation          Irrigation Projects, and to                          3131188 after a      potential.  Although 15 dams,
Project                    develop about 107,000 ha of                          one-year             were complete or nearing
(SDR 112.6 H)              irrigation potential.                                extension.           completion, the canal system
and On-Farm Development works
were very delayed. In
particular, Resettlement E
Rehabilitation problems beset
the project throughout, and
the very unsatisfactory
Resettlement& Rehabilitation
activities were the major
reason for the Bank declining
to give the project a second
extension to 3131189 as
requested by GOMP. As a
result, some SDR 5.98 H were
cancelled from the Credit on
closure.



Table I
Page 3 of 3
Loan/Credit                       Purpose                       Date              Status                  Comments
Title                                                            of
Approval
7. Credit 1138-IN:        To reorganize the extension            April        The project's        The project, although
Hadhya Pradesh             services in 30 districts, and          1981        original             delayed, has substantially
Agricultural               to complete activities                             closing date         achieved its objectives.  It
Extension II Project      commenced under Credit 391-IN.                      was 06130187,        was fully disbursed.
(US$ 37.0 M)                                                                  but was
extended till
06130189.
8. Credit 1177-IN:        To assist with the                   September      The project was      The project has suffered many
Madhya Pradesh Major       construction of the Mahanadi           1981        due to close on      delays, mainly due to late
Irrigation Project        Reservoir Project and the                           06130187, but        delivery of designs, land
(SDR 195.2 K)             Hasdeo Bango Project.                               it is now            acquisition, and procurement
expected to         problems.  It nevertheless
close on            promises to be an            C
06130191.           increasingly productive
project.
9. Credit 1523-IN:        To consolidate and improve            February      Project still        All components significantly
National                  agricultural extension                  1984        ongoing,             delayed.
Agricultural               services in Rajasthan, Orissa                      current closing
Extension Project I       and Madhya Pradesh, and the                         date 03131190,
(SDR 38.6 M)              Directorate of Extension at                         expected
the Center.                                        closing date
03131192.
10. Credit 1631-IN:       To strengthen location                October       Project still        Components in Madhya Pradesh
National                  specific research of the level          1985        ongoing,             very delayed. but showing
Agricultural              of the agro climatic zones of                       current closing      improvement.
Research Project II       India, including Madhya                             date 12/31192,
(SDR 69.6 H)              Pradesh.                                            expected
closing date
12131194.



39
TABLE 2
Item                    Date               Date               Date
planned            revised           actual
- Identification (EPS)
- Preparation                                                     1980
- Appraisal mission                                               12/80
- Loan negotiations                            1/82               6/10/82
- Board approval            6/9/81                                08/10/82
- Credit signing                                                  09/07/82
- Credit effectiveness                                            12/01/82
- Credit completion         03/31/86           03/31/88           03/31/89
- Credit closing            03/31/87           03/31/88           03/31/89
1 Some dates are not known.



40                       -
TABLE 3
Schedule of Disbursements
Cumulative Disbursements                  2 Actual to SAR
Bank/FY/                Appraisal        Revised 1/                        or Revised
Quarter                 Projection       Projection        Actual          Projection
-----(SDR M)----  2
1983      1st
2nd
3rd              0.9
4th              1.8                               2.4                135
1984      1st              3.1                               3.9                 125
2nd              4.5                               3.9                 88
3rd              6.0                               6.1                103
4th              7.6                               7.4                 97
1985      1st              9.3                               7.8                  84
2nd             11.1                               8.5                 77
3rd             13.1                               9.3                 71
4th             15.1                              10.5                 69
1986      1st             17.1                              11.6                  68
2nd             19.1                              12.1                 63
3rd             21.1                              13.6                 64
4th             23.1             14.2             14.2                100
1987      1st             24.5             16.0             15.8                  99
2nd             25.8             16.3             16.3                100
3rd             26.7             17.5             16.6                 89
4th             27.6             18.8             17.6                 94
1988      1st                              20.1             18.6                  92
2nd                              21.5             19.5                 91
3rd                              22.8             20.4                 89
4th                              24.1             20.7                 86
1989      1st                              25.3             22.2                  88
2nd                              26.4             22.7                 86
3rd                              26.5             24.0                 91
4th                              27.6             24.6                 89
1990      1st  2/                          27.6             26.5                  96
Notes:
1/ At mid-term review February 1986.
2/ Final disbursement made on October 23, 1989, and SDRS 1.1 M was cancelled.



41
Table 4
Page 1 of 3
TABLE 4
Project Implementation 1/
Indicator                        Unit          Appraisal        Revised      Achievement
estimate         (2/87)          (3189)
1. General Irrigation Works
a) Canal security works
- canal lining              000 sq.m.         555             555            450
- canal protection works      No.             ns              111             81
- ravine protection sites    No.              ns                8               5
b) Canal capacity works
- upgrading                   km              176             176            189
distributaries/minors
- upgrading water-            km              114             114            112
courses to minors
c) Aquatic weed control        000 cu.m.         155              90              86
works (earthworks)
d) Canal control works
- cross regulators            No.              98              98             58
- escape structures           No.               7               7              4
- outlets                     No.            1375           1375             728
- road bridges                No.              21              24             24
e) Dam safety works  21         unit             ns                1            nil
- Pagara dam:                unit             ns                1            nil
repairs.
- Kotwa' dam:                unit              1                1            nil
repairs, raising
- Pillowa dam:               unit              1                1            nil
repairs, raising
2. Ambah Intensive Block Development 3/
a) Augmentation tubewells
- drilled                     No.             175             175            139
- fully installed             No.             175             175            104
- energized                   No.             175             175            103



42
Table 4
Page 2 of 3
Indicator                         Unit         Appraisal        Revised       Achievement
estimate         (2/87)           (3/89)
b) Canal works
- wedge storage  4/        000 cu.m.           ns            1640            1235
earthwork
- cross regulators           No.               ns              39              21
- balancing reservoirs       No.                 7               6              6
- lining minors below      000 sq.m.          470             276             260
6 cusecs
c) Microsystem works
- lining water courses    000 sq.m.          1000             612             111
3. Drainaae Works
- seepage drains             ha              4550            4550            4647
- link drains                ha              4550            4550            4647
- structures                 No.              ns              500              41
4. Roads
a) Rural/district roads
- lBM surface                km               222             126             111
- black topped               km               235             183             133
b) Canal service roads          km                232             150              69
5. Buildings                       units              47              47              42
6. Telecom Network                   Z               ni              100              95
7. Conservation Works
- canalside plantations      km               420             420             342
- aerial seeding           000 ha              11            84.5              59
8. Training Center 5/
- WALMI                       z               100             100             100
- project training            z               ni              100             nil
center



43
Table 4
Page 3 of 3
Notes:
1 Time slice quantities.
2/  Following detailed studies ana DRP recommendationa, Kotwal and Pillowa dams will not
be raised.
3/ Originally in one block of 40,000 ha on Ambah Branch (Main) Canal; subsequently
divided into 33R distributary and Bhind Main Canal command, total 35,000 ha.
4/ Not included in Bhind Main Canal area.
5/  WALMI agreed by Bank to be moved to Bhopal, where USAID now funding balance.
Project training center (PTC) to be constructed in Commissioner's Complex, Morena.



Table 5A
Page 1 of 3
TABLE SA
Project Costs   4/
Item                 Appraisal estimate           Revised estimate (2187)   Actual at 3/89        Balance estimated 91
Local/For. Exch./Total                 Total                   Total              expenditure at 3J89
(US$ M)  1/                    (USS  M)  2/            (US$  M) 31              (US$ M) 31
I. Ambah Intensive Block Development (AIBD)
- augmentation tube-      6.8    0.5      7.3                  8.2                      6.9                      1.3
wells
- distribution system )                                                                 6.2                     3.1             >
- micro system         )  9.0    0.5      9.5                 11.4                      1.6                    10.1
__     Sub/Total           15.8    1.0    16.8                  19.6                     14.8                    14.5
2. Irrigation and Drainage
- canal service roads                                                                )
- canal security works                                                               )                       )
- aquatic weed control                                                               ) 13.7                  )  4.7
- canal capacity works                                                               3                       3
- ID buildings                                                                       )                       )
- canal control works                                                                )                       3
- equipment (telecoms)                                                                  0.2                      -
- drainage works                                                                        1.9                     0.7
Sub/Total            10.2    0.7    10.9                  19.3                      15.8                     5.4
3. Ravine Arrestation and           2.8   0.2                   3.9                      3.5                      3.0    -
Canalside Plantation



Table SA
Page 2 of 3
Item                 Appraisal estimate          Revised estimate (2187)   Actual at 3/89           Balance estimated 91
Local/For.Exch./Total                Total                   Total              expenditure at 3189
(US$ H)  1/                    (US$ M)  2/             (US$ M) 3/              (USS H) 31
4. Roads and Buildings
- rural/district roads                                                                 6.9                     1.2
- buildings                                                                            0.7                     1.0
Sub/Total             5.8    1.0      6.8                 10.4                      7.6                     2.2
5. Monitoring & Studies 51 0.3    0.0      0.3                )                          0.2                     0.1
)
6. Training/Technical Services                                ) 2.0
- WALMI/Bhopal  61                                          )                          0.3
- training/visits                                                                      0.3                      -
- technical studies  71                                     )                          0.2                     0.1
Sub/Total             1.2    0.0      1.2                                           0.8                     0.1
7. Land Acquisition        0.7    0.0      0.7                  0.1                      0.1                      -
8. Engineering and          4.9    0.4     5.3                  3.5                      3.3                     1.9
Administration
Total Base Costs     41.7    3.3    45.0                  58.4                     45.6                    24.2
Physical contingencies     6.7    0.5      7.2                   -                        -                       -
Price contingencies        8.9    0.7      9.6                   -                        -                       _
Total Project Costs
(US$ H)    57.3    4.5    61.8                 58.4                     45.6                    24.2
Total Project Costs
(Rs. M)   515.6   40.7   556.3                759.6                    707.2  81 10/           375.6  IO/



Table 5h
Page 3 of 3
Notes:
1/ US$ 1.00 - Rs. 9.0
2/ US$ 1.00 - Rs. 13.0
3/ US$ 1.00 - Rs. 15.5
4/ For time slice project only.
51 PMU/M & E studies.
6/ Project training center at Horena included under serial 4.
71  Includes studies by consultants, dam safety investigations,
etc. internally conducted technical studies other than by PMU.
8/ Not total project cost, but total expended to date shown.
91 To complete prescribed vorks.
10/ Estimated total project cost at completion in 1994
Rs. 1082.8 H or US$ 69.9 H.
C7



47
TABLE SB
Project FlnancinR
Planned in Credit           Final Actual
Source                            Agreement
(USS 9000)l                (SDRS .000)2
A. IDA Credit Categories
(1) Civil Works                   25,494                           24,653
(2) Equipment, vehicles             2023                            1,585
and materials
(3) Monitoring, evaluation,         1516                              250
training, studies and
technical services
(4) Unallocated                     1967                              -
Total                    31,000                    26,4883
B. Cofinancing Institutions             nil                              nil
C. Other External Sources               nil                              nil
D. Domestic (GOMP)                   30,800                              ^ 4
Total (US$ '000)           61,800                             45.65
Total (Rs. M)              556.3                            707.26
1 Exchange rate utilized SDR 1.00 - US$ 1.123.
US$ 1.00 - Rs 9.0.
2 Exchange rate utilizLd SDR 1.00 - US$ 1.30 at September 1989 rates.
US$ 1.00 - Rs 15.5 at March 1989 rates.
3 Final disbursement was on Octboer 23, 12989; SDRS 1.112 M was cancelled.
4 SDR equivalent of GOI/GOMP contribution not available.
S As disbursements made duriig the life of the project were at differing
exchange rates, this is not a true indication of cost to GOMP.
6 Additional Rs. 375.6 M (US$ 24.2 M) required to complete prescribed
project works. See Table 5A.



48 e
TABLE 6A
Direct Benefits
Indicator                         Appraisal         Closing date I/      Full development  2/
estimate         estimate              estimate
1. Benefitting farm                     26,000          14,000                 85,860
families (No)
2. Increase in area                     32,000          22,000                13;,376
receiving irrigation (ha)
3. Increase in foodgrain                94,000          18,624                116.295
production (ton/year)
4. Value added to local                    119               63                   392
(State) economy (Rs. M/year)
S. Increased employment                    3.5                1.6                  10.3
(million man days/year)
6. Stabilization of ravine              11,000          59,300                125,000
areas (ha)
7. Improving rural/                        457              244                   309
district roads (km)
8. Reduction in farm families
below poverty line (Z):
a) project excluding AIBD area          30
b) AIBD area                            41          Reliable estimates not available
c) Whole project                        31
Source: PMU, Chambal CAD Authority
Notes:
1/ From 150,000 ha irrigated in 1981/82 to 170,000 ha in 1988/89.
2/ From 150,000 ha irrigated in 1981/82 to 250,000 ha estimated at ultimate development from
computer predictions (inter.m) under Water Resources and Management Studies.



49
Table 6B
Page 1 of 8
Table 6B
ECONOMIC IMPACT
A. Economic Rate of Returns    Appraisal     Revised       PCR
(in %)                       Estimate    Estimate 1/    Estimate
1. Ambah Intensive Block
Development Areas
a) 40000 ha Appraisal Estimate    34
b) 35000 ha Revised Estimate                   38          24.7
2. Remaining Command Areas
(other than Ambah) due to
canal and other improvements
a) 181000 ha Appraisal Estimate   35
b) 186000 ha Revised Estimate                  34           7.9
c) 215000 ha Revised Estimate
Excluding power                                          8.1
Including power                                          11.4
3. Overall Project(1+2)
a) 221000 ha                      35           34          10.3
b) 250000 ha at full development
Excluding power                                          10.5
Including power                                          12.9
Footnote:
1/ Revised by FAO/CP April 1987 Review Mission.



-50
Table 6B
Page 2 of 8
B. Financial and Economic Prices 1/
Financial    Economic    Appraisal
Price 2/    Price 3/    Econ. Price
(Rs./kg)    (Rs./kg)     (Rs./kg)
Crop:
Paddy 5/                      1.8         1.69        2.27
Sorghum (Cholam) 5/          1.35         1.28        2.27
Maize 5/                     1.70         1.26         1.81
Groundnut 4/                 5.00         4.79        2.84
Soybean 4/                   4.50         4.18        3.10
Wheat 5/                     1.90         2.04         1.90
Bajra 6/                     1.35         1.08         1.18
Pigeon Pea 6/                5.00         4.00        2.43
Gram 6/                      4.00         3.20        2.40
Mustard 4/                   5.75         4.79        3.89
Potato 6/                    2.00         1.60        0.85
Input:
N 4/                         5.11         9.72        6.00
P 4/                         5.94         9.10        5.80
K 4/                         2.17         4.85        2.50
Farm Yard Manure (per ton)  135.00       108.00       19.00
Labor (per manday)           16.00       12.80         3.00
Builock (per pairday)        20.00       16.00        9.00
Power Price (per kilowatt hr.):    NA     2.10        0.80
(peak hours)
Footnotes:
1/ Border prices are based on December 1989 revised commodity forecast.
2/ Financial prices of non-traded commodities: seed, farmyard manure and byproducts,
are converted to economic prices using the standard conversion rate of 0.8.
3/ Economic prices are 1995 projected at 1989-90 constant values. The appraisal
estimates are 1990 projected at 1980/81 constant rupees.
4/ Groundnut, soybean, mustard, N, P and K are treated as import substitutes.
5/ Paddy, sorghum, maize and wheat are treated as export commodities.
6/ Bajra, gram, pigeon pea and potato are treated as non-traded commodities.



51
Table 6Da
PAge 3 of 8
C. Project Cost I/
Ambah Inten-
sive Block    Canal
Year    Development Improvement    Total
1. Financial Costs 2/
1981-82         0.00       27.93       27.93
1982-83         0.00       41.26       41.26
1983-84         5.86       30.18       36.04
1984-85        19.19       21.78       40.97
1985-86        20.10       31.92        52.02
1986-87        17.24       41.39        58.63
1987-88         5.70       41.86       47.56
1988-89        26.18       21.79       47.97
1989-90        16.15       54.79        70.94
1990-91        21.50       69.80        91.30
1991-92        82.00       19.60       101.60
1992-93        72.80        3.50        76.30
1993-94        24.50        3.00       27.50
1994-95        27.50        0.00        27.50
1995-96        27.50        0.00       27.50
1996-97        27.50        0.00       27.50
1997-98        27.50        0.00       27.50
Total          421.22      408.80      830.02
2. Economic Costs 3/
1981-82         0.00       22.34       22.34
1982-83         0.00       33.01        33.01
1983-84         4.69       24.14        28.83
1984-85        15.35       17.42        32.77
1985-86        16.08       25.54       41.62
1986-87        13.78       33.11       46.89
1987-88         4.56       33.49       38.05
1988-89        20.94       17.43        38.37
1989-90        12.92       43.83       56.75
1990-91        17.20       55.84       73.04
1991-92        65.60       15.68        81.28
1992-93        58.24        2.80       61.04
1993-94        19.60        2.40       22.00
1994-95        22.00        0.00       22.00
1995-96        22.00        0.00       22.00
1996-97        22.00        0.00       22.00
1997-98        22.00        0.00       22.00
Total          336.96      327.03      663.99
Footnotes:
1/ Domestic inflation rates for 88-89 and 89-90 are 9% and 8% respectively
per World Bank projections.
2/ Financial Costs were converted to economic costs using the standard
conversion factor (SCF) of 0.8
3/ Economic costs were converted to real economic costs (1989-90 constant)
using the Wholesale Price Index.



52
Table 6B
Page 4 of 8
Ambah Inten-
sive Block    Canal
Year    Development Improvement    Total
3. Real Economic Costs
1981-82         0.00        37.91        37.91
1982-83         0.00        54.56        54.56
1983-84         7.08        36.46        43.54
1984-85         21.65       24.57        46.22
1985-86         21.45       34.06        55.51
1986-87         17.46       41.94        59.40
1987-88         5.37        39.42        44.79
1988-89         22.62       18.83        41.45
1989-90         12.92       43.83        56.75
1990-91         17.20       55.84        73.04
1991-92         65.60       15.68        81.28
1992-93         58.24        2.80        61.04
1993-94         19.60        2.40        22.00
1994-95         22.00        0.00        22.00
1995-96         22.00        0.00        22.00
1996-97         22.00        0.00        22.00
1997-98         22.00        0.00        22.00
Total          357.19       408.30      765.49
4. Increase in Project Cost
% Increase
of Current
Appraisal    Current   over appraisal
Estimate    Estimate     Estimate
Nominal        470.20       830.01       0.77
Real           777.21       956.96       0.23



53
Table 6B
D. Built-Up of Agricultural Benefits                                         Page 5 of 8
(in %)
Appraisal Assumption:                      Current Assumption
Years after Ambah Intensive         Canal and other    Ambah Intensive          Canal and other
Construction Block Development:       Improvement      Block Development:        Improvement
Completion    Presently   Presently                      Presently    Presently
Irrigated    Rainfed                       Irrigated    Rainfed
1           6            5            8                 4            3            6
2           20           14           22                8            6            10
3           41           32           39                16          10            14
4           67           52           59                24           16           18
5           85           70           74                35          22           26
6           95           84           86               48           29           34
7           100          93           94                65          39           45
8                        98           97               76           52           54
9                        100          99                86          62            64
10                                    100               96           70           72
1 1                                                    100           77           77
12                                                                   84           82
13                                                                   91           86
14                                                                   95           90
15                                                                  100           95
16                                                                               100



cost-Benefit Stream
(1) ECaCIC RATE OP RETURNS  iLlFB SPAR - 50 years) - 250000 HA. INCLUDING HYDEL POWER COSTS AND BENEFITS *
IN RS. MILLION
NO.  YEM  ECOCMC COST INCLUDING                               BBNEFITS                          INCREMENTAL BEWIT-OST
KARlENANCE COST                                                                            WITH HYDEL POWER
Ar3D     CANAL      TOTAL           AIBD   CANAL IMPROVEMENT  TOTAL        AIBD 2/ CANAL IMPROVEMENT 1/   TOTAL
1  81/82      0.00      41.70     41.70            0.00             0.00      0.00         0.00              -41.70    -41.70
2  82/83      0.00      63.81     63.81            0.00             0.00      0.00         0.00              -63.81     63.80
3  83/84      7.79      49.36     57.14            0.00             0.00      0.00        -7.79              -49.36    -57.14
4  84185     24.52      39.92     64.45            0.00             0.00      0.00       -24.52              -39.92    -64.45
5  85/86     26.47      52.82     79.28            0.00             0.00      0.00       -26.47              -52.82    -79.28
6  86/87     24.22      64.89     89.11            0.00             0.00      0.00       -24.22              -64.89    -89.11
7  87/88     12.67      66.31     78.98            0.00             0.00      0.00       -12.67              -66.31    -78.98
8  88/89     32.18      47.60     79.78           60.01             0.00     60.01        27.83              -47.50    -19.77
9  89/90     23.77      76.99    100.77           63.40             0.00     63.40        39.99              -76.99    -37.36
10  90/91     29.77    234.56    264.33            65.75            0.00      65.75        35.97             -234.56   -198.59
11  91/92     84.73    198.67    283.40            67.17            0.00      67.17       -17.57             -198.57   -216.24
12  92/93     83.20    185.76     269.95           68.03             0.00     58.03       -15.16             -185.75   -201.92
13  93(94     45.52    178.92    226.44            82.30             0.00     82.30        35.78             -178.92   -143.14
14  94/95     51.12    198.00    249.12            94.60             0.00     94.60        43.48             -198.00   -154.52
15  95/96     53.32    230.45    283.78           100.20            0.00    100.20         46.88             -230.46   -183.58
16  96/97     66.52    185.14    240.66           110.45             0.00    110.45        54.93             -185.14    130.21
17  97/98     57.72    132.35     190.07          121.36           130.75    252.11        63.64               -1.60     62.04
18  98/99     35.72     86.78     122.50          142.66           151.11    293.77       106.94               64.33    171.27
19 99/2000    35.72     71.20     106.92          156.76           202.45    359.21       121.04              131.25    252.29
20  00/01     35.72      71.20    106.92          163.23           254.61    418.04       227.51              183.61    311.12
21  01/02     35.72      71.20    106.92          164.20           307.76    471.96       128.48              236.56    365.04
22  02/03     35.72      71.20    106.92          165.70           361.72    527.42       129.98              290.62    420.50
23  03/04     35.72      71.20    106.92          167.40           420.01    587.81       131.68              348.84    480.52
24  04/05     35.72      71.20    106.92          168.23           478.55    646.78       132.51              407.35    539.86
25  05/06     35.72      71.20    106.92          170.14           545.77    715.91       134.42              474.37    609.09
26  06/07     35.72      71.20    106.92          170.14           606.64    776.78       134.42              535.44    669.86
27  07/08     35.72      71.20    106.92          170.14           670.78    840.92       134.42              599.58    734.00
28  08/09     35.72      71.20    105.92          170.14           723.49    893.63       134.42              652.29    786.71
29  09/10     35.72      71.20    106.92          170.14    -      749.43    919.57      134.-42              678.23    812.65
30  10/11     35.72     71.20     106.92          170.14           793.10    963.24       134.42              721.90    856.32
31  11/12     35.72     71.20     106.92          170.14           836.25   1006.39       134.42              765.05    899.47
32  12/13     35.72     71.20     106.92          170.14           879.81   1049.95       134.42              808.61    943.03                     .0
33  13/14     35.72     71.20    106.92           170.14           951.45   1121.59       134.42              880.25   1014.67
34  14/15     35.72     71.20     106.92          170.14          1036.13   1206.27       134.42              964.93   1099.35
35  15/16     35.72     71.20     106.92          170.14          1127.29   1297.43       134.42             1056.09   1190.51
36  16/17     :.3.72    71.20     106.92          170.14          1213.43   1388.57       134.42             1147.23   1281.65
37  17/18     35.72     71.20     106.92          170.14          1296.42   1466.56       134.42             1225.22   1369.64
38  18/19     35.72     71.20     106.92          170.14          1382.49   1552.63       134.42             1311.29   1445.71
39  19/20     35.72      71.20    106.92          170.14          1473.81   1643.95       134.42             1402.61   1537.03
40  20/22     35.72      71.20    106.92          270.14          1544.95   1715.09       134.42             1473.76   2600.18
41  21/22     35.72      71.20    106.92          170.14          1602.24   1772.38       134.42             1531.04   1665.46
42  22(23     35.72      71.20    106.92          170.14          1642.20   1812.34       134.42             1571.00   1705.42
43  23/22     35.72      71.20    106.92          170.14          1642.20   1812.34       134.42             1571.00   1705.42
44  24/25     35.72     71.20     106.92          170.14          1642.20   1812.24       134.42             1571.00   1705.42
45  25/26     35.72      71.20    106.92          170.14          1642.20   1812.34       134.42             1571.00   1705.42
46  26/27     35.72     71.20     106.92          170.14          1642.20   1812.34       134.42             1571.00   1705.42
47  27/28     35.72     71.20    106.92           170.14          1642.20   1812.34       134.42             1571.00   1705.42
48  28/29     35.72     71.20     106.92          170.14          1642.20   1812.34       134.42             1571.00   1705.42
49  29/30     35.72     71.20    106.92           170.14          1642.20   1812.34       134.42             1571.00   1705.42
50  30/31     35.72      71.2    106.92           170.14          1642.20   1812.34      1334.42             1571.00   1705.42
LIRR                                                                                        24.74               11.44     12.90                     0 -3
NOTE: MAINTENANCE COST IS 10% OF THE CAPITAL COST.                                                                                               (0 1-
* The additional economic net return in this case is Rs. 640 m at full development.                                                        a
1/ 215000 ha Irrigated     2/ 35000 ha Irrigated                                                                                                    C
CO 
-h



Cost-Benefit St reams
tl5) ECoNHIC RATE OF RETURNS (LIFE SPAN - 50 YEARS) - 250000 HA
IN RS. MILLION
INCRENENTAL BENEFIT-COST
ECONC4IC COST INCLUDING                  BENEFITS                            WITHOUT HYDEL POWER
MAINTENANCE COST
NO.     YEAR       AIDB        CANAL      TOTAL       AIB      CANAL IMROVEMENT    TOTAL      AIDB 1/   CANAL IMPROVEMENT 2/    TOTAL
1 81/82             0.00       41.70      41.70        0.00              0.00       0.00        0.00                -41.70      -41.70
2 82/83             0.00       63.81       63.81       0.00              0.00       0.00        0.00                -63.81      -63.81
3 83/84             7.79       49.36      57.15        0.00              0.00       0.00       -7.79                -49.36      -57.15
4 84/85            24.52       39.92      64.44        0.00              0.00       0.00      -24.52                -39.92      -64.44
5 85/86            26.47       52.82      79.29        0.00              0.00       0.00      -26.47                -52.82      -79.29
6 86/87            24.22       64.89      89.11        0.00              0.00       0.00      -24.22                -64.89     -89.11
7 87/88            12.67       66.31      78.98        0.00              0.00       0.00      -12.67                -66.31      -78.98
8 88/89            32.18       47.60      79.78       60.01              0.00       60.01      27.83                -47.60      -19.77
9 89/90            23.77       76.99     100.76       63.40              0.00      63.40       39.63                -76.99      -37.36
10 90/91            29.77       94.58     124.35       65.75              0.00      65.75       35.98                -94.58      -58.60
11 91/92            84.73       55.99     140.72       67.17              0.00      67.17      -17.56                -55.99     -73.55
12 92/93            83.20       43.39     126.59       68.03              0.00      68.03      -15.17                -43.39      -58.56
13 93/94            46.52       43.23      89.75       82.30              0.00      82.30       35.78                -43.23      -7.45
14 94/95            51.12       90.23     141.35       94.60              0.00      94.60       43.48                -90.23     -46.75
15 95/96            53.32       90.23     143.55      100.20              0.00      100.20      46.88                -90.23      -43.35
16 96/97            55.52       d5.14     140.66      110.45              0.00      110.45      54.93                -85.14     -30.21
17 97/98            57.72       43.23     100.95      121.36              0.76      122.12      63.64                -42.47      21.17
18 98/99            35.72       45.67      81.39      142.66              1.11      143.77     106.94                -44.56       62.38
19 99/200.~ 35.72               47.12      82.84      156.76             2.45      159.21      121.04                -44.67       76.37
20 00/01            35.72       47.12      82.84      163.23              4.81      168.04     127.51                -42.31       85.20
21 01/02            35.72       47.12      82.84      164.20              7.76      171.96     128.48                -39.36       89.12       Ln
22 02/03            35.72       47.12      82.84      165.70             11.72      177.42     129.98                -35.40       94.58       tn
23 03/04            35.72       47.12      82.84      167.40             20.04      187.44     131.68                -27.08      104.60
24 04/05            35.72       47.12      82.84      168.23             28.55      196.78     132.51                -18.57      113.94
25 05/06            35.72       47.12      82.84      170.14         -. 45.77      215.91      134.42                 -1.35      133.07
26 06/07            35.72       47.12      82.84      170.14             56.64     226.78      134.42                  9.52      143.94
27 07/08            35.72       47.12      82.84      170.14             70.78     240.92      134.42                 23.66      158.08
28 08/09            35.72       47.12      82.84      170.14             83.49     253.63      134.42                 36.37      170.79
29 09/10            35.72       47.12      82.84      170.14            109.43      279.57     134.42                 62.31      196.73
30 10/11            35.72       47.12      82.84      170.14            153.10     323.24      134.42                105.98     240.40
31 11/12            35.72       47.12      82.84      170.14            196.25      366.39     134.42                149.13     283.55
32 122/3            35.72       47.12      82.84      170.14            239.81     409.95      134.42                192.69      327.11
33 13/14            35.72       47.12      82.84      170.14            311.45     481.59      134.42                264.33      398.75
34 14/15            35.72       47.12      82.S4      170.14            396.13     566.27      134.42                349.01      483.43
35 15/16            35.72       47.12      82.84      170.14            487.29      657.43     134.42                440.17      574.59
36 16/17            35.72       47.12      82.84      170.14            578.43      748.57     134.42                531.31      665.73
37 17/18            35.72       47.12      82.84      170.14            656.42     826.56      134.42                609.30      743.72
38 18/19            35.72       47.12      82.84      170.14            742.49     912.63      134.42                695.37      829.79
39 19/20            35.72       47.12      82.84      170.14            833.81     1003.95     134.42                786.69      921.11
40 20/21            35.72       47.12      82.84      170.14            904.95     1075.09     134.42                857.83      992.25
41 21/22            35.72       47.12      82.84      170.14            962.24     1132.38     134.42                915.12     1049.54
42 22/23            35.72       47.12      82.84      170.14           1002.20     1172.34     134.42                955.08     1089.50    '- I
43- 23/24           35.72       47.12      82.84      170;14           1002.20     1172.34     134.42                955.08     1089.50    OQ X
44 24/25            35.72       47.12      82.84      170.14           1002.20     1172.34     134.42                955.08     1089.50    (D t-J
45 25/26            35.72       47.12      82.84      170.14           1002.20     1172.34     134.42                955.08     1089.50       I D
46 26/27            35.72       47.12      82.84      170.14           1002.20     1172.34     134.42                955.08     1089.50     1C
47 27/28            35.72       47.12      82.84      170.14           1002.20     1172.34     134.42                955.08     1089.50       o
48 28/29            35.72       47.12      82.84      170.14           1002.20     1172.34     134.42                955.08     1089.50    whb
49 29/30            35.72       47.12      82.84      170.14           1002.20     1172.34     134.42                955.08     1089.50     0 
50 30/31            35.72       47.12      82.84      170.14           1002.20     1172.34     134.42                955.08     1089.50
EIRR                                                                                               24.74                  8.11       10.53
1/ 35000 ha irrigated



(iii)wCmOUnC RATE OF x          CIRSE (IFE SPAxS = 50  MRS) - 221000 HA.
iE RS.   ,LLIOX
NO.lEAR     ECMOXMWC coSr IMCLV'iXV    BESEFITS                                ISCRgKEN7AL BE1EFIT-COST
%WNAZ LNSCE COST                                                                             1
A11D     CA.XAL    TOTAL    AIBD     CANAL IfP8OVE21ENT 70TAL    AED 2/  CASAL   PEOYEIXEN i-TOTAL
.1 81t32        0.00 41.70        41.70     0.00                    0.00          0.00:  -41.70              -41.70
2 82183        0.00 63.81        63.81      0.00                    0.00          0.00   -63.81             -53.81
3 83/84        7.79 49.36        57.14      0.00                    0.00        -7.79   -49.36              -67.14
4 84/85       24.52 39.92        64.45      0.00                    0.00       -24.52   -39.92              -64.45
5 85/86       26.47 $2.82        79.28      0.00                    0.00       -26.47   -52.82              -79.28
6 86/8?       24.22 64.89        89.11      0.00                    0.00        -24.22   -64.89             -89.Ii
7 87188       12.67 66.31        78.98      0.00                    0.00        -12.67   -66.31-            -78.98
8 88189       32.18 47.60        79.72    60.01                     60.0:        27.83   -47.60             -29.77
9 89/90       23.17 76.99       100.77    63.40                     63.40        39.63   -78.29             -37.35
10 90/91       29.77 94.58       124.36    S5.75                     55.75        35.91   -94.58             -62.61
11 91/92       84.73 55.99       140.73    67.-7                     67.17      -17.57   -55.99              -73.56
12 92/93       83.20 43.39       126.59    68.03                     68.03       -15.16   -43.39             -58.56
13 93/94       46.52 43.23        89.75    82.30                     82.30        35.78   -43.23              -7.45
14 94/95       51.12 40.83        91.95    94.60                     94.60        43.48   -40.83               2.65
Zs 95/96       53.32 40.83        94.!5   100.20                     100.20       46.88   -40.83               6.05
16 96/97       _5.52 40.83        96.35   110.45                     .10.45       54.93   -40.83              l4.10
17 97/98       57.72 40.83        95.5S   121.36               ".65 122.0'        63.64   -40.18              23.46
18             35.72 4c.83        *6.55   142.55                0.96 14?.e2      106.94   -39.87              67.07
'9             35.12 40.83        76.55   :56.75               2. 2 158.88       121.04   -38.71              82.33
20             35.72 40.83        75.55   IS3.23                4.16 2s7.39      127.51   -36.6;      90.8
2l             35.-2 40.83        75.55   154.20                5.      ' :70.91  ;28.-    -34.:2             94.35
22             3S.72 4c.?3         7M.5    65.55               2 : 0.'4 175.84   !± 989  -2c.e5               99.29
23             3'.72 42. U         76.55   :67.40              f7.34 184.74      13 1.68   -23.49             108.-9
24             35.72 40.83        76.55   168.23               24.70 192.93      132.51   -:6.13              116.38
25             35.72 40.83        76.55   17r0.14              39.60 209.74      134.42    -1.23       '       33.19
26              35.72 40.83        76.55   170.14              49.00 219.14      134.42     8.1S              142.59
27             35.72 40.83        76.53   170.14               61.23 231.37      134.42    20.40             154.82
28             35.72 40.83        76.55   170.14               72.23 242.37      134.42    31.40             GS.82
29             35.72 40.83   f 6.55  1t0.14                    94.67 264.81      134.42    53.84              188.26
30             35.72 40.83        76.55   170.14              132.45 302.59      134.42    91.62             226.04
31             35.72 40.83        76.55   170.14              169.78 339.92      134.4Z   128.95             263.37
32             35.72 40.8Z        75.5i   170.14             207.45 377.60       134.42   166.6$             30i.05
33             35.72 40.83        tS.55  II0.14              259.44 439.38       134.42   228.61             363.03
34             35.72 40.83        76.55   170.14              342.70 512.84      234.42   301.87             436.29
3S             35.72 40.83        76.55   170.14             421.56 591.70       734.42   380.73             515.15
36             35.72 40.83        76.55   170.14             500.41 670.S5       134.42   459.58             594.00
37             35.72 40.83        76.55   170.14              567.88 738.02      134.42   527.05             661.47
38             35.72 40.83        75.55   170.14             642.34 812.48       134.42   601.51             735.93
39             35.72 40.83        76.55   170.14             721.34 891.48      134.42   680.51              814.93
40             35.72 40.83        76.55   170.14             -82.8? 953.03       134.42   742.06             876.48
41             35.;2 40.83        76.55   170.14             832.45 1002.59    134.42   791.62               926.04                    t
42             35.72 40.83        76.S5   170.14             867.02 1031.16    134.42   826.19               960.61                    CD
43             35.72 40.83        76.55   170.14             867.02 1037.16    134.42   826.19               95Q.61                     c 
44             35.72 40.83        76.55   170.14             867.02 1037.26    134.42   826.19               960.61                      G0
45             35.72 40.83        T6.55   170.14             867.02 1031.16    134.42   826.19               960.61                    0 t
45             35.72 40.83        76.55   170.14             867.02 1037.16    134.42   826.19               960.61
47             35.?2 40.83        76.55   170.14             867.02 1037.16    134.42   826.19               960.61
48             35.72 40.83        76.55   170.14             867.02 1037.16    134.42   826.19               960.61
49             35.72 40.83        76.55   170.14             867.02 1037.16    134.42   826.19               960.61
SO             35.72 40.83        76.55   170.14             867.02 1037.16    134.42   826.39               960.61
Etas                                                                             24.74      7.93              30.27
_____________----- --------------------------------------------------------------------------_…- -____ -_    - --------
XCTE: .AIXTEX'AXCE COST IS 10% OF T82 CAPITAL COST.
1/ 186000 ha irrigated.          2/ 35000 ha irrigated.



Table 6C
Page I of 4
TABLE 6.
Studies
Title of               Purpose as defined              By whom       Reference              Status                 Impact of
Study                  at appraisal                    carried          in                                         study
out              SAR
1l  Flow            To assess the relative             Irrigation   a 3.11         (i) Six tanks have been    (i) No consideration
regulation          suitability of alternative         Department   1 3.33         installed adjacent to       has been taken of
storage study      methods of canal regulation by                                 operational augmentation   the tanks'
(i) installing a storage tank                                 tubewells.                   performance.
at seven augmentation tubewell                                 (ii) Only one Neyrpic        (ii) No observations
sites, and (ii) by installing                                 gate was purchased,          on integrated
automatic Neyrpic gates in                                    after long delays due to   operation are
distributary 33 R.                                             import restrictions.        possible, thus    >
Thus the concept of         negating the study.
integrated gate
operation could not be
tested.
2. Public road      To establish the feasibility       Central       1 3.20 (g)   The study was extended       The study indicated
study    1/        of constructing a 69 km public   Road                          to also cover the            that developing
road along part of Ambah           Research                   Sheopur Shyampur Canal       public roads along
Branch Canal.                      Institute,                 Road.  It was not well       the canal banks is
Delhi                      conducted.  The report       feasible, but
was submitted in 1986.       cheaper alternatives
of developing
existing road links
were proposed
instead. Since
report submission,
no action has been
taken by GOMP.
f GOMP had cQr4mented that this matter is under cQnTsdera04on by the state Goyernwent,



Table 6C
Page 2 of 4
Title of               Purpose as defined              By whom       Reference          Status                     Impact of
Study                  at appraisal                    carried          in                                         study
out              SAR
3. Ground water    To monitor changes in ground        S.E             1 3.23      In AIBD (Horena) area,      When completed, the
monitoring          water level by 18 paired           Ground-        Annex 6    7 regional piezometers         study will assist
study              piezometers in the irrigated        water,                      (RP) have been              GOCP in locating
command and 12 shallow             Chambal                     installed, and response    additional water
piezometers adjacent to            (MP)                        to AT pumping is being      sources, in
augmentation tubewells.            Project                    monitored.  In Bhind         operating the AT's,
Main Canal area, 8 RP        and in forecasting
with exploratory             rabi irrigation
tubewells have been         supplies.
installed. Water
quality is being
monitored.
4. Water            To review water resources,         CWPRS,          1 3.24     The study was awarded to   The study will, when
Resources and      with a view to utilizing            Pune in                     the consultants in June    completed:  -
Management          additional sources; to study       associa-                    1988 after excessive         a) indicate add'l
study               the benefits arising from          tion with                  delays due to non-           water sources and u
raising Kotwal and Pillowa         WAPCOS.                    preparation of terms of    their effects on
dams; and to develop computer                                 reference by GOMP.           production;b)permit
simulation models to assist in                       .        Eventually, as technical   GOMP to examine
rabi cropping forecasting, in                                 assistance, the Bank         various
daily operation of the canal                                  assisted GOMP in their       cropping/operation
system and headvorks, and to                                  preparation.                 scenarios in order
enable different policy                                                                    to maximize
options to be evaluated.                                                                   production;c) permit
project management
to forecast rabi
irrigation
constraints due to
water shortage, and
to advise the
farmers accordingly;
and d) assist
project management
to accurately
control the project
operation on a real
time basis.



Table 6C
Page 3 of 4
Title of              Purpose as defined              By whom      Reference          Status                    Impact of
Study                 at appraisal                    carried         in                                        study
out             SAR
5. Management      To conduct a study into           WALMI,          1 3.38      The study was very          The results and
and Maintenance    present management and             Bhopal                     delayed due to non-         recommendations of
study              operation of the Chambal (HP)                                 preparation of terms of    the study, when
project, and to recommend                                    reference by GOMP.          completed, will
improvements in both, together                               Eventually, as technical   assist GOMP to
with deriving operating and                                  assistance, Bank staff       reorganize its
maintenance regulations and                                  assisted in their           Operation and
procedures.                                                  drafting. The study was    Maintenance
awarded in June 1987,       establishment,
but has not progressed      provide appropriate
beyond initial review       facilities. and to
due to lack of funding      introduce more
from GOMP. The study is    effective operating
now in suspense.            procedures.
6. Dam safety      To prepare reports for review    Irrigation       1 5.05     After inactivity during    All three dams are
studies            by the Dam Review Panel (DRP)    Dept.,                      much of the project          in weak condition s
of the integrity of Kotwal,       GOMP with                  period, the Irrigation      structurally. mainly
Pillowa and Pagara dams, and      assistance                 Department initiated        due to their age,
to exa-mine the feasibility of    from the                   serious studies in          and a detailed
increasing their storage          Indian                     February 1987. These        programme of
capacities.                       Institute                  were delayed due to a       remedial works has
of                         large data and site         been defined, costed
Tropical                   investigation               and scheduled. GOMP
Meteorolo.-                requirement. The studies   has demonstrated its
gy Pune,                  were conducted very          commitment to fully
Indian                     thoroughly, were            executing the
Meterologi                 technically appropriate,   programs.
cal                        and were completed in
Department                 December 1988. Following
and                        review by DRP, the
central                    findings of the studies,
Soils &                    supported by DRP, will
Material                   be implemented.
Research
Station.



Table 6C
Page 4 of 4
Title of               Purpose as defined              by whom       Reference          Status                     Impact of
Study                  at appraisal                    carried          in                                         study
out              SAR
7.                 To develop and test a               Indian            -        After prolonged              Should the device
Electronically      conventional sluice gate           Institute                   development at ITT,         prove to be rugged,
controlled          structure, using electronic        of                         Delhi, the device was         reliable, and able
cross-              sensors and electrically           Technology                  installed on 33R, ABC in   to operate under
regulator.         driven operating system, to         (I'T),                     December 1988 and is now   project conditions,
give automatic pre-set control   Delhi                        undergoing testing.          GOMP would decide if
of canal water levels.                                                                     an automatically
controlled canal
system could be
based on this
concept.
8. Drainage        As frequent Bank missions had    Irrigation            -        Studies carried out to      An action programme
studies1           expressed concern over the          Dept.,                      satisfy conditions of        of drainage
apparent lack of progress in       GOMP.                       Credit extensions, but       construction was
the drainage component, as one                                more are required.           derived, and is
of the conditions for first                                                                being implemented. aO
Credit extension in March 1987                                                              However further more
GOMP was required to carry out                                                              comprehensive
a study of drainage require-                                                                studies are required
ments in the Chambal (MP)                                                                   to determine the
command, and made recommend-                                                                extent of areas of
ations on an action programme.                                                             water logging in the
command.
9. Agro-socio-     To monitor project activities    PMU,               1 5.14     The PMU has throughout       The monitoring
economic           and achievements.                   Chambal                     the project period          reports will permit
studies by                                             (MP)                       demonstrated above           GOMP to assess the
Project                                                Irrigation                 average competenci and        impact of
Monitoring Unit                                        Project.                    activity.  All studies       improvements to
(PHU)                                                                             and reports produced are   production, and to
pertinent to interim and   effect modification
longer term monitoring,    to management and
and are to high             operation.
standard. See Attachment
1 for the list of
studies completed and
1/ GOMP had commented that a drainage master plan is now under                    ongoing.
preparation.



Table 7
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 7
Status of Covenants
Covenant                               Subject                              Deadline                      Status
Reference                                                                      for
Compliance
Project Agreement
Section 2.01               GOMP shall execute the project with due              -          Althoughproject administrationhas been
diligence, in accordance with appropriate                       satisfactory internally, the weakness of
administrative,  financial, agricultural                        the CADA system in MP of associated line &
and  engineering  practices,  and  shall1                       departments working under the Ayacut
provide funds, services and resources as                        Department  (Commissioner)  has caused
required.                                                      numerous  instances  of  inefficiency.
Funds have consistently been either
inadequate (budget) or have not been
apportioned   correctly   within   the
project. Quality of micro system works
has been generally inadequate.
Section 2.04 (a)           GOMP  shall  furnish to IDA all plans,               -          Fully complied.
reports and implementation schedules for
the project.
Section 2.04 (b)           GOMP shall maintain adequate records of              -          Fully complied.
project performance to permit meaningful
monitoring, shall enable IDA staff to
visit facilities and sites, and shall
furnish IDA information on the project as
required.
1/ GOMP had commented that funding for network completion is now adequate, boweyer, in the yiew of
Bank supervision missions, this was not the case during execution of the project,



Table 7
Page 2 of 5
Covenant                               Subject                              Deadline                      Status
Reference                                                                      for
Compliance
Section 2.04 td)           GOMP shall promptly on completion of the           -            Fully  complied.
project, but within six months of the
Closing Date, submit a Project Completion
Report (PCR).
Section 3.01               GOMP shall:
(i)  establish  and adequately  staff a        11130/82        Fully complied.
Quality Control Unit in the Irrigation
Department component, and:
(ii)   shall   submit   quality   control       3/31/83        Fully complied.
standards to IDA.
Section 3.02               GO*P shall:
(i)  sanction additional  posts  in  the       11/30/82        Fully complied.
Project Monitoring Unit (PMU) to make it
effective, and
(ii) shall prepare a detailed plan for         12131182        Fully complied.
monitoring and evaluation (H & E).
Section 3.03               GOMP shall:
(i) select an agency to carry out the              -           Complied.
Water Resources and Management Study, and
(ii) furnish to IDA a plan for the above        12/31/82       It was not until Harch 1987 that terms
study, and                                                     of  reference  were  finally  agreed,
drafted  by  Bank   staff   following
persistent failure by GOMP to do so
independently.
(iii) cause the selected agency to carry           -           Study  in  progress,  and  is  being
out the study.                                                 competently executed.



Table 7
Page 3 of 5
Covenant                               Subject                              Deadline                      Status
Reference                                                                     for
Compliance
Section 3.04                GOMP shall:
ti) prepare and furnish to IDA a plan for       12/31182       Terms of reference not prepared until
a management and maintenance study, and                        March 1987, when Bank staff assisted in
drafting them for GOMP.
(ii) complete this study, and                    6/30183       The study was awarded to WALMI, Bhopal
in June 1988. After a promising start,
it was suspended due to lack of funds
supplied to WALMI. Covenant in default.
(iii) advise IDA of the impl'mentation of           °          Not yet available.
its recommendations.
0'
Section 3.05                GOMP shall:                                                                                              w
(i) prepare and furnish to IDA a plan for       12/31/82       It had been intended by IDA that the
the establishment of a WALMI, and                              WALMI would be in the project area. GOMP
requested  that  it be  established at
Bhopal with a subsidiary Training Centre
in the project area. This was agreed by
IDA, and plans submitted.
(ii) establish a WALMI.                          9/30183       To date, although the WALMI, Bhopal had
been operating in temporary premises,
only the demonstration farm has been
established.  USAID has agreed to fund
a more elaborate WALMI. The subsidiary
Training Centre in Chambal area is now
under construction. Covenant not fully
in compliance.
Section 3.06 (a)            GOMP  shall  organise  rotational  water             -          Progress on block development is very
supply    following    completion    of                        delayed, and no RWS has been introduced.
augmentation   tube  wells   and  block                        Covenant not complied.
development.



Table 7
Page 4 of 5
Covenant                               Subject                              Deadline                      Status
Reference                                                                     for
Compliance
Section 3.06 (b)            GOMP shall energise the augmentation tube            -          The strict time limit of one month has
wells   within   one   month   of   pump                        not been followed, but in general the
installation.                                                  energisation   program  has   proceeded
satisfactorily.     Covenant  partially
complied.
Section 3.07                GOMP shall:
(i)  review  water  and  water  related         12131183       Fully complied.
charges in MP, and
(ii) as soon as feasible thereafter to
introduce   the   recommended   revised             -          New charges introduced in 1983. Fully
charges.                                                       complied.
Section 3.08                GOMP shall cause the dams and related                -          After persistent Bank representations,
structures  serving  the project  to be                        the Dam Review Panel (DRP) carried out
periodically inspected to determine any                         inspections  on Gandhisagar  dam  (MP),
deficiencies  in the structures,  or in                        Rana Pratap Sagar, Jawahar Sagar dams
their operation  and maintenance,  with                        and  Kota  barrage  in  Rajasthan,  and
especial emphasis on their safety.                             Pagara, Pillowa and Kotwal dams in MP
directly serving the project.   In the
case of Pagara, Pillowa and Kotwal dams,
DRP recommended intensive site and
structural surveys, which have been
completed, and action programmes for
remedial measures derived. In the case
of all other dams, the respective state
governments have been advised of the
DRP's   findings.       Covenant   fully
complied.
Section 3.09                GOMP shall take all measures to minimize             -          Fully complied.
the risk of malaria and other water borne
diseases in the project area.



Table 7
Page 5 of 5
Covenant                              Subject                             Deadline                      Status
Reference                                                                    for
Compliance
Section 4.01                GOMP   shall   cause   its   concerned             -          Audited account submission not always
departments  to  (i)  maintain  separate                      timely  and  those  for  1987188  not
records for their activities uader the                        submitted.  Partially complied.
project, and (ii) furnish to IDA these
records (financial) duly audited by an
independent auditor within nine months of
the end of the financial year.
Section 4.02                GOMP  shall  (i)  cause  its  concerned            -          Accounts always audited, but submission
departments  to  have  their  financial                       not timely.  Partially complied.
accounts audited by independent auditors,
and (ii) furnish these to IDA immediately
thereafter, and (iii) furnish their other
financial information as IDA may request.                                                            Ll



TABLE 8A
Staff Inputs
Stage of
Project Cycle                       FY81  FY82  FY83  FY84  FY85  FY86  FY87  FY88  FY89  FY90  TOTAL
1.  Up to appraisal                     6.9                                                               6.9
2.  Appraisal to Board                49.3  25.1   1.9                                                   76.3
approval
3.  Board approval to                  3.8   5.9   1.3                                                  11.0
effectiveness
4.  Supervision and                                17.4  27.8  29.1  32.6  26.5  26.3  15.6   3.0  178.4
PCR preparation
Totals                            60.0  31.0  20.7  27.8  29.1  32.6  26.5  26.3  15.6  3.0   272.7



Table 8B
Page 1 of 3
TABLE 8B
Missions
Stage of Project       Monthl    Number       Days      Specialisations      Performance      Types of            Comments
Cycle                  Year         of          in      represented 1/       rating 2/        Problems 3/
Persons     Field
1. Before Appraisal    2180          2          5       GWIWM                                                Groundwater survey
8/80        1          7       HYD                                                   Hydrology review
9/80        1          3       EN                                                    Roads review
9/80        1          6       GW                                                    Groundwater review
2. Appraisal to        11-12/80      7        20        ENIEC/AGIGWtWI                                       Appraisal mission    a
Board Approval
3. Board Approval       8182         2          4       EN                                                   Expediting
to effectiveness
4. Supervision         12182         5          4       ENIGW/WH             2/2              FIM            First supervision
12/82        2          4       EN                                                    Roads review
3183        3          4       ENI'WM                                               Training
3183        1          4       GW                                                   Groundwater review
6/83        2          4       EN                    211              MIT/TRG        Periodic supervision
8/83        4          6       EN/GW/EC                                              Expediting
10/83        2          5       EN/WM                                                 Training
10/83        1          2       EN                                                    Expediting
11183        2          3       ENIGW                                                 Groundwater review
12/83        1          5       EN                    2/1              M/F            Periodic supervision
2184        1          2       GW                                                   Groundwater review
6184        4          5       EN/PROC/FIN           2/2             MHFIT           Periodic supervision
9184        4          5       EN/WM                                                 Training. Expediting
10/84        2          3       TRG                                                   Training, WALMI review



Table 8B
Page 2 of 3
Stage of Project       Month/    Number        Days      Specialisations      Performance      Types of             Comments
Cycle                  Year         of          in       represented 11       rating 21        Problems 3/
Persons      Field
1/85        3          5        ENITRG               2/3              M/F/T/PR        Periodic supervision
1/85        3          5        EN/GW                                                 Groundwater review
1/85        3          4        EN/WM                                                 Training
1/85        1          1        TRG                                                   WALMI review
1/85        1          2        FIN                                                   Finance review
2/85        1          2        TRG                                                   Training
4/85        1          2        EN                                                    Expediting
4/85        1          2        TRG                                                   WALMI review
5/85        3          5        EN/AG                                                 System operations
7/85        5          5        EN/AG/PROC           3/3/2/2          M/T/F/OP/ST   Periodic supervision
9/85        1          2        EN                                                    WALMI training
1/86        2          3        PROC/FIN                                              Proc./finance review
2/86        2          2        TRG                                                   WALMI review
2/86        5          5        EN/AG                3/2/2/2          M/T/F/ST        Periodic supervision
8/86         2         4        EN                                                    Credit extn. conditions
8/86        4          6        EN/AG/PROC           212/212           DS/STIM/F      Periodic supervision
10/86        1          2        FIN                                                   Finance review
12/86        2          4        EN                                                    Expediting
12/86         3         4        EN                                                    Credit extension
2/87        3          4        EC/AG                                                 FAO/CP economic eval. 4/
2/87       10         12        EN/AG/WM/PROC        2/l/2/2           F/M            Periodic supervision
4/87        2          2        EN                                                    Credit extension
5/87        1          2        PROC                                                  Procurement review
6/87        1          3        EN                                                    Credit extension
10/87        2          4        EN/PROC              2/1/1/2           M|T            Periodic supervision
11187         1         2        EN                                                    Credit extension
1/88        2          2        EN                                                    Credit extension
4/88        7          9        EN/AG/PROC/FIN       212/1/2          MIT/DS          Periodic supervision
5/88        4          2        MAN/EN                                                Management visit
8|88        1          4        AG                                                    Conservation review
10/88        4          5        EN/WM                2/3/1/2          M|T             Periodic supervision
2/89        4          5        EN/AG                2/3/1/3          M/T/ST/F        Periodic supervision
6/89        2          2        EN                                                    PCR preparation



Table 8B
Page 3 of 3
Notes:
1/  Abbreviations used:
EN - Engineer; EC - Economist; AG - Agriculturist; PROC - Procurement Specialist; FIN - Financial Analyst;
TRG - Training Specialist; HYD - Hydrologist; MAN - Management Staff; 'WM - Water Management Specialist;
GW - Groundwater Specialist.
21  Performance ratings:
a) Previous nomenclature
1st indicator: 1 - minor problems; 2 - moderate problems; 3 - major problems
2nd indicator:  1 - improving;         2 - static;               3 - deteriorating
b) Present nomenclature
rating:   1 - minor problems;  2 - moderate problems;  3 - major problems being addressed by borrower;
4 - major problems not being addressed by borrower
subject: 1st indicator - funding; 2nd indicator - project management; 3rd indicator - development impact;
4th indicator - overall status.
3/  Abbreviations used:
M  - management problems, including staffing, infrastructure, attention to project components and schedules;
T - technical shortcomings (engineering); F - financial problems; DS - dam safety shortcomings;
LA - land acquisition delays, including forest and release; OP - system operation deficiencies;
ST - inadequate study execution; PR - procurement infringement or delay; TRG - training deficiencies.



70
TABLE 9A
Area Irrigated - Whole Command
Area Irrigated
Year               Kharif                   Rabi                Total
(ha)      (Z)           (ha)       (2)            (ha)
\1974-75         14,444    8.9           147,938      91.1        162,382
1975-76          19,670   11.4           153,426      88.6        173,096
1976-77          20,945   11.6           159,756      88.4        180,701
1977-78          23,986   12.7           164,321      87.3        188,307
1978-79          24,076   13.5           153,807      86.5        177,883
1979-80          26,025   14.4           154,982      85.6        181,007
1980-81          15,110   10.0           136,099      90.0        151,209
1981-82            7752    5.3           139,872      94.7        147,624
1982-83            6785    5.5           117,231      94.5        124,016
1983-84            8939    7.2           116,019      92.8        124,958
1984-85          10,045    6.9           135,530      93.1        145,575
1985-86          13,182    8.5           142,276      91.5        155,458
1986-87          23,944   14.1           145,362      85.9        169,306
1987-88          29,491   17.4           139,743      82.6        169,234
1988-89 2/       16,850    9.9           152,715      90.1        169,565
Source:  PMU, Chambal CAD Authority.
Notest
1/ Net command area about 328,000 ha CCA.
2/ Tentative.



71
TABLE 9B
Area Irrigated - AIBD Area
Area Irrigated
2/
Crop                       1980/81       1982/83       1987/88       1988/89
A. Kharif
Paddy                           5            2              1             1
Jowar                                                       8            11
Bajra                           -            -           138            188
Sugarcane                       3            1            28             38
Groundnut                       2            3              -             -
Soyabean                        -            -             1              1
Other Kharif Crops              -             -           53             70
Total Kharif Crops             10            6           229            309
B. Rabi
Wheat                        3780         4194          4099           5567
Barley                        270          157           110            149
Gram                          231          263           168            229
Mustard                      2051         1822          3269           4442
Other Rabi Crops              120          120           222            301
Total Rabi Crops             6452         6556          7868         10688
Total Xharif and Rabi        6462         6562          8097         10997
Sources PMU, Chambal CAD Authority.
Notes:
1/  Command area 24,000 ha CCA.
2/ Tentative.



72
TABLE 10
Yields of Major Crops
Crop Yield (kg/ha)
Year     Wheat    Paddy    Barley    Gram    Tur         Jowar    Baira   Rape &
Mustard
1974-75    1424      1157      1386        694      864     864       642      580
1975-76    1184      1307      1306        760      901     842       701      516
1976-77    1554      1302      1032        868      699     936       848      296
1977-78    1416      1232      1490        850      805     906       708      340
1978-79    1615      1279      1526        830      786     678       370      432
1979-80     890      1315      1135        880      780     895       920      400
1980-81    1427      1246      1610        944      669     849       735      745
1981-82    1686       903      1208        887      834     710       548      582
1982-83    1718      1490      1330        972      712     660       790      552
1983-84    1678      1362      1317        908    1020      914       867      868
1984-85    2338      1466      1326       1473    1452    1085       1258    1192
1985-86    2602      1389       892       1455    1820      795       928      746
1986-87    2788      1721      1348       1253    2378      669       717      936
1987-88    2728      1872      1358        794    1250      569       824      916
1988-89    3276      3167      1619       1358    1590    1236       1342    1422
Source: PMU, Chambal irrigation Project



TABLE 11
1/
Releases to Project Area
Average Decade Discharge (Cusecs)
Month/Decade                1982(83                1984/85               1986/87               1988189
Scheduled    Actual    Scheduled    Actual   Scheduled    Actual   Scheduled    Actual
October        1        3000        1986         nil       3032      3250       3377       2500        447
2       3200        2440        3200       3129       3500       3299       3500       2119
3       3200        3057        3200       1395       3500       3534       3900       3446
November       1        3200        1875        3300       2315      3500       2733       3900       3356
2       3200        2423        3300       2134       3500       2491       3900       3048
3       3200        1447        3300       3096       3500       2657       3900       3565
December       1        3200        2200        3300      3275       3500       3078       3640       3653
2       3200        2437        3300       3339       3500       3302       3550       2873
3       3200        3226        3300       3305       3500       3374       3550       3570
January        1        1483        3591        3300      3096       3500       3404       3600       3689
2        nil        3057        3300       3292       3400       3412       3600       3520
3        nil         954        3300       3045       3400       3321       3600       3536
February       1        3000        1822        3300      3149       3400       2826       3600       3320
2       3000        2343           -       2920       3400       2672       3600       3340
3       3000         381          -        2954       3400       3033       3600       3047
March          1        3000        2280        3100      2948       3200       3188       3600       2769
2       3000        1931        3100       2927       3200       3342       3300       2297
3       3000         nil        3100       2985       3200       3290       3300       3135
Source: Chambal CAD Authority
Note:
1/ From Rajasthan at Parvati Acqueduct.



INDIA                                                                                                                                             ' 7 
CHAMBAL (MADHYA PRADESH)                                                                         htak'  " h                                                                                          29
IRRIGATION 11 PROJECT                                                                                                                           odad
H A R    ANA                            DLH 
Projeci 07ea                                         \         .                          EiEK*                                                                               1       4bhi(
'Choebl Comeand Ameaoeo Project(Ron A  R                                                 NE
Other Ir-Igated oreGs                                                                                                                  -,
Reservoirs wzd d=ms >  //o9       
A R
Naotincl copital                       <AkrJ             J          2@ v                                    *                 .)                                E    S   H:
Sf.t6 captal ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~hjorno
V7D stm,t henduou, le =,s >  -  
-    .Dsrtrct boondor.es                                   R     A    J   A    S   T   H   A    N    Biorotpor
_-..stote bo.noor,es                         o                                      _                   _                                                                           ,
.,, MOEStro   ., ,-
21~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
on ~ ~  ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    b
25-                                             M g._ }A ~
hhotarpor    -
26
Ja  x { t    e X                                   X                  ~~~~P RAD
-- Jobolp.,
-73,                                                                                                                                                        '2r .  GO .  _1
1   u4* wFo                79                           \              Khnw              \~ 1  '.*1                                                      r8
@  7    fe zt  7  Ot   ont    d F S t-f A I  w   i  .               J   *   o        < - _           /   \                                                  {               x~ ~ ~ ~ ~
Mt    PUt-c/anes   t   x   ;  '  PV74S4< ,$ t ................................... ti / go,
}   .  AGAh!M{A2°     Kh-    -



