Document of
The World Bank                       F I L E r n
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3594-iN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
CHAMBAL (MADHYA PRADESH) IRRIGATION II PROJECT
July 16, 1982
South Asia Projects Department
Agriculture Division C
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00    =  Rupees (Rs) 9.00 1/
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES (METRIC SYSTEM) 2/
1 meter (m)                                =    3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                                0.62 miles (mi)
1 hectare (ha)              3=    2.47 acres (ac)
1 million cubic meters (Mm )               =    810 acre-feet (ac-ft)
1 thousand million cubic feet (TMC)             28.32 Mm                           3
1 cubic foot per second (cfs or cusec)  =    0.028 cubic meters per second (m /s)
1 ton                                           1,000 kilograms (kg)
1 ton                                      =    2,205 pounds (lb)
1/   The US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change.  Conversions
of cost estimates in this report have been made at US$1.00 to Rs 9.0,
which represents the projected exchange rate over the disbursement period.
2/   The Metric System has been used in most cases.  However, India is still
in the process of transition to the metric system; non-metric units
are still widely used, and were also used in this report in cases in
which a conversion to the metric system may confuse the reader.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ABC  -    Ambah Branch Canal
ABM  -    Assistant Branch Manager
ADC  -    Area Development Commissioner
AG   -    Madhya Pradesh Accountant General
AIBD -    Ambah Intensive Block Development
ARDC -    Agriculture Refinance and Development
Corporation
AT   -    Augmentation Tubewells
CADA -    Command Area Development Authority
CCA  -    Cultivable Command Area
CWC  -    Central Water Commission
EE   -    Executive Engineer
ERR  -    Economic Rate of Return
GOI -    Government of India
GOMP -    Governwnt of Madhya Pradesh
ICB  -    International Competitive Bidding
ID   -    Irrigation Department of GOMP
IDA  -    International Development Association
IRC  -    Indian Road Congress
JTA  -    Junior Technical Assistant
LCB  -    Local Competitive Bidding
LIC  -    Madhya Pradesh Lift Irrigation Corporation
LMC  -    Left Main Canal
MP   -    State of Madhya Pradesh
O&M  -    Operation & Maintenance
PMJ  -    Planning and Monitoring Unit
PWD       Public Works Department
RCC  -    Reinforced Cast Concrete
RMC  -    Right Main Canal
SCF  -    Standard Conversion Factor
STA  -    Senior Technical Assistant
T&V  -    Training and Visit
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World bank authorization.



I



INDIA
CHAMBAL (MADHYA PRADESH) IRRIGATION II PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT 1/
Volume I --Main Report
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.   BACKGROUND  ...........              .. *.a   .     a e............          1
Agriculture in India .. ..................... .X.*. ........                I  
The State of Madhya Pradesh    a.                     ,                     1
The Chambal Irrigation System  .........................                    2
Performance Under Chambal  (MP) Phase I   .............                     3
II.    THE PROJECT AREA  ..................         ....................            7
General   .....   .  .     . .  ...... ..      a........ *- .a...e a   a  .. ...     a    7
Climate .......o..........o......e... ......aI ...........                  7
Topography and Soils  .. .a................a.....a.*a         a ..          8
Roads    .... a .................... aa. .a ... . . . a.....   .. * a..     8
Land Holdings and Land Tenure ............                ...     ...       8
Cultural Practices  ............aa.aaaa     a    aaa     aaa....            8
Groundwater Resources  . .*.....            ...........   e..               9
III.    THE PROJECT  ..................................                             10
A.  General  ..... a......... a     ..a a ..... so ..a  .... a   . *..     10
B.  Detailed Features  .....*...........a.... ..a...                       12
Ambah Intensive Block Development  .....so...                     12
Irrigation and Drainage Network Improvements  ..                  14
Ravine Arrestation and Canal-side Plantations  .                  15
Roads  .......... a a..a..a..    a     aaa*... a....a....a..      15
Monitoring and Technical Services               ......      .     17
C.  Criteria for Design and Operations  o ...a.a. .aa.                     18
Design Criteria  ..aa.aa.... *                           a        18
Operation and Maintenance Criteria  .... .......                  19
D.  Implementation Schedule  ......a...................                    21
IV.   COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS ...........                        21
Cost Estimates  a............. *..........aa             aa......a.        21
Financing  ....                    ...... *  . .. ......aa..aa             22
Procurement ..a...........a......a... a              0. ...... a .a .*..a.aa..a.a  23
Disbursements  a....a.......aa.aa.. aa...aa...aa....a...                   23
Accounts and Audits  ..a.a.a.a.a.a a                    a  a a aa a......  24
1/    This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which
visited India in November/December 1980 and comprised of Messrs.
W.G. Rodger, Y.K. Choi, C. Helman and J. Yaron (:Bank) and W. Barber,
P. Borrowman and L. Shanan (Consultants), with contribution by
Messrs. G. Finlinson and M. Herman (Bank).



- ii -
Page No.
V.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ........... .. .............   24
The Command Area Development Authority . ............. .   24
The Irrigation Department (ID) ........... ............   25
The MP Lift Irrigation Corporation (LIC) .............   25
The Public Works Department (PWD) ..      ..................   26
Agricultural Supporting Services ................... ..   26
Monitoring and Evaluation . .............. ..............   28
Water Management in the AIBD Area .......... ..........   29
VI.   PRODUCTION, FARM INCOMES AND COST RECOVERY ...........   30
Water Supply and Demand .....     .........................   30
Agricultural Development .....     ........................   31
Farm Incomes .......     ..................................   32
Impact on Rural Poverty .......  ..................       32
Cost Recovery .......     .................................    33
VII.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ...........................   35
General ...........    ...................................    35
Economic Evaluation ..................................   36
Project Risk ........     .................................   37
Environmental Effects ................................   37
VIII.   RECOMMENDATIONS ................                           37
ANNEXES
1     SUPPORTING TABLES AND CHARTS:
T-1       -  Climatic Data
T-2-10    -  Cost Estimates
T-11      -  Project Components by Time (Implementation Schedule)
T-12      -  DisbursementL Schedule
T-13      -  Credit Allocation
T-14      -  Present and Projected Cropping Patterns
T-15      - Area, Yield and Production
T-16      -  Economic and Financial Prices
T-17      -  Present Average Water Charges
T-18      -  Financial Crop Budgets for AIBD and Canal Improvement
Areas
T-19      -  Typical Farm Models
T-20      -  Estimated Project Rent and Farm Budgets
T-21      -  Cost Recovery
T-22      -  Cost and Benefit Streams for ERR I
T-23      -  Cost and Benefit Streams for ERR II
C-1       -  Organization Chart:  Irrigation Department Chambal
2     ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
3      RELATED DOCUMIENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THh PROJECT FILE



- iii -
1BR  £oU-  -  ChamDai kMadhva Pradesh) Irrigation II Project
IBR1D 15921 - Project Area
Volume II: Supplementary Data
Table of Contents
ANNEXES
4.   Irrigation and Drainage Network Improvements
5.   Water Supply and Demand
6.   Groundwater
7.   Ambah Intensive Block Development
8.   Roads
9.   Monitoring and Evaluation



I



INDIA
CHAMBAL (MADHYA PRADESH) IRRIGATION II PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I.  BACKGROUND 1/
Agriculture in India
1.01      India covers some 3.27 million km  of which 49% is cultivable and
about 15% irrigated. India's population of about 700 M is growing at an
annual rate of 2.2%. Since 1960, per capita income has grown at an annual
rate of about 1.2% and reached USS240 in 1980. Although the average per
capita income has slightly increased in recent years, there has been little
change in the living standards of the vast masses of the urban and rural poor,
who comprise about 50% of the population.
1.02      Agriculture is the dominant sector of the Indian economy and
accounts for about 40% of the Gross National Product (GNP). It engages
about 70% of the labor force and provides the base for about 45% of India's
exports. During the last decade, the Government of India (GOI) has devoted
considerable resources to agricultural development. To support agricultural
growth, GOI has modernized and expanded its agricultural credit institutions
and accelerated the development of irrigation. Its agricultural and rural
development strategy gives a special emphasis to: (i) expansion of irrigated
area; and (ii) concurrent implementing of suppor.ting programs to optimize the
use of land and water resources.
The State of Madhya Pradesh
1.03      Madhya Pradesh (MP) is India's largest state, covering an area of
44.3 M ha and having a population of about 52 M (1980). By most indicators
this is one of the poorest states in India. Per capita income (Rs 896 in
1977/78) is about 77% of the all-India average. The literacy rate of 22% is
among the lowest in India and the density of its health services is below the
all-India average. The progress with provision of water supply in the villages
and rural electrification has been slower than in the other States and the
communication system is deficient. Economic growth has been lagging behind
the rest of India and in the period 1970/71-1977/78 the Net Domestic Product
grew at an annual rate of 1.8% compared to 7.2% for India as a whole. More-
over, because population has increased at a higher rate (about 2.6% per annum)
the per capita income actually declined in the same period by about 0.8% per
annum. There was virtually no growth in the state's agricultural sector
during that period compared with 3.4% for India. The agricultural sector
which accounts for 55% of the State Domestic Product and employs about 80% of
the working population dominates the State's economy. Therefore, it would be
1/   The all-India sectoral background has been presented in recent Bank
Appraisal Reports and is not repeated here; MP sectoral background is
discussed extensively in the appraisal report of Madhya Pradesh Medium
Irrigation Project, Report No. 3260-IN.



-2-
hard to substantially increase the rate of economic growth without removing
the constraints on agricultural growth especially through the expansion of
irrigation and improved water management. The State accords a high priority
to irrigation as a means of raising both agricultural production and the
incomes of the rural population. Since the first Five Year Plan, this sector
has received a large share of plan allocation, which is currently about 30%.
1.04      Bank Group Assistance.  The Bank Group has been involved in the agri-
cultural sector in MP through several previous International Development Asso-
ciation (IDA) credits. The Madhya Pradesh Dairy Project (Credit 522-IN, US$16.4
M approved in December 18, 1974), supports development of dairy cooperatives in
rural areas involving some 160,000 farm families throughout the State. Phase I
of the Chambal (MP) Command Area Development Project (Credit 562-IN, US$24 M,
June 20, 1975) was designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization in
the command area of the Chambal River and bring additional areas under irriga-
tion (detailed performance review is in paras 1.08 to 1.16). The Madhya Pradesh
Forestry Technical Assistance (Credit 609-IN, US$4 M, February 26, 1976) was de-
signed to assist in laying the groundwork for developing Madhya Pradesh's fores-
try resources. The Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project
(Credit 712-IN, US$10 M, June 1, 1977) was designed to reorganize and strengthen
the agricultural extension service in 15 out of the State's 45 administrative
districts and to improve and re-orient adaptive research.  A second phase of that
project (Credit 1138-IN, US$37 M, April 1981) which covers districts not included
in the previous credit, has recently been approved. Since 1981 the Bank Group
has become involved in irrigation development in the State on a sizable scale.
The MP Medium Irrigation Project (Credit 1108-IN, US$140, March 26, 1981) sup-
ports development of medium irrigation projects throughout the State. The MP
Major Irrigation Project (estimated cost US$439 M) which would finance a five-
year time-slice of an irrigation development program in the Mahanadi River Basin
has recently been approved. 1/
The Chambal Irrigation System 2/
1.05      The Chambal Irrigation System serves areas in the States of Rajasthan
and Madhya Pradesh. An Interstate Water Agreement provides for equal sharing
of the Chambal River water between the two States. The headworks include a
series of multi-purpose reservoirs in cascade on the Chambal River, the main
dam being at Gandhisagar (MP) and the diversion point to the Chambal area at
Kota (Rajasthan) where the Right and Left Main Canals (RMC and LMC) take off
from the Kota Barrage. The RMC serves about 127,000 ha in Rajasthan before
crossing into MP at Parvati, whereas the LMC serves solely a Rajasthan area
of about 102,000 ha (Map 16044).
1/ The State has also benefited from several IDA supported Country-wide
projects such as the Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
(ARDC) line-of-credit projects, the National Agricultural Research Project
and the Foodgrain Storage Projects.
2/ The following hierarchy of th,e water distribution network is used in this
report: main canal, branch canal, distributary, minor, sub-minor, water-
course and field channel. The minor conveys water to several sub-minors
or watercourses. While most of the watercourses take off from a minor,
some take off directly from branch canals or distributaries.



- 3 -
1.06      The Chambal System canal networks were gradually completed over
a period of about 10 years in the 1960's to the then prevailing Indian plan-
ning and design standards. The main objective was to provide "protective
irrigation" during the monsoon (kharif) season followed by supplementary
irrigation during the winter (rabi) months, largely to crops which were
perceived to be relatively insensitive to water stress. The networks were
unlined and had few head regulating and escape structures, with project water
delivery points covering 40 ha or larger blocks of land and with inadequate
outlet control features. Greater than anticipated canal seepage losses not
only reduced the delivery capability of the primary conveyance system but
also aggravated the seasonal waterlogging problems for which insufficient
drainage arrangements were provided. The high water table at the end of the
monsoon season prevented farmers from planting the winter wheat and mustard
crops at the optimal time. The distributary canal design flow (discharge)
capacities could not meet the critical peak water demands of HYV wheat and
rice which developed rapidly in the upper parts of the irrigation blocks
following the introduction of irrigation service. Water supply was further
aggravated by enforced closures (often during high water demand periods) to
repair breaches and remove aquatic weeds. Finally, the water allocation plans
and associated canal operating procedures were not consistent with the reali-
ties of the conveyance system capability and the irrigation demands resulting
from the cropping pattern which had actually developed.
1.07      As a result of these deficiencies only 151,000 ha out of the planned
320,000 ha in the MP part of the Chambal System were irrigated by the canal
network in 1974, and results in the Rajasthan part were similarly disappoint-
ing. Growing perception of these difficulties led GOI and the Government of
Madhya Pradesh (GOMP) to commence a program of remedial measures, the first
phase of which obtained Bank Group assistance in Chambal (iP) Command Area
Development Project (Cr. 562-IN) in 1975.  This followed a similar involvement
(Ln. 1011-IN) in Chambal Rajasthan in 1974.  The project focussed on irriga-
tion and drainage network improvements together with the introduction of
systematic land development, soil conservation along the deeply incised
Chambal River ravines, development of command area roads and strengthening of
the Command Area Development Authority (CADA).
Performance Under Chambal (MP) Phase I (Cr. 562-IN)
1.08      General.  The project was appraised in November 1974 and became ef-
fective in September 1975. It represented the first phase (time-slice) of a
program to improve and complete the existing irrigation facilities, construct
drainage works, provide on-farm development, improve the road system and
provide agricultural supporting services (extension and research) throughout
the project area. The physical targets set up at appraisal consisted of a
part of the improvement works which were to be implemented over a period of
10-15 years and the magnitude of Phase I targets was largely affected by
budgetary and implementation constraints. The project cost was estimated at
US$46.6 M and the IDA credit approved was US$24.0 M. It was to be implemented
over a three-year period ending December 1978 but, due to a slow organizational
build-up, insufficient budget allocation and shortage of materials, the
implementation period had to be extended.



- 4 -
1.09      After implementation had picked up, it became clear that actual
contingencies would be smaller than anticipated at appraisal and that higher
physical targets could be achieved (except for on-farm development works,
see para 1.11). Consequently GOMP revised the implementation targets (with
IDA concurrence). The project was fully disbursed on May 6, 1981. The follow-
ing table shows the main components and the physical progress made by the end
of March 1981.
Appraisal      Achieved by      Achievement as
Estimate       March 1981      % of Appraisal
Canal Capacity Works - km               400             1,035            259
Canal Security and Protection
Earthwork -  '000 m3                  300               577            192
Masonary Lining - '000 m              120               116             97
Gunite Lining - '000 m                130               150            115
Masonary Lining - units                19                74            389
Canal Control
Cross Regulators - units               44                39             89
Escapes - units                        11                 6             55
Pipe outlets - units               3,000              2,573             86
Aquatic Weed Control
RMC Canalization - '000 m 3            40                70%           70
Bhind Canalization - '000 m           160                73%           73
Drainage Works - km                     760             1,150           151
On-Farm Development
Land Development - ha             12,000              5,735            48
Chak Drainage - ha                20,000             28,000 /a        140
Roads - km                              191               440           230
Ravine Erosion Control - km              50               121           242
/a   Completed by the end of June 1981.
1.10      The above data indicate that the project achieved most of its invest-
ment targets. The main exception is the on-farm development program which,
as in most other Indian irrigation projects, has been difficult to implement
(see below). Largely as a result of project works, the canal irrigated area
increased from 168,000 ha in 1975/76 to about 189,000 in 1978/79 (compared to
±2K0OO ha targeted at appraisal). Drainage works have largely been completed,
servi.,z about 28,000 ha (compared to a target of 20,000 ha). The all-weather
rural roa_ network has increased by aboiut 440 km (appraisal target was 191 km).



- 5 -
1.11      The on-farm development program was to include a "full package" of
land leveling, construction of watercourses, drains and access roads inside
the chaks and required realignment of farm boundaries. The "full package"
works were to be financed through institutional credit and, as they included
common works serving several farmers (e.g., watercourses), were to be under-
taken only after agreement of 2/3 of the landholders had been obtained.
However, implementation of the program encountered serious difficulties.
Firstly, landholders strongly resisted consolidation and boundary realignment.
Secondly, the cost of land leveling was relatively high and the reduction in
fertility in the two years following consolidation imposed an additional
financial burden on farmers. As most of the land is flat (less than 1% slope)
fields can be irrigated without land leveling, but at a lower irrigation
efficiency. This, however, has not concerned farmers since the present system
of water allocation and water charge does not provide incentives for efficient
water use. 1/ For these reasons the "full package" program did not make much
progress and the target was reduced in September 1977 (with IDA concurrence)
from 12,000 to 5,000 ha. The experience with the land development component
indicates that: (i) land consolidation and realignment of boundary is a slow
and complicated process and should be avoided where possible; (ii) the finance
of common works through credit is a slow and difficult process; and (iii) the
demand for credit for land development is likely to remain low.
1.12      With respect to the other components, the works aimed at increasing
canal capacity, preventing breaches (canal security works) and blockages (weed
control) were implemented according to the plan and appear to have improved
irrigation water supply in the sections treated. however, it became clear
that even after completion of such works water would fail to reach large
areas downstream in a reliable way because of high seepage losses, a fact not
anticipated at appraisal. The project officers indicate that the drainage
works have improved yields considerably but data to quantify such improvement
are unavailable yet. The benefits of the ravine erosion control works are
obvious though also difficult to quantify. Finally there has been a consider-
able improvement in the road network which would be essential for supporting
a "takeoff" in agricultural production.
1.13      Survey data on Phase I benefits are, at this stage, insufficient
largely because the project has only recently been completed. However, a
basis for future evaluation of project results has been created. The Monitor-
ing and Evaluation Cell which was established under Phase I conducted a bench-
mark socio-economic sample survey of 216 farm households. 2/ The reference
year was 1977/78 but because of data processing constraints a report was not
1/   Once the water had reached the farmer's field, he can irrigate his land
without a time limit and upon completion, the water is turned over to the
next field. Thus, the farmer can partially compensate for a low field
irrigation efficiency resulting from an unlevel field by irrigating his
field for a longer time (without paying an extra charge).
2/   Considering the wide variations in pre- and post-project farm benefits,
the size of the sample appears to have been relatively small.



issued until August 1980. 1/  If repeated after an appropriate interval (4-5
years) the repeater survey may provide some useful data on project results.
More details on Phase I performance and the problems encountered will be pre-
sented in the Project Completion Report which is presently under preparation.
1.14      Water Management Studies.  These studies were conducted under Bank
guidance. The main objective was to study the present irrigation efficiencies
and ways to improve them. The following results have been obtained:
(a)  percolation losses in minors were extremely high; in rota-
tionally operated u2lined ditches, losses were 9-30 cumecs/Mm2
(30-100 cfs per Mft ) in medium textured soils (sandy-loams,
loams and clay-loams);
(b) in watercourses, 40-60% of the inlet flow was lost in the
first 4,000-6,000 meters;
(c) field irrigation efficiency ranged from 45 to 65%; and
(d) chak delivery flows varied from 0.2 to 1.0 cfs 2/ and fluctuated
during the irrigation of a chak; flow reaching tail-end
fields seldom exceeded 0.2 cfs.
1.15      The studies have shown that while the present chak efficiency is low -
generally in the range of 20-40%, it could be raised to 60-70% provided that:
(a) minors and watercourses are lined;
(b) chaks receive a minimum flow of 1.0 cfs at the outlet; and
(c) tail-end fields receive at least 85% of the chak flow.
These findings were utilized in the planning of Phase II.
1.16      Institutional Building.  The CADA, following a prolonged gestation
period during which it suffered frequent changes of its Chairman/Commissioner,
has developed into one of the stronger command area organizations in India.
The administration of CADA has been recently studied by tne Administrative
Staff College of India. The main recommendations made were (report dated
September, 1980):
1/   Such delays reduce the usefulness of survey results for decision maki,.
Under the proposed project (Phase II) the monitoring and evaluation
system would be strengthened co ensure timely analysis (paras 5.13 to
5.18).
2/   The Metric System has been used in most cases.  However, India is still
in the process of transition to the metric system and non-metric units
are still widely used, and were therefore used in this repcrt in cases
in which a conversion to the metric system may confuse the Indian reader.



- 7-
(a)  Strengthening of the planning and monitoring functions and
creation of a Planning and Monitoring Unit;
(b)  Establishment of a Project Coordination and Review Committee
within CADA; and
(c)  Creation of a Chambal CAD Board at State level; this board
would serve as the top bedy for policy making, performance
review, sanctioning and resource allocation.
The first recommendation is being adopted (para 5.13), while the other two
have been under consideration by GOMP.
1.17      Preparation of Phase II.  Phase I experience indicated that despite
improvement works on the main conveyance system, water supply to large areas
downstream continues to be insufficient and unreliable. A review of the
groundwater situation indicated the existence of a considerable potential for
conjunctive use of ground and surface water which could relieve water con-
straints in the downstream parts of the command area. A new perspective plan
for the irrigation and road development of the Chambal area over the next 10
years was formulated by the CADA in 1980. The plan indicates that with the
development of additional water resources (includinig groundwater) up to about
280,000 ha could be successfully developed for canal irrigation within the
major boundaries of the area covered by the canal network. GOI has requested
Bank Group assistance for a Phase II project which includes elements of all of
these components, and also provides for extension and upgrading of the drainage
and rural road networks and further environmental improvement through ravine
arrestation and canalside afforestation. This Phase II project is the subject
of this report.
II. THE PROJECT AREA
General
2.01      The project area extends 300 km along the south bank of the Chambal
River in Morena and Bhind districts and includes all the major towns of both
districts (Map 15922). Its gross area is about 400,000 ha.
Climate (Annex 1, T-1)
2.02      The climate is sub-tropical with three distinct seasons:  the kharif
or wet season, the rabi or dry season and the hot weather or dry pre-monsoon
season. The mean monthly temperatures range from 42'C in May to 8'C in January.
The project area receives the major portion of its rainfall from the southwest
monsoon which starts in early June and continues with some intervals till the
end of September. There are considerable variations in both the amount and
the distribution of monsoon rainfall. The beginning and the end of the
monsoon vary from year to year and long dry spells frequently occur within the
rainy season. The average annual rainfall is about 820 mm with 92% occurring
during the wet season. These factors make irrigation essential for successful
crop production throughout the cropping seasons.



-8-
Topography and Soils
2.03      The area is flat and forms a gently inclined plain from southwest
to northeast, with an average land slope of about 1%. The terrain is deeply
eroded along the Chambal River and its main tributaries form deep channels.
The soils are deep alluvial and fall into largely two main types: sandy loam
soils (below 20% clay content) in the Ambah Branch Canal area and clay loam
(20-40% clay content) to clay soils (40% above) in the Bhind Main Canal and
Mau Branch Canal areas. Both soil types are neutral to moderately alkaline
and generally low in organic matter and fertility. The sandy loam soils,
which occupy about 55% of the project area, are suited for irrigated farming
of mainly upland crops such as wheat, mustard, pulses, soybean, groundnut
and potatoes because of their coarser structures and moderately higher perme-
ability. The clay loam to clay soils are less permeable and poorly drained,
and presently limited to irrigated paddy cultivation. The soils in about
7% of the project area are adversely affected by a high water table and poor
drainage. Adequate drainage facilities are essential to enhance agricultural
production in such areas.
Roads
2.04      At the commencement of Phase I, a reasonably good network of main
roads served the command area. Therefore, the roads component of that project
concentrated on providing village roads to feed this network. However, the
growth in traffic resulting from the agricultural development activities in
the area and the rise of the water-table have resulted in a serious deteriora-
tion of many of the main roads. An upgrading of the existing main roads would
be required to facilitate further development of the project area.
Land Holdings and Land Tenure
2.05      The population of the project area is estimated at about 700,000 of
which 90% is rural. The average size of a household is 6.7 persons. About
19% of the rural population is literate and 23% belong to Scheduled Castes or
Tribes. The average size of farm is 2.4 ha. Some 36% of holdings are 1 ha or
less, 45% are between 1 and 4 ha, and 19% are larger than 4 ha. Practically
all farms are operated by their owners; owners of small farm units must rely
partly on off-farm employment for their livelihood.
Cultural Practices
2.06      Present Cropping Patterns.  There are three cropping seasons:
kharif (June-October); rabi (November-February); and hot season (March-May).
The crops grown are mainly millets, pulses, sorghum and paddy during the
kharif, and wheat, mustard and gram during the rabi. No cultivation is
currently practiced during the hot season as there are no supplies of irriga-
tion water and soil moisture is too low. Most common cropping sequences are:
(i) millet or sorghum-gram; (ii) fallow - wheat or mustard; and (iii) pulses-
fallow. Of the total area, about 41% is planted with wheat, 19% mustard, 18%



- 9 -
millets and sorghum, 16% pulses (mainly pigeon pea), 15% gram, 12% paddy and
5% other minor crops. The high variability of the rainfall, both between
years and within the rainy seasons, and the unsatisfactory supply of kharif
irrigation water have discouraged kharif cultivation and only about 45% of the
cultivable area is cropped during the kharif. The remaining lands are usually
kept fallow to preserve soil moisture and to enable early seedbed preparation
for the rabi crops. Most of the rabi crops are irrigated but do not receive
the amount of water required for good yields.
2.07      Crop Yields.  Most of the paddy grown in the area is transplanted
and irrigated. Due to unreliable supply of irrigation water and lack of
adequate drainage facilities in the heavy soil areas in particular, present
yields are low, averaging 2.2 t/ha for HYV and 1.25 t/ha for local varieties.
Millet, the staple food crop, is largely grown on the light soils under
rainfed conditions. The yields are low averaging 1.70 t/ha for hybrids
and 0.80 t/ha for local millets. Most of the sorghum consists of local
varieties and is grown under rainfed conditions. Some hybrid varieties have
been introduced but have not yet been widely adopted by the farmers. The
average yield of local sorghum is estimated at 0.80 t/ha. Pigeon pea is the
most important pulse in the kharif and bengal gram and mung bean are the most
important pulses in the rabi season. Average yields of pulses are about 0.80
t/ha under irrigation and 0.50 t/ha under rainfed conditions. Wheat is the
most popular rabi crop and is also a staple food crop. Its average yield is
about 1.60 t/ha for HYV and 1.0 t/ha for local varieties. This low yield is
attributed mainly to untimely planting and can be improved considerably if
planting concentrates around mid-November. Mustard is extensively grown on
light soils during the rabi and about 70% of its area receives some irrigation.
Yields are 0.70 t/ha under irrigation and 0.55 t/ha under rainfed conditions.
Some potatoes are grown mainly for home consumption but yields are low at 10
t/ha.
Groundwater Resources (Supplementary Data Volume (SDV), Annex 6)
2.08      Alluvial  deposits form the important aquifer system of the command
area. These accumulated in the drainage basins of the Chambal and Sind rivers
and overlie rocks of the Vindhyan series. The alluvial deposits thin laterally
from the general vicinity of the rivers to a feather edge at the outcrop of
the Vindhyan rocks in central Morena and southern Bhind districts.
2.09      The upper part of the alluvial sequence is predominantly silt and
this layer may be up to 120 m thick. The lower part of the sequence consist's
of sands (which form the aquifers) with interfingered lenses of silt, clay
and kanker. Clean sand materials form 50-80% of the lower layer. The total
thickness of alluvial deposits has a maximum of about 200 m.
2.10      The regional hydraulic gradient of the groundwater system is north-
wards or north-westwards towards the Chambal River within the command area.
The Chambal and Kunwari Rivers are deeply incised and form the sinks for
groundwater flow. The sink at the Chambal River marks the lateral hydraulic
boundary to groundwater flow within the command.



- 10 -
2.11      The depth of the water table ranges from near surface to about 30 m
below surface (in parts of Bhind district). The head in the lower part of the
system is sufficient to produce flowing wells in the discharge areas adjacent
to the Chambal and Kunwari Rivers.
2.12      The quality of the groundwater is generally suitable for irrigation
on the reasonably well drained soils. There are some areas of saline ground-
water associated with shallow water table discharge areas where salts are
concentrated in the upper layers by evaporation.
2.13      The groundwater is utilized for irrigation through private and
public wells. Many private water points are dug-cum-bored wells, the lower
bored section being developed as a cavity well on penetratiig the first sand
bed. Some 810 tubewells, 60-80 m deep and yielding 30-50 m /h, have been
constructed by the Madhya Pradesh Lift Irrigation Corporation (LIC) for
private farmers. LIC also operates a smail number of public tubewells for
irrigation with discharges of about 150 m /h and command areas of 100 ha. In
general, groundwater development through public tubewells results in a more
equitable distribution of the groundwater resources than development through
private wells.
2.14      The present level of groundwater development in the alluvial aquifer
system of the Chambal command is relatively low. Partial estimates of water
balances, prepared for blocks within the command area, indicate that gross
abstraction as a percentage of total recharge ranges from 2-60% and averages
25%. If contribution of return flows to groundwater recharge is considered,
the abstraction rate would be reduced by about half.
III. THE PROJECT
A. General
3.01      Scope and Objectives.  The four-year project would consist of two
main parts: (i) continuation of works started under Phase I (para 1.08) which
are aimed at improving both the canal conveyance system and the drainage
system, construction of additional roads and the prevention of further
encroachment of the ravines into the project area 1/; and (ii) construction of
a system for conjunctive use of ground and surface water with a regulatable
storage, and a distribution system lined to the 8 ha outlet. This latter
1/   In Phase I, works covered under this part have been implemented according
to a priority basis and spread throughout the Chambal Project area.
This will be the situation also in Phase II (the proposed project). It
was impossible therefore to divide the project area by implementation
phase.



- 11 -
component will provide a more reliable water supply to the tail end of the
command area. Improvements resulting from project works would include the
following:
(a)  The area irrigated will expand by about 32,000 ha (from
189,000 to 221,000 ha).
(b)  40,000 ha (out of the 221,000 ha) would be developed to
improved irrigation standards (the AIBD area).
(c)  Drainage will be improved in about 4,550 ha (out of the
221,000 ha).
The proposed works will increase agricultural production, employment and net
incomes in the project area.
3.02      The main project components will be:
(a)  Intensive block development in the Ambah branch canal
(AIBD) including construction of 175 augmentation tube-
wells for conjunctive use of ground and canal water and
upgrading of minor canal and watercourses network over
40,000 ha (SDV, Annexes 6 and 7).
(b)  Irrigation and drainage network improvements (SDV,
Annex 4) such as:
(i) further upgrading of the main and secondary
irrigation canal throughout the project area;
(ii) main and secondary drainage works.
(c)  Ravine arrestation works and canal-side tree plantation
(SDV, Annex 4).
(d)  Upgrading and extension of the rural road network (SDV,
Annex 8).
(e)  Monitoring, Technical Services and establishment of a
Training Institute.
3.03      The proposed project components are closely interrelated.  Canal
network improvement works are essential for improving the reliability of
canal water which will provide about 2/3 of the water in the conjunctive
use areas. Unless this share of the water supply is reliable, the total
supply situation will remain unsatisfactory and the potential benefits from
the augmentation of groundwater and from the improved distribution networks
(to the 8 ha outlet) will not be realized. Similarly, it will not be possible
to obtain the full benefits from the investment in the improved distribution
system in areas suffering from poor drainage, unless the drainage situation is
improved. The investments made in the major irrigation works coupled with a
scarcity of irrigable land commanded by the canals justify further investments



- 12 -
to prevent the encroachment of the ravines and in the canal side plantations
to protect the canal sides from erosion and breaches. Finally an adequate
network of roads would be essential for the increased transport of inputs and
outputs when agricultural production in the project area "takes off".
B. Detailed Features
The Ambah Intensive Block Development (AIBD)
3.04      These works would comprise (i) construction of augmentation tube-
wells (AT) which would pump groundwater into the canal system; (ii) creation
of storage in the canal system for constant flow regulation and to enable
utilization of low-cost energy during off-peak hours; and (iii) upgrading and
extension of the conveyance system to the 8 ha outlet. The AT would supply
water in the part of the Ambah Branch Canal (ABC) command extending from Mile
54 on the ABC to the tails of the system to an area of about 40,000 ha of Cul-
tivable Command Area (CCA).
3.05      The Augmentation Tubewells.  A total of 175 AT with discharges in
the range of 150-350 m Ahr are plinned. The total installed pumping capacity
would be about 47,000 m /hr (13 m /sec). It is assumed that power supply
limitations will restrict pumping ij peak demand periods to 16 hour/day, giving
a peak 15-day production of 11.2 3Ma  at the well heads, equivalent to a con-
tinuous discharge of about 8.7 m /sec. The proposed cropping pattern would
require approximately 2,300 hours of groundwater pumping during the period
October through March.
3.06      The wells will discharge into various parts of the canal conveyance
system including the ABC, distributaries, minors and subminors down to 6 cfs
capacity. They will be distributed through the conveyance system so that the
augmentation well head capacity represents approximately half the water supply
at full supply level at any point in the system.
3.07      Each individual AT complex will consist of the well, pump, prime
mover, rising main, automated switch gear, starter relay and motor protection
relay.  The wells will range in depth ;3rom 100 to 160 m and their discharges
will be within a range of 150 to 350 m /hr. Pumping water levels will be in
the range of 15 to 45 m below ground surface. The wells will be equipped with
submersible electric motor powered turbine pumps. The main switch gear for
groups of wells will be centralized at selected points on the transmission
system.
3.08      The Electrical Transmission and Transformation Systems.  The trans-
mission system below the 33/11 Kv substation will be exclusive to the augment-
ation well system. The power will be supplied from the existing 132/33 Kv
stations at Morena, Ambah, Mehgoan and Bhind.  About 116 km of 33 Kv line will
be constructed.  Substations for 33/11 Kv transformation will be constructed
at six sites. Features of such stations will be protection against voltage
surges by capacitors and smoothing of outgoing voltage by transformer protec-
tion and specialized transformer units. The 11 Kv lines will extend over
about 265 km. Each water point will be equipped with a transformer of suitable
capacity for 11/0.4 Kv conversion.



- 13 -
3.09      Conveyance from Well to Canal.  This part of the conveyance system
will consist of buried low pressure reinforced cast concrete (RCC) pipes. The
connection from the pump rising main to the RCC pipe and the final length of
delivery at surface will consist of mild steel pipes. At the delivery point
on the canal, the water will pass through a baffled energy dissipation box
which will also function as a V-notch chamber for checking well discharge.
3.10      Canal Storage for Constant Flow Regulation.  The canal system down
to 6 cfs capacity will be enlarged to provide regulatable storage between
full supply level (FSL) and FSL +1 to +3 ft. It will also be modified to
operate essentially as a level top system and be equipped with the necessary
regulator gates and cross regulators. Outlets to minor elements of the
distribution, and direct chak outlets will be controlled through gated modules
(for near constant discharge under slight head variations) having lockable
screw down slide gates.
3.11      Experimental Storage for Flow Regulation.  The use of storage for
flow regulation is relatively new in India but is expected to become
increasingly important in the future. Therefore, it is necessary to study
the suitability of alternative regulation methods to local conditions. This
would be done under the project by: (i) construction of 7 storage tanks,
each serving one AT and having storage capacity equal to about one-third
of the pump discharge in 16 hrs.; and (ii) installation of an automatic
(NEYRPIC) gates system in Distributary 35R, which serves about 1,000 ha.
3.12      Water Distribution System.  All channels carrying 6 cfs (600 m 3/hr)
or less would be lined to the 8 ha outlet, except where found unnecessary as a
result of tests and observations that would indicate that lining is uneco-
nomical in these reaches. Regulation and measurement structures would be
constructed at flow division points. The following densities and lining
areas were assumed (based on sample areas):
Service                   Channel      Average Area
Area       Capacity      Density      to be Lined
(ha)       (cfs) /a      (m/ha)         (m /ha)
Distributaries & Minors    250-2,500         6-60           7           20.0
Minors & Subminors            50-250         1-6           13           16.5
Watercourses                  10-40            1           22           25.0
Field Channels                 4-10            1          85          (unlined)
/a   1 cfs = 100.8 m /hour.
3.13      Locally manufactured bricks have proven to be satisfactory lining
material in the medium textured soils of the project area. The lined minor
network would generally be designed with rectangular sections and constructed
of 11 cm bricks set in 1:6 mortar, with 1:3 cement pointing on outside joints,
and 10-12 mm thick cement plaster of the inside facing. Works would include
the construction of structures (division boxes, drops, culverts and chak
inlets) and measuring flumes at all direct outlets and at the head of each
48 ha delivery block. After completion of the lining, each section would be
pond-tested by filling it with water and monitoring the perpolation losies
during a 24-hour period. Where losses exceed 0.6 cumecs/Mm (2 cfs/Mft ) the
section would be repaired.



- 14 -
3.14      The average density of field channel is estimated at 85 m/ha.  The
channels will be designed by the Irrigation Department and construction will
be undertaken by the farmers and financed, where necessary, through institu-
tional credit (see also para 5.21).
Irrigation and Drainage Network Improvements
3.15      The project would finance the following:
(a) Canal Security Works. To protect against excessive seepage
at selected points (already identified) and to limit eroiion,
adjacent to canal structures, a total of about 555,000 m
of lining in masonry set in cement mortar and precast con-
crete blocks overlying a cement mortar membrane would be
installed. Additional width of embankment with berms and
rip rap toe protection would be built at six locations where
canal alignments abut deep ravines.
(b) Canal Capacity Works. A total of 114 km of existing water-
courses which take off directly from major canals would be
upgraded to minor canal standards and provided with improved
headgates. About 176 km of distributary canals would be
increased to 0.8 1/s/ha flow capacity in the predominantly
wheat zone and 1.4 l/s/ha in the predominantly rice zone.
(c) Canal Control Works. Some 98 canal regulators, 7 escape
structures and 1,375 chak outlets would be constructed to
facilitate canal network operation which is more responsive
to irrigation demand. Twenty-one canal bridges will be
constructed to facilitate canal O&M.
(d) Buildings. Forty-seven units of residential and office
accommodation would be built, largely at the more remote
points through the canal network to facilitate the further
deployment of the Canal Operation and Maintenance (O&M)
personnel. Telephone communication would be made avail-
able to all key operating staff.
(e)  Equipment.  The existing O&M equipment would be supplemented
with additional motor vehicles, road rollers and vibratory
compactors.
(f)  Aquatic Weed Control.  A total of 155,000 m  of earth
embankments would be constructed to complete the separation
of the RMC, LMC and Bhind Main Canal from a series of small
tanks which are the breeding grounds of aquatic weeds. This
is a cost effective solution to the problem of pervasive
weed growth in the canals particularly during peak demand
period when it is difficult and costly to close the canals
for weed removal.



- 15 -
3.16      The project would also continue the drainage program to improve
the drainage of seasonally waterlogged lands by constructing 295 km of
secondary and main drains and modifying the spillway of the Biseli tank
in the Bhind District. The area benefiting from drainage works is estimated
at 4,550 ha of which about 2,300 ha are in Morena district and about 2,250 ha
are in Bhind district.
3.17      The water supply to the Bhind rice areas would be improved by
raising the embankment of the Kotwal-Pillowa tanks and increasing the flow
capacity of the Upper Bhind and Mau Branch Canals.
Ravine Arrestation and Canal-side Plantations
3.18      Ravine Arrestation.  The geographical formation and topography in
the Chambal basin facilitates gully erosion and has resulted in the formation
of deep gullies--the ravines. The ravine area in Morena and Bhind districts
has increased from 228,000 ha in 1943/44 to 234,000 ha in 1950/51 and 311,000
ha in 1975/76 an average increase of about 3,000 ha per annum. A considerable
part of the land lost to the ravines had previously been suitable for crop
production. Ravine control operations include mainly: (i) afforestation of
selected areas in order to prevent further expansion of the ravines; (ii)
enclosure of areas to facilitate growth of vegetative cover; and (iii) pro-
tection of existing plantations. About 11,000 ha of plantations would be
established under the project in the peripheral ravine lands of the Chambal
(MP) command area. Selection of the areas to be protected would be guided
by economic criteria (para. 5.15).
3.19      Canal-side Plantations.  The plantations along 420 km of project
canals would act as a shelter-belt and reduce wind erosion and losses of canal
water through evaporation and could be a source of timber and fuel for the
rural population. The plants which would be raised in project nurseries would
be planted on both sides of the canals, three rows at planting distances of
3 x 3 m on each side.
Roads
3.20      The roads component would comprise:
(a) completion to waterbound macadam standard of 68 km of roads
started in Phase I;
(b)  completion of widening to 5.5 m and strengthening of 104 km
of existing blacktop roads;
(c) strengthening 79 km of existing single lane blacktop road
and adding 6 km of new roads to this category;
(d) constructing 25 km of new waterbound macadam roads;
(e) construction of bridges;
(f) construction, within the project area, of offices and staff
housing required for road construction and maintenance units;



- 16 -
(g)  an engineering study to establish the feasibility and cost
of constructing 69 km of public roads along part of the
Ambah Branch Canal; and
(h)  an in-service training program for road engineers; super-
visors, technicians and plant operators, aimed particularly
at improving methods of works planning, output of construction
equipment and quality control.
3.21      All project roads would be designed and constructed as all-weather
roads 1/ in accordance with Indian Roads Congress (IRC) standards and speci-
fications.  Pavements would be of waterbound macadam construction with the
addition of a 20 mm pre-mix bitumen carpet and seal coat on selected sections
of road. All roads would be constructed on compacted earth embankments with
a height of at least 0.6 m, measured to the underside of the pavement, and
would be provided with adequate side drains and cross drainage works. All
single lane roads would have 1.0 m wide hard murrum shoulders on both sides,
compacted to a thickness of at least 0.15 m. In black cotton soil areas, the
earth embankment would be overlaid with murrum blanketing at least 0.25 m
thick and carried over the full width, including side slopes. Pavement depths
would be calculated from the anticipated traffic densities and the California
Bearing Ratio (CBR) values of the sub-base materials. The width of right-of-
way would normally be 25 m or more but may be reduced in cultivated areas to
a minimum of 15 m, provided that sufficient earth for the embankment can be
obtained from other sources.  The minimum formation width would be 7.5 m and
pavement widths would be 5.5 m and 3.5 m respectively for double and single
lane roads. The IRC standard width for two-lane pavements is 7.0 m. Further
widening may eventually become necessary on some roads but cannot be economic-
ally justified at the present stage of development. It will not be feasible to
widen the existing single-lane blacktop roads, which were built to the old
standard width of 3.00 m. However, their pavements would be strengthened,
where necessary, and 1.25 m wide hard shoulders will be provided on both sides
of these roads.
Monitoring, Technical Services and Training
3.22      Monitoring and Evaluation.  Provisions have been made for incre-
mental staff, vehicles and equipment, data processing, consultants, seconded
staff, research studies by university students and staff and training.
Details are in paras 5.13 to 5.18 and SDV, Annex 9.
3.23      Monitoring of Groundwater.  A network of about 18 paired piezometers
equipped with water level recorders are to be constructed to monitor c anges
in groundwater levels. Each pair would monitor an area of about 25 km . In
addition, about 12 shallow piezometers would be constructed adjacent to the
augmentation wells to monitor the water level response in the upper layer to
pumping in the lower layer. Details are in SDV Annex 6, Appendix 1.
1/   With permissible interruptions to traffic due to flooding, as laid down
by the IRC.



- 17 -
3.24      Water Resources and Management Studies (SDV, Annex 4).  The project
will finance studies leading to: (a) development of additional water resources;
and (b) formulation of a sophisticated canal management plan. Under (a) feasi-
bility studies would be undertaken for the development of the Kunwari-Kunu-Seep
and Asan-Pegara river basin waters, resources identified in Phase I. The
studies will cover both direct irrigation of new potential service areas and
augmentation of the RMC supply. Under (b) a mathematical model would be for-
mulated to study the complex hydraulics of the canal network and to identify
operational improvements. The model will utilize the detailed canal geometry
and extensive historical water level and flow data collected on many segments
of the system sirnce 1965. The studies would be conducted by an agency or
research institution having adequate expertise. Agreements have been reached
with GOMP that it would: (i) select agencies to conduct the water resources
and management studies; and (ii) by December 31, 1982 submit to IDA for
comments, a plan for each study, including detailed methodology and implemen-
tation schedule.
3.25      Technical Services.  The project provides for short-term engagement
of local experts in tasks requiring special expertise which is unavailable in
the government service. This may include, inter alia, assistance with the
implementation of the augmentation system proposed for the AIDB, introduction
of rotational water supply system and improvement of the monitoring and eval-
uation system. Such provisions would minimize the administrative problems
involved in the engagement of such experts.
3.26      Training in Minor SystemDe          n    d Water Management.  The
effectiveness of water utilization will depend to a large extent on adequate
development of the minor distribution system. Such development will require
personnel experienced in surveying, layout, construction and subsequent man-
agement of distribution systems, including minor canals, watercourses and
field channels. Such personnel must have also adequate knowledge of agri-
cultural practices especially crop water requirement. Unfortunately, this
type of expertise is almost non-existent. In order to fill this deficiency,
it would be essential to start an orderly training program aimed at satisfying
the project requirements of such personnel as well as, eventually, those of
the entire state. The program would comprise courses of duration varying from
three to nine months for personnel in the ID having university degrees or
diplomas in civil or agricultural engineering. Similar training programs
have been initiated in several states (e.g., Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh) to
support projects which began at an earlier date and Madhya Pradesh should be
able to benefit from their experience.  The project will assist with the
establishment of a Water and Land Management Institute for training in minor
system development and water management. Project assistance will include
establishment of residential and training accommodation, equipment, incremental
staff salaries, training allowances and consultancy services. Specific pro-
posals including detailed curriculum for training will be prepared by GOMP.
Agreements have been reached with GOMP that it would: (i) by December 31,
1982 prepare a detailed plan, agreed with IDA, for the establishment of a
water and land development institute; and (ii) by September 30, 1983 establish
such an institute.



- 18 -
C. Criteria for Design and Operation
Design Criteria for AIBD
3.27      Wells.  The wells will be drilled using either direct rotary or
reverse circulation drilling rigs. All wells will fully penetrate the
aquifer system to terminate at the contact between the alluvial deposits
and the underlying Vindhyan series rocks. They will be drilled at 550 mm
diameter from surface to terminal depth. Their total depths will be in
the range of 100 to 160 m. Well casing and screen will be of mild steel and
the screen will be slotted with apertures of 1.5 mm width to provide an open
area of not less than 15%. The pu3p chamber casing will be of 300 mm diameter
for wells with discharges of 350 m /ha. The pump chamber will extend from
ground surface to the base of the upper silty layer of the aquifer system.
The production string will be of 200 mm diameter and will consist of slotted
pipe covering aquifer material and blank pipe covering non-productive beds.
Lengths of production string will range from 30 to 80 m and the slotted
sections will average 70% of the production string.  The wells will be gravel
packed with graded pea gravel. The production string will be fitted with
centralizers to ensure an even thickness of gravel shroud.
3.28      The wells will be developed using a compressor and, in the final
stage, finally developed with a diesel engine powered vertical shaft turbine
pump. The final development discharge should not be lower than the design
discharge of the well and preferably 50/a higher. The wells will be test
pumped for 24 hours. The first half of the period will consist of a step-
drawdown test in four steps and the final discharge will be maintained for the
balance of the pumping period as a constant yield-drawdown test. The pumping
test data will be analyzed to provide estimates of: (i) formation loss;
(ii) well loss; (iii) well transmissivity; (iv) screened section mean permea-
bility; and (v) the production capacity of the well. The production capacity
selected should maximize the discharge within acceptable well loss limits.
3.29      Pumping Units.  The pumps will be submersible electric motor powered
turbines. The starter relay will be of Auto Transformer Starter type for motors
of 30 HP or greater and of Star Delta type for motors of less than 30 HP. The
starter switch gear will be automated from a central switch gear at the 33/11
Kv substation. A single phase preventor will be included in the relay. A
capacitor will be provided for power factor correction and current regulation.
An electronic hour meter will be fitted to monitor the operation of the pump.
The electrical equipment at surface will be housed in a suitable box for
security. The rising main will consist of 200 mm diameter mild steel pipe.
3.30      Power Transmission and Transformation.  The 33/11 kV transformation
(para 3.08) will consist of six 1.6 MVA transformers and one 3.15 MVA trans-
former distributed in six substations. The 33/11 kV transformers will be
equipped with specialized protection and capacitors to minimize effects of
voltage fluctuations. An 11/0.4 kV transformer of appropriate capacity will
be provided at each water point.



- 19 -
3.31      The power transmission and transformation from the 33 Kv line to
the water point will be exclusive to the augmentation well system. The switch
gear for groups of wells will be centralized at selected points on the trans-
mission system and will be set up for staggered start-up to prevent voltage
fluctuations.
3.32      Piped Conveyance from Well Head to Canal.  The wells are off-set
from both banks of selected distributary canals. The main section of the
conveyance from well to distributary canal will be in 300 mm internal diameter,
low pressure RCC pipe, which will be buried at one meter depth. The connection
from the pump rising main to the RCC pipe and the final delivery from the RCC
pipe will be in mild steel pipe of 300 mm diameter. The piped conveyance will
terminate at a baffled energy dissipation box at the outlet to the canal.
This will be equipped to also function as a V-notch chamber for measuring rate
of water delivery.
3.33      Experimental Storage.  The storage capacity of the experimental
reservoirs (para 3.11) will be one-third of the 16-hour discharge of the water
point which it serves. The reservoir storage will be all above ground surface
and will be created by a compacted earth embankment. The depth of storage
will be about 2.5 m with an additional 0.5 m of free board.  Provision is made
for lining the floor and sides of the reservoir with polythene sheet, though
experiments will be made with unlined reservoirs (particularly in shallow
water table areas) to compare seepage losses between lined and unlined
versions. A gated sluice to the canal which can be adjusted for constant
discharge will be provided.
Operation and Maintenance (O&M) Criteria
3.34      The augmentation wells will be operated and maintained by the Madhya
Pradesh Lift Irrigation Corporation (LIC) on behalf of the Irrigation Depart-
ment (ID). Directives for activating the wells will be given by the ID.
Telephone communication networks will operate between operation decision
levels in ID and the points on the 11 Kv transmission where the operators,
each operating a group of wells and the switch gear controlling such groups
of wells will be located. Arrangements would be made for these operators
to work on a 3 shift/24 hour day basis to maximize utilization of the water
points at periods of peak demand for irrigation water.
3.35      An Operation and Ilaintenance Sub-branch of the Morena Branch of
LIC will be created for the augmentation well system. The basic professional
staff of the sub-branch will be an Assistant Branch Myanager (ABM) supported
by Senior Technical Assistants (STA). Two of the STA will be respon-
sible for day-to-day maintenance and supervision of the water points, each
being supported by two Junior Technical Asssistants (JTA). Thus each STA
will have responsibility for about 90 water points and each JTA for 45 water
points. The JTA will have the continuous services of a skilled mechanic for
emergency maintenance. The third STA will be in charge of a central work-
shop and stores for repair and servicing of pumps and ancillary equipment.
3.36      The Operation and Maintenance Sub-branch stores will hold io0  spares
for pump turbines, prime movers and ancillary electric equipment. The opera-
tion and Maintenance Sub-branch will be provided with transport according to
the following schedule:



- 20 -
Type                No.                  Use
Jeep                   I         Assistant Branch Manager
Light Truck            6         STA maintenance sections
Light Truck            1         STA workshop section
Motorcycle              6        JTA maintenance sections
3.37      The well discharges and drawdowns will be checked at six-month
intervals. If low pump discharges indicate pump wear, routine maintenance
will be carried out. If reduced specific capacity (yield versus drawdown)
indicates deterioration of well performance, the well will be worked over
for rehabilitation. The JTA will also read the totalizing hour meters at
each water point at monthly intervals to monitor usage.
3.38      Budget Allocations for Operation and Maintenance.  Present alloca-
tions for the canal system have been insufficient to ensure a satisfactory
standard of maintenance of the canal network and although the CADA has
provided some funds additional to the statewide O&M allocation the situation
is unsatisfactory. It would be essential to base O&M budget allocations on
the special conditions of Chambal (MP). Agreements have been reached with
COMP that it would:  (i) prepare by December 31, 1982 and furnish to IDA for
its review, a detailed plan for a management study to establish rules,
procedures and requirements for effective operation and preventive maintenance
of the Chambal Project (MP) and specifically for the Ambah Intensive Block
Development; (ii) carry out such a study and submit its findings to IDA for
comments by June 30, 1983; and (iii) promptly thereafter inform IDA of imple-
mentation of the recommendation of the study. O&M costs of the AT, estimated
at Rs 20,000 per well per annum (1981 prices) would be initially budgeted by
LIC which would be fully reimbursed by GOMP.
D. Implementation Schedule
3.39      Status of Project Preparation.  Canal improvement and drainage
works would be similar to those which have been carried out in the project
area for several years. The type designs 1/ to be used under the project
are based on past experience and have been reviewed and approved by IDA.
Detailed designs are generally finalized about 12 months before implementation.
Augmentation of groundwater, a new project component under Phase II, would
commence with well drilling by LIC using existing rigs already deployed
in the project area and with procurement of electric transmission equipment,
transformers, pumps and motors. AIBD works would start at Distributary 33RD
of ABC which serves about 40% of AIBD area.  The location of the AT and
additional control structures for this distributary have already been deter-
mined (SDV, Annex 7).
1/   A "type" design of a channel or structure is such that for a range
of canal capacities the design can be used with only minor modifica-
tions.



- 21 -
3.40      Implementation.  The project would be implemented over four years,
from July 1, 1982 to June 30, 1986 and an additional 12 months would be allowed
for completion of disbursements. The CADA would ensure close coordination
between the agencies implementing the project. Ensuring coordination between
construction and energization of the augmentation wells and completion of
lining to the 8 ha outlet would be especially important. An agreement has
been reached with GOMP that it would energize each tubewell within one month
after installation of the pump. The implementation schedule is in Annex 1,
Table T-11.
IV.  COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL AIRANGEMENTS
Cost Estimates
4.01      Total project cost would be about Rs 556 M (US$62 14).  Taxes and
duties included in this estimate are negligible. The foreign exchange com-
ponent is estimated at Rs 41 M (US$4.5 M) which is about 7% of the total cost.
The estimates are based on June 1982 prices. Physical contingencies which
were estimated separately for each item range from 6 to 20% and average 16% of
the base cost. Price contingencies, which account for about 21% of the base
cost are based on expected inflation rates of 8.5% in 1982/83, 8% in 1983/84,
7.5% in 1984/85, 7% in 1985/86 and 6% thereafter.  Cost estimates are detailed
in Annex 1, Tables T-2 to T-10 and summarized in the following table:
Total
Foreign   Base
Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Exchange  Costs
-      Rs M-------- -------US$ M --(-)        (x0)
A. Ambah Intensive Block
Development (AIBD)
Augmentation Wells           61.7   4.1   65.8   6.9    0.5        7.3    6.2      16.2
Distribution System          80.7   5.1   85.8   9.0    0.6        9.5    6.0      21.2
Sub-total AIBD            142.3   9.3  151.6  15.8    1.0    16.8    6.1         37.4
B. Irrigation and Drainage    91.6   6.0   97.6  10.2    0.7    10.9    6.2           24.1
C. Ravine Arrestation and
Canal-side Plantations   25.3   1.6   27.0   2.8    0.2         3.0    6.0        6.7
D. Roads                        52.4   9.0   61,4   5.8    1.0        6.8   14.6      15.2
E. Monitoring and Studies        2.4   0.4    2.7   0.3    0.0        0.3   14.0       U.7
F. Training and Technical
Services                   10.7    -    10.7   1.2       -       1.2     -        2.6
G. Land Acquisition              6.3    -      6.3   0.7      -       0.7      -       1.6
H. Engineering, Supervision
and Administration         44.2   3.6   47.8   4.9    0.4        5.3    7.6      11.8
Total Baseline Costs           375.2  29.9  405.1  41.7    3.3    45.0    7.4    100.0
Physical Contingencies          60.0   4.6   64.6   6.7    0.5        7.2    7.1      15.9
Price Contingencies             80.3   6.2   86.6   8.9    U.7        9.6    7.2      21.4
TOTAL PkOJECT COSTS            515.6  40.7  556.3  57.3    4.5    61.8    7.3    137.3



- 22 -
Financing
4.02      The proposed IDA credit of US$31.0 M1 would finance about 5020 of totai
project cost including the foreign exchange component (US$4.5 M) and about 46%
of the local cost. All the expenditures would be met by GOMP from its develop-
ment budget, which includes a GOI contribution. The credit would be made to
GOI on standard IDA terms. An agreement has been reached with GOI that it
would make the proceeds of the credit available to GOMP on GOI's standara
terms and arrangements for development assistance to the States. An agreement
has been reached with GOMP that it would provide sufficient funds and materials
to execute the project, in accordance with the four-year project implementation
program. The project is the natural continuation of Chambal (MP) Phase I
(Cr. 562-IN). Therefore, works implemented after October 31, 1981, which have
been procured and executed in accordance with IDA criteria would be eligible
for finance under this Phase II project. The amount of retroactive financing
will not exceed US$3.0 M.
Procurement
4.03       Civil Works financed under the project would cost approximately
US$50.2 M. 1/  These works would consist of construction of water distribu-
tion system, canal repairs, drainage, rural roads and buildings. Drilling
and well development works (US$2.9 M) would be carried out by the LIC which
has an established, technically competent staff capable of carrying out these
tasks. The remaining civil works (US$47.3 M) which would be carried out
through labor intensive methods, would be relatively small and scattered over
a large area. Consequently, it would be neither feasible nor economic to group
them into large contracts for international competitive bidding (ICB). They
would therefore be carried out by contractors selected through local competi-
tive bidding (LCB), using the standard documents and procedures recently devel-
oped by the Central Water Commission (CWC) of GOI. The CWC bid documents and
procedures have been approved by IDA. Contracts in excess of US$1.0 Mi would be
subject to IDA's pre-action procurement review.
4.04      In order to facilitate service and maintain an adequate supply of
spare parts, the pump sets and accessories (US$1.3 M) would be procured through
LCB. The remaining equipment and vehicles valued at US$1.7 M would be pur-
chased over four years in lots too small to attract foreign competition; there-
fore, these would be also procured through LCB. The CWC has recently developed
standard bid document and procedures for equipment, materials and supplies which
has been approved by IDA and would be used in the project.
Disbursements
4.05      Disbursements under the credit would be made against:
(a) Civil works - 65%;
(b) Vehicles and equipment:
(i) directly imported - 100% of foreign expenditures;
(ii) locally manufactured - 100% of ex-factory cost;
(iii) other locally procured - 70%;
(c) Studies, monitoring and technical services (excl. equipment) - 100%.
1/   Net of engineeering and administration costs.



- 23 -
Disbursement requests for civil works will include a certified statement
by the head of the Quality Control Unit (para 5.04), that the works conform
with the quality standards set up by the Unit. Disbursements for completed
tubewells would be made against certificates of expenditure submitted by
GOMP, itemized by major components. The disbursements request for tubewells
would also include a certified statement by the Superintending Engineer in
charge that (i) all works on the tubewells have been completed in accordance
with the agreed planning and design criteria; (ii) the discharge of each
tubewell is not less than 70% of the design discharge; and (iii) the tube-
well has been electrified. Disbursement for force account works and for
payments of Rs 300,000 or less under civil works contracts and Rs 150,000
or less for equipment and vehicles would be made against certificates of
expenditures itemized by type of work. Documentation for these works would
be retained by GOMP and made available for inspection by IDA during review
missions. Full documentation would be required for all other disbursements.
The disbursement schedule and proposed allocation of the credit by category
are in Annex 1, Tables T-12 and T-13 respectively. It is expected that
disbursements would be completed by June 1987.
Accounts and Audit
4.06      The project would be subject to normal Government control and auditing
procedures which are satisfactory. A resident Audit Officer, representing the
State Accountant General (AG) would audit the project accounts. Although con-
tinuous and annual audits are carried out in a timely manner, the finalization
of the Statutory Audit Report which has to be presented to the Legislature is
a lengthy process. It would be essential therefore to have interim certified
statements of account. Such statements certified by the AG or his designee,
and supported by an itemized account and a summary of expenditures would be
submitted to IDA as soon as possible after the end of each fiscal year.
Agreements have been reached with GOMP that it would: (a) maintain separate
accounts on project expenditures; (b) ensure that these accounts would be
audited annually by the AG and the resulting reports would be submitted to
IDA as soon as possible but not later than nine months after the end of each
fiscal year; and (c) make complete accounts and financial statements avaiiable
for inspection during IDA review mission.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
The Command Area Development Authority
5.01      The Chambal Command Area Development Authority (CADA), headed by
the Commissioner, Chambal Division (administering both Bhind and Morena Dis-
tricts), manages and coordinates the activities of the various GOMP Departments
operating in the Chambal Project area. It is responsible, for overall planning
and accomplishment, to GOMP at Secretary level through the Agricultural Pro-
duction Commissioner who coordinates Command Area Development (CAD) activites
among the respective State heads of the concerned Departments. Funding for
works in the project area are usually included in specific budgets in the
Departments of Revenue, Irrigation, Public Works, Agriculture, Cooperation and
Forestry, and the MP Lift Irrigation Corporation (LIC). The local heads of



- 24 -
these Departments form the Chambal CADA Management Board, chaired by the
Commissioner, which also includes representatives of local farmers and the
commercial and public sector banks.
5.02      Although some weakness persists in the CAD organization, particularly
in State-level coordination, which has resulted in slowness of decision-in-
making and flow of allocated funds, the Chambal CADA has developed into one of
the stronger entities of this type in India. Under the project, the office
of the Chambal CADA Commissioner would be strengthened by (a) appointment of
a Land Acquisition officer for each of Bhind and Morena Districts to accele-
rate awards for appropriation of land for canal and road easements, and (b) a
fully organized and staffed planning and monitoring unit (para 5.13), which
would be responsible for planning further phases of Chambal development.
The Irrigation Department (ID)
5.03      The ID is responsible for the planning, survey, design, construc-
tion, maintenance and operation of surface water irrigation and drainage
works down to the chak outlets. It also plans and constructs departmental
buildings and canal service roads.  The ID in Chambal Project is organized
in two circles, one in Bhind and the other in Morena, each headed by a Sup-
erintending Engineer (SE); the SE for Morena coordinates the activities of
the two circles. The circles which are fully staffed are organized in 12
field divisions and one Design Cell.  The ID would be strengthened by (a) a
Water Management Unit responsible for water allocation procedures; (b) a
Special Survey and Design Unit for the AIBD area; and (c) Quality Control
Unit (see below).
5.04      Quality Control.  The main task of the Quality Control Unit (QCU)
will be to ensure an adequate quality of project works.  This would be
achieved through systematic checks during construction and upon completion.
Where the volume of work is too large to enable a complete check of all the
units constructed (e.g. lining of watercourses) sampling methods would be
used.  One of the first tasks of QCU will be to develop quality standards
for project works. These standards will conform with those prescribed by
the Indian Standards Institute, Agreements have been reached with GOMP that:
(i) a Quality Control Unit be established and adequately staffed by November
30, 1982; and (ii) quality standards for project works and a proposal for
the methodology of implementing quality control be furnished to IDA for
comments by March 31, 1983.
5.05      Dam Safety.  The headworks serving the project (para 1.05) have
been in operation for over 20 years without major problems. They are
periodically inspected by the ID in a satisfactory manner.  lt would be
essential to ensure the continuation of their inspection by qualified ex-
perts. The GOMP have recently constituted a Dam Review Panel to ensure the
safety of dams constructed under Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation Project. An
agreement has been reached with GOMP that it would cause the Dam Review Panel
to undertake periodic inspections of the project storage dams in order to
determine any deficiencies which may endanger their safety.
The MP Lift Irrigation Corporation (LIC)
5.06      The LIC, a public sector organization supervised by the ID, is
responsible for the survey, planning design, construction, maintenance and



- 25 -
operation of all public sector tubewells. The Chambal regional office of LIC
is headed by the Regional Manager at Gwalior and has project area branches
in Morena and Bhind townships. Each of these branches is divided into three
sub-branches under Assistant Branch Managers (ABM). The activities of the
sub-branches are in part area-oriented and in part work-type oriented. To
undertake the 175-unit AT development in the project as well as the operation
and maintenance of these units, the LIC Morena branch would be reorganized
and strengthened as outlined below.
5.07      Strengthening of the LIC Morena Branch.  The ABM (construction)
will be based at Ambah and be responsible for the operation of initially
three and finally five drilling rigs, ancillary well development and
testing equipment. Well drilling and construction, and well development
and testing will be organized as separate activities each under the supervi-
sion of a Senior Technical Assistant (STA) assisted by two Junior Technical
Assistants (JTA). Thus, two JTA will have responsibility for 3-5 drilling
rigs and two JTA will run 2-3 sets of development and testing equipment.
The ABM (operation and maintenance) will be also based at Ambah where the
central workshop and stores for implementation and subsequent operation of the
AT will be established. The operation workshop and stores will be under the
direct responsibility of one STA assisted by storekeepers, foremen, mechanics
and skilled helpers. For routine maintenance purposes the AIBD area will be
divided into three sub-areas: (i) the Ambah West Area; (ii) the Ambah East
Area; and (iii) the Bhind Area. Each sub-area will be under the supervision
of a STA, the first two being located in Ambah and the third in Bhind. Each
STA will be supported by one or two JTA, each with responsibility for supervi-
sion of about 45 augmentation wells. The ABM (O&M) will directly administer
the Central Pump Operators, who will be stationed at the locations of the
centralized switch gears.
The Public Works Department (PWD)
5.08      The planning design, supervision of construction, and maintenance
of the project roads and buildings (other than ID buildings) would continue
to be the responsibility of the PWD. All project road works would be exe-
cuted by the existing PWD Ayacut 1/ Road Circle, headed by a Superintending
Engineer (SE), and consisting of four existing Divisions, each of which is
under the charge of an Executive Engineer (EE). This organization has been
built up over the past few years specifically for road development in the
Chambal command area and is now well established but will require some
strengthening. The following new posts will be created: one EE, two
Assistant Engineers, two Junior Engineers, six Laboratory Assistants and
supporting drawing office staff, to be attached to the SE for quality con-
trol, works planning and monitoring and for training. Additionally, one
EE (mechanical) with supporting staff would be required for the maintenance
of construction equipment.
Agricultural Supporting Services
5.09      Agricultural Research.  The Jawaharlal Nehru Agriculture University
at Jabalpur, through its agricultural campus in Gwalior, is undertaking agri-
cultural research for the project area. Its main functions are: (i) teaching
1/   Ayacut = Command Area.



- 26 -
agricultural students in B.S. and M.S. degree programs; (ii) trials mainly in
new varieties, fertilizer applications, plant protection and irrigation; and
(iii) training of extension workers. It has 11 disciplines including water
management. The University operates about 85 ha of farmland and is staffed
with some 60 well-qualified scientists. Some small scale adaptive trials are
also carried out by the Department of Agriculture through seed multiplication
farms. The University experts assist these trials. Furthermore, the Interna-
tional Crop Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT) which is
centered in Hybrabad maintains a substation in the Gwalior campus. Their main
emphases are on crop improvement and farming system studies. The research
facilities and associated buildings at Gwalior have been improved under the
Chambal Command Area Development Project, Phase I (Cr. 562-IN) and the on-going
MP Agricultural Extension and Research Project (Cr. 712-IN).
5.10      Agricultural Extension.  The GOMP first introduced the training
and visit (T&V) system in the project area in 1974. This was modeled on
the systems used in the IDA-assisted Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD project (Ln.
1011-IN). The Chambal (MP) Command Area Development Project (Phase I) and
the on-going MP Agricultural Extension and Research Project have helped to
strengthen the extension capabilities by providing additional staff, housing,
offices, transportation and training facilities for the project area. There
are about 450 village level workers (VLW), 85 Agricultural Extension Officers
(AEO) and seven Sub-Divisional Agricultural Officers (SDAO) in the project
area. Each SDAO covers two to three development blocks, an AEO supervises
five to six VLWs and a VLW advises about 600 farm families. Two Deputy
Directors of Agriculture, one in Morena and one in Bhind district, each
assisted by four Subject Matter Specialists, oversee extension activities.
There is a close linkage between the extension service and research provided
by the University. The on-going extension program is progressing well and is
adequate for project support.
5.11      Agricultural Inputs.  The main supply sources of certified seeds
for the project area are: (i) the six government agricultural farms; (ii)
the National Seed Corporation; and (iii) the Terai Seed Growers. However,
only about 10% and 50% of the demand for paddy and wheat needs respectively is
supplied by these agencies. Most farmers have to meet their improved seed
requirements from their previous harvests or purchase seed from other farmers.
Certified seed is distributed through the State Marketing Corporation (MARKED).
A State Seed and Farm Development Corporation has recently been set up to
increase seed production. GOMP intends to increase production so that farmers
could get new or replacement seeds at least every four to five years. Fertil-
izers and plant protection chemicals are distributed through the cooperative
and private channels. There are nine State Cooperative Marketing Federations
and 80 fertilizer and agro-chemical distribution points in the project area,
each serving an average of about 2,900 ha; farmers in general have adequate
access to these points.
5.12      Marketing, Processing and Storage.  There are 15 regulated mar-
kets administered by local committees in the project area. They provide
auction space, storage facilities, guest houses and stalls for traders.



- 27 -
Most farms are within 20 km of a market and agricultural products are
usually transported to the markets by bullock cart. The marketing system
operates satisfactorily and has adequate facilities. The processing of
wheat, paddy and oilseeds is mostly carried out by private sector enter-
prises in and around the project area. There are 27 rice mills with a
total processing capacity of about 35,000 tons, 170 oilseed mills with a
capacity of about 27,400 tons and over 1,000 units of wheat grinders (about
10 HP) with a processing capacity of about 2,000 tons per day. There are
plans for an additional expansion of the processing capacity. The present
storage capacity, sufficient for storing about 121,000 tons of agricultural
produce, is adequate to handle present needs. This existing capacity is
provided mainly by the Food Corporation of India, Central Warehousing Cor-
poration and State Warehousing Corporation. In addition, some cooperatives
also have go-downs. Additional storage would be provided by on-going IDA-
assisted Second Foodgrain Storage Project (Cr. 747--IN) which is designed
to remove storage constraint in India. The European Economic Community is
also being involved in constructing storage facilities in MP, including
the project area.
Monitoring and Evaluation (SDV, Annex 9)
5.13      To ensure adequate level of management, a realistic assessment
of project progress and constraints and timely undertaking of corrective
management actions, CADA management would require the support of a strong
monitoring and evaluation (M/E) system. Data generated through M/E activi-
ties would also facilitate preparation of future development phases. To
facilitate the use of M/E data for planning purposes including the planning
of further phases of Chambal development, responsibilities for the functions
of monitoring, evaluation and planning would be incorporated in one unit -
the Planning and Monitoring Unit (PMU), as recommended by the Administrative
Staff College of India (para 1.16).
5.14      Methodology.  The progress with implementation of project invest-
ments (e.g. augmentation wells, watercourse lining, canal security works,
roads, etc.) would be monitored mainly through the internal reporting system
of the CADA. Quality and cost controls are incorporated in the procedures of
the various implementing departments. Monitoring and evaluation of project
results at farm-level would be mainly through a better utilization of data
collected in on-going crop-cutting surveys. These surveys which are con-
ducted annually, primarily for estimating crop production and yields, would
be improved, to provide the additional data required.
5.15      The PMU would be responsible for the functions of planning, monitor-
ing, evaluation and reporting and for preparation of economic criteria for
ravine control works (para 3.18). The existing Monitoring and Evaluation
Cell would be amalgamated in PMU and provide the nucleus of its staff. The
PMU head would be a senior officer having an adequate background in agricul-
tural economics and statistics and the capability to utilize the results of
the various studies and surveys for recommending actions by CADA management.
To facilitate utilization of monitoring (including reporting) and evaluation
data for management purposes, the PMJ would report to the CADA Commissioner
through the Project Administrator.



- 28 -
5.16      Use of Consultants, Seconded Staff and Universities.  The PXU would
have the capacity for design of and implementation of small surveys and for
basic data processing, primarily calculation of means and standard errors,
comparisons and trend analyses. Seconded staff and local consultants would
be used for more specialized tasks such as improvements of the design of the
crop cutting survey, computerized data analysis and improvement of the report-
ing system. For sophisticated multi-variate data analyses, participation of
universities and research institutions would be sought. Provisions have been
made under the project for the finance of research program by senior post-
graduate students and university staff on pre-defined subjects which could
benefit the project or the preparation of other projects. The project would
make available to researchers selected data collected by the project and
assist them with transportation, data processing and printing facilities.
Provisions have been made also for PMU staff training.
5.17      Agreements have been reached with GOMP that it would:  (i) sanction
the posts required for strengthening the planning and monitoring system and
appoint a senior officer-in-charge of the PMU by November 30, 1982; and
(ii) in consultation with IDA prepare a detailed plan of monitoring and
evaluation activities by December 31, 1982.
5.18      Reporting.  GOMP would continue to submit to IDA quarterly and
annual progress reports, within three months after the end of each reporting
period. An agreement has been reached with GOMP that it could submit to IDA
a project completion report not later than six months after its Closing Date.
Water Management in the AIBD Area
5.19      An environment conducive to optimization ot irrigation benefits
would have the following main characteristics: (i) lined water distribution
network with adequate control and measurement structures; (ii) efficient
organization of water distribution above chak outlet; (iii) efficient organi-
zation of water distribution at chak level; (iv) ability to grow high return
crops; (v) water charge system rewarding efficient water use; (vi) knowledge
of irrigation technologies; and (vii) adequate supporting services (extension
and research, inputs, marketing and credit). Where all these conditions exist,
an outstanding and self-sustained agricultural growth rate can be expected.
The AIBD area with its augmentation wells providing local control of consider-
able part of its water supply, and the improved water distribution system
would be nearer than many other areas to satisfying most of the above condi-
tions and be therefore suitable for introduction of improved water management
practices.
5.20      Water Allocation.  To improve the equity of water allocation and
ensure its efficient use, each ha of CCA in the AIBD area would be allocated
an equal amount of water in the rabi season. Water supply to the chaks (8 ha)
would be organized on a rotational basis, with each chak receiving its water
in accordance to a predetermined water allocation schedule.
5.21      Water Allocation at Chak Level.  The primary objective with respect
to water allocation would be to achieve a reliable and equitable water supply
at the chak (8 ha) outlet. Experience has shown that if this is achieved,
farmers themselves will take care of construction of channels leading to each



- 29 -
field using their own labor or financing it through credit.  An optimal way
to allocate the water within the chak under Chambal conditions needs to be
developed on the basis of local experience; this can be done only after a
reliable water supply at the chak outlet is available. A promising starting
point would be a rotational system similar to those which have operated
successfully in northern India, possibly combinied with the promotion of
water-user associations or a similar type of organization. An agreement
has been reached with GOMP that it would organize a rotational water alloca-
tion system in each block in AIBD as soon as feasible after construction of
the augmentation wells and block development works had been completed.
VI. PRODUCTION, FARM INCOMES AND COST RECOVERY
Water Supply and Demand (SDV, Annex 5)
6.01      Water supply in the project area is obtained from rainfall, the
flows of the Chambal River regulated in Gandhisagar storage reservoir and
transmitted via the Chambal Right Main Canal (RMC) at Parvati (para 1.05),
the Pagara-Asan River system and from some mijor low-lift pumping from the
drainage channels. Additionally, about 87 Mm would be supplied annually
by the 175 project augmentation tubewells. The hydrological record (1961-79)
show that the 3Chambal River is a dependable water supply source and that
over 2,100 Mm have been delivered annually to the MP Chambal Scheme at
Parvati during three out of four years of the RMC operation.  Although this
is a dependable supply on an annual basis and has met most of the peak demand,
experience during Phase I showed that daily and weekly flows were rather
erratic. The GOI has recently reported that a satisfactory modus operandi
has been agreed between GOR and GOMP for stabilizing the RMC monthly flows at
Parvati. In particular, the agreed water allocation implementation procedures
would require GOR's and GOMP's respective project authorities to hold early
discussions and determine the specific dates and levels of targeted water
releases prior to the commencement of the Kharif (commencing June 1) and Rabi
(commencing October 1) each year, depending on the storage water available in
the main Ghandisagar reservoir at some determinable point of time prior to
the June 1 and October 1 dates.
6.02      Crop water requirements were derived from estimates of crop con-
sumptive use, effective rainfall, soil moisture capacity and land preparation
needs. Canal system efficiencies were computed using operational experience
during Phase I. The surface and groundwater supplies described above are
adequate to meet the irrigation requirements of the projected cropping pat-
tern in 3 of 4 years. Such shortages as would occur in exceptionally dry
years have no significant impact on the viability of the project. The monthly
water supply and demand is given in SDV Annex 5.
6.03      The quality of ground- and surface-water is good and suitable for
sustained irrigation.



- 30 -
Agricultural Development
6.04      Cropping Pattern and Yields.  Present and projected cropping pat-
terns and yields are based on district statistics, results of the benchmark
survey of the project area (para 1.13), results from experimental stations
and progressive farmers' fields and discussions with local agricultural
staff and farmers. It is anticipated that future cropping patterns would be
similar to the present ones. Paddy, millets and pulses would be the major
kharif crops. The availability of reliable water supply in the AIBD area
and the increased supply of water in the areas of the Bhind Main Canal and
Mau Branch Canals, where heavy soils are prevailing, would enable to increase
the areas under kharif paddy by about 10,000 ha. In the rabi, wheat would
remain a major cereal crop, followed by mustard and gram.
6.05      With the increased supply of irrigation water and improved water
management, better cultural practices and intensified extension services, the
average yields of all crops grown in the area are expected to increase. How-
ever, no increase in yields over the without project situation was assumed in
the canal improvement areas except the areas which are presently rainfed and
would be brought under irrigation as a result of project works. Estimates of
cropping patterns and yields are presented in Annex 1, Tables T-14 and T-15.
6.06      Agricultural Production.  Based on projected cropping patterns and
yields, the annual incremental production at full development (early 1990s)
is expected to be as follows.
Incremental Agricultural Production
Canal
AIBD           Improvement           Total
---- -------'000 ton----------------
Foodgrains /a         46.2               47.6                93.8
Oilseeds               0.4                1.7                 2.1
Soybeans               1.5                0.7                 2.2
Vegetables             8.0                7.0                15.0
/a   Includes paddy, wheat, sorghum, millet, maize and pulses.
6.07      Marketing and Prices.  In the State and the project area there is an
adequate system for marketing, storage and processing of agricultural produce
(para 5.12). This system should be able to absorb the expected increases in
production, which would accrue over a ten-year development period, without
difficulties. Producer prices are determined by supply and demand. Procure-
ment (minimum) prices for the main crops are determined by the government and
have been effective only in surplus markets around harvest time. In recent
years, the wholesale prices for cereals have not been at great variance with
international prices.



- 31 -
Farm Incomes
6.08      The project effect on farm incomes was estimated through an analysis
of typical farm budgets. Prevailing financial prices of inputs and outputs
were used. The results are summarized below (details are in Annex 1, Table
T-18):
Net Farm Incomes /a
Future      Future       Relative
Without       with      Increase Due
Present    Project      Project    to Project
P          W           W           W -iWX  0
p             w           w~~~~~~___ x 100
------------Rs ------- -----
AIBD
(i)  Presently Irrigated Areas        3340         5120        7800            52
(ii) Presently Rainfed Areas          1600         2850        7800           174
CANAL IMPROVEMENT
(i)  Presently Irrigated Areas        3150         5540        6000             8
(ii) Presently Rainfed Areas          1820         2770        6000           117
7a   Incomes for average farm size of 2.4 ha after deduction of water and land
related charges.
The greatest increase in net farm income would take place in the AIBD areas
where the AT, the storage facilities and the lining of watercourses would
enable delivery of irrigation water at a high level of reliability and
flexibility, resulting in a high net return per unit of water. In addition
to these direct effects, the project would generate indirect benefits through
a series of multiplier employment and income effects that would not be con-
fined only to the project area. These, however, are difficult to estimate
and were not included in this analysis.
Impact on Rural Poverty
6.09      The project would result in a more equitable income distribution
especially in the AIBD where the improved water distribution system will
enable to provide a reliable water supply to all the commanded fields includ-
ing those located at the tailends. Moreover, a great part of the increase
in irrigated land will take place in the tailends of the distribution system
where fields are mostly operated by small farmers. Estimates of the project
impact on rural poverty were derived using the distribution of farm sizes
and estimates of net farm income per ha, and are summarized in the following
table:



- 32 -
% of Farm Families Below Poverty Line /a
Present               Future With Project
AIBD                         57                          16
Project Area excl. AIDB    53                            23
/a   Estimated at Rs 910 per capita.
6.10      Income levels of landless laborers in the project area which are
generally lower than incomes of small farmers will increase by the project
mainly as a result of the increased demand for farm labor and the higher wages
paid in irrigated farming. These wages are generally about 25% higher than
those paid for rainfed farming operations.
Cost Recovery
6.11      Water and Water-Related Charges.  Current charges for canal water
vary from Rs 25/ha for kharif foodgrain (other than paddy) to Rs 100/ha for
sugarcane and perennial tree crops and are Rs 60/ha for paddy (Table T-16).
For the present cropping pattern in the project area the annual water charge
averages about Rs 31/ha of net CCA.  The3charge for irrigation water from
public tubewells is about Rs 0.1 per 1 m .  In addition to the water charges,
a cess of Rs 12/ha is levied on the total CCA and a tax is levied on land
under commercial crops at Rs 10/ha for sugarcane and tobacco and Rs 5/ha for
cotton and groundnut. The Irrigation Act 1/ provides for collection of a
betterment levy from farmers benefitting from irrigation, amounting to 3% per
annum of development cost per ha in the first five years and 4.5% in the next
ten years. However, there have been legal difficulties in its implementation
and GOMP is not collecting the levy. GOMP has finalized proposals for sig-
nificant increases in water charges.
6.12      Other Agricultural Taxes. 2/  Since incomes in the agricultural
sector are much lower than in the manufacturing and service sectors, the
annual rate of agricultural taxation (mainly land revenue) is relatively
modest amounting to. about Rs 15-20 per ha. More important, from a revenue
point of view, is the agricultural sales tax which is levied on agricultural
produce at the following rates:
Crop                  Rate
Foodgrains                 3%
Pulses                     5%
Oilseeds                4.5%
Fruit                      6%
Vegetables                 6%
1/   Madhya Pradesh Irrigation Act, 1931 (amended in 1956); the Supplementary
Rules were last revised in 1974 and relate to traditional design objec-
tives.
2/   For a review of GOMP's finances see:  "Madhya Pradesh State Planning and
Finances", by Christine Wallich, October 1979, India Programs Division,
World Bank.



- 33 -
6.13      Present Level of Cost Recovery.  The direct: charges (water rate,
cess and land revenue) amount to just over 11% of the calculated average rent
under the present level of irrigation services in the project area by the
average farm. As in most other irrigation projects in India, irrigation
benefits in the1,roject area are negatively correlated with the distance from
the head reach.-   The incremental net income and rent from irrigation
accrued to tail enders' who usually belong to the poorest segments of the
farming population is much lower than the average and the present charges
already impose a heavy burden on them. Largely as a result of the poor irri-
gation service, the recovery rate of water charges in the State is low and
during the last 5 years ranged from 23% to 59% with about 25% of the arrears
collected each year.
6.14      The Potential for Increased Recovery.  The greatest potential for
increased recovery would be in the AIBD. It is anticipated that at full
development stage, the average net income per irrigated ha of CCA there will
be about 180% higher than present level and the average rent will increase by
about 50%. Additionally, the improved design standards will result in a more
reliable and equitable water supply and therefore reduce the differences in
net returns between "head" and "tail" fields. Consequently there will be a
considerable potential for increasing irrigation charges. However, in order
to ensure the continuous cooperation of farmers, any increase in the charges
(in real terms) should be gradual and take place after farmers have realized
a significant increase in irrigation benefits. Moreover, it may be necessary
to introduce changes in the water charge system in order to make such in-
creases feasible.
6.15      At present the water rates are uniform throughout the State irres-
pective of irrigation service provided, therefore their current level must be
within the repayment capability of those farmers realizing the lowest irri-
gation benefits (mostly tail enders in traditionally designed projects). In
order to realize the increased potential for revenue from higher water rates
in the more modern irrigation projects the principle of "Statewide uniform
rates" will have to be amended. This could be done by introducing a charge
system consisting of two or more tiers with higher water rates in projects
like MP Medium, MP Major, the AIBD in Chambal (MP) and any future irrigation
projects designed to similar standards. There are precedents to such a
tier system in India. A "two tier" charge system for irrigation already
1/   This is illustrated below by data on the proportion of the area planted
to wheat by location with respect to the canal system (details are in
SVD, Annex 7):
Area Planted to Wheat
Head              Tail
__    _ _ _( % ) --------
Ambah Branch Canal (ABC) a!                36                20
Dist. 21L, Mau Branch Canal b/             26                 4
Dist. 33R (1978/79)                        31                16
a/   Average for 1975-76 to 1977/78.
b/   Average for 1975/76 to 1977/78.



- 34 -
exists in many Indian States where the water rates for irrigation from public
tubewells are considerably higher than those for gravity canal irrigation
projects; the higher rates recognize the larger investment and operational
costs of supply water from public tubewells.
6.16      The method of water allocation and charge would have a considera-
ble effect on the economic efficiency oL water use at farm level, and should
be decided upon after careful and systematic studies of alternative methods.
Under MP Medium Irrigation Project (Cr. 1108-IN) and MP Major Irrigation
Project, agreements have been reached with GOMP on state-wide studies of
water charges and on a review of the water and water related charges in the
State by December 31, 1983. The studies and the review would also cover
issues specific to the Chambal Project especially the AIBD area.
6.17      Estimated Cost and Rent Recovery.  It has been assumed that after
the above review of water charges, and follow-up studies, GOMP will intro-
duce a two-tier (or equivalent) system and gradually increase the water
rates in AIBD in real terms. Assumptions on timing and rates are in Annex
2. Based on these assumptions, the cost and rent recovery indices have been
estimated at 39% and 33% respectively for AIBD and 21% and 14% respectively
for the canal improvement areas (Annex 1, Tables T-20 and T-21).
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
General
7.01      Under the proposed project, 40,000 ha would be intensively devel-
oped (including 13,000 ha presently under rainfed conditions) in the AIBD
area and the productivity of land and water would increase considerably as
a result of: (i) availability of additional irrigation water from augment-
ation wells; and (ii) lining of minor canals and watercourses network to
the 8 ha outlet which would reduce seepage losses and enable to provide
irrigation at greater reliability and equity. Various parts of the command
area would benefit from: (i) the canal security works which would prevent
canal breakages which have occurred frequently in the past; (ii) canal capa-
city works which would facilitate conveyance of the water to the various
parts of the command area; (iii) drainage works; and (iv) ravine arrestation
and canal-side plantation which would prevent expansion of the ravines into
the project area and reduce the need for canal maintenance.
7.02      The overall impact in terms of agricultural production, employment
generated and farm families benefitting at full development is summarized
below:
Benefiting farm families (no.)                       26,000
Increase in irrigated area (ha):
Intensive Development Area                         13,000
Remaining Area                                     19,000
Total                                            32,000
Increased foodgrain production ('000 tons)               94
Value added to local economy (Rs M/year)                119
Increased employment (M Men Days)                         3.5



- 35 -
Economic Evaluation
7.03      Basic Assumptions.  The basic assumptions made for economic analy-
sis are detailed in Annex 2. The economic cost of civil works, equipment,
administration and incremental O&M costs were included and sunk costs were
accounted for in the analysis. The economic prices of outputs and inputs
have been derived from the IBRD projected 1990 world market prices expressed
in 1980/81 local currency values with appropriate adjustments for freight,
handling and processing. Bank projections indicate that India could become
a net exporter of rice in the near future. Consequently, the estimate of
the economic price of paddy is based on the assumption that the incremental
production would be indirectly exported outside India. Domestic cost com-
ponents were adjusted by the appropriate conversion factor to bring them to
a comparable world market price basis.
7.04      Economic Rate of Return (ERR).  For economic analysis purposes the
project was divided into two parts (models): (i) the AIBD area; and (ii) the
remaining command area (canal improvement areas). For each model the cropping
pattern, yields and inputs requirements were calculated without and with (at
full development stage) the project. Discounting of costs and benefit streams
over 30 years result in an ERR of 34% for the AIBD area, 35% for the area
benefiting from canal improvement and drainage works and 35% for the project
as a whole (weighted average). The relatively high ERR is largely a result of
the significant share of sunk cost components which will not generate benefits
at their full potential without project works.
7.05      Economics of Lining.  Lining of the AIBD channels carrying 6 cfs or
less to the 8 ha outlet is an essential component of this project. The ERR of
lining was estimated at 33%. The benefits considered were limited to those
resulting from preventing production losses due to the irrecoverable seepage
losses, and saving the cost of pumping the recoverable part through the AT
system. However, there will be substantial other benefits from lining which
cannot be adequately quantified. These include mainly: (i) the greater flexi-
bility of operating a lined system; and (ii) the greater reliability and equity
of water supply. Details are in Annex 2.
7.06      Sensitivity Analysis.  The sensitivity of the ERR to changes in the
main assumptions was tested with the following results:
Change Required to Reduce ERR to 12% a/
AIBD            Canal Improvement
1.  Output Prices                           -49                     -50
2.  Net Incremental Benefits                -61                     -65
3.  Construction Costs                       222                    242
4.  Construction Conversion Factor b/       325                     363
a/  The estimated opportunity cost of capital in India.
b/ Conversion factor used for converting construction costs from financial to
economic cost (Annex 2, para 3).



- 36 -
Project Risk
7.07       The results of the sensitivity analysis indicate that only large
(and unlikely in the magnitude required) deviations from the basic assumptions
would make this project economically unviable. A possible risk is that
the reliability of water supply at the AIBD area will be lower than expected
if the organization of water distribution above or below the 8 ha outlet
encounters unexpected difficulties. The strengthening of CADA and its monitor-
ing system, and its strong commitment to establishment of a reliable and
equitable water distribution system reduce such a risk. Overall, the project
risks are not greater than those associated with irrigation projects of a
similar size in India.
Environmental Effects
7.08       Project works, especially the improved drainage, the ravine control
works and the canalside plantations should have positive environmental effects.
However, the expansion of irrigation into previously rainfed areas is often
accompanied by an increase in the incidence of water related diseases. An
agreement has been reached with GOMP that it would take all measures considered
necessary to minimize the hazards of malaria and other water related diseases
in Chambal Command Area.
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01       An agreement has been reached with GOI that it would make the pro-
ceeds of the credit available to GOMP on GOI's standard terms and arrange-
ments for development assistance to the States (para 4.02).
8.02       Agreements have been reached with GOMP that it would:
(a) (i) select agencies to conduct the water resources and manage-
ment studies; and (ii) by December 31, 1982 submit to IDA for
comments a plan for each study including detailed methodology
and implementation schedule (para 3.24);
(b) by December 31, 1982 prepare a detailed plan, agreed with IDA,
for the establishment of a water and land management institute;
and (ii) by September 30, 1983 establish such an institute
(para 3.26);
(c) (i) prepare by December 31, 1982 and furnish to IDA for its
review, a detailed plan for a management study to establish
rules, procedures and requirements for effective operation and
preventive maintenance of the Chambal Project; (ii) carry out
such a study by June 30, 1983; and (iii) promptly thereafter
inform IDA of implementation on the recommendations of the study
(para 3.38);
(d) energize each tubewell within one month after installation of
the pump (para 3.40);



- 37 -
(e) provide sufficient funds and materials to execute the
project in accordance with the four-year project imple-
mentation period (para 4.02);
(f) (i) maintain separate accounts on project expenditures;
(ii) ensure that these accounts would be audited annually
by the AG and the resulting reports be submitted to IDA as
soon as possible but not later than nine months after the
end of each fiscal year; and (iii) make complete accounts
and financial statements available for inspection during
IDA review mission (para. 4.06);
(g) cause the Dam Review Panel to undertake periodic inspections
of the project storage dams in order to determine any defi-
ciencies which may endanger their safety (para 5.05);
(h) (i) sanction the posts required for strengthening the planning
and monitoring system and appoint a senior officer-in-charge
of the PMU by November 30, 1982; and (ii) in consultation
with IDA prepare a detailed plan of monitoring and evaluation
activities by December 31, 1982 (para 5.17);
(i) submit to IDA a project completion report not later than six
months after its Closing Date (para 5.18);
(j) organize a rotational water allocation system in each block
in the AIBD area as soon as feasible after construction of
the augmentation wells and block development works had been
completed (para 5.21);
(k) that the review of water and related charges to be completed
for M.P. Medium Irrigation Project (Cr. 1108-IN) and M.P.
Major Irrigation Project by December 31, 1983 would also cover
issues specific to the project and especially the AIBD area
(para 6.16).
(1) take all measures considered necessary to minimize the hazards
of malaria-and other water related diseases in Chambal Command
Area (para 7.08).
8.03      With the above agreements, the proposed project would be suitable
for a credit of US$31.0 M on standard IDA terms. The borrower would be the
Government of India.



INDIA
CHAMBAL (MADHYA PRADESH) IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Summary Climatic Data
3/                  l~~~~~~/
1/                    2/        Average-/                 Rainfall-/
Air Temperature-                  Mean-        Monthly Pan       Mean       Wettest       Driest
Month               Mean               Extreme          Relative       Evaporation    Monthly    Month on    Month on
Maximum  Minimum   Highest  Lowest        Humidity          Rate           Total       Record       Record
8.30    17.30
-------°C-------------hours----    -------------m
January           24.5       7.8       33.9     0.6      64       34          90             14          59            0
February          28.5       9.9       38.3     2.3      51       25        129               5          41            0
March             34.2      16.0      42.8      9.9      34       18         217              6          18            0
April             38.8      21.3       45.6    14.4      24       13         326              1           4            0
May               42.4      26.8       47.8    18.9      28       16         401              5          45            0       1
June              40.3      28.6      47.8    21.1       47       35        396              53         228            3       X
July              33.8      25.9      47.2    20.4       74       65         248            243         456           55
August            31.3      24.7      41.1    18.9       81       69        184             305         554          122
September         32.5      23.5      40.6    20.0       73       58        151             150         304           25
October           32.9      18.4      41.1    13.4       53       34        155              27         128            0
November          29.4      11.0       37.2     7.8      51       29        111               3          16            0
December          26.1       8.3      33.9      3.9      61       35         88               6          77            0
Annual Mean                                                               Total
or Extreme        32.9      18.5      47.8      0.6      53       36      2,496             818
1/  From data collected at stations in the Command Area.
2/  At Kota.                                                                                                                      X
3t  At Agra.



-39-
ANNEX I
Table T-2
CHAMBAL   MADIHYA PRADESH T IRRIGATION  II PR'OJEC.T
Project Componernt biY Timi7e
(Rupees Mil.l'ion)
Tctsl
Base   Costs         ---------------
_ - - - - -- - - -------            UIS $
9218/3 531/84  34/85  35/86  Rupees Million)
AP  AMBAH INTENSIVE
BLOCK, DEVELOPMENT (AhIlS)
AUGMENTATION WELLS                                     q.9   16.q   1927   192,   65-i
DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM                                    7      i7 17,2   300    30.0 0.9          f,i,S
Sut-Total AMIBAH INTENSIVE
PLOCK DEVELOPMENT (AISD)                              17 .6   33s6   49.      569i8  s   15. sb  6.8
B. IRRIGATION AND BRATINAGE                              29i3   25'4    21t5     21 ,5   97 6      10.9
C. RAVINE ARRESTATION AND
CANALITDE PLANTATIONS                                  5,1    I.,      ?.4    Ls  .O?.i          3 i 0
D. ROADS                                                 16.0    6.     14!7   14tt    t i.
E. MONITORING ANDi STUDIES                                   6       C,     ,r
Ft TRAINING AND TECHNICAL SERICES                                    0
G, LAND AQl!ISITION                                        i _      t     1.8     i s-       -7     fL '
N. ENGINEERING   SUPERVISION ANI ADlINISTRATIZN                  l        i      1 
T.ital BASELINE COSTS                                      9`  1  I 0 I    li E7  11 -9  405 i       /tA5,3
Physical Continz-iencies                                t 2;12 . i9 5           it.21 3    64.6      -i
Price Contirisencies                                     3.9     5,;-!  2.o   3is-6   36-. 
TotsI PROJECT COSTS                               b         '.  3 2,3  158,.  1-S9. e   5t3 5iS
Fcreirin E.-chin6se                                      7        .7   11.3   12, t   40,7          .5
June 87 1982  1'5'3,6



ANNEX 1
-40-                                               Table T-3
--,CT TCTI)~      I P F
'HAME.AL .MADHY-i FRAD{ESH  )IF.RISA,TION  II PFCtJECT-
T abl.e 101. COS8!ST ESTIMATES FOR    _TIRRITION A.NDI
DRAINAGE NETWORK TN NON- INTENSTIVE ARE.
.! .tailed Cosr| T ....1
L2ce Co-tr
'omn   37:94 °4'QI} nc,L;a  Totl
T  Cri IMnLr.Jas 
tQSLAN !jRTTI5TICNj                       O     07   ZA&L      ; 
LANA L CELJ'TY WOKS                                      6,4   -,,,     1Q
CA Nh , L           ' A   Y  O                    ,,5    6 I T
CAN4L C0N TRT'     L        STRUCTUR;ES    T,-t         2        2    10.1
AOhQTT' WEED CONTROL                       Q        2 O          2    0 0 9
MAIN AND SECONDARY DRATINAGIE WORKS        1.    1.2   1.0   1.0       45
SECONDARY ( CHAK % DRAINAGE                                              -
BUI  DINGSi AND TELECOMS                  '      0,4   0. 4   0.4     1.7
CANALSIDE RsOADS A,ND   IDGES              0,P   0.7   0.6    0.6    2 6
EQUPJIMENT                                 0.6   0.5   0.4   0.4    -2.
Sub6-Total> NOR0.E??NR  A                          15.0  12,7  12.7   57,8
H4ANAL  EWPIUTTY WORKS                     2,0   1.7   1.5   1.5    6.6
AHhL  hF-LITY WORKS                      2I6   2.3   1.9   1,9    8.8
'NAL   UNTF.O  STRUCTURES                  43,1   36   3.0   30;  13.7
qAT'Ch WEEDl CONTROL                       0,2   0.2   0.1   0 1       0.6
?     AND "' rnNDARY DsRAINAG-E WORKS   1.3   1,1   1.0   1.0    4.4
SECONDARY I CHAK ' DRAINAsGE
BUILDINGS. AND TELECMnS                    0.30 .3    0.2   0.         1.0
C. A, NA LIDCE TLi EROADS AND BRIDGES      0.6   0       fl5Q  ,5    2.10t
FAi CNT  KOTIWAL     -FOWA TANKS           0.5    .4.   0.4   0.4    1.6
ECUI T PiPENT                              0.        30.3   0.2   0.2 120
T.:I+..', -A'-TI                                30.0 T6,0   v        2..2.0  100.1
I -r.ARTTP  pn.;C
h            "N'ANEEP D- iMINIST RAT T
AND SUPERVIS. I                           3      .6   3 .1   3,    14 1 .0
Tovta3 X . C    sl' OERATING COSr;              t;TS  4 ? A^,2   3.6   31    3.1   14.0
C~~~SCt TXJ~~~~~ P71570 ~~~~74t2  2-                -2 C  4
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - = =    =    =   =    =    =     =    = = -=-= = -=  = =    _ -



-41-
ANNEX 1
Table T-4
I NOIA
CLHABAL   MADHYA PPADESH  i IRFPIATITON I T PROJECT
T8z1e 102.!, LOST LETIMATES FOQR AUMENTATION TUBEWEL
FACIL;TIES IN AMBAH INTENSIVE AREA
etaled, Cost Ts3ls
Bzse Costs
"Rupses Million)
92/53 83/i4 S4/CS 85/86 Totpl
ELiMINARY WOR1hS                                                      0.0   O,O   0.1   O.1   0M2
IEL  O    'F CTr T -CIN DE E'i O T bNII TESTING                       2      4      5.8   5.8  19i3
-  -  RIF7NNJ iNIT' INSTALLED                                         1.5   2t5   2.9   2i9   9el
r  cDPNkE-yANCE FFOM WE.L TO ERNAL                                        0 r5 0.9   1tl   1,1 Qtt
-  ,XFEilIN^ENTAL STORAGE RESERVOIR AT t. SITS FDF
C 3NSTANT FLOW REGULhTiN                                               0.0   0t1   0.1   0.1   0.3
F. ELECTFRIAL TRANSMISSION AND TRANSFORMATION.                            4 4   7t4   B8.    8.8  29 4
-+ EiUIFR,ENT AND "EHICLEC IvNCLUDIN1: GRfO;UNDWATER NONITORIN5         3      5   0.6   O,Q    20 
H.t DUiDIN.GS.^4v                                                         0.1 0W2   0',+.    q-2 0.2   0
G, GROUNDWATER MONITOFING WELLS AND EGUiTFMENT                            0.1   0,2   02   0,2   0,6
T3 J3; ,R3ITRL COnSTS                                                  9.9  16,5  1097  19,7  6568
-   -Di'T)F.4I t-lCT'_
'N ITFN5  RTNG,, ADMIN4STRFATION AND  UPEYTEIGN                            IA    232t 2.8 '., D.3
Tots! ORD,ATING C- STS                                                        1.7    2.3   2,8   2 .8   9.3
E                                               =NE   =E    = 7 = 0  2=, =; =2 5 = = =    = = = == ===== ====
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -   - - - - - -   .   .-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



-42--
ANNEX 1
Table T-5
I NDIh
CHAMBAL ( MADHYA PRADIESH   IRRIGATTON II PROJECT
Tsble 103. COST ESTIMATES FOR MINOR DISTRIPUTTIlN fC'ANAL
NETWORK TIN AMBAH INTENSIVE AREA
Oet2g1eq Cost TAble
B8, Cos+tc
- Rupeee  M1--  -:.
I. CACITAL COSTS
A. LAND AQUISITION                                          0 I   1.1   1 2
R. REGULATING AND MEASURING STRUCTURES a/             i     ;!,L    4f.
rC  LINING OF MINOR SERYING 40-250 Ha BLOCKS          3     6.    11.6  11.        !
D. LINING OF WATERCOURSES: IN 40 Ha 'LOCKS            7,,   5,0  14.0  14.4   4°
Total CAPITAL  COTS                                      Bo  17,3  1,2  3'n2.0   0,
!I, OPERATING CSTS
Ai ENGINEERING1 ADMINISTRATION AND S-UPERVISION   l,1   2.4   4.2   4.t   12.0
TCtal OPERATING COST'                                    1.1     2.4 ~.z   i        2,0
_=_=Z= _= = = = =_= = == = = === 7= ==::= _
Total BASELINE COSTS                                      9.1 I 0 "i- 2  35.4  3.4  101  0
a/ Including automatic gate system in distributary 35R.
June :, 17     .1536



-43-                                                 ANNEX 1
Table T-6
T NMit I A.
H'i4M,AL     MtAHYh F'PRADESH    IRIRTATION II PRnJECT
is. Ie i54. COST ESTIMATC FOR RVTNE ARFRESTAT TIOj
AND CANALSHI.E PL,-ANTATITiN
l½ta4 ed ,' Cst T2 bA1r
s-: A se , . s 
AN  AftjLIE.TTI TM
EARTu WORK
_ _____. ___
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 33 ?34,/-Qc    ;
T      AVTNE AFRE CTA T Tn                                        7      ,
f', C -7 C                                                  ...
T     D
T+   ,  , P,  A -Ti_fv _ i T_
M'INE           C.TU                                     .E       C   C. 1;I         32 1,i
4F Q 0  1) I                                                 L .     ..0 -. .   3,.
'-' r!''.4AtT!  TFE  CLnTs-n                                       s., -,: ,+,   ..
',li' ,-p  h!oi,



-44-
ANNEX 1
Table T-7
INDIIA
CHAMBAL f MADHYA PFRADEESH ) IFfRIGATION II PROJECT
T2bl} 10M, COST ESTIMATES OF ROAt'S COMPONENT
Detai1ed  OGSt Tab19
Base Costs
R'uees Million)
_____________________________
52./33 93!84 84/.5 85/86 Total
T    PIT AL OrSTS
A. LAND AQUISITION                                       0.1   0+1   0.1    0.1   0.3
i CIVIL WORKS
BLACKTOP ROADS                                        4,3  946   8.5   8.2  35.6
WATERBOUND MACADAM ROADS                              4.4   4.5   4.0   3.9  16.8
BUILTIINGS                                            0.  0C.8   Oi7   0.7   3.0
6;b-Tot31 CIVIL WORKS                                   14.4  15.0  13.3  12.7  55.4
C. EQUIPMENT AND SPARE DARTS                             1.4   1.5    1.3   1.3   5.5
D. ENEINEERFINC STUDY                                    0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.5
-,ta: CAPITAL COSTS16.0  16.7  14.8  14.2  61.7
:.Z OPERATING COSTS
'. ENGINEEPlINS.! fDiDINISTTcATTnN ANDL SUPERVISION    2.3   2.4   2.1   2.0   8.7
2*e  O-E'dT:G COSTS                                         2.    2.4   2.1   2,0 -     8,7
BASELITNE C.                                -              18,3  19.0  16.9  16.2  70.4
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -   =-- - - - - - - = = - -



-45-
ANNEX 1
Table T-8
I N11,I A
CHAMBA- MAr;HYA H   RADES      IRR IATION II TFRJECT
T2.1l  10,6. CFOIST OF MONTTOORING,  EYALUATION AND STUDIES
D!et3iled Cojst T i1b
Base Costs
~.RRupees '000)
V2/93 A   -O11/34    8O o5  6  Tota-
'.'DTTA I i 7'CTC.
R. REG U L AR STAFF                                 Z10,0    0. O,  232.0  250.0   910,0
i.  TAFF ON  ;EFUTATION. 7ONSUL ANITS                50,0   50.0   50,0   50,0   200.0
i-   h'TNCREENTAL OC-T OF -POF CUTTING SURVEYS   1 00. 0   50.0   50.0  100.0   300.0
'; 'TAFF TRATNTNC                                        -  1000,        -       -   100,0
r. 'FFICTE rEOUI'MENT                                30.        -       -          -    30,0
'.  !E;HICLES./                                       75-'               -             ' 5.0
F;. FELOSHIPSA !!                                 10.0   30.0   40.0   40.0   120.0
HL  WATER    0TECEOUCEC 4ND MANAGENENT STPUDIES      1Al,0 A300. 0  300.0  300.0 17000,0
_Tal CAFITAL COSTS                                      55,50  750,0 670.0  740.0 2.735.0
oTA    DE ELINE  CS TS                                  575,o  750.0  670.0  740.0 20735iO
Tr1f    u~   broac oR   i, Eoonoimist.
i4M4' StUdHS  iY sen%'?4i                                            staff,
- - - - - - - - - - - -   1   C-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



-46-
ANNEX 1
Table T-9
TNlDI 
CHAMBAL   M MADHYA PRAPESH   IRFISATTIN T I RIOFJEST
Table 107. COST OF TRAINING AND TECVHNECAS cEF1
Detailei Cost Table
Base CoLits
FRupees M   ;1 !"r'
=_== -===  ==:   _r    :=
I. CAPITAL COSTE
A. TRAINING INSTITUTE
BUILDINCS                                   f
OFFICE SU'PLt IAINTENANCE            -   O.1   0,1   0       'i
STUDY TOURS                                 .1   0.2         0.5
INCREMENTAL SALP. I-                   '-  1   r2 I3,   . 3 0. 7
MISCELLANEOU                       O. 2         C.   ILei, C.
Sub-Total TPR,AThiO 4  INSTITUTE                   ''         ,    2
B. TECH4NTrCAL SERVICE
To,tal CAPITAL COS                         .-'
Total BASE INE COST                       0. '
June 8. 11932  15:3e



47-
ANNEX 1
Table T-10
INDIA
CRAMBAL (MADHYA PRADESH) IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Cost of Equipment
Units     Unit Price      Total Cost
A. Irrigation and Drainage Network
in Non-Intensive Area
Jeep                                           5          80,000          400,000
Motorcycle                                    10          12,000          120,000
Truck                                          3         225,000          675,000
Road Roller                                    5         200,000        1,000,000
Vibrator Compactor                             2         400,000          800,000
Sub-total                                                                       2,995,000
B. Augmentation Tubewell Facilities
in Ambah Intensive Area
Jeeps                                          2          80,000          160,000
Light Trucks                                   9         100,000          900,000
Motorcycles                                   10          12,000          120,000
Central Workshop Equipment                     1        500,000           500,000
Monitoring Equipment                                                      320,000
Sub-total                                                                       2,000,000
C. Ravine Arrestation
Sub-total                                                                       2,100,000
D. Roads
Road rollers, 8-10 Ton                         8         200,000        1,000,000
Agricultural Tractors                         10          75,000          750,000
Water Tankers, Trailer mounted,
800-1,000 gal.                            10         20,000           200,000
Trailers                                      10          20,000          200,000
Asphalt Mixers                                12          25,000          300,000
Tar Boilers                                   24           6,000          144,000
Mobile Laboratory Vehicles,
4-Wheel Drive                              4        100,000           400,000
Inspection Vehicles, 4-Wheel Drive             8          75,000          600,000
Automobile                                     1          80,000           80,000
Field Workshop and Testing Equipment         L.S.                         400,000
Survey and Office Equipment                  L.S.                         100,000
Spare Parts                                                               726,000
Sub-total                                                                       5,500,000
E. Monitoring, Evaluation and Studies
Vehicles                                       1          75,000           75,000
Office Equipment                                                           30,000
Sub-total                                                                          105,000
Total Cost of Equipment                                                        12,700,000



-48-
ANNEX 1
Table T-11
INDIA
CHAMBAL (MADHYA PRADESH) IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Project Component by Time 1/
(Implementation Schedule)
82/83 2/    83/84    84/85    85/86    86/87 3/   Total
-------------------       (Rs  )------------------------
A.  Ambah Intensive
Block Development (AIBD)
Augmentation Wells                8.1          14.9    17.5      18.2      7.1        65.8
Distribution System               6.4         15.5    26.7       28.5      8.7        85.8
Sub-Total Ambah Intensive
Block Development (AIBD)         14.5         30.4    44.2      46.7      15.8       151.6
B.  Irrigation and Drainage          24.4          22.9    19.1      19.9     11.3        97.6
B. Ravine Arrestation and
Canal-Side Plantations            4.3          6.3      6.8       7.0      2.6        27.0
D.  Roads                            13.3          14.9    12.5      12.7      8.0        61.4
E.  Monitoring and Studies            0.5           0.8     0.6       0.6      0.2         2.7
F. Training and Technical
Services                         0.6           4.5      2.4      2.1       1.1        10.77
G.  Land Acquisition                  1.2           1.3     1.6       1.8      0.4         6.3
H. Engineering, Supervision
and Administration                8.1         10.1    11.8       12.2      5.6        47.8
Total BASELINE COSTS                 66.9          91.2    99.0    103.0      45.0       405.1
Physical Contingencies           10.0         14.8    16.2       17.0      6.6        64.6
Price Contingencies               3.1         14.0    24.8       36.0      8.7        86.6
Total PROJECT COSTS                  80.0         120.0   140.0    156.0      60.3       556.3
1/ By GOMP Fiscal Year April 1-March 31.
2/ Nine months July 1, 1982 to March 31, 1983.
3/ Three months April 1, 1986 to June 30, 1986.



-49-
ANNEX 1
Table T-12
INDIA
CRAMBAL (MADHYA PRADESH) IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
IDA Fiscal Year
and Semester                         During Semester              Cumulative
---- - (US$ M)--------------
1983
1st
2nd                                     2.0                     2.0
1984
lst                                     3.0                     5.0
2nd                                     3.5                     8.5
1985
1st                                     4.0                    12.5
2nd                                     4.5                    17.0
1986
1st                                     4.5                    21.5
2nd                                     4.5                    26.0
1987
1st                                     3.0                    29.0
2nd                                     2.0                    31.0



-50-
ANNEX 1
Table T-13
INDIA
CHAMBAL (MADHYA PRADESH) IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Proposed Credit Allocations
Category                                 US$ M
(1) Civil Works                           25.5           65%
(2) Equipment and Vehicles
(including pumping units)           2.0           100% of foreign expenditures; or
100% of ex-factory price; or
70%
(3) Monitoring, Studies and
Technical Services                   1.5           100% of expenditures
(4) Unallocated                            2.0
Total                             31.0



INDIA
CHAAMBAL (MADHYA PRADESH) IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Present and Projected Cropping Patterns
AIBD                                                 Canal Improvement
Presently Irrigated Areas   Presently Rainfed Areas    Presently Irrigated Areas   Presently Rainfed Areas
(26,700 ha)                  (13,300 ha)                   (149,000 ha)                   (19,000 ha)
P         W          W          P    W       W              P          W          W        P      W        W
IRR  RF   IRR  RF   IRR  RF       RF   RF   IRR  RF         IRR  R     I 1RR  RF   IRR  RF    RF    RF    IRR  RF
---------------------------------------------((% of Net CCA)
KHARIF
HYV Paddy                           -    -    -    -    9    -         -    -      9   -         7   -      7   -    13   -       _      _      13   -
Local Paddy                         -    -    -    -    3    -         _    _      3   -         3          3          4                        4
Hybrid Sorghum                      -    -    -    -    2    -         -    -      2   -         3   -      3   -      3   -      -      -       3   -
Local Sorghum                       -    2    -    2    -    1        13   13      -   1         -   5      -   5      -   5    13    13         -   5
Hybrid Millet                       -    6    -   11    -   12         -    -      -12           -   3      -13        -  13      -      -       -  13
Local Millet                        -   11    -    6    -   10         -    -      -10           -13        -   3      -   3      -      -      -   3
Hybrid Maize                        -    -    -    -    3    -         -    -      3   -         2   -      2   -      2   -      _      _       2   -
Pulses                              -    7    -    7   15    9        13   13    15   9          8   5      8   5      8   5    13    13        8   5
Soybean                             -    -    -    -    3    -         -    -      3   -         3   -      3   -      3   -      -      -      3   -
Groundnut                           -    -    -    -    1    -         -    -      1   -         2  _       2  _       2  _                      2  _
Sub-Total                        -   26    -   26   36   32        26   26    36  32          28  26    28  26    35  26    26    26         35  26
Kharif Cropping Intensity (%)        26         26          68        26   26       68            54         54         61       26    26         61
RABI
HYV Wheat                         45    -   45    -   45    -          -    -    45   -         32   _    32   -    37   -        -      -     37   -
Local Wheat                         5    -    5    -    -    -       41   41       -   -         6   -      6   -      -   -    41    41        -   _
Gram                               19    2   19    2    6    3        17   17      6   3        10   8    10   8    11   8    17    17         11   8
Mustard                            18    4   18    4   10    5         9    9    10   5         14   4    14   4    13   4        9      9     13   4
Potato                              2    -    2    -    3    -              -                                   -      3 2  23 -
Sub-Total                       89    6   89    6   64    8        67   67    64   8          64  12    64  12    64  12    67    67         64  12
Total Area
Rabi Cropping Intensity               95         95         72       67   67        72            76         76         76       67    67         76
Total Cropping Intensity (%)         121        121       140        93   93       140           130        130        137       93    93       137
Irrigation Intensity                  89         89       100          -    -      100            92         92         99        -      -       99
N
Note:  P   Present,W   Future Without Project, and W   Future With Project.



INDIA
CHAMBAL (NADHYA PRADES1i) IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Area, Yield and Production
AIBD
Presently Irrigated Areas (26,700 ha)                                    Presently Rainfed Areas (13,300 ha)
Future                                                                  Future
Present             Without Project    Future With Project              Present             Without Project    Future With Project
Pro-                   Pro-                     Pro-                    Pro-                    Pro-                    Pro-
Area  Yield  duction  Area  Yield  duction  Area  Yield  duction  Area  Yield  duction  Area  Yield  duction  Area  Yield  duction
ha   t/ha       t       ha   t/ha       t       ha   t/ha       t      ha   t/ha-       t       ha   t/ha       t       fi 71i-          t
KHARIF IRRIGATED
HYV Paddy             -       -        -      -       -        -    2,400   3.5    8,400    -         -        -       -      -        -    1,200   3.5    4,200
Local Paddy           -       -        -      -       -        -      800   2.45   1,960    -         -        -       -      -        -       400   2.4       960
Hybrid Sorghum        -       -        -      -       -        -      530   2.75   6,050    -         -        -       -      -        -       270   2.75      742
Hybrid Maize          -       -        -      -       -        -      800   2.5    2,000    -         -        -      -       -        -       400   2.5    1,000
Pulses                -       -        -      -       -        -    4,000   0.95   3,800    -         -        -       -      -        -    2,000   0.95   1,900
Soybean               -       -        -      -       -        -      800   1.2        960    -       -        -       -      -        -       400   1.2       480
Groundnut             -       -        -      -       -        -      270   2.0        540    -       -        -       -      -        -       130   2.0       260
KHARIF RAINFED
Local Sorghum         530   0.8        424    530   1.0        530    270   1.0        270  1,730   0.8    1,384  1,730   1.0    1,730    130   1.0             130
Hybrid Millet       1,600   1.7    2,720  2,900   2.1    6,090  3,200   2.1    6,720    -             -        -       -      -        -    1,600   2.1    3,360
Local Millet        2,900   0.8    2,320  1,600   1.2    1,920  2,670   1.2    3,200    -             -        -       -      -        -    1,330   1.2    1,596
Pulses              1,870   0.5        935  1,870   0.65   1,215  2,400   0.65   1,560  1,730   0.5            865  1,730   0.65   1,125  1,200   0.65         780
Sub-Total        6,900                   6,900                  18,140                   3,460                   3,460                   9,060
Kharif Cropping
Intensity (%)        26                      26                      68                      26                       26                      68
RABI IRRIGATED
HYV Wheat          12,000   1.6   19,200 12,000   2.35  28,200 12,000   2.95  35,400    -             -        -       -      -        -    6,000   2.95  17,700
Local Wheat         1,330   1.0    1,330  1,330   1.0    1,330    -           -        -      -       _-                                                       -
Gram                5,070   0.8    4,056  5,070   0.9    4,563  1,600   1.25   2,000    -             -        -       -      -        -       800   1.25   1,000
Mustard             4,800   0.7    3,360  4,800   0.9    4,320  2,670   0.9    2,400    -             -        -       _      _        _    1,330   0.9    1,200
Potato                 530  10.0    5,300    530  12.0    6,360    800  12.0    9,600    -            -        -       -      -        -       400  12.0    4,800
RABI RAINFED
Gram                  530   0.5        265    530   0.8        424    800   0.8(       640  3,270   0.50   1,635  2, 270   0.80   1,816    400   0.80           320
Mustard             1,070   0.55       589  1,070   0.7        749  1,330   0.70       930  1,200   0.55       660  1,200   0.70       840    670   0.70        470
Local Wheat           -       -         -     -       -         -     -       -         -   5,470   1.0    5,470  5,470   1.1    6,017          -      -         -
Sub-Total       25,330                  25,330                  19,200                   8,940                   8,940                   9,600
Rabi Cropping
Intensity (%)        95                      95                      72                      67                       67                      72                   , ,-2
Net Area (ha)      26,700                  26,700                  26,700                  13,300                  13,300                   13,300                        X
Cropped Area (ha) 32,230                   32,230                  37,340                  12,400                  12,400                   18,660
Total Cropping
Intensity (X)      121                     121                     140                     93                      93                       140



INDIA
CHAMBAL (MADHYA PRADESH) IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Area, Yield and Production
Incremental Agricultural Production
Canal Improvement 1/                                           in AIBD and Canal Improvement 2/
Presently Rainfed Areas (19,000 ha)                                   Future       Future
Present               Future Without Project           Future With Project           Without       With         Incremental
Area   Yield   Production    Area   Yield   Production   Area   Yield   Production             Project      Project       Production
ha    t/ha          t          ha    t/ha           t        ha    t/ha           t             (tJ           It            (t
KHARIF IRRIGATED
HYV Paddy                -       -           -          -        -          -       2,470    3.0         7,410            -         20,010           20,010
Local Paddy             -        -           -          -       -           -         760    1.9         1,444            -          4,364            4,364
Hybrid Sorghum          -        -           -          -        -           -        570    2.4         1,368            -          8,160            8,160
Hybrid Maize            -        -           -          -        -                    380    2.3           874            -          3,874            3,874
Pulses                  -        -           -          -        -          -       1,520    0.95        1,444            -          7,144            7,144
Soybean                 -        -           -          -       -           -         570    1.2           684            -          2,124            2,124
Groundnut               -        -           -          -        -          -         380    1.75          665            -          1,465            1,465
KHARIF RAINFED
Local Sorghum         2,470    0.8         1,976      2,470    1.0         2,470      950    1.0           950          4,730        1,350            3,380
Hybrid Millet            -       -           -          -        -           -      2,470    1.85        4,570          6,090       14,650            8,560
Local Millet             -       -           -          -        -           -         570    1.1          627          1,920        5,423            3,503
Pulses                2,470    0.5         1,235      2,470    0.65        1,605      950    0.65          618          3,945        2,958              987
Sub-Total          4,940                          4,940                         11,590
Kharif Cropping
Intensity (X)          26                              26                            61
RABI IMIGATED
HYV Wheat                -       -           -          -        -           -      7,030    2.35       16,520         28,200       69,620           41,420
Local Wheat             -        -           -          -        -           -        -        -           -            1,330           -             1,330
Gram                     -       -           -          -        -           -      2,090    0.9         1,881          4,563        4,881              318
Mustard                  -       -           -          -        -           -      2,470    0.9         2,223          4,320         5,823           1,503
Potato                  -        -           -          -        -           -        570   12.0         6,840          6,360       21,240           14,880
RABI RAINFED
Gram                  3,230    0.5         1,615      3,230   0.80        2,584    1,520    0.80         1,216          4,824        2 176            2,648
Mustard                1,710    0.55         940      1,710   0.70         1,200       760    0.70         532          2,789         1,932             857
Local Wheat           7,790    1.0         7,790    _7_90   1.1            8,570      -        -           -           14,587           -            14,587
Sub-Total         12,730                          12,730                        14,440
Rabi Cropping
Intensity (%)          67                              67                            76
Net Area (ha)        19,000                          19,000                        19,000
Cropped Area (ha)   17,670                           17,670                        26,030
Total Cropping
Intensity (%)          93                              93                           137
1/  The irrigation and drainage improvement areas of aboutl68,000 ha consists of about 19,000 ha that are presently under rainfed conditions and                    M
149,000 ha that are presently irrigated.  The incremental benefits in the presently irrigated areas would be limited to an increase of about                    ,",
10,400 ha planted under paddy as a result of better drainage and water distribution.                                                                            ci
2/  Incremental agricultural production on 149,000 ha of presently irrigated areas would be limited to about 34,000 t of paddy.



ANNEX 1
Table T-16
-54-
INDIA
CHAMBAL (MADHYA PRADESH) IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Economic and Financial Prices
(Rs/Ton)
Crops                      Financial Prices                      Economic Prices
1980/81      1990                     1980/81    1990
Paddy - HYV                1,230        1,460                    1,980       2,270
- Local             1,330        1,580                    2,140       2,440
Groundnut                  2,350        2,940                    3,070       2,840
Fodder                       100          100                       80          80
Maize - HYV                1,090        1,490                    1,330       1,810
Wheat - Mexican            1,450        1,690                    1,510       1,760
- Local             1,650        1,920                    1,750       2,040
Gram                       1,950        2,000                    2,370       2,430
Potato                       700          700                      850         850
Mustard                    3,200        3,200                    3,890       3,890
Millet                       970          970                    1,180       1,180
Sorghum                    1,200        1,870                    1,460       2,270
Soy Bean                   2,220        2,550                    2,700       3,100
Pulses                     2,220        2,220                    2,700       2,700
Onion/Vegetables             700          700                      850         850
Linseed                    3,200        3,200                    1,890       3,890
Inputs           Unit
Urea (N)         Rs/kg       4.3          4.7                      5.5         6.0
TSP (P)          Rs/kg       3.9          4.6                      4.9         5.8
Potasium
Chloride (K)  Rs/kg        1.9          1.9                      2.5         2.5
FYM/Compost      Rs/T       24.0         24.0                     19.0        19.0
Wage Rates
Farm Labor - Rainfed
Area          3.4          3.4                      2.2         2.2
Irrigated
Area          4.3          4.3                      3.0         3.0
Bullock Pair (per day)    12.0           12.0                      9.0         9.0



-55-                           ANNEX 1
Table T-17
INDIA
CHAMBAL (MADHYA PRADESH) IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Present Average Water Charges - MP State 1/
A. Irrigation Use
Crop                             -------- --(Rs/ha)-------------
Long-term Agreement      Demand Rate
Paddy                                     40                   60
Other Kharif Foodgrains                   20                   25
Wheat                                     -                    37
Pulses                                    30                   30
Rabi Maize                                -                    40
Groundnuts (kharif)                       30                   30
Cotton                                    40                   40
Sugarcane (12 months)                     -                   100
Perennial tree crops                     100                  100
B.  Industrial and Domestic Use            (Rs per 10,000 ft3)
Industrial Use                                    6.0
Domestic Use                                      6.0
Water supply to village tanks
(Kharif)                                    3.0
(Rabi)                                      6.0
C.  Water-related Charges 2/                    (Rs/ha)
Sugarcane                                         10
Cotton                                              5
Groundnut                                           5
1/ As of December 1980
2/ Commercial crop taxes.



-56-                                         ANNEX 1
Table T-18
INDIA                                          Page 1
CHAMBAL (MADHYA PRADESH) IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Financial Crop Budgets for AIBD Areas
A. PRESENTLY IRRIGATED AREAS:
CROP-NAME     SEASON  % OF CCA   YIELD   BYPRODUCT   GROSS RETURN   INPUT cosr   NET RETURN   WA3TER REO.                NEI RETURN j M3
t/Ha      t/Ha        --------------Rs/Ha--------------    M /Ha                          Rs/Ha
CROPS AT PRESENT
LOC S ORGHUM  KHARIF        2.0       0.80       1.70           1062           635            427
HYB   MILLET  KHARIF        6.0       1.70       1.50           1739           747            992
LOC   MILLET  KHARIF       11.0       0.80       0.70            818           598            220
PULSES         KHARIF       7.0       0.50       0.60           1185           511            674
WHEAT HYV      RABI        45.0       1.60       2.50           2795          1247           1548         3140                0.4930
LOC   WHEAT   RABI          5.0       1.00       1.40           1916           957            959         3490                0.2748
GRAM           RABI        19.0       0.80       0.80           1712           778            934          990                0.9434
MUSTARD        RABI        18.0       0.70       0.00           2240           899           1341         1000                 1.3412
POTATO         RABI         2.0      10.00       0.00           7500          5084           2416         2250                 1.0738
GRAM           RABI         2.0       0.50       0.50            920           682            238
MUSTARD        RAB1         4.0       0.55       0.60           1760           795            965
CROPS FUlURE WITHOUT PROOECT
LOC S ORGHUM  KHARIF        2.0       1.00       4.00           2110           764           1346
HYB   MILLE1  KHARIF       11.0       2.10       1.70           2139          1168            971
LOC   MILLET  KHARIF        6.0       1.20       1.00           1224           728            496
PULSES         KHARIF       7.0       0.65       0.40           1493           535            958
WHEAT HYV      RARI        45.0       2.35       2.40           4428          1724           2704         3140                0.8610
LOC   WHEAT   RABI          5.0       1.10       1.50           2397           967           1430         3490                0.4096
GRAM           RABI        19.0       0.90       0.90           1971           903           1068          990                 1.0786
MUSTARD        RABI        18.0       0.90       0.00           2880          1264           1616          1000                1.6157
POTATO         RABI         2.0      12.00       0.00           9000          5912           3088         2250                 1.3723
GRAM           RABI         2.0       0.80       0.80           1688          1118            570
MUSTARD        RABI         4.0       0.70       0.00           2240           912           1328
B.  PRESENTLY RAINFED AREAS:
cROPs AT PRESENT
l.OC S ORGHUM  KHARIF      13.0       0.80       3.30           1694           576           1118
PULSES         KHARIF      13.0       0.50       0.40           1150           464            686
LOC   WHEAT   RABI         41.0       1.00       1.40           1916          1042            874
GRAM           RABI        17.0       0.50       0.50            570           640             70
MUSTARD        RABI         9.0       0.55       0.50           1760           737           1023
CROPS FUTURE WITHOUT PROJECT
LOC S ORGHUM  KHARIF       13.0       1.00       4.00           2110           701           1409
PULSES         KHARIF      13.0       0.65       0.40           1480           486            994
LOC   WHEAT   RABI         41.0       1.10       1.50           2397           857           1540
GRAM           RAEI        17.0       0.80       0.80           1752           1066           656
MUSTARD        RABI         9.0       0.70       0.00           2240           844           1396
CROPS FUTURE WITH PROJECT-
PADDY HYV      KHARIF       9.0       3.50       3-50           5460          2122           3338         4060                0.8221'
[OC   PADDY   KHARIF        3.0       2.45       2.50           4121          164B           2473         4230                0.5845
HYB S ORGHt)M  KHARIF       2.0       2.75       5.40           5467          1478           3989          1060               3.7632
HYB   MAIZE   KHARIF        3.0       2.50       2.70           3887           1419          24G8          470                5.2501
PULSES         KHARIF      15.0       0.95       1.20           2240          1067           1173          500                2.3464
SOYBEAN        KHARIF       3.0       1.20       0.00           3060          1199           1861          300                6.2049
GROUNDNUT      KHARIF       1.0       2.00       2.90           5880          1840           4040         1020                3.9605
LOC S ORGHUM  KHARIF        1.0       1.00       2.00           1990           764           1226
HYR   MILLET  KHARTF       12.0       2.10       1.70           2139          1246            893
LOC   MILLET  KHARIF       10.0       1.20       1.00           1224           733            491
PULSES         KHARIF       9.0       0.65       0.80           1530           677            853
WHEAT HYV      RABI        45.0       2.95       4.00           5746           1776          3969         3140                 1.2640
GRAM           RABI         6.0       1.25       1.30           2747           1232          1515          990                 1.5303
MUSTARD         RABI       10.0       0.90       0.00           2880           1264          1616          1000                1.6157
POTATO         RABI         3.0      12.00       0.00           9000          5912           3088         2250                 1.3723
GRAM           RABI         3.0       0.80       0.80           1752           1118           634
MUSTARD        RABI         5.0       0.70       0.00           2240           912           1328
NOTE  5% CONTINGENCIES ARE ADDED TO  INPUT COST
1/ Uniform for Total Project Area.



-57--                                            ANM4E  I
Table T-18
INDIA                                            Page 2
CHA14BAL (MADHYA PRADESH) IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Financial Crop Budgets for Canal Improvement Areas
A. PRESENTLY IRRIGATED AREAS:
CROP-NAME      SEASON% OF CCA   YIELD   BYPRODUCT   GPOSS RETURN    INPUT COST   NET RETURN   WAJER REQ                     NET RETURN I M3
,-/Ha      tIHa      ---------Es/Ha ---------                         H  /Ha                  Rs/Ha
CROPS AT PRESENT
PADDY HYV       KHAPIF       7.0       2.20        2.20           2772           1676           i09B         4060                 0.2699
LOC   PADDY   KHARIF         3.0       1.25        2.R0           1910           1305            605         4230                 0.i430
HYB S ORGHUM  KHARIF         3.0       1.50        2.00           1980           1099            Bel          1060                0.8315
HYR   MAIZE   KHAR IF        2.0       1.40        1.80           1634           1139            495           470                 1.0533
PULSES          KHARIF       5.0       0.75       0.60            1725            921            804          500                 1.6088
SOYBEAN         KHARIF       3.0       0.80       0.00            1760            821            939           300                3.1299
GROUNDNUT       KHARIF       2.0       1.25        1.80           2938           1434           1503          1020                1.4736
[DC S ORGHUM  KHARIF         5.0       0.60        3.30           1694            636           1055
HYB   MILLET  KHARIF        13.0       1.70        1.60           1745            749            996
LOC   MILLET  KHARIF         3.0       0.80       0.60             824            941            263
PUL SES         KHAR IF      5.0       0.50       0.40            1150            513            637
WHEAT HYV       RARI        32.0       1.60        1.60           2624           1273           1351         3120                 0.4331
LOG   WHEAT   RABI          6.0        1.00        1.50           1935           959            976          3490                 0.2797
GRA M           RABI        10.0       0.60       0.60            1712            774            938          990                 0.9476
MUSTARD         9461        14.0       0.70        0.00           2240            904            375          100                 1.3364
POTATO          RA61         2.0      10.00       0.00            7500           5100           2400         2250                 i.0667
GRAM            RARI         8.0       0.50       0.50             920           1162           -242
MUSTARD         PA461        4.0       0.55       0.00            1760            957            903
CROPS FUTURE WITHOUT PROJECT
PADDY HYV       KHARIF       7.0       3.00        3.00           5790           2022           3769         4060                 0.9281
LOG   PADDY   KHARIF         3.0       1.90        3.60           3362           1824           lASS         4230                 0.3683
HYB S ORGHUM  KHARIF         3.0       2.40        4.50           4776           1352           3424          1060                3.2299
HYB   MAIZE   KHARIF         3.0       2.30        2.90           3601           1387           2214           470                4.7098
PULSES          KHAR IE      8.0       0 99       0.70            2178           1062           IllS           500                2.2303
SOYBEAN         KHARIF       3.0       1.20       0.00           3060            1198           1862          300                 6.2063
GROUNDNUT       KHAR IF      2.0       1.79        2.50          9145            1821          3324           1020                3.2590
LOC S ORGHUM  KHARIF         5.0       1.00       4.00           3110             766           1344
HYR   MILLET  RHARIF        13.0       1.65        1.70           1897           1170            726
LOC   MILLET  KHARIF         3.0       1.10        1.00           1127            729            398
PULSE S         KHARIF       3.0       0.65       0.50            1493            536            956
WHEAT HSV       SARI        32.0       2.39        2.40           4428           1731          32697          3140                0.6569
[DC   WHEAT   RARI           6.0       1.10        1.70           2435           1066           1369         3490                 0.3924
GRA M           6461        1 0.0      0.90        0.90           1899            930            969           990                0.9788
MUSTARD         956I        14.0       0.90        0.00           2880           1269           1611          1000                 i.6107
POTATO          RABI         2.0      12.00       0.00            9000           5932           3066          2250                1.3634
GRAM            RABI         8.0       0.60       0.60            1650            947            703
MUSTARD         6561         4.0       0.70       0.00            2240            917           1323
B.  PRESENTY RAINFE] AREAS,
CROPS AT PRESENT
LOG S OPGHUM  KHARIF        13.0       0.80        3 30           1694            976           1118
PUL SES         KHARIF      13.0       0.50        0.40           1150            464            686
LOG   WHEAT   6461         41.0        1.00        1.50           1935            845           1089
GRAM            6561        17.0       0.90        0.90            570            637            -57
MUSTARD         6ABI         9.0       0.59        0.00           1760            785            972
CROPS FUTURE WITHOUT PROJECT
LOG S ORGHUM  KHARIF        13.0       1.00        2.00           1990            701           1289
PULSES          KHARIF      13.0       0.65        0.60           1530            627            903
LOG    WHEAT   R561        41.0        1.10        1.70           2435            927           1506
GRAM            R56I        17.0       0.80        0.80           1752           1066            586
MUSTARD         6561         9.0       0.70        0.00           2240            644           1396
CROPS FUTURE WITH PROJECTI/
P4DDY HIS       KHAR1F      13.0       3.00        3.00           4650           7020           2660          4060                0.6553
LOG  PADDYM  KHARIF          4.0       1.90        3.80           3362           1824           1556          4230                0.35683
HYB SORGHUM  KHARIF          3.0       2.40        4.80           4776           1351           3425          1060                 3.2309
HYB   MAIZE   KHARIF         2.0       2.30        2.90           3601           1352           2219           470                 4.7217
PULSES          KHARIF       8.0       0.95        0.70           2178           1044           1133           900                 2.2664
SOYBEAN         KHARIF       3.0       1.20        0.00           3060           1199           1861           300                6.2049
GROUNDNUT       KHARIF       2.0       1.75        2.50           5149           1821           3324          1020                 3.2593
LOG S ORGHUM  KHARIF         5.0       1.00        4.00           2110            764           1346
fiyR   MILLET  KHARIF       13.0        1.65       1.70           1897           1165            728
LOG   MILLET  KHAR IF        3.0       110        I1.00           1127            728            399
PULSES          KHARIF       5.0       0 65        0.50           1493            539            957
WHEAT HYV       P461        37.0       2.35        2.40           4428           1724           2704          3140                 0.6610
GRAM            8461        11.0       0 90        0.90           4971            903           1065           990                 1.0786
MUSTARD         R56I        13.0       0 90        0.00           2880           1264           161E          1000                 1.6157
POTATO          R561         3.0      12.00        0.00           8400           5912           2455          2250                 1.1057
G599            RA6I         8.0       0.60        0.60           1714            945            766
MUJSTARID       RAS81        4.0       0.70        0.00           2340            512           1326
NOTE: 9% CONTINGENCIES ARE ADDED TO INPUT COST
I/ Uniform for Total Project Area,



INDIA
CHAMBAL (MADHYA PRADESH) IRRIGATION II PROJECT
L      -~~~~~/
Typical Farm Models-l
Gross     Hired      Other 2     Total        Net
Time     Value     Labor      Inputs-      Inputs      Value-
I. AIBD
a.  Presently Irrigated Areas         P        6.290      510        2,440        2,950     3,340
W       9,020       580       3,320        3,900      5.120
W      12,790       740       4,250        4,990      7,800
b.  Presently Rainfed Areas           P        3,380       260       1,520        1,780      1,600
W       4,680       290       1,540        1,830      2,850
W      12,790       740       2,070        4,990      7,800
II.  CANAL IMPROVEMENT
a.  Presently Irrigated Areas         P        6,530      600        2,780        3,380     3,150
W       9,790       640       3,610        4,250      5,540
W      10,800       720       4,080        4,800      6,000
B.  Presently Rainfed Areas           P        3,400      260        1,320        1,580     1,820
W       4,700       290       1,650        1,940      2,770
w      10,800       720       4,080        4,800      6,000
P = Present;
W - Future Without Project; and                                                                                     X
W = Future With Project.
1/ For average farm size of 2.4 ha.
2/ Including land tax and water charges.
3  Net return to family labor and farm capital investment.



INDIA
CHAMBAL (MADHYA PRADESH) IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Estimated Farm Budgets and Prolect Rent at Full Development
(2.4 Ha Farm)
AIDB  _                                   CANAL IMPROVEMENT
Presently Irrigated   Presently Rainfed         Presently Irrigated   Presently Rainfed
Areas                 Areas                     Areas                 Areas
Farm Budget
Gross Value of Production             9,020    12,790        4,680    12,790          9,790    10,800         4,700    10,800
Total Labor Cost                        880      1,120          420     1,120           960      1,070          420      1,070
Other Inputs              l/          2,920      3,760       1,410      3,760         3,190      3,620        1,520      3,620
Land Tax and Water Charge-              100        110           -        110           100        110           -         110
Total Cost                            3,900      4,990       1,830      4,990         4,250      4,800        1,940      4,800
Net Value of Production               5,120      7,800       2,850      7,800         5,540      6,000        2,760      6,000
Reward to Family Labor                  300        380          130       380           320        350          130        350
New Farm Family Income                5,420      8,180        2,980     8,180         5,860      6,350        2,890      6,350
Off-Farm Income                       1,000        800       1,500        800         1,000        800        1,500        800
Net Family Income2/                   6,420      8,980       4,480      9,980         6,860      7,150        4,390      7,150
Per Capita Income-                    1,170      1,630          820     1,630         1,250      1,300          800      1,300
Net Return to Farm                    5,120      7,800        2,850     7,800         5,540      6,000        2,760      6,000
+ (Tax + Water Charge)                  100        110          -         110           100        110          -          110
Net Return Before Tax                 5,220      7,910        2,850     7,910         5,640      6,110        2,760      6,110
- Risk Equivalent 3/                    900      1,300       1,400      1,300           980      1,080        1,410      1,080
- Management Fee 47                     510        780          290       780           550        600          280        600
Implicit Land Rent                    3,810     5,830        1,160      5,830         4,110      4,130        1,070     4,430
Project Rent (Rs/ha)                      840                    1,950                    130                    1,400
l/  With present water rates and tax charges.                                                                                     X x
2/  Assumed family equivalent of five and a half persons.                                                                         w ~
3/  Risk Equivalent - Expected gross value of production X farmers' risk aversion factor X coefficient of variation of    X
yields.  The risk aversion factor is assumed at 1.5 in the presently rainfed areas and 1.0 in the presently irrigated °
areas. The coefficient of yield variation has been assumed as 20% in presently rainfed areas and 10% in presently
irrigated areas in the without project situation and a uniform rate of 10% has been assumed in the with project
situation.
4/  The reward for management and entrepreneurship is primarily a premium for the special skills that farm management
requires. Consequently, it has been assumed that the "management fee" is equal to 10% of the net returns.



-60-                     ANNEX 1
Table T-21
INDIA
CHAMBAL (MADHYA PRADESH) IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Cost Recovery 1/
(Rs/ha)
Canal
AIBD          Improvement
Project Rent
Gross Value of Production                                    10,780            4,070
Production Cost 2/                                            3,680            2,060
Net Cash Income                                               7,100            2,010
Less - Management Fee                                       1,130              380
- Risk Equivalent                                       770               100
Project Rent                                                  5,200            1,530
Project Rent as a % of Net Cash Income                          73%              76%
Cost Recovery
DIRECT:  Water Charge  3/                                     1,300               70
: Cess on Water Rate                                      20               10
Sub-Total (Gross Irrigated Area)                              1,320               80
Sub-Total (Net CCA) 4/                                        1,330               80
INDIRECT:  Agricultural Sales Tax (Rs per Net CCA)              400              140
Total Cost Recovery                                             1,730              220
Rent Recovery as a Z of Project Rent                              33%              14%
Capital Cost                                                    3,690              670
Operation and Maintenance Cost                                    750              360
Total Public Sector Outlays                                     4,440            1,030
Cost Recovery as a % of Project Cost                              39%              21%
11 Expressed in Incremental values discounted over 30 years at 12% in constant 1981
prices.
2/ Includes cost of labor and depreciation of capital.
3/ The calculation of water charges is based on the following assupptions:
(i) the current water charges will be increased by
50% in the coming year;
(ii) the charges in the AIBD area will be gradually
raised further at full development (by about
year 10) until they reach 30% of the Incremental
Project Rent (by about year 20).
4/ Irrigation intensity 100% in AIBD and 99% in Canal Improvement Area.



INDIA
CHAMBAL (MADHYA PRADESH) IRRIGATION II PROJECT
AIBD - Cost and Benefit Streams for Economic Analysis
Net
Capital Cost in                         Total      Incremental          Incremental           Total               Incremental
Periods     Economic Prices 1/       O&M Costs       Cost       Benefits I  2/      Benefits II 3/        Benefits              Benefits
1                21.36                 0.00         21.36          0.00                0.00                0.00                  21.36
2                34.50                 1.21         35.71          2.67                 1.33               4.00                  31.71
3                47.98                 2.46         50.44          8.00                 5.34              13.34                  37.10
4                47.08                 3.81         50.89         16.68                11.34              28.02                  22.87
5                 0.00                 4.53          4.53         27.35                18.68              46.03                  41.50
6                 0.00                 4.53          4.53         35.35               25.35               60.70                  56.17
7                 0.00                 4.53          4.53         40.02               30.68               70.70                  65.64
8                 0.00                 4.53          4.53         42.02               34.02               76.04                  71.51
9                 0.00                 4.53          4.53         42.69               36.02               78.71                  74.18
10                0.00                 4.53          4.53         42.69               37.35               80.04                  75.51
11                0.80                 4.53          5.33         42.69               37.35               80.04                  74.71
12                1.30                 4.53          5.83         42.69               37.35               80.04                  74.21
13                1.60                 4.53          6.13         42.69               37.35               80.04                  73.91
14                1.54                 4.53          6.07         42.69               37.35               80.04                  73.97
15                0.00                 4.53          4.53         42.69               37.35               80.04                  75.51
16                3.07                 4.53          7.60         42.69               37.35               80.04                  72.44
17                4.99                 4.53          9.52         42.69               37.35               80.04                  70.52
18                6.14                 4.53         10.67         42.69               37.35               80.04                  69.37
19                5.91                 4.53         10.44         42.69               37.35               80.04                  69.60
20-30             0.00                 4.53          4.53         42.69               37.35               80.04                  75.51
1/  Capital Cost including Replacement Cost are estimated at December 1980 price
level adjusted at the Construction Conversion Factor.
2/  Incremental Benefits I derived from areas irrigated at present (26,700 ha).                                                                AX
3/  Incremental Benefits II derived from areas presently rainfed (13,300 ha).



-62-
ANNEX 1
Table T-23
INDIA
CHAMBAL (MADHYA PRADESH) IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Canal Improvement Area -
Cost and Benefits Streams for Economic Analysis
(Rs M)
Capital Costl/                                       Net
in             0 & M          Total         Incremental
Periods           Economic Prices       Cost         Benefits          Benefits
1                    43.83             0.00           0.00          -43.83
2                    42.96             1.98          10.01          -34.93
3                    39.33             3.71          25.35           -17.69
4                    40.09             5.13          42.02          - 3.18
5                     0.00             6.52          60.03            53.51
6                     0.00             6.52          72.70            66.18
7                     0.00             6.52          81.37            74.85
8                     0.00             6.52          87.38            80.86
9                     0.00             6.52          89.38            82.86
10-30                  0.00             6.52          90.05            83.53
1/ Capital Costs are estimated at December 1980 price level adjusted by
the Construction Conversion Factor.



INDIA
ORGANiZATION CHART: IRRiGATION DEPARTMENT -CHAMBAL
Charnbal/8et,,a Basins   r        s   _ on mm   e_          an       WE   _  wn _           * Comn. Area Development Mngmn
Bhopa                                                                                       Authority                           Board
l   Cell         
| Supt. Engineer                                                                                Sut Engnee
Morena                                                                                        Bhinde
Q ua I 6ty                                Dsl
|Irrigation Diviston    Irrigation D,v5isil    Drainage. D,v1s1on      Irrigation Division    Drainage. Division     Irgto    vsin           Irrigation D v,sio
Sahalgarh                 Pora                Sabalgarh            Ambah (AIBD)               Sheopur ,ei                                    SheoPL:r
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- TC_
World Bank --23152



-64-
ANNEX 2
Page 1
INDIA
CHAMBAL (MADHYA PRADESH) IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Prices and Conversion Factors
1.        General.  The economic prices of major traded agricultural outputs
were derived from the IBRD projected 1990 world market prices expressed in
1980/81 currency value with appropriate adjustments for freight, handling
and processing. The projected economic prices for non-traded foodgrains
are derived by applying a foodgrain conversion factor (FCF) to the financial
price (para 4). Non-traded goods and services were brought to a common basis
with the traded ones through the use of conversion factors (explained in the
following paras). A standard exchange rate of US$1 to Rs 8.00 was used to
convert prices expressed in US dollars to local currency values 1/
2.        Standard Conversion Factor (SCF).  In order to evaluate the project's
net benefits to India, its costs and benefits must be converted to world
market price basis. However, many of the costs are for items that are not
traded on the world market. Tariffs and trade restrictions introduce a
distortion in the price relationship between traded goods--valued at world
markets--and non-traded goods--valued at local prices. In order to make them
comparable, a SCF is applied to the financial price of non-traded goods. In
the absence of trade restrictions, the SCF can be approximately calculated
using the formula:
SCF  =              
X + S + M + T
x        m
where X = export value (f.o.b.);
M = import value (c.i.f.);
D = subsidies on exports;
T = taxes and duties on imports.
m
1/   This was the estimated exchange rate at "Green Cover" time (November 1981).
Due to GOMP budgetary constraints, negotiations were delayed and took
place only in June 1982. By that time the estimated exchange rate
changed to US$1 = Rs 9. The revised exchange rate was used for estimat-
ing the project cost in US dollars and estimating the amount of IDA
credit. However, in order to avoid excessive calculation, the "old"
exchange rate of US$1.0 = Rs 8.0 was used in the economic analysis.



-65-
ANNEX 2
Page 2
For the period since 1970, this calculation gives a SCF of 0.86. However,
since this estimate does not take into consideration quantitative restric-
tions on trade, it provides only an upper limit for the SCF. The Indian
Planning Commission recommends for the evaluation of industrial projects,
the use of conversion factors for foreign exchange and for untraded goods
that implicitly give a SCF of about 0.75. Because of the approximate nature
of this estimate, a SCF of 0.8 has been used in the economic analysis.
Specific conversion factors were calculated for construction costs and non-
traded foodgrains (see below).
3.        Construction Conversion Factor (CCF).  The CCF was estimated at
0.80 based on the relative share in construction works of traded, non-traded
and unskilled labor.
4.        Foodgrains Conversion Factor (FCF).  The economic prices for traded
goods such as rice, wheat, cotton, groundnuts, and sugarcane were based on
their border prices at the standard exchange rate. The domestic cost compo-
nents (i.e., local transport and marketing charges) were adjusted by the SCF
of 0.80. The economic prices for non-traded foodgrains (maize and pulses were
assumed to be non-traded) were derived by applying the FCF to their projected
financial prices. The FCF was estimated using the following formula:
FCF   =   (Q rice x PE rice) + (Q wheat x PE wheat)   1215
(Q rice x PF rice) + (Q wheat x PF wheat) -
where:  Q:   Madhya Pradesh Production
PE:   Economic Price
PF:   Financial Price
The projected financial prices for various crops are based on the estimated
historical price trends 1/ in Madhya Pradesh.
5.        Prices of Agricultural Inputs.  Fertilizers have been valued at the
projected world market price. The financial prices of pesticides and insecti-
cides (traded commodities) have been converted to economic prices using a con-
version factor of 0.95. The economic prices of seed and miscellaneous charges
have been assumed to approximate the financial prices. The economic price of
a bullock day was derived from the rental price for one pair with an operator
per day, adjusted by the SCF. A summary of the economic prices is presented in
Annex 1, Table T-16.
6.        Agricultural Wages.  Economic wage rates were derived from the finan-
cial ones assuming that for the slack and peak period, the financial wage is a
good approximation for the shadow wage (reservation wage), and that only during
the intermediate season the financial wage overstates the opportunity cost of
labor by some 40%. The weighted average shadow wage rates derived were adjusted
by the SCE (0.8), resulting in economic wages of Rs 2.2 and Rs 3.0 for the rain-
fed and irrigated areas, respectively. When compared to financial wage rates,
this is equivalent to an unskilled labor conversion factor of about 0.67.
1/   See Madhya Pradesh - Agricultural Prices and Marketing, prepared by
FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program, Rome, April 1980.



-66-
ANNEX 2
Page 3
Benefits and Costs
7.        Crop Budgets and Cropping Patterns.  Assessment of future yields and
cropping patterns, "with" as well as "without" project, was based on (i) farm
surveys in the project areas; (ii) yield statistics; and (iii) direct in-
formation from the field. Project yields represent an estimate of the
average yield which can be expected in an average year, assuming satis-
factory supporting services, especially extension.
8.        Phase I and Phase II Benefits.  Care has been taken to exclude
from the economic analysis benefits related to works undertaken under Phase
I. Thus, no incremental benefits were assumed to accrue from the area
irrigated as a result of Phase I works.
9.        The cost streams include the incremental investment and O&M costs.
Sunk cost were accounted for through the inclusion of the associated irri-
gation benefits in the "without project" situation. The economic cost of
electricity (for AT) was derived from a recent Bank study of the marginal
cost of electricity in MP. 1/ According to this study the long run marginal
economic cost of electricity at the 33 Kv line would be Rs 0.08 per 1 kWh at
off-peak hours (16'' to 20'') and Rs 0.80 at peak hours. The provision of
regulatable storage will enable pumping entirely during the off-peak hours.
10.       Build-up Rates.  The build-up rates of net benefits from present
levels to full development was assumed to be as follows:
Years After Completion of Construction
A. AIBD                                 1   2   3   4   5   6   7    8   9    10
(a)  Presently irrigated           6  20  41  67  85  95  100
(b)  Presently rainfed             5  14  32  52  70  84   93  98  100
B. Canal Improvement Area
(a)  Presently rainfed             8  22  39  59  74  86   94  97   99  100
Economics of Lining in AIBD
11.       The main benefits associated with lining were assumed to be derived
from a reduction in seepage losses. Lining is expected also to facilitate
operation and maintenance of the water distribution system and results in a
more reliable water supply but these latter benefits could not be adequately
quantified and were excluded from the analysis.
12.       It is estimated that if the part of the system consisting of channels
carrying 6 cfs or less to the 8 ha outlet would be unlined, incremental seepage
1/   "Estimation of Electricity Tariff Based on Long Run Marginal Cost" by
the Energy and Water Supply Division, ASP.



-67-
ANNEX 2
Page 4
losses, over those expected in a lined system would Imouy in the rabi
season (when water i7 a constraint) to about 2,450 m /ha- . It is assumed
here that about 657%- of the seepage losses can be recovered through pump-
ing. The remaining quantity will be absorbed into the top layers of the
soils in areas close to the canal and be lost through evaporation, non-pro-
ductive evapotranspiration and through lateral groundwater flow to areas
where it is not usable. Under Chambal conditions the recoverable seepage
losses could be used for irrigation through the network of AT. Considering
the seepage losses during recycling (assumSd to be 20%) the 5otal amount of
irrecoverable losses is estimated at 984 m /ha while 1,464 m would be deli-
vired at the 8 ha outlet. For each 1 m reaching th5 8 ha outlet about 1.25
m  have to be pumped at an economic cost of Rs3.12/m . The value of water   3
at the 8 ha outlet was a umed to be Rs 0.35/m  in year 1 rising to Rs 0.58/m
in year 5 and therafter.-
13.       In the model used, lining benefits accrue from (i) preventing loss
of production due to irrecoverable seepage losses; and (ii) saving of pumping
costs. Investment costs in lining were estimated at Rs 2,000/ha. The dif-
ference in maintenance of lined and unlined system was assumed to be small
and was therefore ignored. Based on these assumptions the ERR of lining was
estimated at 33%.
Economic Rate of Return (ERR)
14.       For economic analysis purposes the project was divided into parts
(models): (i) the AIBD area; and (ii) the remaining command area (canal
improvement areas). For each area the cropping pattern, yields and inputs
requirements were calculated without and with (at full development) the
project. Discounting costs and benefit streams over 30 years the estimated
ERR would be 34% for the AIBD area, 35% for the area benefiting from canal
improvement and drainage works and 35% for the project as a whole (weighted
average).
15.       Several tests were performed to evaluate the sensitivity of the
assumptions made in the economic analysis (see para 7.06, Main Report).
Additionally, in the case of AIBD, the operational characteristics of AT
were tested and only large and unlikely deviations from appraisal estimates
would significantly effect the ERR.
,~~~~~~~~~~~~
1/   Seepage losses wer2 assumed to be 3 cfs/M ft  in a lined system
and 20-25 cfs/M ft in an unlined system.
2/   The Central Groundwater Board of GOI has estimated that irrecoverable
canal seepage losses range from 33% to 50%.
3/   The value of water was derived by dividing the incremental irrigation
benefits by the amount of water used for irrigation.



-68-
ANNEX 2
Page 5
16.       Assumptions for Cost and Rent Recovery.  The main assumptions are:
(i) an increase of 50% in irrigation charges will take place by
Year 1 and simultaneously, GOMP will equate canal and lift
irrigation charges;
(ii) after the above increase, the irrigation charges will remain
unchanged in real terms until Year 10 in AIBD; in the canal
improvement areas the irrigation charges will remain unchanged
throughout the project period; and
(iii) from year 10 on, water rates in AIBD will gradually be raised
to reach about 30% of irrigation rent in Year 20.



INDIA
CHAMBAL (MADHYA PRADESH) IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Economics of Lining in AIBD - 1 Ha Model
Capital Cost- I3/                                                                                 Net Incremental
Periods                    of Lining                     Benefits I -/                    Benefits II  /                       Benefits
----------------------------------------------------Rs----------------------------------------------------
1                        2,000.00                           0.00                            0.00                              -2,000.00
2                             0.00                        219.48                          347.07                                 566.55
3                            0.00                         219.48                          359.69                                 579.17
4                             0.00                        219.48                          391.24                                 610.72
5                            0.00                         219.48                          441.73                                 661.21
6                             0.00                       219.4.8                          542.69                                 762.17
7                            0.00                        219.48                           561.63                                 781.11
_0
8-30                         0.00                         219.48                          574.25                                 793.73
1/ Economic cost of lining channels with 6 cfs or less capacity.
2/  Benefits resulting from reduced pumping.  The cost of pumping is estimated at Rs 0.12/m  in economic prices.
3/  Benefits resulting from reJuced seepage losses.  The marginal value of water at the 8 ha outlet was estimated at Rs .35/m3 in
year 1 rising to Rs 0.58/m at full development.
NOTE:  It is estimated that if the part of the system consisting of channels carrying 6 cfs or less to the 8 ha outlet would be
unlined, incremental seepage losses, over those expected in a lined system would amount in the rabi season (when water is
a constraint) to about 2,450 m3/ha.  It is assumed that about 65% (1,593 m3/ha) of the seepage losses can be recovered through
pumping.  The recoverable seepage losses would be used for irrigation through the network of AT.  The recycling of irrigation
water for I ha model could be seen from the following flow chart-
1,593 m3  *  318 m  seeped---  207 mi3 recovered-    40 m3 seeped- -  26 m3 recovered -+5 m3 seeped -) 3 m3 recovered   >1 mi  lost                    >
\13   ~~\A           \4           3~{                                  34                    3                3   A
1,275 m  at plant  111 m  lost   167 m  at plant          4 m  lost       21 m  at plant        2 m  lost        2 m  at plant                        D:3
Considering the seepage losses during recycling (assumed to be 20%) the total amount of irrecoverable losses is estimated
at 986 m3/ha while 1,465 m3 would be delivered at the 8 ha outlet.  For each 1 m3 reaching the 8 ha outlet about 1.25 m3
have to be pumped at an economic cost of Rs .12/m3.



-70-
ANNEX 3
INDIA
CHAMBAL (MADHYA PRADESH) IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Related Documents Available in the Project File
1.   Economics of Crop Production and Cropping Pattern in Chambal,
Project Report No. 3, CADA Chambal Project, November 13, 1980.
2.   Bench March Socio-Economic Survey of Chambal Command Area,
Project Report No. 2, CADA Chambal Project, August 1, 1980.
3.   Mid-Term Appraisal Report of Ayacut Works, Morena and Bhind
Districts, MP Irrigation Department,.September 1978.
4.   Afforestation Programmes in Command Area Development Project,
S.B. Bapat, CADA Chambal Project.
5.   Modernisation of Field Channels in Chambal Command, CADA Chambal
Project, February 1979.
6.   Lower Pagar Dam - Proforma Report and C.W.P.C. Questionnaire,
MP Irrigation Department, February 1979.
7.   Soil and Geomorphological Studies of Areas under Chambal Command
in Morena and .Bhind Districts, Indan Photo-Interpretation
Institute - National Remote Sensing Agency, November 1980.
8.   Chambal Betwa Basin Bhopal - Drainage Master Plan of Chambal
Command in Bhind District, MP Irrigation Department, November 1980.
9.   The Chambal Project, Phase II Chambal Command Area Development
Authority, May 1982.



74'  75  -                 '6'                         77'                                                                                  80~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5 j
INDIA                                           Hre 
CHAMBAL (MADHYA PRADESHr)   '~ 
IRRIGATION D PROJECT 
oo*ect area      ~H   A    R                                            E   rE                                          aeesd
S'>   Crembo C-m-ed Are BE, Pro eot(RejOtto 
Other irriqatgeedrror
W- esersoirs on  earns                                                                                             U
-MGns Oads                                                                                                        W                                                  Mi-
Railerys                                                                                                                                                             . 
®   'Jeriorre! COPter                   (4I h           )    L,t                                                                                               S     H
®   State c-pil/i
A C isrr ot headqLorfe-s
CisM    b-roadr,es                                                              H   A    N
- f f Stt b oaraerrs 
27.
2>3  25                50    ,/ 
,,-0                                                         Krr-    J                                                                                                  70
U   tsn6S D'e>fl 0'' frfO t> ff   /   9  o  1r.30re,>      _                                  9io           <            N         ^ ~~~~~~/   @      /    9 dl
mo  n a 1 t; *f r b .t, ass os 1 1 - / \ \ \x t o_ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D.t. r 
sresenmon oxx c m te XVo r\ f.71aS , ./ ,K
d,   nior  m;  er  MA  'A. .' Of e ,;;/ < f S 8/ ;G #4 t < ; f 9D    H   Y
eudsaent so me is,: s>for , / tu . <s t | S r _ _ / %~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
a-er  n noon!                                        -T                                                so   
{J.Ssc>lseve.asewtu>Ms ,q~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R                                                 ;        v,a 4>g   Q   -s~^rtt
ml                 /    ,                                     9                     8 <\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - A
4UL ~~~~~~~42 '5' { ' i < mn9s9> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~g / 7Qe 1 3~~~~~~~~~~~






IRRD 15922
I NDIA
CHAMBAL (MADHYA PRADESH) IRRIGATION f PROJECT
Project Area
P--  Are'.                           Mn and Br-nch C.-os                     Ro-ds                  a       rr-i,po  Towns                                                                       W,,dorrr ro- -d- 0 59 05
\\\\  Ambah ntensive block0Dstribritory Carols                   -           es f4led          D         Lisrrict Bosooaries                                                                   tid7zlelenoos as,ssM   55,5,15of
NAobohef--e,sv   Block                 Drb.yC            1                       ..WD,
\ Devlormoni Aren           -x1 Dam     s ond Reservoirs                   dm-090 ad                     State Rondores                                                                        or cce0ranc0o0-d5r00.iOOOOi5
Rivers                                        Risiroods
oRr-c G-ode
R            A 9,ai,                               A
A ~ ~ ~             ~                ~                 ~                ~                ~               ~               ~               ~               UTR
H                                                    A                                            --~~CHCA  ,\
jtir isOETERE ______________________________                  P                           R                          A                              D                           E                             S k                  rs                         P          a
M I L E * C    C I 0          21   0,                                                                                                                                                                                  _      |      . o-. D                              . A
I. .    I . U



