Document of
The World Bank    FlU   0py
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3372-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 27 .6 MILLION (EQUIVALENT TO US$31 .0 MILLION)
TO INDIA
FOR THE
SECOND CHAMBAL (MADHYA PRADESH) IRRIGATION PROJECT
July 22, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of July 14, 1982)
US$1.00       =  Rs 9.594203
Rs 1.00       =  US$0.1042
Rs 1 million = US$104,200
Conversions in the Staff Appraisal Report were made at US$1.00 to Rs 9.00,
which represents the projected average exchange rate over the disbursement
period.
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIBD      -    Ambah Intensive Block Development
CADA     -    Command Area Development Authority
cfs      -    cubic feet per second
GOI      -    Government of India
GOMP      -    Government of Madhya Pradesh
ICRISAT  -    International Crop Research Institute
for the Semi-Arid Tropics
ID       -    Irrigation Department (of GOMP)
LIC      -    Lift Irrigation Corporation



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
SECOND CHAMBAL (MADHYA PRADESH) IRRIGATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           India, acting by its President
Beneficiary:        State of Madhya Pradesh
Amount:             SDR 27.6 million (US$31 million equivalent)
Terms:              Standard
Relending Terms:   As part of Central assistance to states for development
projects on terms and conditions applicable at the time.
Project             The four-year project would consist of two parts:
Description:        (i) improvement works to the canal conveyance and drainage
systems, construction of additional roads and prevention
of ravine erosion, and (ii) intensive block development in
a part of the Ambah Branch Canal command including
construction of a system for conjunctive use of ground and
surface water with regulatable storage, and a minor
distribution system lined, where necessary, down to 8 ha
turnouts. The proposed works would increase agricultural
production, employment and incomes in the project area.
Possible risks under the proposed project are those
normally associated with irrigation projects in India.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(US$ millioh)
Estimated Costs 1/:                                       Local   Foreign   Total
Ambah Intensive Block Development                         15.8      1.0      16.8
Irrigation and Drainage                                   10.2      0.7      10.9
Ravine Arrestation and Canal-side Plantation               2.8      0.2       3.0
Roads                                                      5.8      1.0       6.8
MLonitoring and Studies                                    0.3       -        0.3
Training and Technical Services                            1.2       -        1.2
Engineering, Supervision and Administration                4.9      0.4       5.3
Land Acquisition                                           0.7       -        0.7
Base Cost:                                          41.7       3.3     45.0
Physical Contingencies                                     6.7      0.5       7.2
Price Contingencies                                        8.9      0.7       9.6
Total Project Cost:                                 57.3       4.5     61.8
(US$ million)
Financing Plan:                                            Local   Foreign  Total
IDA Credit                                           26.5    4.5       31.0
Local Financing                                      30.8               30.8
57.3    4.5       61.8
Estimated Disbursement:                                     (US$ million)
FY83 FY84 FY85 FY86 FY87
Annual:                  2.0   6.5   8.5   9.0   5.0
Cumulative:              2.0   8.5  17.0  26.0  31.0
Rate of Return: 35%
Appraisal Report: No. 3594-IN of July 16, 1982.
7
1/ Including taxes and duties, which are negligible.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 27.6 MILLION
(EQUIVALENT TO US$31.0 MILLION)
TO INDIA FOR THE SECOND CHAMBAL
(MADHYA PRADESH) IRRIGATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to India in an amount of SDR 27.6 million (US$31 million
equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a second phase of develop-
ment of the Chambal command area in Madhya Pradesh. The Government of India
(GOI) would channel the proceeds of the credit to the Government of Madhya
Pradesh (GOMP) in accordance with GOI's standard terms and arrangements for
financing State development projects. The exchange risk would be borne by
GOI.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(3872-IN, dated April 7, 1982), was distributed to the Executive Directors on
April 19, 1982. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.      India is a large and diverse country with a population of about
700 million (in mid-1982) and an annual per capita income of US$240.
Economic growth has been slow in the past, averaging about 3.6% per annum
over the past 30 years. The economy is dominated by agriculture which
employs more than two-thirds of the labor force. However, the land base is
not sufficient to provide an adequate livelihood to everyone engaged in
agricultural activities, especially those with little or no land. Conse-
quently the latter have only an insecure grasp on the means of existence.
Growth of value-added in agriculture -- 2.3% per annum over the past
30 years -- has been slower than growth of industrial value-added (5.0% per
annum). As a result, there has been a gradual decline in the share of
agriculture in GDP (at factor cost measured in 1970/71 prices) from 60% to
about 40%, while the share of industry rose from 15% to around 24%. But
industrialization has not been rapid enough to absorb the growing labor
force, or to bring about a rapid economic transformation, with significantly
higher productivity and income levels.
4.      Nevertheless, there has been steady progress on several fronts.  In
the face of a large and rapidly growing population, India has been able to
increase agricultural output faster than total population while eliminating
persistent dependence on foodgrain imports. Savings and investment have
increased markedly since 1950/51: gross domestic savings more than doubled
1/ Parts I and II of the report are substantially the same as Parts I and
II of the President's Report for the Jammu & Kashmir and Haryana Social
Forestry Project (No. 3365-IN), dated July 15, 1982.



-2-
from 10.8% of GDP (at factor cost) to 24.8%, while gross domestic investment
rose from 12.5% of GDP to 26.2%. Foreign savings (balance of payments
deficit on current account) have never financed a major portion of domestic
investment: a peak of about 20% was reached during the early 1960s; for a
few years in the late 1970s, surpluses arose, and at the present time, for-
eign savings are about 10% of investment. External assistance has been low
both as a percentage of GDP and in per capita terms. Net external assistance
has never risen above 3% of GDP, and was less than 1% at the end of the
1970s.
5.      Before the 1970s, India placed relatively less emphasis on export
promotion and more on import substitution. The volume growth of exports
between 1950/51 and 1979/80 averaged only 3.5% per annum, only marginally
higher than the volume growth of imports over the same period. In the early
to mid-1970s, however, India's terms of trade, which had remained roughly
constant during the 1960s, deteriorated sharply. In response, the Government
introduced various policy measures designed to stimulate exports. As a
result, the volume of India's exports grew on average about 7.6% per annum
for the 1970s as a whole, a performance which demonstrates that sustained
rapid growth is possible. While expanding world markets, particularly in the
nearby Middle East, contributed to this growth, liberalized access to
imported inputs and more effective export incentives played a major role.
6.      Moving into the second half of the 1970s, the Indian economy was
buoyed by relatively rapid export growth and an expanding level of foodgrain
output, which culminated in a record 132 million tons of foodgrain production
in 1978/79. As a result, growth in real GDP, agricultural and industrial
value-added, substantially exceeded the historical 30-year trends (paragraph
3). In 1979/80, however, this momentum was broken when the worst drought in
recent years, combined with a doubling of international oil prices and domes-
tic supply shortages, led to a sharp fall in foodgrain production, a decline
in GDP, and the opening up of a large trade deficit. Severe inflationary
pressures also emerged after several years of virtual price stability. The
impact of these setbacks is still being felt in the Indian economy, par-
ticularly in the balance of payments, and adjustments will be needed for some
years to come. However, the short-term recovery process is almost completed
and the economy has regained its growth momentum.
Recent Trends
7.      In 1980/81, the economy substantially recovered with real GDP growing
by 7.5%. While industrial output expanded by 4%, recovery was particularly
robust in agriculture where normal weather helped output to rise by more than
15%. Increased foodgrain production, along with judicious use of Government
buffer stocks built up in earlier years, also helped moderate price rises.
Inflation remained a serious problem with the annual average wholesale price
index rising 18%, although the second half of the year provided clear
evidence of a deceleration in inflation.
8.      1981/82 was a year of solid growth after the rebound in 1980/81 and
GDP grew by 5.5%. While foodgrain production rose only modestly over its
1980/81 level, other crops including oilseeds and sugarcane performed well
and total agricultural output grew by 4%. The availability of power, coal
and rail transport, already improved in 1980/81, was even better in 1981/82,



-3-
recording growth rates of about 10%, 9.4% and 15% respectively. As con-
straints on the supply of infrastructure and basic commodities continued to
ease, industrial output responded with an 8% increase. The downward trend in
inflation continued. Wholesale prices rose by about 9% on an average annual
basis, while the increase on a March 1981 to March 1982 basis was less than
2%, showing a continued deceleration. Easier supply conditions, combined
with a more restrictive monetary policy, contributed to the sharp decline in
the rate of inflation.
9.      The performance of the agriculture sector in 1981/82 ensured that
supply conditions in the country remained quite favorable. It also provided
continuing evidence of the positive effects of large investments and
appropriate policies in past years. Foodgrain production reached between 132
and 134 million tons, thus matching or perhaps surpassing the previous
record. Irrigated area expanded by 2.5 million hectares, while fertilizer
consumption improved over its 1980/81 level by more than 7%, despite substan-
tial price increases. Recent performance and probable future trends suggest
that on average foodgrain supplies will exceed demand. However, the balance
remains delicate with some imports likely to be required from time to time.
Indeed, the effects of the severe 1979/80 drought were still being felt in
1981/82 when 2.25 million tons of wheat were imported to rebuild depleted
stocks. Nevertheless, the relatively low import requirement, the ability of
the Government to delay imports for as long as two years after the production
shortfall, and the decline in foodgrain prices in real terms demonstrate the
flexibility and resilience provided by the public foodgrain system.
10.     Shortages of basic commodities and infrastructural services were
major contributors to industrial stagnation and the onset of high inflation
in 1979/80. This was the culmination of several years of declining capacity
utilization in important, interrelated sectors such as power, coal, and rail
transport. A major cause of the improved economic climate over the last two
years has been a much improved level of output in these sectors, due mainly
to greater efficiency and utilization of installed capacity. Expansion of
coal output by about 10 million tons for the second successive year and of
rail freight traffic to a record level were particularly noteworthy features
of the 1981/82 economic performance. The shortfalls in domestic energy
production which contributed so heavily to the poor 1979/80 performance have
also been reduced. However, even though there remains large scope for
improving efficiency, further improvements in capacity utilization will
become increasingly difficult, and increases in capacity are needed to meet
increasing demand.
11.     Despite a brief phase in the late 1970s, when savings rates exceeded
investment rates and foreign exchange reserves actually increased, recent
experience shows that the needs of the Indian economy continue to outstrip
the availability of resources, both internal and external. Investment
exceeds domestic savings. The latter, at nearly 25% of GDP, are already high
and further increases, particularly from the household sector, will be
increasingly difficult to obtain. However, over the last two years, the
Government has taken a number of measures to generate higher savings in the
public sector. Principal among these were price and tax increases, and
subsidy reductions, on a range of commodities produced mainly in the public
sector.



-4-
12.     The shortage of resources is even more apparent in the foreign sec-
tor. Problems became serious after 1979/80 when the cost of India's POL
imports rose sharply and the terms of trade deteriorated. Coupled with
domestic supply shortages and a slowing down in export growth, these factors
caused India's current account deficit to rise from only 0.6% of GDP in
1979/80 to 2% of GDP in 1980/81. In 1981/82, the current account deficit
rose to US$4.3 billion, representing 2.7% of GDP. Unfavorable movements in
export prices and the terms of trade threatened a worse outcome. However,
the much improved performance of basic import-substituting industries and a
resumption of healthy export volume growth (8.3%) prevented this. To finance
this gap in the face of inadequate concessional aid flows, the Government
drew down a record US$2.36 billion in foreign exchange reserves, withdrew
almost US$700 million under the recently negotiated IMF Extended Fund
Facility, and turned increasingly to other non-concessional sources of
finance. In 1980/81 and 1981/82 for example, new government guaranteed
commitments for commercial borrowing totalling over US$1.3 billion were
contracted for major projects.
13.     The trends in the volume and terms of India's trade indicate that
significant adjustments will need to be made in the economy to bring India's
external accounts into reasonable balance at an acceptable level of growth.
In particular, there is a need to increase the growth of exports, to increase
production of commodities such as fertilizer, cement and steel which India
can produce efficiently, in order to reduce imports of these items, to
moderate the rise in oil imports through greater domestic production and
slower demand growth, and to further reduce the constraints in transportation
and other infrastructural facilities which are retarding growth in a wide
range of activities, including exports. It is encouraging that, in response
to the present balance of payments difficulties, the Government has not
reacted by placing more stringent controls on imports, but rather has main-
tained and extended the more liberal policies evolved in the past several
years. Recent improvements in the availability of power, a major constraint
facing exporters, and the adoption of several new export and industrial
policy measures have improved the prospects for accelerating export growth.
Development Prospects
14.     The experience of recent years illustrates that India does have the
capacity to grow and develop at a more rapid pace. Although the industrial
sector is small compared to the size of the economy, it nevertheless is large
in absolute terms and has a highly diversified structure, capable of manufac-
turing a wide variety of consumer and capital goods. Basic infrastructure --
irrigation, railways, telecommunications, power, roads and ports -- is exten-
sive compared to many countries, although there is considerable need for
additional capacity as well as improvement in the utilization of existing
capacity. India is also well-endowed with human resources and with institu-
tional infrastructure for development. Finally, India has an extensive
natural resource base in terms of land, water, and minerals (primarily coal
and ferrous ores, but also gas and oil). With good economic policies and
reasonable access to foreign savings, India has the capability for managing
these considerable resources to accelerate its long-term growth.
15.     The medium-term framework for advancing India's development objec-
tives is the Sixth Five Year Plan (1980/81-1984/85), which is now about



-5-
halfway completed. The Plan assigns priority to agriculture, energy develop-
ment, the growtlh of exports and domestic import substitutes where
appropriate, and the removal of infrastructural bottlenecks. Overall perfor-
mance has so far been encouraging, although the likelihood of continued
bottlenecks in key sectors such as power and transport is growing. Moreover,
fulfillment of the Plan targets will require an acceleration of domestic
savings rates. The efforts of the Central Government to raise resources have
so far been impressive and are likely to be broadly sufficient to meet the
financing requirements of the Central Government's share in plan investment,
if inflation can be kept in check. However, a significant shortfall in
savings is likely to occur in some states unless further measures are intro-
duced. There will be a need also for continuous efforts to maintain and
raise further the already high level of private savings. Recent increases in
interest rates and tax concessions on time deposits should stimulate such
savings. The further dampening of inflationary expectations, the prospects
for which look bright, will be an important part of this effort.
16.     The higher capital formation rates of the past few years augur well
for future income growth. Thus far, however, output growth has not matched
the size of India's investment programs. Much of this phenomenon relates to
India's stage of development, in which a large and growing proportion of
investment has been needed to build up basic infrastructure. These services,
such as power, transport and irrigation, have inherently high capital output
ratios. However, at least some of the rise in the sectoral capital output
ratios has been due to a deterioration in efficiency and is avoidable through
better management. Bottlenecks in these basic sectors clearly can prejudice
growth in other sectors where large investments have been made. As demon-
strated in the last two years, performance in the basic service sectors can
be improved through better planning and management, thus leading to higher
productivity and capacity utilization, throughout the economy. At the same
time, programs to expand domestic capacity are vital. In the case of trade-
able commodities like coal, steel and cement, this is justified on the
grounds of comparative advantage. For sectors such as power and transporta-
tion, expansion of planned capacity in accordance with the requirements of
the rest of the economy will be vital to overall medium- and long-term
prospects. At present rates of development, however, an adequate balance
between supply and demand in these sectors will be difficult to sustain.
Performance in the power sector to date suggests that India's power deficit
will continue into the early 1990s, although more rapid project implementa-
tion and efficiency could narrow the size of the gap. For railways, real
investment levels may be inadequate to meet demand projections and will need
to be monitored closely and adjusted upward as necessary if serious bot-
tlenecks are to be avoided in the next few years.
17.     Under the Sixth Plan, India has an ambitious energy production
program backed by substantial financial commitment. While the gap between
domestic consumption of petroleum and production remains large, the prospects
for progressive substitution of domestic petroleum for imports are quite
bright. In 1981, resources for exploration were raised by successive price
increases for petroleum products. On the production side, scheduled expan-
sion is expected to raise domestic production of crude from the current 46%
to about 64% of demand by 1984/85. The rapidly expanding level of
exploratory activity, combined with the possibilities for accelerated offtake



-6-
from known fields offer much encouragement for India's longer term energy
prospects.
18.     The continuation of India's balance of payments difficulties has been
marked by the progressive use of foreign exchange reserves and
non-concessional borrowing to finance the deficit. Use of reserves reached a
record level in 1981/82, leaving less than four months of import coverage by
the end of the year. At the same time, India also made use of the IMF
Extended Fund Facility. Entering this period with a favorable debt service
profile, India has so far also been able to tap commercial capital markets at
favorable spreads (over, of course, relatively high underlying rates) and in
the last two years commercial borrowing has been stepped up. These sources
will be important in the future since India's current account deficits,
though not large relative to the size of the economy, will nevertheless be
large in absolute terms and will necessitate external borrowing beyond levels
expected to be available from normal concessional sources.
19.     India's development prospects over the next few years will hinge on
the extent to which the economy can be brought into both internal and exter-
nal balance, while at the same time maintaining reasonably high growth. In
the longer term, income growth represents the best strategy for achieving
these needed adjustments, both by generating higher savings for further
investment, and by fostering the development of export and
import-substituting industry to realign the balance of payments. In the
short-term, significant external borrowing, including an increased emphasis
on commercial borrowing, will be necessary to cope with the balance of pay-
ments consequences of such a growth strategy. However, an important element
in providing India with the capacity to adjust flexibly will be adequate
flows of concessional assistance. Although India is currently in a position
to increase borrowing on commercial terms from the very low levels of the
past, there are limits to India's creditworthiness in world markets. Main-
taining an adequate rate of growth while adjusting the structure of the
Indian economy to a more open and efficient environment as intended by the
Government requires foreign resources in addition to the level of commercial
borrowing available to India. Indeed, along with increasing exports, higher
levels of investment to support an adequate rate of growth is a key element
in maintaining India's recently improved creditworthiness. India is still a
very poor country with a large rural sector and enormous investment require-
ments for human development and basic infrastructure. The fact that India
has been able to maintain over the past seven years a rate of growth above
the long term trend, despite the severe setbacks of 1979/80, lends substance
to the hope that a more open trade policy and concerted efforts to remove
constraints on the growth of productive capacity, supported by adequate
mobilization of savings both foreign and domestic, can sustain a rate of
growth closer to 5.0% per annum than the long run trend of 3.6% per annum.
Combined with a reduction in the rate of population increase to below 2.0%
per annum, a 5.0% growth rate would mean a doubling of the trend rate of
growth of per capita income of less than 1.4% per annum. Success in these
efforts would make a significant difference to the prospects of easing
poverty in India.
20.     A large and growing population and severe poverty underline the need
for India's development efforts to be protected and accelerated if possible.



-7-
The 1981 Census placed India's population at 683.4 million, or about 12 million-
higher than official projections. The fact that there was no decline in
inter-census rates of population growth, equivalent to about 2.2% per annum,
is a cause for concern. While further analysis may suggest this rate of
growth to be slightly overestimated, the expectation of a measurable decline
in the population growth rate has not materialized. Until full details of
the Census are released, firm judgements about the reasons for this outcome
are not possible. However, the results re-emphasize the need for continuing
efforts to strengthen the family planning program in a broad range of
activities and services. These efforts are given high priority in the Sixth
Plan which aims at a rise in the proportion of protected couples in the
reproductive age group from its estimated 1979/80 level of about 23% to over
35% by 1984/85.
21.     Reduction of poverty remains the central goal of Indian economic
growth. More than one-third of the world's poor live in India, and more than
80% of the Indian poor belong to the rural households of landless laborers
and small farmers. About 51% of the rural population and 38% of the urban
population subsist below the poverty line. Improvements in the living stand-
ards of the poor will depend to a large extent on the overall growth of the
economy, particularly on increases in agricultural production and employment,
in non-farm rural employment, and also in employment opportunities in urban
areas. These developments will have to stem in large part from market forces
which, however, must be encouraged and reinforced by appropriate Government
policies and the strengthening of basic services and infrastructure. The
declining trend in real foodgrain prices between 1970 and 1981 resulting from
India's sustained effort to raise agricultural production, reflects such
developments. There is also a role for direct Government action in faster
implementation of land reform (though the scope for significant reduction in
poverty through land redistribution is quite limited in India), in increasing
the supply of credit available to small farmers and rural artisans, and
finally in broadening the provision of those services which enhance the human
capital of the poor and improve living standards. Many of the latter are
elements of the Minimum Needs Program, which has been an integral part of
Indian planning for the past decade. Progress has been slow but steady in
the expansion of primary education, the extension of rural health facilities
and the provision of secure village water supplies. Operations such as the
community health volunteer program and the national adult literacy campaign
provide encouraging evidence that well-targetted, relatively low-cost
programs can lead to enhanced prospects for India's poor.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
22.     Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 65 loans and 148 development
credits to India totalling US$3,571 million and US$10,633 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,232 million has been
repaid, and US$5,254 million was still undisbursed as of March 31, 1982.
Bank Group disbursements to India in the current fiscal year through
Mtarch 31, 1982 totalled US$858 million, representing an increase of about
28 percent over the same period last year. Annex II contains a summary
statement of disbursements as of March 31, 1982, and notes on the execution
of ongoing projects.



-8-
23.     Since 1959, IFC has made 25 commitments in India totalling US$176.5
million, of which US$24.5 million has been repaid, US$42.6 million sold and
US$7.5 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$101.9 million,
US$94.0 million represents loans and US$7.9 million equity. A summary state-
ment of IFC operations as of March 31, 1982, is also included in Annex II
(page 5).
24.       The thrust of Bank Group assistance to India has been consistent
with the country's development objectives in its support of agriculture,
energy and infrastructure. Of particular importance have been investments in
irrigation, extension and on-farm development designed to increase agricul-
tural productivity, and efforts to improve the availability of basic agricul-
tural inputs to farmers through credit, fertilizer, marketing, storage, and
seed projects. Major elements of the lending program have also been directed
at helping to meet the energy needs of the economy while curbing the growth
of oil imports, and to ease the infrastructure bottlenecks which have
hampered economic growth in India, particularly through power generation and
distribution, and railways and telecommunications projects. The Bank Group
has also provided financing for a broad range of medium- and small-scale
industrial enterprises, primarily in the private sector, through its support
of development finance institutions. Recognizing the importance of improving
the ability to satisfy the essential needs of urban and rural populations,
the Bank Group has supported nutrition and family planning programs, a rural
roads project, as well as water supply and sewerage and other urban
infrastructure projects.
25.       This pattern of assistance remains highly relevant, and consonant
with Government priorities, as reflected in the Sixth Plan. The continued
active involvement of the Bank Group in agriculture, energy and infrastruc-
ture development will appropriately contribute to India's adjustment and
growth prospects. Irrigation will need continuing support, with emphasis on
improved efficiency in water conveyance systems to ensure reliable delivery
to farmers' fields. In addition, major investments to develop the large
Narmada River basin will be vital to India's efforts to increase agricultural
production. Important complements to these efforts, such as fertilizer
production and distribution, agricultural credit and extension, will continue
to receive support. A continued program of investments aimed at rapidly
increasing the domestic supply of energy will clearly be necessary if India
is to curb the cost of oil imports and alleviate the critical power shortages
which constrain output in both the agricultural and industrial sectors.
Exploitation of oil and gas resources is a central element of this program,
which should be supplemented by investments in hydro and thermal power gener-
ation, and in the expansion of the transmission and distribution networks.
Industrial projects to increase the domestic production of basic commodities,
which have been in short supply and which India has a comparative advantage
in producing, should also receive high priority. Finally, raising the
efficiency and levels of transportation infrastructure would mitigate a key
constraint to achieving higher levels of economic growth so that further
support of the railways and for ports development will be particularly
appropriate.
26.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.



-9--
Thanks in part to the response of the aid community, India successfully
adjusted to the changed world price situation of the mid-1970s. However,
there is now a need for increased foreign assistance to adjust to an even
greater deterioration in balance of payments anticipated during the 1980s by
augmenting domestic resources and stimulating investment. As in the past,
Bank Group assistance for projects in India should aim to include the financ-
ing of local expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods
because of the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic capital goods
industry. Consequently, the foreign exchange component tends to be small
in most projects. This is particularly the case in such high-priority sec-
tors as agriculture, irrigation, and water supply.
27.       India's poverty and needs are such that whenever possible, external
capital requirements should be provided on concessionary terms. Accordingly,
the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been, and should continue
to be, provided from IDA. However, the amount of IDA funds that can
reasonably be allocated to India remains small in relation to India's needs
for external support. Therefore, India should be eligible and regarded as
creditworthy for supplemental Bank lending. The ratio of India's debt serv-
ice to the level of exports was about 11% in 1981/82 and is projected to
remain below 20% through 1995/96. As of March 31, 1982, outstanding loans to
India held by the Bank totalled US$2,433 million, of which US$1,062 million
remain to be disbursed, leaving a net amount outstanding of US$1,371 million.
28.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements, and
12% of net disbursements as compared with 54%, 42% and 52%, respectively, in
1981/82. On December 31, 1981, India's outstanding and disbursed external
public debt was about US$17.4 billion, of which the Bank Group's share was
US$6.6 billion or 38% (IDA's US$5.6 billion and IBRD's US$1.0 billion). In
1981/82, about 16.0% of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank
Group.
PART III - AGRICULTURE AND IRRIGATION IN MADHYA PRADESH
29.     Malhya Pradesh (MP) is India's largest state.  It covers an area of
442,800 km and has a population of about 52 million. Although MP is rich in
natural resources -- minerals, fuel, timber, iron ore, etc. -- they are as
yet relatively unexploited. The State's economy depends largely on a
low-productivity agricultural sector, which contributes about 55% of the
State Domestic Product. The encouragement of agricultural growth, par-
ticularly through the expansion of irrigation and improved water management,
is thus a precondition for economic progress. By most indicators, MP is one
of the poorest states of India.
30.     The per capita income of MP was Rs 896 in 1977/78, compared to
Rs 1,163 for the country as a whole. Between 1970/71 and 1977/78, the
State's income grew at an annual rate of 1.8%. Because of the population
increase, the per capita income actually declined in the same period by 0.9%
per annum. The zero growth rate of primary net domestic product is mainly
due to the stagnation of foodgrain production, which increased at only 0.2%
per annum over the period; this contrasts with the 3.4% p.a. growth rate of



-10-
the primary sector in the Indian economy. Production in the industrial
sector, which started at a low base, grew rapidly, at 6.2% per annum (11% per
annum nationwide), but contributed only about 20% of the State Domestic
Product. MP is estimated to possess 44% of the country's bauxite reserves,
50% of its manganese, 30% of its high grade iron ore, 25% of its coal, and
27% of India's total forest resources. Recently, rich deposits of copper
have been discovered. The State is estimated to be endowed with 11% of the
country's total hydro-electric power potential, second only to Assam.
However, the per capita industrial power consumption in MP is only 80% of the
all-Indian per capita consumption.
31.     MP's estimated population of 52 million (1980) is growing at about
2.6% per annum, which is one of the highest2growth rates among Indian states.
The population density of 94 persons per km is low, compared with the
national average of 167. The population is predominantly (84%) rural, and
is scattered in small villages with an average population of 430 persons per
village. Just over 20% of the population is tribal. One-third of the
State's inhabitants belong to the so-called backward classes, which include
scheduled castes and tribes. About 37% of the total population constitute
the State's labor force; about 80% of the labor force is employed in the
agricultural sector. Cultivators and agricultural laborers account for 53%
and 27% of the labor force, respectively. The average farm size in MP has
decreased from 4.0 ha in 1970/71 to 3.6 ha in 1976/77, with wide variations
among districts. About two-thirds of all holdings are owner-operated. In a
normal year, about two-thirds of the population has incomes below the poverty
line (estimated at US$114 for rural areas). However, there are large
regional variations in the incidence of poverty. In the eastern and southern
parts of the State, about 90% of the population live below the poverty line,
while the proportion in the western part of the State is about one half.
32.     Wide differences in climate, soil and topography create varying
conditions for agriculture in different parts of the State. Seven major
agro-ecological zones are distinguished on the basis of climate, topography
and prevailing soil type. Rainfall varies from less than 800 mm in the West
and Northwest to over 1,600 mm in the Northeast and Southeast. Winter tem-
peratures also vary throughout the State according to latitude and altitude.
Frosts are recorded in some northern areas. The agro-climatic conditions in
the various zones determine predominant crops (rice, wheat, jowar, cotton and
bajra, or a combination of those).
33.     Because of the limited rainfall throughout the State, which comes
almost entirely from the Southwest monsoon, irrigation development is a
prerequisite for a significant increase in agricultural production. The
arrival of the monsoon and the time interval between sowing rains and the
next realization of a significant rain are erratic. With irrigation, the
planting can be done on schedule, without guesswork, and in amounts suffi-
cient to establish a good seed bed and to ensure good seed germination and
initial growth. The short duration of the monsoon season or an earlier than
normal receding of the monsoon rains further aggravates the problems of
equating moisture with plant needs.
34.     A major part of MP's irrigation potential is yet to be exploited.
Despite the fact that within MP are the catchments of all eleven of the major



-1 1-
rivers of Central India, only 11% of the net cropped area (about 2.2 mil-
lion ha) in the State is irrigated, compared to the national average of about
26%. At present, only about 15% of the groundwater and surface water poten-
tial is utilized. Of the 2.2 million ha net irrigated area, about half is
served from canals and half from (largely privately owned) wells. About
one-third of the canal-irrigated area is under major schemes (defined as over
10,000 ha), about one-third under medium schemes (2,000 - 10,000 ha), and
about one-third under minor schemes (below 2,000 ha). Without storage,
irrigation is almost exclusively limited to one season; less than 5% of the
irrigated area receives irrigation in both seasons. The potential for
groundwater development is fairly limited. The unexploited groundwater
potential has been estimated at 1.7 million ha, compared with a surface water
potential of 9.0 million ha. Thus, most of the increase in irrigation in MP
will have to come from surface water resources.
35.     Madhya Pradesh accords a high priority to irrigation and has been
allocating a large share (currently about 30%) of Plan budgets to this sec-
tor. Given the priority in Plan allocations and the apparent rate of
utilization, the growth in the benefits from irrigation in MP has been some-
what disappointing. The two principal constraints to the development of
irrigation have been long construction periods for major and medium projects,
and the slow and uneven uptake of irrigation after irrigation water becomes
available. In many cases, dams have been built and water stored, but dis-
tribution systems not completed. Because of this lag in the construction of
the distribution systems, much water has been preempted at the head of the
system. This fact, combined with the ability of influential groups to monop-
olize water, has resulted in large areas, especially at the tail end of the
commands, being left unirrigated. Other factors in the slow and uneven
uptake of irrigation have been the low level of technology adopted in irriga-
tion planning, design, construction, operation, and maintenance, and
over-optimistic design assumptions about crop water requirements and irriga-
tion losses in the system.
36.     The Bank Group has contributed directly to the development of MP's
agricultural sector through previous IDA credits. The Madhya Pradesh
Agricultural Credit Project (US$33 million credit of June 8, 1973;
Cr. 391-IN) provided long- and medium-term agricultural credit to farmers
through credit institutions for such on-farm investments as tractors, minor
irrigation and land shaping. The credit was fully disbursed by 1977. The
Project Performance Audit Report, distributed in January 1980, indicates that
the project was implemented without major problems and was successful in
achieving its main objectives. The MP Dairy Project (US$16.4 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Cr. 522-IN) is supporting dairy development organized
along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy cooperative scheme in neighbor-
ing Gujarat. Farmer response has been excellent and the Government is under
considerable producer pressure to speed up the establishment of dairy
cooperatives throughout the State. The first Chambal (MP) Command Area
Development Project (US$24 million credit of June 20, 1975; Cr. 562-IN) is
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization in the command area
of the Chambal River in MP and bring additional areas under irrigation. This
project started slowly, but is now completed. The major constraint was the
slow acceptance by the farmers of on-farm development, which was meant to be
carried out, and paid for, by the farmers themselves with agricultural credit
available to them from the proceeds of the credit. The reduction of the



-12-
outlet command size from some 40 ha to about 8 ha in MP, as elsewhere in
India, as a matter of policy, has meanwhile virtually eliminated this
problem. The MP Forestry Technical Assistance Project (US$4 million credit
of February 26, 1976; Cr. 609-IN) provides the funds for a feasibility study
for the establishment of a saw-mill and a pulp factory based on the forest
resources of southeastern MP. The MP Agricultural Extension and Research
Project (US$10 million credit of June 1, 1977; Cr. 712-IN) is designed to
strengthen agricultural supporting services, particularly extension and
research in MP. Staff shortages, especially in supervisory and managerial
posts, have delayed implementation of the extension component, but results in
areas where regular extension visits are being made attest to the effective-
ness of the extension system introduced under the project. The program is
being expanded to cover the whole State by 1983, through a recently approved
follow-up project (MP Agricultural Extension and Research Project - Phase II;
SDR 30.3 million credit of May 7, 1981; Cr. 1138-IN). The Madhya Pradesh
Medium Irrigation Project (SDR 112.6 million credit of March 26, 1981;
Cr. 1108-IN), which became effective on May 13, 1981, will finance a
five-year time slice of MP's investment program for medium irrigation
projects. The Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation Project (SDR 195.2 million
credit of February 24, 1982; Cr. 1177-IN) will provide financing for a
five-year construction time-slice for two major irrigation systems in Madhya
Pradesh, the Mahanadi Reservoir and Hasdeo Bango projects.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Formulation and Objectives
37.     The proposed project, to be implemented over a four-year period,
would consist of two main parts: (i) improvement works to the canal con-
veyance and drainage systems, construction of additional roads, and preven-
tion of encroachment of ravines into agricultural areas; and
(ii) construction of a system for conjunctive use of ground and surface water
with a canal storage capacity that can be regulated and a distribution sys-
tem, lined from the 6 cusec level down to the 8 ha turnout (except where it
is clearly uneconomical, for example in reaches of solid rock, impermeable
soil, etc.) in order to provide a reliable water supply throughout the com-
manded area. Under the project, the irrigated area in the Chambal (MP)
system will expand by 32,000 ha to 221,000 ha. Within the Chambal (MP)
system, an area of 40,000 ha would be developed to improved irrigation stand-
ards; and drainage would be improved on about 4,550 ha of the project area.
The proposed works are designed to increase agricultural production, employ-
ment and net incomes in the project area.
38.     The proposed project components are closely interrelated.  Canal
network improvement works are essential for improving the reliability of
canal water throughout the project area, which will provide about two-thirds
of the water in the conjunctive use areas. Unless this share of the water
supply is reliable, the total supply situation will remain unsatisfactory and
the potential benefits from the augmentation by groundwater and from the
improved distribution networks to the 8 ha turnouts will not be fully real-
ized. Similarly, it will not be possible to obtain the full benefits in
areas suffering from poor drainage without continued investment in drainage
works. The investments made in the major irrigation works and the scarcity



-13-
of irrigable land commanded by the canals justify further investments to
prevent the encroachment of the ravines and to protect the canal sides from
erosion and breaches. Finally, an adequate network of village roads would be
essential for the increased transport of inputs and outputs when agricultural
production in the project area gains momentum.
39.     The project was prepared by GOMP with substantial assistance by Bank
staff. It was appraised in December 1980. A Supplementary Project Data
Sheet is attached as Annex III. A report entitled "India - Staff Appraisal
Report - Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Irrigation II Project", Report No. 3594-IN,
dated July 16, 1982 is being circulated separately to the Executive Direc-
tors. Negotiations were held in Washington in June 1982. The Borrower and
GOMP were represented by a delegation coordinated by Mr. S. C. Jain, Direc-
tor, Department of Economic Affairs, GOI.
The Project
40.     The largest component of the proposed project (accounting for about
one-third of base cost) would be the Ambah Intensive Block Development
(AIBD). AIBD works would comprise: (i) construction of augmentation
tubewells, which would pump groundwater into the distribution system;
(ii) creation of storage in the canals themselves for constant flow regula-
tion and to enable utilization of low-cost energy during off-peak hours; and
(iii) upgrading and extension of the distribution system to the 8 ha turnout.
The augmentation tubewells would supply water in the part of the Ambah Branch
Canal command extending from Mile 54 of the canal to the tailends of the
system. A totai of 175 augmentation tubewells, with discharges in the range
of 150 to 350 m /hr, are planned. Development of the augmentation wells
would not reduce the amount of groundwater available to existing private
wells in the area. Each individual tubewell complex would consist of the
well, pump, prime mover, rising main, automated switch gear, starter relay,
and motor protection relay. In implementing the intensive development com-
ponent, GOMP would organize a rotational water allocation system for each
irrigation block as soon as the construction of the tubewell and associated
block irrigation civil works have been completed (Section 3.06(a) of the
Project Agreement). Each well would be energized within one month after
installation of the pump unit (Section 3.06(b) of the Project Agreement).
The electric power for the augmentation tubewells will be supplied from the
existing 132/33 KV stations at Morena, Ambah, Mehgaon, and Bhind. About
116 km of 33 KV line would be constructed under the project. Sub-stations
for 33/11 KV transformation would be constructed at six sites. The transmis-
sion system below the 33/11 KV sub-stations will be exclusive to the augmen-
tation well system. The 11 KV lines would extend about 265 km. Each water
point would be equipped with a transformer of suitable capacity for 11/0.4 KV
conversion. Conveyance of water from well to canal would be through buried
low pressure reinforced cast concrete pipes.
41.     The existing distribution system down to 6 cfs would be enlarged
under the project to provide additional canal storage that can be regulated
between full supply level and one to three feet above full supply level.



-14-
Outlets to minor elements of the distribution system and direct chak 1/
outlets would be controlled through gated modules - for nearly constant
discharge under slight head variations - with lockable slide gates. The use
of this storage for flow regulation is relatively new in India and MP, but
is expected to become increasingly important in the future. In order to
study the suitability of alternative regulation methods under local condi-
tions, the project would include: (i) the construction of seven storage
tanks, each serving one augmentation tubewell and providing storage capacity
equal to about one-third of the daily (16 hours) pump discharge; and (ii) the
installation of an automatic gate system in a specific distributary serving
about 1,000 ha. All channels carrying 6 cfs or less would be lined to the
8 ha turnout, except where found unnecessary as a result of tests and obser-
vations that would indicate that lining is uneconomical in these reaches.
Compacted earth channels in the sub-chak, leading from the 8 ha turnout to
individual fields would be designed by the Irrigation Department and con-
struction will be undertaken by the farmers. The effectiveness of water
utilization will depend, to a large extent, on adequate development of the
modern distribution system. Such development will require personnel
experienced in surveying and layouts of construction and subsequent manage-
ment of distribution systems, including modern canals, watercourses and field
channels. The project will assist in the establishment of a water and land
management institute for training and modern system development and water
management. GOMP would, by December 31, 1982, prepare and furnish to the
Association for its agreement a detailed plan for the establishment of a
water and land management institute and, by September 30, 1983, establish
such an institute (Section 3.05 of the Project Agreement).
42..    The project would expand certain works commenced under the (first)
Chambal (MP) Command Area Development Project (Credit 562-IN; see
paragraph 36 above). To protect against excessive seepage of the canal
system at points already identified ani to limit erosion adjacent to canal
structures, a total of about 555,000 m of lining would be installed. At six
locations, where canal alignments abut deep ravines, additional embankment
width and toe protection would be installed. A total of about 114 km of
existing water courses that take off directly from major canals would be
upgraded to minor canal standards, and the capacity of about 176 km of dis-
tributary canals would be increased. Some 98 canal regulators, 7 escape
structures, and 1,375 chak outlets would be constructed to facilitate canal
network operation which would be more responsive to irrigation demand. Addi-
tional office and residential buildings at the more remote points of the
distribution network would be provided. To facilitate canal operation and
maintenance, 21 canal bridges would be constructed, and the existing O&M
equipment would be supplemented with additional motor vehicles, road rollers,
and vibratory compactors. The project would also extend the aquatic weed
control measures, and the drainage improvement program, both of which were
commenced under the first Chambal project, to an area of 4,550 ha.
1/ A "chak" is an irrigation service area of about 40 ha on average, com-
manded by a Government outlet.



-15-
43.     The topography in the Chambal basin facilitates gully erosion, which
has resulted in the formation of deep ravines and caused an annual loss of
about 3,000 ha of land, much of which had previously been suitable ravine
control of selected areas in order to prevent further soil erosion;
(ii) enclosure of areas to facilitate growth of vegetative cover; and
(iii) protection of existing plantation. About 11,000 ha of plantations
would be established along ravine peripheries. Also included in the project
would be shelter-belt plantations along 420 km of project canals that would
reduce wind erosion and losses of canal water through evaporation and could
be a source of timber and fuelwood for the rural population.
44.      The road improvement program proposed under the project would include
the construction of about 31 km of new roads and accompanying bridges.
Existing roads, including some 68 km of roads executed under the first Cham-
bal project, would be improved and/or upgraded to higher standards. All
project roads would be designed and constructed as all-weather roads. The
road construction program would also involve the erection of local field
offices and staff housing, the development of a training program for Road
Engineers and an engineering study for the construction of 69 km of public
roads in the Ambah Branch Canal command area.
45.     As part of a comprehensive monitoring and evaluation program under
the project, studies leading to the development of additional water resources
and to the formulation of a modern canal management plan would be undertaken.
GOMP would select an agency to conduct the water resources and management
studies and, by December 31, 1982, submit a plan for each study, including
detailed methodology and an implementation schedule to IDA for its comments
and cause the agency to carry out the studies (Section 3.03 of the Project
Agreement). Technical specialists would be hired locally under the project
to advise GOMP in matters such as reorganizing the water distribution system
above the chak, providing organizational and technical help to water users
within the chak, and helping introduce easy-to-follow management routines.
Such assistance would only be for short-term duration (2-4 weeks). A review
of the personnel and funding allocations for existing canal system operation
and maintenance (O&M) works has shown that there are insufficient funds being
allocated to ensure a satisfactory standard of operation and maintenance of
the canal network. Agreements have been reached with GOMP that it would, by
December 31, 1982, furnish to IDA for its review a detailed plan for a
management study for purposes of establishing rules, procedures and financial
and other requirements for securing effective operation and preventive main-
tenance of the canal network in the project area and, by June 30, 1983, carry
out such study and promptly thereafter inform the Association of the
implementation of the recommendations of that study (Section 3.04 of the
Project Agreement).
Project Implementation
46.     The Chambal Command Area Development Authority (the Chambal CADA)
manages and coordinates the activities of the various GOMP Departments
operating in the Chambal project area. It is responsible for overall plan-
ning and project implementation. The Chambal CADA has developed into one of
the stronger entities of its type in India. Under the project, it would be
strengthened further by the appointment of two land acquisition officers to
accelerate awards for appropriation of land for canal and road easements,



-16-
and by increasing the staffing in the planning and monitoring unit respon-
sible for planning further phases of Chambal development. GOMP would, by
November 30, 1982, sanction the necessary posts and appoint a Director of
the planning and monitoring unit and, by December 31, 1982, prepare in con-
sultation with the Association, a detailed plan for monitoring and evaluation
(Section 3.02 of the Project Agreement).
47.     Planning, survey, design, construction, maintenance and operation
of surface water irrigation and drainage works down to the 8 ha turnouts is
the responsibility of GOMP's Irrigation Department (ID). The ID also plans
and constructs departmental buildings and canal service roads. Two circles
of the ID are responsible for the Chambal project area, one in Bhind and one
in Morena, each headed by a Superintending Engineer.  The addition of a Water
Management Unit responsible for water allocation procedures, a Special Survey
and Design Unit for the AIDB area, and a Quality Control Unit for the
development and supervision of quality standards for project works, would
strengthen the ID sufficiently for project implementation. The headworks
serving the project have been in operation for over 20 years without major
problems. To ensure their continued safety, GOMP's recently established
panel of experts would periodically inspect the dams and related structures
serving the project, to determine any deficiencies that might endanger their
safety (Section 3.08 of the Project Agreement). The ID is also responsible
for quality control over irrigation works being implemented in MP. To ensure
adequate attention to quality control, GOMP would, by November 30, 1982,
establish and adequately staff a Quality Control Unit within the ID and, by
March 31, 1983, furnish to the Association for its comments, quality stand-
ards to be applied on the project area and a proposal for implementing the
quality control function (Section 3.01 of the Project Agreement).
48.      The Madhya Pradesh Lift Irrigation Corporation (LIC), a public sector
organization supervised by the ID, is responsible for the survey, planning,
design, construction, maintenance, and operation of all public sector
tubewells. To undertake the 175-unit augmentation tubewell development
program included in the project, as well as operation and maintenance of
these units, the Morena branch of LIC would be reorganized and strengthened.
Planning, design, supervision of construction, and maintenance of the project
roads and non-ID buildings would be the responsibility of the Public Works
Department (PWD) of GOMP. A special unit (PWD Ayacut Road Circle) has been
built up in PWD over the past few years specifically for road development
in the Chambal command area and is now well established. For the additional
workload under the proposed project, this unit would be strengthened by the
addition of one division headed by an Executive Engineer. An additional
Executive Engineer (mechanical) with supporting staff would be posted for
the maintenance of construction equipment.
Agricultural Support Services
49.     Agricultural research is the responsibility of the Jawaharlal Nehru
Agricultural University. Its agricultural campus in Gwalior is undertaking
agricultural research for the project area.  Furthermore, the International
Crop Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT), Hyderabad,
maintains a substation on the Gwalior campus. The research facilities and
associated buildings at Gwalior have been improved under the first Chambal



-17-
project (Cr. 562-IN) and the on-going MP Agricultural Extension and Research
Project (Cr. 712-IN, para 36 above) and are adequate for project support'.
50.     Agricultural extension is the responsibility of the Department of
Agriculture. The Training and Visit (T&V) System of extension was first
introduced in the Chambal command area in 1976 and later expanded to 15
districts throughout the State under the MP Agricultural Extension and
Research Project. The extension program has given good results. Under the
recently approved MP Agricultural Extension Project - Phase II (para 36
above), the whole State will be covered by 1982/83. Under the T&V system,
village level workers (who are the primary contact with the farmers) work
only on extension and are not involved in coordinating input supplies and
credit requirements, nor are they associated with administrative and
regulatory duties.
51.     The main supply sources of certified seeds for the project area are
six government agricultural farms, the National Seed Corporation, and the
Terai Seed Growers. However, supply from these agencies is inadequate and
most farmers have to meet their improved seed requirements from their pre-
vious harvests or purchase seed from other farmers. Certified seed is dis-
tributed through the State Marketing Corporation. GOMP intends to increase
production so that farmers can get new or replacement seeds at least every
four to five years. A State Seed and Farm Development Corporation has
recently been set up for this purpose. Fertilizers and plant protection
chemicals are distributed through cooperative and private channels.
52.     Although marketing of agricultural produce is less developed in MP
than in many other Indian states, the present marketing facilities in the
project area - 15 regulated markets - are adequate for the project. Process-
ing facilities are also considered to be satisfactory. Storage capacity is
provided mainly by the Food Corporation of India, Cthe entral Warehousing
Corporation, and Sthe tate Warehousing Corporation. Additional storage is
being provided by the on-going IDA-assisted Second Foodgrain Storage Project
(US$107 million credit of January 6, 1978; Cr. 747-IN). The European
Economic Community is also assisting the construction of storage facilities
in MP, including the project area.
53.     The organization of institutional credit to farmers follows the usual
pattern in India. Short- and medium-term credit is provided by primary
cooperative societies.  Long-term loans are available to farmers through the
land development banking system. Credit is also available through the com-
mercial banks and the regional rural banks.
Project Cost and Financing
54..    The estimated total cost of the project is US$61.8 mill on.  Taxes
and duties included in the cost estimate are negligible. The foreign
exchange component of project cost is estimated at US$4.5 m1l-ion (7%).  The
principal cost components, net of physical and price contingencies and of
engineering and administration, are: Ambah Intensive Block Development
(US$16.8 million), irrigation and drainage (US$10.9 million), and roads
(US$6.8 million). The balance is made up of ravine arrestation and
canal-side plantation (US$3.0 million), land acquisition (US$0.7 million),
monitoring and studies (US$0.3 million), training and technical services



-18-
(US$1.2 million), engineering and administration (US$5.3 million), and con-
tingencies (US$16.8 million). Physical contingencies which were estimated
separately for each item range from 6-20% and average 16% of the base cost.
Price contingencies, which account for about 21% of the base cost are based
on expected inflation rates of 8.5% in 1982/83, 8% in 1983/84, 7.5% in
1984/85, 7% in 1985/86 and 6% thereafter.
55.     The proposed credit of US$31 million equivalent would cover 50% of
total project cost, including all foreign exchange cost, and 46% of local
cost. GOMP would finance the remaining project cost. The proceeds of the
credit would be used to finance: civil works (US$25.5 million), equipment
and vehicles (US$2.0 million), and monitoring, studies, and technical serv-
ices (US$1.5 million). The remaining US$2.0 million would be left unallo-
cated.
Procurement and Disbursement
56.     Civil works financed under the project would cost approximately
US$50.2 million (net of engineering and administration). These works would
consist of: construction of the water distribution system, canal improve-
ments, drainage, rural roads, and buildings. Drilling and well development
works (US$2.9 million) would be carried out by LIC, which has an established,
technically competent staff capable of carrying out these tasks. The remain-
ing civil works (US$47.3 million), which would be carried out through labor
intensive methods, would be relatively small individually and scattered over
a large area. Consequently, it would be neither feasible nor economic to
group them into large contracts for international competitive bidding. They
would, therefore, be carried out by contractors selected through local com-
petitive bidding, using the standard documents and procedures recently
developed by the Central Water Commission of GOI. These standard documents
and procedures have been approved by IDA.
57.     In order to facilitate service and maintain an adequate supply of
spare parts, the pump sets and accessories (US$1.3 million) would be procured
through local competitive bidding. The remaining equipment and vehicles,
valued at US$1.7 million, would be purchased over four years in lots too
small to attract foreign competition. Therefore, these would also be
procured through local competitive bidding. The Central Water Commission has
also recently developed standard bid documents and procedures for equipment
materials and supplies, which are acceptable to IDA and would be used.
58.     The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed against 100% of the
foreign exchange cost of directly imported equipment and vehicles and against
the ex-factory price of locally procured items. Where the ex-factory price
is not readily available, 70% of expenditure would be reimbursed. Disburse-
ments for civil works would be 65% of expenditures. For monitoring, evalua-
tion, training, studies, and technical services (excluding equipment), 100%
of expenditures would be reimbursed. Disbursements for tubewells would
require a certified statement by the Superintending Engineer in charge that:
(i) all works on the tubewell have been completed in accordance with the
agreed planning, design, and quality criteria; (ii) the discharge of the
tubewell is not less than 70% of the design discharge; and (iii) the tubewell
has been electr.fied. Full documentation would be required for all disburse-
ments, except for payments for force account works and completed tubewells,



-19-
for civil works contracts of up to Rs 300,000 each, and payments up to
Rs 150,000 each for equipment and vehicles, for which disbursements would be
made against certificates of expenditure. The supporting documents for these
payments would not be submitted to IDA but would be retained by GOMP for
inspection by IDA review missions. It is expected that disbursements would
be completed by June 1987.
Benefits and Economic Justification
59.     The proposed project would assist in expanding the area under irriga-
tion in MP by 32,000 ha, the productivity of land and water would increase
considerably as a result of the availability of additional irrigation water
from augmentation wells, and of lining minor canals and watercourses to the
8 ha turnouts, which would allow the provision of irrigation with greater
reliability and equity.  Various parts of the command area would benefit
from: the canal security works which would prevent canal breakages which
have occurred frequently in the past; canal capacity works, which would
facilitate conveyance and delivery of the water to the various parts of the
command area; drainage works; and ravine arrestation and canal-side planta-
tion, which would prevent expansion of the ravines into the project area and
reduce the requirements for canal maintenance. Incremental foodgrain produc-
tion at full project development is estimated at 94,000 tons annually. The
agricultural value added to the local economy is expected to reach Rs 119
million per year.
60.     Net farm incomes for the 26,000 directly benefiting farm families in
the project area, presently ranging from Rs 1600 to Rs 3340 for the average
2.4 ha farm (depending on the availability of irrigation) would increase to
Rs 7,800 and Rs 6,000 for the AIBD area and the balance of the project area,
respectively. The increase in net farm income due to the project would range
from 8% in presently irrigated areas that would only receive canal improve-
ment, to 174% in presently rainfed areas receiving AIBD. Income levels of
landless laborers in the project area, which are generally lower than incomes
of small farmers, would increase mainly as a result of the increased demand
for farm labor and the higher wages paid in irrigated farming. These wages
are generally about 25% higher than those paid for rainfed farming opera-
tions. The project would significantly reduce the incidence of poverty in
the project area: the percentage of farm families below the poverty line
(US$114 per annum), presently about 57% in the Ambah Branch Canal Command and
53% in the rest of the project area, should decline to about 16% and 23%,
respectively.
61.     For economic analysis purposes, the project was divided into two
parts: (i) the AIBD area; and (ii) the remaining command area, receiving
canal and drainage improvement. For each area, the cropping pattern, yields,
and input requirements were calculated without and with the project (at full
development). Discounting of cost and benefit streams over 30 years resulted
in an economic rate of return of 34% for the AIBD area, and of 35% for the
area benefiting from canal improvement and drainage works, and a weighted
average of 35% for the project as a whole.



-20-
Cost Recovery
62.     Discounted capital costs would average about Rs 3,690/ha for AIBD and
Rs 670/ha for the canal improvement area. Discounted costs of operation and
maintenance (including cost of well operation) of the system during its
estimated life of 30 years would be Rs 750/ha for AIBD and Rs 360/ha for the
canal improvement area. Thus, total public sector outlays would amount to
Rs 4,440/ha for AIBD and RS 1,030/ha for canal improvement. The discounted
"project rent" (net incremental income less the necessary rewards to the farm
family for its labor, entrepreneurship, and cultivation risk) during the same
period is estimated to average about Rs 5,200/ha in AIBD and Rs 1,530/ha in
the canal improvement area.  Discounted direct and indirect incremental
government revenue during the same period would total Rs 1,730/ha in AIBD and
Rs 220/ha in the canal improvement area, equivalent to a total cost recovery
index of 39% and 21% for the two differing project areas and a project rent
recovery index of 33% and 14%, respectively. At present, the direct charges
(water rate, cess, and land revenue) amount to just over 11% of the calcu-
lated average rent under the present level of irrigation services in the
project area by the average farm. Largely as a result of the poor irrigation
service, the recovery rate of water charges in the State is low. GOMP has a
policy of reviewing and revising the water charge every two to three years.
The rates have been reviewed recently, and a significant increase has been
recommended to the legislature and is expected to become effective next year.
63.     It is anticipated that, at full development of the project, the
average net income per irrigated ha of cultivable command area in the Ambah
Branch Canal area will be about 174% higher than at present and the average
rent will increase by about 50%. In addition, the improved design standards
under the project will result in a more reliable and equitable water supply
and therefore reduce the differences in net returns between fields at the
head and tail reaches of the distribution systems. Consequently, there will
be a considerable potential for increasing irrigation charges. However, in
order to ensure the continuing cooperation of farmers, any increase in the
charges, in real terms, should be gradual and take place after farmers have
realized a significant increase in irrigation benefits. Moreover, it may be
necessary to introduce changes in the water charge system in order to make
such increases feasible. In particular, the current principle of "State-wide
uniform rates" would have to be amended, in order to realize the increased
revenue potential in the more modern irrigation projects, e.g. by introducing
a "two tier" system. The method of water allocation and charge would have
a considerabl'e effect on the economic efficiency of water use at the farm
level and should be decided upon after careful and systematic studies of
alternative methods. As agreed under the MP Medium Irrigation Project and
the MP Major Irrigation Project (para 36 above),.water and water-related
charges in the State would be reviewed by December 31, 1983 and, as soon as
possible thereafter, GOMP would implement a system of charges that would
ensure recovery of annual O&M costs and, to the extent possible, the cost of
infrastructure investments (Section 3.07 of the Project Agreement).
Project Risks
64.     The results of the sensitivity analysis indicate that only large (and
quite unlikely) adverse deviations from cost estimates (over 200%) and from
output prices (about 50%) could make the project economically non-viable. A



-21-
possible risk is that the reliability of water supply in the AIBD area will
be lower than expected if the organization of water distribution above or
below the 8 ha turnout should run into difficulties. The strengthening of
CADA and its monitoring system, and its strong commitment to the estab-
lishment of a reliable and equitable water distribution system reduces such a
risk. Overall, the project risks are not greater than those associated with
similar irrigation projects in India.
Environmental Effects
65.     Agreement would be reached with GOMP that it would take all measures
considered necessary to minimize the hazards of malaria and other
water-related diseases in the project area (Section 3.09 of the Project
Agreement).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
66.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the Associa-
tion, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and the State of
Madhya Pradesh, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to
the Executive Directors separately.
67.     Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
68.     I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
69.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
By
Munir P. Benjenk
July 22, 1982






ANNEX I
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                     Page  1  of  5
INDIA                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVRAGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                             MOST RECENT ESTIMATE-
TOTAL           3287.6                                  MOST RECENT        LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL    1818.2               1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC             ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   70.0        110.0     240.0              261.4                     890.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      111.2        152.5     194.4              448.7                    701.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUS.)   434850.0    547569.0  673207.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 17.9          19.7      22.3               17.3                     32.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       994.1
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        1694.4
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2115
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       132.3        166.6     200.6              158.1                    255.9
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    247.0         307.8     362.8              355.9                   1748.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          40.9         42.7-     40.2               36.8                     39.9
15-64 YRS.                          54.5         54.2      56.8               59.7                     56.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    4.6          3.1       3.0                3.5                      3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               1.8          2.3       2.1                2.0                      2.3
URBAN                               2.5          3.3       3.3                3.3                      3.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      43.7        40.0       35.6               29.3                     31.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      21.8         16.7      13.6               11.0                      9.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               2.9          2.7       2.4                2.0                      2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      64.0      3782.0    5619.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..          12.0      22.6               19.3                     36.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           98.0       102.0       99.0              108.1                    115.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    95.6        90.4       88.8/c             97.3                    106.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           53.6        49.7       48.4/c             56.9                     54.4
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        17.2        14.8       13.1/c             20.0                     13.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      26.2         20.7      17.4               10.9                      6.7
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    43.2         48.1       51.8               57.8                     59.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           165.0       139.0      123.4               89.1                     63.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         17.0      33.0               32.9                     32.0
URBAN                                ..        60.0       83.0               70.7                     51.9
RURAL                                *-         6.0       20.0               22.2                     20.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                *-         18.0      20.0               18.1                     37.7
URBAN                                ..        85.0       87.0               72.7                     65.7
RURAL                                ..         1.0        2.0                4.7                     24.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           4850.4      4889.0    3630.6              3297.8                   8540.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    10975.3/d    8296.5    5696.1               4929.3                   4829.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            2178.7      1612.9    1311.0/e            1100.4                   1047.5
URBAN                                ..           ..     362.3/_-           301.3                    651.6
RURAL                                ..           ..   10432.8/e          5815.7                    2597.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..           ..        ..                 ..                     27.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               5.2          5.6       5.2
URBAN                               5.2         5.6        4.8
RURAL                               5.2         5.6        5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               2.6          2.8
URBAN                               2.6          2.8        ..
RURAL                               2.6          2.8        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 ..          ..        ..
URBAN                                 ..          ..        ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
INDIA _T-1 AL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE )
MOST RECENT        LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   ASIA 1 PACIFIC             ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  61.0        73.0       78.0/c             97.4                      96.2
MALE                  80.0         90.0      92.0/7            101.0                      99.8
FEMALE                40.0         56.0      63.0/:             87.8                      92.1
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  20.0        26.0       27.0/c             53.0                      37.6
MALE                  30.0         36.0      36.0/i             63.8                      41.1
FEMALE                10.0         15.0      17.0/i             41.3                      34.1
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Z OF SECONDARY)   8.0            1.0       0.7/f              1.7                      20.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             46.1        41.5       51.8/c             37.7                      35.5
SECONDARY                           16.0        20.9         ..               20.2                      25.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         28.0         33.4      36.0               52.1                      73.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAOD
POPULATION                           0.6          1.1       1.3/c              1.5                       9.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           4.9        21.5       33.6               35.4                     116.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.0         0.0        1.0                3.2                      37.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   10.6        16.0       19.8               16.4                      53.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  4.1           4.1        3.7                3.6                       2.8
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)   185951.1    219194.2  264204.4
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    30.7        32.5       31.8               29.5                      33.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               74.0        74.0       69.3               70.0                      52.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  11.0        11.0       13.2               15.0                      17.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 42.8        40.0       39.2               40.0                      38.5
MALE                                  57.0         52.4      51.8               51.8                      50.5
FEMALE                                27.3        26.9       25.9               23.8                      26.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.1          1.1       1.1                1.0                       1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   26.7          26.3/      22.2/f
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  51.7          48.9/S    49.4/7
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOJSEHOLDS    4.1           6. 77      7.0/-  
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.6          17.27i    16.2/i
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..      132.0              133.8                    194.7
RURAL                                 ..           ..     114.0              111.1                     155.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..         ..                 ..                     178.2
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..                 ..                     164.9
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..          ..       40.3               43.8                     24.4
RURAL                                 ..          ,.       50.7               51.7                     41.1
Not available
Not applicable.
ROTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmoetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1977; /d 1962;  Le 1976;  If 1975; /j 1964-65.
May, 1982



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
LIEPINITIONi OF _SOCIAL tIRDIC.ATRS
Notes-  Althougn the data are draan Iro  I        Ire Igneal  jugdteaItstoiie  n   eIbe  it should also be noted that they ma otbitr
,ssrtotellrc .srsrbla  be ouse o  th  lrko  sadrdie   dat tttao-s so   ocettd  by dfeetcut teei.. Lo.                            cr     hedt. h.at.r,  oe
thele    use ..fu1l.t desribe orders of eagitade. indl-te treds. srd rha-a_tens   certin  -Jor differene  bet..enrou..trie..
hereernc  groups are .1) the s.ss coutr  groupof tha subjrct coun.try sod (2)a count..ry group notE  soI          htbte   urg    ooeta   h   onr   ru
atth fbencnnty(eretfoe   .tfiht on    Ill Eopoeter` group nbere "Middle moans North Aff insen  aid e atfchos.                                   bcuefsree
andl is no   urior. cation muth   triediee-iaanrgso   n    d onrt   nthrthhsae-gsaeol   seu   nopr     the -ora of.
on .n  rnroa  n  saun..thIfcountryand refeenc  groope.                -It                   ihtdlih-,             -     rI    ...                            .
oAPE  (thousan.d  -qko.l                                                                         Porlatinrehreltd - ona, urban, and rura  - Poplaio   (otl
Itl-Tota Iorac. ors..I        ttsnglad area and iniondeet  1979 dana.                       urban, and!~rurl     ie    yterrae  Iense fhsItalbed
gArtu-tra-I   E letisne of  arclua   res osed  -aporart ly or p--aar1cl                         a-elabln inpblcad pranate geoeral and snilsdhsia   a 
for crops, p-s-is. market and kitchen gardens or no lie fallos; 1979 date.                    habilartanionte      s   hoop mle are renb ifeteene permateietly staffed-
by an leas  one physician.  fEnablisimens pro-iding principally nsn
GNP fPE  CAP1TA_(intl - CNP par c-pat  sactete  at  Iurn  .orkerpaes a-                            dial care sre no  includd. turs-I hositals. hos-rer  incud    eat
-ointed hy a-  cotr..tInt esehod ue ond hank Atlas (i9N-tO  basis); 0ih,                        an   uia   eter   o   emnetysafdbyapyIio(hut by
1).ad INt  dae.di-c .. assistan,nurse,aidift,ec).                                                                                             h offer it-paIentsce_
datiat and pen-ide a  alteid range of medical faciIes.  Po  sata
tNERGY CONSUMPTION PEN CAPITA - Aonne.l cosua.ptlinn of c0    ca  sorgl        (oa                 ti-al  ,purpose  urban bospItlsl include ataspHO     ip gaa-       hoptas
trlolny) to kil..r... .cf coal eqoi-eln  par capita; 1960, 19(0,..nd 197)                       cetr.Ieiaplteed hoPitlst.1Lee  nlddol  nader  t.esl
fros bopitefa dinided by the ou.Xteof beds.
POPULATION ANtD VITAL. STATItTICS
Total Per..lanton. Mid-Year (thou--dol - As of July 1; t9il, 0070, an  i9t0                 a-otoGh
date.                                                                                       Anarage tier of Ht.usehold (perae .. IP.  houshold) - rtotl, ons,sd rural-
IrbnPplto   prcn   fttl.    Ratio uf urban to totl1 population;                                 A  o hId cnit  of   goa  ot indlniol  a b  shar,                Iigqatr
dofrn Weinitions of urban area  s-Y affect  -oqarbility of data                          and thei  Jsi  mel.           rderorldgeba.rrnth  inlded In
aaogtuti; 1960. 1970. ar.110  data                                                            the house.hold for sttitclpurposes.
Pnua5oPooje-to-                                                                         Anarsen-      ao  resntern             -t1a,nrbao,an.drnal-n-             aen
Poeulaioo in yar ltOO- Curret P-pl npojcinsaebased o  1910                           her  o f parsont ' par room inaltre,ad rora  ocuid..              aetna
lote   Population byaead .ntad lter tanns ity ordfetilt   ae.dnelliega, reperinely.  Osellinga an-Iudeno-pemntsrtsrad
Pr-jertlo   pars_iers for mee_ aye_      e   oprs   f  hetlri   .aeu.                        --cpled parts.
leg life  -apeca-y an birth incre...togaihcutyaprt  iaicm                                  oe   ofett  t   peeto   elIng)- nI -l ubas   adrra
lend, seAI feasa  itfe  -epe...ny s-bhliuog-- 77.1 years   The Pan-                        On   1n oa  delliogs slit eIr-tricntp  to linig quartrsIa
meters for fertility rate also hat  three             ....asusu .dene in                    of  tota, urban, and rure1 dasllinga  ese to inel.y.
fertilIty according noicoe      Rse  ad pastv fasty plsnc  performnce
tachfcountry is then sea .gadneofpthese nIne  -obinatints of _orosly                  itUfiTIfO
an _frilit  trends for projeto   puposes.                                              adute oroi11-t fdt.atn
itteeyporuianin-t   a L    s tation.y. oplaiu  ther.s..       grei  Ic                  P',-,,r scool -   is        1.ml and f.-I.e-G-uss  tota.  maesd femal
the birth  Jen   Is eqalt t:hedeatIh 1rate,sd also the ag   tutr   e                           eoliment of ell a_ gaIt t he petisry lana  as percentage  of rea:p-oelt
sein toraan               E Jhs  s  cIed  only afte  fertItY rates decline to                pelm_rp scool-age   P prlantan   normaly Includes cild ren  age  6.-li
the  epaemn -ltl ofuntne eprodotrion rat,  h.s.e-h genera tins                                years hot adjustsd for dfcrsleghs,o  primar   dooti;fr
ofsmnrelrat-aef ensily   The statiota.ry population ale  as                          ountrie  sIth uninere..l eduttino  -tre1-1n map sensed 100 percene
eatiasiso an the aesia of tiepojciOtaargito  of the popul.iant                                sInce som  pupils are bele or abe-tshe  ffTiot1 shai age.
is the year 20ft. and rhe rate of de_lOn  of felilty lra tee  repiec-                       Osodershol-tta,slefand femal  - C.op.tond as ahos; setandary
mast l_naI                                                                                    educatio  requtrsRat latfn   er f apprened pritmay   arrls
Yea stationar y Populstin tenserhed - The year then sttiona.ry popuOation                       provid..s astrs. -1 ocation..i, or tearher trinn          ....rttJ-t  fa  papi.
sine sill bersarhed.                                                                           ...allp of 12 to 17 psare of a a; r-reePond-enn  c-rses Its g..seallp
PRalain   _ananyelded.
Perati.- Mid-ya             tuainpr squsee kilometer (100 hectares) of                      'onI.-I erilmntferiert of  acndr) - rtan-e  i-sit-In...
tota  area;1960, I97  ad  97  data                                                          itoude tethoinel  industia, or other ProgrE`_          kth  perata idepeed-
Per sok.  arclua   ad-Computed as aho- for agricu1tneaI land                                  enaI  ora Rdepartments o~f'stondary Ji..seituin.%
ony;lNO.IOlai  lONdta                                                              Ppi-tsbe  rti9  Irisr   ad.secondary - Tota  students enrolled in
Pogaltiongas  trurire fercee) -Chiudren  (-uyas.wrigge15pimyanecodry fs-sl  d-nided by ente.rs of tesoersis the
64 pears.), sa .rtired (65 yearsI atd ener) as percentages of mid-pear  .por-                 c..r-ep-nditg  .en.Os.
letios; 1961.19)0, and iNI dtsa.                                                            Adult litersoy rate (parr-t) -Literate adolts (able in read sAeIt.)
Pop.lstiss Grneth gate e.      et      oa     -- Raa  trowh rates of tonal sld-                 esprnaSrfJ tees1 adul  populatio  aged 15 pears a dem.
pea  Popultionfr  9t0  19_0-7, an  09)0 -ft.
P.g.lsa.on leowtb 'Rate  rrat      raran              gr-eth rates of urban popo-           iOmSUlMF)l09
lioefe1950 040  1060-70. and  t0N.P...sera  tars leer thousand populatino.-Pasneorsoprise mater
Ceads girth gate (per thousand) - Aon... Ine1 births per  h..u..nd of aid-year                  oars sesting leste1        ih  peoe   eldes shalarIm  hearses sad
papslstian; 1961. 1970  erdI198  date..mtltarteh _,irie.t.rihpr.. 
Crude esash Rate fret thousan d) - Aanuai deaths pen thb.....d  of aid-yea                    Radi .Racet"E' (pe  tbtsaId rPuistio) -  ll typsof                J-ei,r tar.  -dit
ppiata;19_         9),a 119Iat.                                                            resdast  no geerlt  pubicpr tnsn   fppii,etua   n
Gene  RseraductIan Rts -Anseags         b ekroat daugheseaR woma  sill beer On                  h.issed es.cei,ter  in cr1tennis  an  in year.  h..e regletesaise at reAls
be  -era  rePreduette period ishe sePerisa.... peasan.t age-s pan tofarJ-                   seseyiffo;dt arrts ers may net be oaWsreble state
sI.tilyrie  .... lt ft-ye-ea   straseding in 1960, 1970, sad 1980.                            mes  tetriss  bh1iabed licens ing.
PalPlnsias-o    Ae ...s Anult(eh-asdel - Annual e_bee of earpeers                         !Rrinr    peethesa-d epio)-T  reanrslfar br...di.si tat
ofNHirboui    des.c. uad- au.ice P          f I _t_Ioa  f_saly plmn_ig program.               gera  pbit pe  huad Papultine  seldes enis....d TN ea-siesr
PUOnPintg-sr  (rcnt  fmrid eem) - Pertegag   tmrIed                                   in ros-rias and ie yaes  h.s.reisra             of a  TV .sa. wa  in effete.
en-a e  chil-hearig age(10-64' year)sh  ass hireb-cane..      d     Ree  en          Nens.arer Circlation (pee thouand espe           )     h- len  the    . ateag  le-
all maried es_n in same . Sgtgrop.                                                            _siatinl of  dsl  gnra   tterat  e_apape." dsftnedaIe.psriedina
pabli-atio  danned primarily en escrding gensea. aI s.  It is onasidefed
POOD AND MOTIITION                                                                                te he 'dailp-' if it  ppyr  ma. lease. tau  times a seek.
Indeg ef Pood Predscnlan ea  Cas,pte  (1NT-lt  - Indee of Per cspieasetsal                    Cinema Anea.si Attand"Sn  pe  Capita par Tea  - Based og tha  -b-e of
praduntie  ofalgod ro        Jdiie.    -rdanealdsssas.daad f sad and                          tickets sold doting the yea.Z  lcloding adalasios is dri-.es-i-cae
iseL   alna  yea  hasis.   Coadities  astr PrImary goods (eg. sug...a.e                       sad mails unIts.
issesad of enga) which are edible. and insamnu          st  (e.g    .. fe  and
nesarasacladad).  tggr.Egte prdunti   of eaIch-eety is, baseId                           LABOR PlaCe
,teetga  sasagepro.da-- price, mights; 196145, 1970, saR16  data..Ttlan   ot  (the....ed) - &-ot                                      -Icaly stei  parase, tenloding
Pe   sit   sri   ttLortes (Percent of  enieea)- Coaputed from                          aredtete _sA  sspleyad but seclu.ding  hssts   tadests, ste.
seergy squinslse t  se .t foand aupplitee  -albhls is coun.try Pe r tpies                     catering popa1tinao  all age... Dfinitione  in t-ien    -tenarie  sea
pfday.Ataileble soplies reerise donsatfa pradartee,. isrerta lass                           satcaqarbls;  Igt1970 an  I90 data.
espets,  nd ceege  in  tack   fIt suPPlies  -olde anImal feed, seeds.                Fa.a-I.    te)      eml  labo  fn-c aspatesgaof teta1 laber ferns
goasitis usd i  fud prces4ng  end lo...s it distetule    Raquiels.utr eeen)-Lhrfrsi  farming.  fesor  Y, h.e..g and
mast swp  esti-tsd by PAC) base dgus physitlegira1 n..ada far ..rmI acet-                       fiabing as percmeeSge of total.bar tens.; l96t, 0970 and 1980 data.
aIte  end h.slth  oensidsriege...irnsmstaltep1      snr,body nights~, agjndasrtfeere) - Labor (arts in minisg, ..eserstien, mnatasrg
sad sen dtscributios of papulatte. sad alnin  11erst faR Igse  need s1-trititey.  aaradgaasP.ren                                                 tttllbrfcs
he...ehold len1; 1961465,19) 0 end 19))7 data.             -1960. 1970 and 0981 det.
PLar caJe ur      no   rnsn(rm   e   s)-  reioneeo   a  rgpit                                 Petosea  gets (re-es..   - tetel. mat, end fmm1l  P- pasipatins oe
ne   a ply f fedprdyJe spl   tgo   . defind aabov.  is-                                antisity fates are lospotad as tet..   maLs, saRd tamal  lame faoras
qoiremasts tar all c.toneie  established byfU1JAn  prnda  e   iia                             pesuentages of total, Male end femae  apI      ais  -fal   ge    satiwely;
allware  o  6  gas  e  toalerasa  eeda  sd O  grsoafsma   n                      19610. 1970. std l9lt dtsa.  Thes  arha.        sltspaerprs   ss
pIs Rste,owhc10gaesolheeml protein.   rhase stand-                                           raflsoangags-ens  sirunnare of abspaptasise  end In-g tima eaed,
seAs are tens  then these of 75 g9sma of i-t1 pr-tai  and 23 grama at                         fan stimates  -  from enetana  ea..e
seimal pe.trel a as     -S'eag  fee sts, erld.prepe...d by Phi) is the Third               femmclssdeY bus  - Rteis at pplatime sedan 10 sad 65 sedse
P                          tepI~~~~~~Wld Feed Surty; 196145. 19)  sd1 97. aa.R                                               b  ttliber ferns
Percaals  seai  aess  ra  aIma   ncls-P Prsie anply of fend de-
riedfrm  siai  sad raises in gram  Par day; 1961-65. 19)9 and 19)) date.           INCOME! PISrITN UTIONI
Child fags. i-A) Psetb Rat  fese ebsae) -,hA--I demebs, per, tbeaed in                        Paanasa   sea   s              fStoll is rash sad heed) - 4imei-d by rictese
age gesap 1-4 years. en children in Rhi  ag  grasp, femsdtlpngaa-                             5 per.es, tille.     t  ars.  ars  20 p-rme   n   ereaI   er
tries dasa darind from lIfe sables; 1960. 1970 sad 1980 data.                                 of he..eholds.
HEgALTH                                                                                       PONPTT TARGET tGftPg
Life, =erttga  aot aiebinsrs  -  trage nsr at y,,cm of late r-miring                          The fIcl-iwig  maIesasvry anrsme    oesnm                  f pnrtyf pIssla,
at birh1  196. 1970aad 119 dat.                                                      eas sheuld be  espsedsa  conadaraile cnstisa.
Isfant Mecalms lee  (P., tbhsaa) -           .nsa  deans. of IIIenas mne on  Year             gstimetd hisae_  Pt: eneplt  Inteh Laes  (0    " seeca ita)    aria  sad  mrenl
at ass pR1e9s6d10 irh;  It  1970 sad iq50 data.                                               Akaisra pserr  J---s  tise  tamthe  Comma Iss         -bla  it  a daa1
A.a.-s as lesf Waer (perest of pe         tiei) - tetal, tdebm. and easel  - Nu-                eateit iealy Idsqaat  diet PI.. saesil  n-fend  sqairemts ia mat
ssesply fLinoldas teass  arise  macarm  en satemtad.baat neaias                       gati-td Ralaties P-try Insm  Lvel (096 par aeclt  - acsasa  ess
see:r sankpp as thee from preesned bo..sleela. sprier, sad  eit."y mella) as                  aunal paaiePnrty le-am  leelgem-ait                   aaargpeesIes
oftsagsa  rheIrra-t.stie papslari-a. I  as arise arsa a pbitr                          pI-sa  ten-   oft abs  enr.than  Iseel"is dapisd from theI  -r1
fa-etei or tadpoint lenstd met mar  time 200 -trs fro a se  -y he                            lineal wrih  djmtsse  ten high-m teat at 11slsg In arise ars.
r-a-maLs aces Iwod isply lthathab  h.--mif. ar see rs  af the henaaheld                      en   aa      en        tppLatismIrs   a   ea)  lees.bnta
daanhn  espend.a dIs,1prepttiesta  pert at the day  ie fatnbieg dingor.
sel' wtmr esada
Watert at psep1R fesal  aria,-md rarsi  asred by  nrs   ipsla
perra-eass  at ahaireaase  pesiei -slrrt  dIsposal May lstlads
the ..IIatIan sa  dispese. sick  r sickest erwatet. at bsae ma tese
and wst-me   i .t.egr-hors  apste or eths ass afPt Pie.ietes a ad sIi-
P-eo-als  2ea  Ph,Isegl   - Peptalatio  dielded by  -b-a ef prasisieg physi-                                                        lese-si  and  aimO lees Picleim
age  qUslfIld f- as  a   dinal sh.el ac atiempity lad.                                                                      1cemeLi  Amalysta  -d PteJmatsm   gfIaRb-t
ftesa!ties pe   astsiras   P-'paptalel   dieldad by Itkae at p-aatIJStgg                                                                        lImp13
mala sa,d tmale  rd R         Menss   ismcneea  prmetieal ases  sad



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
a/
GNP PER CAPITA IN 19 80 US$ 240
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1980/81 -                                                           ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (M. constant prices) c
USS Bln.       %                1955/56-1959/60  196916-1964/65   1965/66-1969/70   1970/71-1974/75   1975/76-1979/80
GNP at Market Prices                 159.37      100.0                     3.7               3.6                3.6                 2.9               4.1
Gross Domestic Investment             38.46       24.1
Gross National Saving                 35.30       22.1
Current Account Balance               -3.16       -2.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1978
Value Added (at factor cost)           Labor Force  i/             V.A. Per Worker
USS Bin.             %              Mil.        %                 USS         7 of National Averaje
Agriculture                           39.8            39.6              180.6     70.7                 220              56
Industry                              25.2            25.1              32.2      12.6                783              199
Services                              35.5            35.3              42.6      16.7                833             211
Total/Average                        100.5           T7                 25       YoU.U                                TM
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government        e/                                      Central Government
Rs. Bln.         % of GDP                                         lRs. Bln.          % of GDP
1980/81   1980/81  1976/77 1980/81                                 1980/81    19bO/8i   1976/77.1980/81
Current Receipts                   238.19      19.0         19.1                                       125.41      10.(           10.6
C5rrect Expenditures               238.93      19.0         18.0                                       133.29      1(. .;         10.6
Current Surplus/Deficit             -0.74      -0.1          1.1                                       - 7.88     - U.6           N.S.
Capital Expenditures  f/           107.35       8.5          7.6                                       79.99        6.4            5.4
External Assistance (net) d/        12.86       1.0          1.0
MONEY, CREDLIT AND PRICES          1970/71    1974/75    1975/76    1976/77    1977/78    1978/79    1979/80    1980/81    February 1981   February 1982
(Rs Billion outstanding at end of period)
Money and Quasi Money               109.8       194.6       223.2       273.2      329.1       398.6       467.9       553.1         536.13           615.53
Bank Credit to Government (net)    54.6          95.3        97.9       118.5      137.3       162.4       201.0       258.1        238.22            292.18
Bank Credit to Commercial Sector   64.6         126.5       153.7       185.1      212.2       253.5       306.3       363.2        349.03            422.15
(Percentage or Index Numbers)                                                    April-Feb 1980/81  AprIl-FeF  1981/82
Money and Quasi Money as 7. of GDP  27.3         28.0        30.1        33.9       40.8        40.9        44.1        44.0
Wholesale Price Index
(1970/71 - 100)                   100.0       174.9      173.0       176.6       185.8       185.8      217.6       257.0          255.9                   280.5
Annual percentage changes in:
Wholesale Price Index                 7.7        25.2        -1.1         2.1         5.2        -          17.1        18.1           18.4                     9.6
Bank Credit to Government (net)    15.0           9.2         2.7        21.0       15.9        18.3        23.8        28.4           28.6 y/                 22.7 h/
Bank Credit to Commercial Sector   19.4          18.2        21.5        20.4       14.6        19.5        20.8        18.6           16.6 1/                20.9 h/
a/  The per capita GNP estimate is at market prices, calculated by the conversiom technique used in the World Bank Atlas. 1981.
All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
_/ Quick Estimates, Central Statistical Organication.
S/ Computed from trend line of GNP at factor cost series, including one observation before first year and one observation
after last year of listed period.
d/ World Bank estimates; not necessarily consistent with official figures.
e/ Transfers between Centre and States have been netted out.
f/ All loans and advances to third parties have been netted out.
S/ Percentage change from end-February, 1980 to end-February 1981.
h/ Percentage change from end-February, 1981 to end-February 1982.
i/ Total Labor Force and percentage breakdown fro. Sixth Five Year Plan, Table 2.6 and Annenure Table 13.8.



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS              1978/79    1979/80    1980/81    1981/82  1         MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1977/78 - 1980/81)
(US $ Mln.)                                                   USS                                                       .
Exports of Goods                  6,978       7,998       8,504       8,700          Engineering Goods             908         12
Imports of Goods                 -8,519    -11,302    -15,838    -16,000             Tea                           506          7
Trade Balance                    -1,541      -3,304    - 7,334    - 7,300            Ga..                          403           5
NFS (net)                            717      1,100         722         915          Clothing                      501          7
Leather and Leather
Resource Balance                  - 824      -2.204    - 6.612    - 6.385               Products                   457          6
Jute Manufactures             303          4
Interest Income (net) k/              14        196         370         212          Iron Ore                      321          4
Net Transfers   I /               1,185       1,577       3,079       1,840          Cotton Textiles               316          4
Sugar                         102          1
Balance on Current Account          375       - 431      -3.163     -4 333           Others                      3,541         48
Official Aid                                                                         Total                       7.448        100
Disbursements                  1,695       1,738      2,337       2,724  g/      EXTERHAL DEBT, MARCH 31. 1981
Amortization                   - 702       - 608      - 707       - 659                                                USS billion
Transactions with IMF             - 158         -         1,035         690          Outstanding and Disbursed                  17.2
All Other Items                      265      - 475         147       - 797          Undisbureed                                 7.5
Outstanding, including                    24.7
Increase in Reserves (-)         -1,475       - 224        351       2,375               Undisbureed
Gross Reserves (end year)c/    7,357          7,579      7,228       4,853.
Net Reserves   (end year)m 5/    7,357        7,579      6,901       3,876           DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1980/81 i/ .n/  11.2 per cent
Fuel and Related Materials                                                           IBRD/IDA LENDING, DECEMBER 31. 1981
Imports  (Petroleum)              2,043       4,045       6,657       6,075                                              USS million
IBRD        IDA
Exports                               24          26        33         n.a
Outstanding and Disbursed        984          5646
Undisbursed                      880          4634
Outstanding, including
Undisbureed                 1864         10280
RATE OF EXCHANGE
June 1966 to mid-December 1971            US$1.00 - Rs 7.5
Re 1.00 - US$0.13333
Mid-December 1971 to end-June 1972        US$1.00 - Rs 7.27927
Re 1.00 - US$0.137376
After end-June 1972                       Floating Rate
Spot Rate end-December 1980               US$1.00 - Rs 7.930
Re 1.00 - US$0.126
Spot Rate end-December 1981               US$1.00 - Rs 9.099
Re 1.00 - US$0.110
j/ Estimated.
Figures given cover all investment income (net). Major payments are interest on foreign loans and
charges paid to IMF, and major receipt is interest earned on foreign assets.
/  Figures given include workers' remittances but exclude official grant assistance, which is
included within official aid disbursements.
m/ Excludes net use of IMF credit.
2l Amortization and interest payments on foreign loans as a percentage of exports of goods and services.
0/  Includes $ 234 million of commercial borrowings.
Including gold.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 20
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1982)
US$ million
(Net of Cancellations)
Loan or  Fiscal
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval        Purpose                          Bank            IDA 1/      Undisbursed 2/
45 Loans/                                               1,516.0
73 Credits fully disbursed                                  -           4,315.4
342-IN    1973      Education                                             12.0           1.70
456-IN    1974      HP Apple Proc. & Marketing             -              13.0            1.15
1011-IN    1974      Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD               52.0             -             8.38
482-IN    1974      Karnataka Dairy                        -              30.0          15.19
502-IN    1975      Rajasthan Canal CAD                    -              83.0          27.24
521-IN    1975      Rajasthan Dairy                        -              27.7          10.71
522-IN    1975      Madhya Pradesh Dairy                   -              16.4           2.41
585-IN    1976      Uttar Pradesh Water Supply             -              40.0          12.40
598-IN    1976      Fertilizer Industry                    -             105.0          12.71
604-IN    1976      Power Transmission IV                  -             150.0          34.00
609-IN    1976      Madhya Pradesh Forestry T.A.           -               4.0           1.30
610-IN    1976      Integrated Cotton Development          -              18.0           9.24
1251-IN    1976      Andhra Pradesh Irrigation            145.0             -            68.27
1260-IN    1976      IDBI II                               40.0             -             8.17
1273-IN    1976      National Seeds I                      25.0             -            20.90
1313-IN    1977      Telecommunications VI                 80.0             -            11.52
1335-IN    1977      Bombay Urban Transport                25.0             -             6.94
680-IN    1977      Kerala Agric. Development              -              30.0          20.86
682-IN    1977      Orissa Agric. Development              -              20.0           5.82
685-IN    1977      Singrauli Thermal Power                -             150.0          19.37
687-IN    1977      Madras Urban Development               -              24.0           0.10
690-IN    1977      WB Agric. Extension & Research         -              12.0          12.00
1394-IN    1977      Gujarat Fisheries                     14.0             -             6.57
712-IN    1977      M.P. Agric. Development                -              10.0           4.40
720-IN    1977      Periyar Vaigai Irrigation              -              23.0          12.88



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 20
US$ million
(Net of Cancellations)
Loan or  Fiscal
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval        Purpose                          Bank          IDA 1/        Undisbursed 2/
728-IN    1977      Assam Agricultural Development         -               8.0           5.18
736-IN    1978      Maharashtra Irrigation                 -              70.0          23.76
737-IN    1978      Rajasthan Agric. Extension            -               13.0           3.43
740-IN    1978      Orissa Irrigation                      -              58.0          21.29
1475-IN    1978      Industry DFC XII                     78.5              -             4.24
747-IN    1978      Second Foodgrain Storage               -             107.0          75.63
756-IN    1978      Calcutta Urban Development II         -              87.0           16.59
761-IN    1978      Bihar Agric. Extension &
Research                           -               8.0           6.81
1511-IN    1978      IDBI Joint/Public Sector             25.0              -            10.04
1549-IN    1978      Third Trombay Thermal Power          105.0             -            38.55
788-IN    1978      Karnataka Irrigation                  -              117.6         70.93
793-IN    1978      Korba Thermal Power                    -             200.0          90.86
806-IN    1978      Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture            -               14.0          12.37
808-IN    1978      Gujarat Irrigation                     -              85.0          56.51
815-IN    1978      Andhra Pradesh Fisheries               -              17.5          12.48
816-IN    1978      National Seeds II                      -              16.0          13.74
1592-IN    1978      Telecommunications VII              120.0             -            43.46
824-IN    1978      National Dairy                        -              150.0         112.81
842-IN    1979      Bombay Water Supply II                -              196.0         181.19
843-IN    1979      Haryana Irrigation                     -             111.0          27.64
844-IN    1979      Railway Modernization
& Maintenance                       -             190.0         130.32
848-IN    1979      Punjab Water Supply & Sewerage        -               38.0          15.56
855-IN    1979      National Agricultural Research         -              27.0          24.01
862-IN    1979      Composite Agricultural Extension    -                25.0          14.95
871-IN    1979      NCDC                                   -              30.0          15.14
1648-IN    1979      Ramagundam Thermal Power             50.0             -            50.00
874-IN    1979      Ramagundam Thermal Power              -             200.0          135.20
889-IN    1979      Punjab Irrigation                     -             129.0          88.33
899-IN    1979      Maharashtra Water Supply               -              48.0          35.25
911-IN    1979      Rural Electrification Corp. II        -              175.0         59.52
925-IN    1979      Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry         -              23.0           14.63
963-IN    1980      Inland Fisheries                      -              20.0           19.22
954-IN    1980      Maharashtra Irrigation II             -             210.0          155.28



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 20
US$ million
(Net of Cancellations)
Loan or  Fiscal
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval        Purpose                         Bank         IDA 1/        Undisbursed 2/
961-IN    1980      Gujarat Community Forestry           -              37.0          26.50
981-IN    1980      Population II                         -              46.0         44.73
1003-IN    1980     Tamil Nadu Nutrition                  -              32.0          29.33
1004-IN    1980      U.P. Tubewells                        -              18.0         14.05
1011-IN    1980     Gujarat Irrigation II                 -             175.0         160.24
1027-IN    1980      Singrauli Thermal II                  -            300.0         249.36
1012-IN    1980      Cashewnut                            -              22.0          20.95
1028-IN    1980      Kerala Agricultural Extension         -              10.0          9.64
1033-IN    1980      Calcutta Urban Transport             -              56.0          51.85
1034-IN    1980      Karnataka Sericulture                 -              54.0         51.69
1046-IN    1980     Rajasthan Water Supply
and Sewerage                       -              80.0          73.53
1843-IN    1980      Industry DFC XIII                   100.0            -            33.50
1887-IN    1980      Farakka Thermal Power                25.0            -            25.00
1053-IN    1980      Farakka Thermal Power                -             225.0         199.63
1897-IN    1981      Kandi Watershed and
Area Development                  30.0             -            28.09
1925-IN    1981      Bombay High Offshore
Development                     400.0             -           148.49
1072-IN    1981      Bihar Rural Roads                    -              35.0          34.20
1078-IN    1981     Mahanadi Barrages                      -             83.0          80.70
1082-IN    1981     Madras Urban Development II           -              42.0          42.00
1108-IN    1981      M.P. Medium Irrigation                -             140.0        140.00
1112-IN    1981     Telecommunications VIII               -             314.0         267.50
1116-IN    1981      Karnataka Tank Irrigation             -             54.0          54.00
1125-IN    1981     Hazira Fertilizer Project             -             400.0         387.90
1135-IN    1981     Maharashtra Agricultural Ext.          -             23.0          23.00
1137-IN    1981     Tamil Nadu Agricultural Ext.          -              28.0          28.00
1138-IN    1981     M.P. Agricultural Ext. II              -             37.0          37.00
1146-IN    1981     National Cooperative
Development Corp. II               -             125.0         124.30



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 20
US$ million
(Net of Cancellations)
Loan or Fiscal
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval        Purpose                          Bank          IDA 1/        Undisbursed 2/
1172-IN    1982      Korba Thermal Power Project - II    -               400.0         400.00
1177-IN*   1982      Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation        -             220.0         220.00
2050-IN    1982      Tamil Nadu Newsprint                 100.0             -           100.00
1178-IN*   1982      West Bengal Social Forestry            -              29.0          29.00
1185-IN*   1982      Kanpur Urban Development              -              25.0          25.00
2051-IN    1982      ICICI XIV                            150.0             -           150.00
2076-IN    1982      Ramagundam Thermal Power II         300.0              -          300.00
2095-IN*   1982      ARDC IV                              190.0             -           190.00
1209-IN*   1982      ARDC IV                               -              160.0         160.00
1219-IN*+  1982      Andhra Pradesh Agricultural
Extension                           -               6.0           6.00
Total                                    3,570.5        10,632.6
of which has been repaid               1,137.4             94.7
Total now outstanding                    2,433.1,       10,537.9
Amount Sold                     133.8
of which has been repaid    133.8          -               -
Total now held by Bank and IDA 3/        2,433.1        10,537.9
Total undisbursed (excluding *)          1,062.1         4,192.2
1/  IDA Credit amounts for SDR-denominated Credits are expressed in
terms of their US dollar equivalents, as established at the time
of Credit negotiations and as subsequently presented to the Board.
2/  Undisbursed amounts for SDR-denominated IDA Credits are derived
from cumulative disbursements converted to their US dollar
equivalents on the basis of the SDR/US dollar exchange rate
(1 SDR = US$1.11309) in effect on March 31,1982.
3/  Prior to exchange adjustment.
*   Not yet effective.
+   Not yet signed.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 20
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1982)
Amount (US$ million)
Year                     Company                       Loan      Equity    Total
1959             Republic Forge Company Ltd.              1.5        -        1.5
1959             Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.              0.9         -        0.9
1960             Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                   1.4         -        1.4
1961             K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                       0.2         -        0.2
1963-66          Precision Bearings India Ltd.            0.6        0.4      1.0
1964             Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.            0.8        0.4       1.2
1964-75-79       Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.           11.8        1.3     13.1
1964             Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.              1.0        0.3       1.3
1967             Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                  1.1       0.1       1.2
1967             Indian Explosives Ltd.                  8.6        2.9      11.5
1969-70          Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.               15.1       3.8      18.9
1976             Escorts Limited                         6.6         -        6.6
1978             Housing Development Finance
Corporation                             4.0        1.2       5.2
1980             Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.         7.5        0.9       8.4
1981             Coromandel Fertilizers Limited         15.9                 15.9
1981             Tata Iron and Steel Company Ltd.    38.0             -      38.0
1981             Mahindra, Mahindra Limited             15.0         -       15.0
1981             Nagarjuna Coated Tubes Ltd.              2.9       0.3       3.2
1981             Nagarjuna Signode Limited               2.3         -        2.3
1981             Nagarjuna Steels Limited                 1.5       0.2       1.7
1982             Ashok Leyland Limited                  28.0         -       28.0
TOTAL GROSS COMMITMENTS          164.7       11.8    176.5
Less:   Sold                           40.0        2.6      42.6
Repaid                        24.5         -       24.5
Cancelled                      6.2        1.3       7.5
Now Held                      94.0        7.9    101.9
Undisbursed                   84.9        1.4      86.3



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 20
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
(As of March 31, 1982)
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding
reasonably well. Brief notes on the execution of individual projects are
below. The level of disbursements was US$962 million in FY81, compared to
US$729 million in the previous year. Disbursements in the current fiscal
year through March 31, 1982 total US$858 million, representing an increase
of about 28% over the same period last year. The undisbursed pipeline as of
March 31, 1982, is US$5,254 million.
Ln. No. 1475 Twelfth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$80 million loan of July 22, 1977; Effective
Date: October 4, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Ln. No. 1843 Thirteenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100 million loan of May 16, 1980; Effective
Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Ln. No. 2051 Fourteenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$150 million loan of October 8, 1981;
Effective Date: December 3, 1981; Closing Date: March 31, 1988
These loans are supporting industrial development in India through
a well-established development finance company and are designed to finance
the foreign exchange cost of industrial projects. ICICI continues to be a
well-managed and efficient development bank financing medium- and large-scale
industries, which often employ high technology and are export-oriented.
Disbursements under all loans are ahead of schedule.
Ln. No. 1260   Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Ln. No. 1511   IDBI Joint/Public Sector Project; US$25 million loan of
March 1, 1978; Effective Date: May 31, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Loan 1260 is designed to assist the Industrial Development Bank of
India in promoting small- and medium-scale industries and in strengthening
the State Financial Corporations involved. It is fully committed, but close
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 20
supervision is required to ensure timely implementation of sub-projects and
full disbursement of the loan by the closing date. Loan 1511 is designed to
encourage the pooling of private and public capital in medium-scale joint
ventures. The project also assists IDBI in carrying out industrial sector
investment studies and in strengthening the financial institutions dealing
with the state joint/public sector.
Ln. No. 2050 Tamil Nadu Newsprint Project; US$100 million loan of
September 23, 1981; Effective Date: March 22, 1982; Closing
Date: August 31, 1985
Land acquisition has been completed. Basic engineering work is
expected to be finished by June, and construction to commence in July 1982.
Tendering for major equipment is underway. Project progress is satisfactory.
Cr. No. 598   Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105 million credit of
December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
Cr. No. 1125 Hazira Fertilizer Project; US$400 million credit of
October 28, 1981; Effective Date: January 21, 1982; Closing
Date: June 30, 1986
Credit 598 is designed to increase the utilization of existing fer-
tilizer production capacity. The project has encountered delays in
sub-project preparation and investment approvals by the Government, and in
order to bring the project to a close in a timely manner, no new sub-project
proposals will be approved. Credit 1125 is proceeding satisfactorily with
initial implementation and procurement actions on schedule.
Ln. No. 1925 Second Bombay High Offshore Development Project; US$400 million
loan of December 11, 1980; Effective Date: February 24, 1981;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
The project is progressing well. Engineering and construction
activities are proceeding on schedule. As of January 1982, four of the
fifteen well platforms included in the project were already producing, con-
tributing over 30,000 bls/day to Bombay High's total oil production. The
project is expected to be fully disbursed on schedule.
Cr. No. 604   Power Transmission IV Project; US$150 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 685   Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 793   Korba Thermal Power Project; US$200 million credit of May 12,
1978; Effective Date: August 14, 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
1985



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 20
Ln. No. 1549  Third Trombay Thermal Power Project; US$105 million loan of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: February 8, 1979; Closing Date:
March 31, 1984
Ln. No. 1648  Ramagundam Thermal Power Project; US$50 million loan and
and       US$200 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 874   May 22, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 1027  Second Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$300 million credit
of June 5, 1980; Effective Date: July 30, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1988
Ln. No. 1887 Farakka Thermal Power Project; US$25 million loan and
and       US$225 million credit of July 11, 1980; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 1053  December 10, 1980; Closing Date: March 31, 1987
Ln. No. 2076  Second Ramagundam Thermal Power Project; US$300 million loan of
January 6, 1982; Effective Date: March 16, 1982; Closing
Date: June 30, 1988
Cr. No. 1172  Second Korba Thermal Power Project; US$400 million credit of
February 4, 1982; Effective Date: March 16, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1989
Credits 685 and 1027 assist in financing the 2,000 MW Singrauli
development, which is the first of four power stations in the Government's
program for the development of large central thermal power stations feeding
power into an interconnected grid. Credit 793 together with Credit 1172,
which became effective March 16, 1982, support the construction of the
2100 MW development, consisting of three 200 MW and three 500 MW generating
units, at the second such station, at Korba, together with related facilities
and associated transmission. Loan 1648/Credit 874, together with Loan 2076,
which also became effective March 16, 1982, support similar investments at
Ramagundam. Loan 1887/Credit 1053, assist in financing the first three
200 MW generating units at the Farakka station. The National Thermal Power
Corporation (NTPC) has been carrying out construction and operation of these
power stations. Loan 1549 is supporting the construction of a 500 MW exten-
sion of the Tata Electric Companies' station at Trombay, in order to help
meet the forecast load growth in the Bombay area. All these large-scale
thermal power projects are progressing satisfactorily. For Singrauli and
Korba, construction works are on or ahead of schedule, although some slippage
has occurred in the implementation schedule for the Ramagundam project. The
first unit at the Singrauli station was commissioned on schedule in
February 1982. In the Third Trombay project, design modifications for plant
equipment, price increases for materials, and increases in customs duties
have resulted in an increase in the total cost of the project. The Govern-
ment of India is raising additional funds from internal sources to meet the
additional cost.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 20
Cr. No. 911   Rural Electrification Corporation II Project; US$175 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: October 17, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
The project is progressing satisfactorily; disbursements are ahead
of appraisal projections.
Ln. No. 1313 Telecommunications VI Project; US$80 million loan of
July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Ln. No. 1592 Telecommunications VII Project; US$120 million loan of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 30, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 1112 Telecommunications VIII Project; US$314 million credit of
March 26, 1981; Effective Date: June 24, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Loans 1313 and 1592 are progressing satisfactorily and there are no
major problems. Imports of electronic switching equipment for the projects
were behind schedule, but procurement contracts have now been finalized and
the loan amounts fully committed. Institutional improvements envisaged under
the projects have been achieved, and the financial situation of the Posts and
Telegraphs Department remains sound. Credit 1112, which became effective
in June 1981, provides for the continued expansion, over a three-year period,
of the. Indian telecommunications network, particularly in rural areas. It
also provides for the modernization and upgrading of three existing telecom-
munications equipment factories, and the establishment of three additional
ones. Progress with bidding procedures is excellent and it is expected that
the project will proceed according to schedule.
Cr. No. 844   Railway Modernization and Maintenance Project; US$190 million
credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date: January 10, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Credit 844 was designed to help the Indian Railways reduce manufac-
turing and maintenance costs of locomotives and rolling stock and to improve
their performance and availability. Physical execution of the project is
proceeding satisfactorily, with procurement for the two major components over
75% completed.
Cr. No. 1072  Bihar Rural Roads Project; US$35 million credit of December 5,
1980; Effective Date: January 15, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
The project aims to construct or rehabilitate 700 km of rural roads
and to improve maintenance of the rural road network in Bihar. It is
proceeding on schedule, with the first year's program of rural road construc-
tion well underway and agreement reached on much of the second year's
program.



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 20
Ln. No. 1335 Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 1033 Calcutta Urban Transport Project; US$56 million credit of
October 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 18, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Implementation of the Bombay project is satisfactory, with over 70%
of the loan disbursed. All project-financed buses are in service, increasing
the fleet to nearly 2,000, in accordance with appraisal estimates. However,
delays in construction of new workshop facilities have been substantial;
construction began in January 1982, but to allow for completion the loan
closing date may have to be extended one year. Traffic management civil
works are also somewhat behind schedule, although now proceeding satisfac-
torily.
Implementation of works under Cr. 1033 is proceeding satisfactorily,
a good start having been made on the important early procurement steps.
However, financial and managerial performance is lagging behind expectations
and must now receive project authorities' full attention if physical and
financial performance targets are to be achieved.
Cr. No. 687   Madras Urban Development Project; US$24 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 756   Second Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$87 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: April 7, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 1082 Second Madras Urban Development Project; US$42 credit of
January 14, 1981; Effective Date: March 2, 1981;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
Cr. No. 1185 Kanpur Urban Development Project; US$25 million credit of
February 4, 1982; Effective Date: April 22, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
Progress on Credit 687 is generally satisfactory; costs are within
appraisal targets on most components and the credit is nearly fully dis-
bursed. Construction is complete and cost recovery is excellent in the first
sites and services area. For the other two areas, land acquisition problems
and consequent delays in construction required a one-year extension of the
closing date. Slum improvements benefitting about 30,000 families are com-
plete. Legal constraints and initially poor maintenance of improvements
hindered cost recovery for slum improvement at the outset. However, project
authorities have taken action to resolve these problems and cost recovery has
improved markedly.
Early project implementation of the second Madras project is
proceeding satisfactorily, with evidence that the lessons learned under the
first project are being heeded.



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 20
The Calcutta project is proceeding quite well in most sectors. Ini-
tial delays caused by materials shortages have eased and the pace of
implementation has picked up. Procurement and financial management issues
are being handled satisfactorily. Staff shortages in some of the implement-
ing agencies continue, and institutional development remains a priority.
Disbursements are ahead of schedule, but revised cost estimates for the
project, together with the initial implementation delays, may necessitate
a revision of the implementation timetable and adjustments to project scope.
Credit 1185 is aimed at providing shelter and urban services in
Kanpur, the largest city in Uttar Pradesh. Initial tendering is underway.
Cr. No. 585   Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40 million
credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date: February 6, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The Project has had a slow start due to delays in the preparation of
technical reports for regional and local water authorities and in the engage-
ment of consultants. While improvements have been made in the physical
execution, other aspects of project implementation continue to lag so that
disbursements under the Credit have fallen short of estimates at the time
of appraisal. In order to improve the situation, arrangements have been made
to closely supervise and coordinate implementation.
Cr. No. 848   Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$38 million credit
of October 27, 1978; Effective Date: January 25, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 842   Second Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$196
million credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date: June 12,
1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Cr. No. 899   Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$48 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: November 9, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 1046 Rajasthan Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$80 million
credit of June 25, 1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Implementation under Credit 848 is satisfactory and the institution
building aspects of the project are nearing completion. However, initial
procurement problems and the Government's slow release of construction funds
may delay the project by about 12 months and result in cost overruns. Con-
struction work under Credit 842 is now gaining momentum and a large number of
contracts are due to be awarded shortly. However, the Government has had to
prepare a revised financing plan since the delay in the appointment of con-
struction consultants, together with last-minute design changes, caused a
two-year delay in the start of construction and consequent substantial cost
overruns. Initial delays in implementation of institutional arrangements and
tariff measures proposed for Credit 899 have been overcome and the project is
progressing satisfactorily. Implementation of Credit 1046 is proceeding
satisfactorily. Construction of rural schemes has commenced, and work on



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 20
urban schemes is expected to begin shortly. All major materials contracts
for the first two years' requirements of the project have been awarded.
Ln. No. 1011 Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Cr. No. 502   Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83
million credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Ln. No. 1251 Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)       Composite ProJect; US$145 million loan (Third Window) of
June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 720   Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project; US$23 million credit of
June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 736   Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$70 million credit of
October 11, 1977; Effective Date: January 13, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 740   Orissa Irrigation Project; US$58 million of October 11, 1977;
Effective Date: January 16, 1978; Closing Date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 788   Karnataka Irrigation Project; US$126 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 10, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984
Cr. No. 808   Gujarat Medium Irrigation Project; US$85 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 843   Haryana Irrigation Project; US$111 million credit of
August 16, 1978; Effective Date: December 14, 1978; ClosinR
Date: August 31, 1983
Cr. No. 889   Punjab Irrigation Project; US$129 million credit of March 30,
1979; Effective Date: June 20, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Cr. No. 954   Second Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$210 million credit of
April 14, 1980; Effective Date: June 6, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 1011 Second Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$175 million credit of
May 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date:
April 30, 1986
Cr. No. 1078 Mahanadi Barrages Project; US$83 million credit of December 5,
1980; Effective Date: February 11, 1981; Closing Date: March 31,
187



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 20
Cr. No. 1108  Madhya Pradesh Medium Irrigation Project; US$140 million credit
of March 26, 1981; Effective Date: May 13, 1981; Closing Date:
March 31, 1987
Cr. No. 1177 Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation Project; US$220 million credit
of February 24, 1982; Effective Date: Expected May 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1987
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possible,
to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation. Canal
lining and other irrigation infrastructure, drainage, and land shaping are
prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions have been
made to increase agricultural production and marketing by reforming and
upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing processing and
storage facilities and village access roads. The Periyar Vaigai project in
Tamil Nadu experienced a 50% cost overrun due mainly to an underestimation of
rehabilitation work required and higher-than-anticipated unit costs. An IDA
mission undertook a comprehensive review and reformulation of the project in
1981. Project completion is now scheduled for March 1984. In the
Maharashtra I project, civil works in some project components are well behind
schedule and of poor quality. Remedial measures are under discussion. The
overall management and planning for implementation of the Gujarat II project
has been disappointing. The State Government and GOI are discussing ways to
resolve staffing difficulties and expedite progress. Progress of the remain-
ing projects is generally satisfactory.
Cr. No. 1116 Karnataka Tank Irrigation Project; US$54 million credit of
March 26, 1981; Effective Date: May 5, 1981; Closing Date:
March 31. 1986
The project is designed to finance the construction of about 160 tank
irrigation schemes throughout the State of Karnataka. As of February 1982,
six of these schemes had been sanctioned for implementation, and another 28
were in various stages of preparation. Initial progress with project
preparation has been slow due to staff constraints and unfamiliarity of local
engineers with the design criteria agreed under the project.
Cr. No. 1004 Uttar Pradesh Public Tubewells Project; US$18 million credit
of May 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Physical progress is proceeding satisfactorily, with approximately
40% of planned tubewells completed. The operation and maintenance, and
monitoring and evaluation components of the project need considerable
strengthening. The Government of UP has agreed to undertake specific actions
designed to address these deficiencies. Project completion may be delayed
by six months due to initial procurement delays.
Cr. No. 682   Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 20
Cr. No. 690   West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$12 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
August 30, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 712   Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$10 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 2, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Cr. No. 728   Assam Agricultural Development Project; US$8 million credit
of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 737   Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$13 million credit of November 14, 1977; Effective Date:
February 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 761   Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project; US$8 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 2, 1978;
Closing Date: October 31. 1983
Cr. No. 862   Composite Agricultural Extension Project, US$25 million credit
of February 16, 1979; Effective Date: December 14, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 1028 Kerala Agricultural Extension Project; US$10 million credit of
June 25, 1980; Effective Date: August 18, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
Cr. No. 1137 Tamil Nadu Agricultural Extension Project; US$28 million credit
of May 7, 1981; Effective Date: July 22, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
Cr. No. 1135 Maharashtra Agricultural Extension Project; US$23 million credit
of May 7, 1981; Effective Date: July 22, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
Cr. No. 1138 Second Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension Project; US$23 million
credit of May 7, 1981; Effective Date: July 22, 1981; Closing
Date: June 30, 1987
Cr. No. 1219 Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$6 million credit approved March 30, 1982; Effective Date:
Expected August 1982; Closing Date: March 31, 1988
These twelve credits finance the reorganization and strengthening of
agricultural extension services and the development of adaptive research
capabilities in twelve States in India.. In areas where the reformed exten-
sion system is in operation, field results have been very good, both in terms
of adoption of new agricultural techniques and of increased crop yields. In
Rajasthan, Assam, Madhya Pradesh I and Orissa, in particular, significant
gains have been made under the projects. In West Bengal, a change in govern-
ment brought a temporary hiatus in project implementation, but the new State



ANNEX II
Page 15 of 20
Government has reaffirmed its commitment, and project activities are resum-
ing. There has been considerable progress in staffing and civil works, but
the initial delays are likely to cause a two-year extension of the project.
In Bihar, project progress had been disappointing mainly due to serious
staffing vacancies. However, the pace of project implementation is expected
to accelerate following the decision by the Government of Bihar in January
1982 to provide necessary funds for the project and fill key posts. A
revised implementation schedule is under preparation. In Gujarat, Haryana
and Karnataka, all covered under the Composite Agricultural Extension
Project, the basic extension system has been established and attention now
needs to focus on the quality of extension recommendations and the filling of
remaining staff vacancies. In Kerala, project implementation has begun in
three of eleven districts; but further progress on the project will require
an early decision by the State Government to extend the T & V system to the
remaining eight districts. In Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra, initial project
implementation is encouraging. Most extension workers have been posted and
are undergoing training. There is good evidence that extension recommenda-
tions are having a positive impact on farmers' activities. In the Madhya
Pradesh II project, implementation has begun in five of the twelve districts.
Extension workers are undergoing training and all staff are expected to be on
board by early May 1982.
Cr. No. 680   Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1985
Following the resolution of initial implementation delays caused by
staffing and funding problems, the project progress continues satisfactorily.
However, farmers' demand for coconut rehabilitation has been disappointing
and is not likely to meet the target. This shortfall will be offset by
increased implementation of new coconut planting and pepper rehabilitation.
Ln. No. 2095 Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation IV Project;
and       US$190 million loan and US$160 million credit of February 24,
Cr. No. 1209  1982; Effective Date:  Expected May 1982; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
The project, which is a continuation of ARDC III, consists of a
two-year time slice of ARDC's lending program to farmers, mainly for minor
irrigation, and including amounts for diversified lending and for the support
of training programs for the staff of participating banks. Implementation is
proceeding satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 855   National Agriculture Research Project; US$27 million credit
of December 7, 1978; Effective Date: January 22, 1979; Closing
Date: September 30., 1983
While the initial sanctioning of research subprojects under this
project was somewhat slower than expected, there has been significant recent
progress, especially in Haryana and Andhra Pradesh. Commitment of funds to
research subprojects is proceeding satisfactorily, although corresponding
disbursements lag behind the original estimates. Additions to the staff of



ANNEX II
Page 16 of 20
the Project Unit have been made to expedite further progress under the
project.
Cr. No. 342   Agricultural Universities Project; US$12 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
The primary aim of this project is to assist in the development of
the agricultural universities in Bihar and Assam, improve the quality of
practical training provided to students and enhance their employment oppor-
tunities. Implementation of the civil works component of this project was
initially delayed at both locations on account of frequent top management
changes, shortages in raw materials and political unrest (in Assam). Project
implementation has picked up since and disbursements are expected to be
completed by the extended closing date. The technical assistance component
of this project has been satisfactorily completed and the computer for the
Institute of Agricultural Research Statistics is fully operational.
Cr. No. 747   Second Foodgrain Storage Project; US$107 million credit of
January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 17, 1978; Closing Date
June 30, 1982
There has been progress in the construction of bag storage
warehouses. However, difficulties in land acquisition and in providing rail
sidings, exacerbated by management problems, have caused GOI to propose
modifications to the project to provide additional bag storage capacity in
lieu of bulk storage facilities. Land acquisition for the additional bag
storage warehouses is proceeding, but a significant extension of the closing
date would be necessary to complete the project. GOI's proposals are cur-
rently under review by the Association.
Cr. No. 871   National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) Project;
US$30 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
May 3, 1979; Closing date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 1146 Second National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC)
Project; US$125 million credit of July 21, 1981; Effective
Date: November 11, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1987
These credits provide funds to rural cooperatives in various States
for the construction and operation of godowns (warehouses) and cold storage
and marketing facilities. Major emphasis is placed on institution building
in order to make NCDC grow into a more effective development institution to
serve India's rural cooperative sector. Credit 871 is proceeding well.
Subproject appraisal and loan sanctioning are in accord with appraisal tar-
gets, and disbursements are ahead of schedule. However, as a result of
initial shortages in the supply of steel and cement, construction costs have
risen 30-40%, necessitating a revision of quantitative targets. Implementa-
tion of Credit 1146, which became effective in November 1981, was slower than
anticipated in the initial stages due mainly to poor preparation in most
States in the pre-project year. However, during the first 5 months of the
planned project period, development has been satisfactory, although disburse-
ments are currently considerably less than projected at appraisal. NCDC is



ANNEX II
Page 17 of 20
taking steps to ensure that the progress in preparatory work attained during
the last few months is maintained.
Cr. No. 482   Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30 million credit
of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521   Rajasthan Dairy Development Project; US$27.7 million credit of
December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522   Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
Cr. No. 824   National Dairy Project; US$150 million credit of June 19,
1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
These four credits, totalling US$224.1 million, support dairy
development projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy
cooperative scheme in Gujarat State. Nearly 3,000 dairy cooperative
societies (DCS) have been established under the three state projects, with
membership of almost 300,000. Farmer response has been excellent and project
authorities are under considerable producer pressure to speed up the estab-
lishment of DCSs. Profitability in almost all DCSs is good and construction
of dairy and feed plants is proceeding at a satisfactory pace. The coal
fired boilers being installed in the dairy plants throughout the State
projects appear to have a design flaw. The NDDB has assured IDA that this
flaw will be corrected or the boilers replaced. The project in Madhya
Pradesh has had significant success in the conversion of wasteland to pas-
tureland. Under the National Dairy Project, six sub-projects are under
implementation, and further sub-projects are in various stages of preparation
and appraisal by the Indian Dairy Corporation. Progress has been slow due to
the longer-than-anticipated time required to secure the appropriate agree-
ments on institutional structure and guarantees on loans to the sub-projects.
The IDC is considering the establishment of a special review committee to
deal more expeditiously with this issue.
Ln. No. 1273  National Seed Project; US$25 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 816   Second National Seed Project; US$16 million credit of July 17,
1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
These projects were designed to increase the availability of high
quality agricultural seed, and cover nine States (four by Ln. 1273-IN and
five by Cr. 816-IN). Project implementation has been slow because of initial
problems in coordination and monitoring particularly at the national level.



ANNEX II
Page 18 of 20
Although the projects are generally about three years behind appraisal tar-
gets, their implementation has gained greater momentum since 1980 and the
stage is now set for all infrastructure and investments planned under the
projects to be completed by June 1984.
Cr. No. 1012 Cashewnut Project; US$22 million credit of June 10, 1980;
Effective Date: September 3, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1985
Cashew planting and improvement programs are proceeding well and
the targets are expected to be fully met. Economic effects of cashew planta-
tion, particularly in Orissa State, are expected to be very significantly
favorable. Cashew research and cashew study components are behind schedule
but are expected to pick up soon.
Cr. No. 610   Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18 million credit of
February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30. 1976; Closing
Date: December 31. 1983
Project implementation continues to improve. The area to be
covered by the project (183,000 ha) has been attained, and yields are
increasing. Major processing facilities in Maharashtra and Haryana are under
contract and bid evaluation. The link between university research and
project activity is excellent. However, because of poor performance in the
early stages, the project closing date has been extended by two years to
December 31, 1983, to allow for completion of the project works and full
utilization of the credit proceeds.
Cr. No. 1034 Karnataka Sericulture Project; US$54 million credit of
October 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 18. 1980
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Project implementation is satisfactory and, based on revised planning
by the project authorities in late 1981, it is expected that the time lost
in the initial stages of the project can be recouped during 1982. The
research staff has commenced operations and the overseas training component
of the project has been initiated with the collaboration of Japanese experts.
Cr. No. 806   Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture Project; US$14 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: January 16, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The principal executing agency, J&K Horticulture Produce Marketing
and Processing Corporation, is making good progress, but project facilities
will have to be reduced due to cost escalations. The project's research
activities, however, are behind the original schedule due to difficulties in
obtaining technical assistance.



ANNEX II
Page 19 of 20
Cr. No. 609   Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date:
May 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
A study financed under this Credit and completed in November 1979
established the technical feasibility of setting up two mills, one for
sawnwood and one for pulp, as the basis of the development of a forest-based
industry in Bastar district. The GOI is now reviewing a study on the
socio-economic impact of such investments, and the State Government is
assessing the industrial development proposal.
Cr. No. 925   Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry Project; US$23 million credit
of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: January 3, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 961   Gujarat Community Forestry Project; US$37 million credit of
April 14, 1980; Effective Date: June 24, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 1178  West Bengal Social Forestry Project; US$29 million credit of
February 24, 1982; Effective Date: April 9, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1987
These projects, designed to expand the social forestry program in
Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat, to provide a source of energy to the villages, and
to supply raw materials to cottage industries, are proceeding well. The
projects provide for large-scale tree plantations on public lands, primarily
along roads, rails and canals, on village common lands and on degraded forest
reserves. There has been excellent performance in establishing healthy
plantations in UP and Gujarat, exceeding appraisal targets, but the staffing
of the forestry extension service is behind schedule and requires the atten-
tion of the project authorities. Initial implementation of the West Bengal
project is proceeding very well.
Ln. No. 1897 Kandi Watershed and Area Development Project; US$30 million
loan of September 12, 1980; Effective Date: November 18, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
There has been considerable progress in project implementation since
the last review in June 1981. In the upper catchment, cattle grazing has
decreased and afforestation increased, with a consequent improvement in the
vegetative cover to reduce erosion and floods--a main project objective.
Construction of the Dholbaha dam has started, a feasibility studies of other
watershed schemes to be financed by the project are well in hand.
Ln. No. 1394 Gujarat Fisheries Project; US$14 million loan and US$4
(TW) and      million credit of April 22, 1977; Effective date: July 19, 1977;
Cr. No. 695   Closing Date: June 30, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 20 of 20
Cr. No. 815   Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Project; US$17.5 million credit of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984
In Gujarat, the construction of harbor and shore facilities has been
delayed by a contractual dispute. This is expected to be resolved by June
1982, in which case harbor works should be finished by mid-1984. Village
roads and water supply components of the project are proceeding satisfac-
torily. In Andhra Pradesh, the project harbor at Visakhapatnam was offi-
cially opened in February 1982; harbor works at Kakinada and Nizampatnam are
progressing satisfactorily following the resolution of design problems.
Cr. No. 963   Inland Fisheries Project; US$20 million credit of January 18,
1980; Effective Date: May 5, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1985
This project, which is the first of its kind in India, is designed
to increase carp production in five states--West Bengal, Bihar, Orissa,
Madhya Pradesh, and Uttar Pradesh--through the construction of hatcheries,
improvements to fish ponds, strengthening of extension services, and the
establishment of training centers. After a slow start in the first
18 months, project implementation is now satisfactory. Detailed designs for
the first two fish seed hatcheries in each of the five project States has
been completed and construction work is expected to start in June 1982.
Cr. No. 981   Second Population Project; US$46 million credit of April 14,
1980; Effective Date: June 26, 1980; Closing Date: December 31,
1985
The project has as its major objectives the lowering of infant and
child mortality and morbidity, the improvement in the health status of
mothers and children and the lowering of fertility. Implementation is
proceeding generally satisfactorily and there has been a large build-up of
activity since the last review in April 1981. The major delay is in the
construction area where, despite good progress in site selection for popula-
tion centers, the shortage of architects and construction materials and slow
progress in staffing of construction units are causing problems.
Cr. No. 1003 Tamil Nadu Nutrition Project; US$32 million credit of May 12,
1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980; Closing Date: March 31,
1987
First year's implementation in one test block has proceeded according
to schedule.  Based on this experience, the nutrition program is being
expanded to the other 32 blocks.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
SECOND CHAMIBAL (MADHYA PRADESH) IRRIGATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:           Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project
One-and-one-half years.
(b) The agency that has prepared the project
Government of Madhya Pradesh
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and
date of the first mission to consider the project
September 1980; November/December 1980
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
November 1980
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
June 1982
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
October 1982
Section II:          Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III:         Special Conditions
(a) GOMP to organize a rotational water allocation
system and to energize each augmentation tubewell
within one month after installation of pump unit
(para 40);
(b) GOMIP to furnish a detailed plan for establishment
of a Water and Land Management Institute
(para 41);



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(c) GOMP to submit plan for studies by December 31,
1982 (para 45);
(d) GOMP to cause its panel of dam experts to inspect
periodically the dam and related structures to
determine any deficiencies that might endanger
their safety (para 47);
(e) GOMP to review water charges in the State by
December 31, 1983 and implement revised system
of charges as soon as possible thereafter
(para 63).






7wyi
1 N D I A
CHAMBAL (MADHYA PRADESH)
IRRIGATION 11 PROJECT
P.Ject o,eo
Chombal Comw.d Area Dev. ProjcfRcjasthan)
Other irr,gated .,eos                                                                                                                                                    Chard-i
Majo, c-Is
Reerwirs -d d.-                                                                                                                                           A
Rwrs
Mch, .od
Aliga
s
K  ;_
N.twol capfal                                                                                                                                                                                          S
St.te pital
(Z) Oit, f headquo,ters
0 To.ns
___-Diffict boundar,e                                                                   i  'A             I  H   A
b..nda,,es                                                                                                                 ur
o                                                            ro o
lo
MUES
25       50       7p        go
-SI
Khol
lA-.R lAl
D H Y A
IL p
21-
p
t
GA
5- IA.
R AD"
et
tt



