0   ICA        CREDIT NUMBER 1288 IN
Project Agreement
(Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Irrigation II Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH
Dated                               , 1982


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1288 IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      f     tf, 1982, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH, acting by its Governor
(hereinafter called Madhya Pradesh).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India, acting by its President (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies   equivalent  to   twenty-seven  million  six   hundred
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 27,600,000), on the terms
and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but
only on condition that Madhya Pradesh agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Association as are hereinafter set forth;
and
WHEREAS Madhya Pradesh, in consideration of the Asso-
ciation's entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the
Borrower, hat agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set
forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. Madhya Pradesh shall carry out the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, agricultural and engi-
neering   practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.


﻿- 2 -
ction 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to this
Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Madhya Pradesh undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available
to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisi-
tion, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by Madhya Pradesh to replace
or repair such goods.
(b) Madhya Pradesh shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it
by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the purposes of the
Project.
Section 2.04 (a) Madhya Pradesh shall furnish to the
Association, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, speci-
fications, reports, contract documents and construction and
procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifica-
tions thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Asso-
ciation shall reasonably request.
(b)   Madhya Pradesh shall: (i) maintain or cause to be
maintained records and procedures adequate to record and monitor
the progress of the Project (including its cost and the benefits
to be derived from it), to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their
use in the Project; (ii) enable the Association's accredited
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and
documents; and (iii) furnish to the Association at regular
intervals  all   such  information   as   the  Association   shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditures
of such proceeds and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c)  Upon the award by Madhya Pradesh of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof,


﻿-3-
the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between Madhya
Pradesh and the Association, Madhya Pradesh shall prepare and
furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the
execution and initial operation of the Project, its cost and the
benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by
Madhya Pradesh and the Association of their respective obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement and the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit.
Section 2.05. (a) Madhya Pradesh shall at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to
the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit.
(b) Madhya Pradesh shall promptly inform the Association
of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with
the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes
of the Credit, or the performance by Madhya Pradesh of its obli-
gations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. Madhya Pradesh shall: (i) by November 30,
1982, establish and adequately staff a Quality Control unit
within its Irrigation Department; and (ii) by March 31, 1983,
furnish to the Association for its comments quality standards for
the works to be carried out under the Project and a proposal for
the methodology of implementing quality control.
Section 3.02. Madhya Pradesh shall: (i) by November 30,
1982, sanction the posts required for strengthening the planning
and monitoring unit within the Command Area Development Authority
for the Project Area and appoint a Director of said unit; and
(ii) by December 31, 1982, prepare in consultation with the
Association a detailed plan for monitoring and evaluation.


﻿-4-
Section 3.03. Madhya Pradesh shall: (i) select an agency
to conduct water resources and management studies; (ii) by
December 31, 1982, furnish to the Association for its comments a
plan for water resource studies, including a detailed methodology
and implementation schedule; and (iii) cause the selected agency
to carry out said studies with due regard to the comments, if
any, of the Association.
Section 3.04. Madhya Pradesh shall: (i) by December 31,
1982, prepare and furnish to the Association for its review
a detailed plan for a management study for the purpose of
establishing rules, procedures and financial and other require-
ments for securing effective operation and pr,ventive maintenance
of the canal network in the Project Area; (ii) by June 30, 1983,
carry out said study; and (iii) promptly thereafter inform the
Association of the implementation uf the recommendations of the
study.
Section 3.05. Madhya Pradesh shall: (i) by December 31,
1982 prepare and furnish to the Association for its agreement a
detailed plan for the establishment of a water and land manage-
ment institute; and (ii) by September 30, 1983 establish such an
institute.
Section 3.06. Madhya Pradesh shall:
(a) organize a rotational water allocation system for
each block as soon as the construction of the augmentation
tubewells and the block development works for the block have been
completed; and
(b) energize each of said augmentaton tubewells within one
month after installation of the pump unit in the tubewells.
Section 3.07. With the objective3 of ensuring recovery of
annual operation and maintenance costs, and to the extent possi-
ble, cost of infrastructure investment, having regard inter alia
to incentives for, and payment capacity of, farmers, Madhya
Pradesh undertakes: (i) by December 31, 1983, to review the water
and water-related charges in Madhya Pradesh; and (ii) as soon as
f6asible thereafter, to introduce and to enforce -.n appropriate
system of water and water-related charges based on recommenda-
tions arising from said review after paying due regard to the
Association's comments, if any, on such recommendations.
Section 3.08. Without limiting the generality of Section
2.01 of this Agreement, Madhya Pradesh shall, under arrangements


﻿-5-
satisfactory to the Association and Madhya Pradesh, cause the
dams and the related structures serving the Project to be period-
ically inspected in accordance with sound engineering practice in
order to determine whether there are any deficiencies in the
condition of such structures, or in the the quality and adequacy
of maintenance of methods of operations of the same, which may
endanger their safety.
Section 3.09. Madhya Pradesh undertakes to take all measures
as may be considered necessary to minimize the risk of malaria
and other water-related diseases within the Project Area.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. Madhya Pradesh shall cause its departments and
other agencies and authorities responsible for carrying out the
Project or any part thereof to: (i) maintain separate records
and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound
accounting principles and procedures consistently applied, its
resources, expenditures and operation related to the Project; and
(ii) furnish to the Association copies of their accounts and
financial statements related to the Project for each fiscal year,
certified as to their accuracy and authenticity by an independent
auditor acceptable to the Association, as soon as available but
in any case not later than nine months after the end of such
year.
Section 4.02. Madhya Pradesh shall cause its departments and
other agencies and authorities responsible for carrying out the
Project or any part thereof to: (i) have their accounts and
financial statements related to the Project for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;  (ii)   furnish  to  the   Association  immediately
following its finalization, the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish, or cause to
be furnished, to the Association such other information concern-
ing said accounts and records, financial statements and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.


﻿- 6 -
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of Madhya Pradesh thereunder shall terminate on
the earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
Madhya Pradesh of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿Cable address:                   Telex:
INDEVAS                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For Madhya Pradesh:
Chief Secretary
Government of Madhya Pradesh
Vallabh Bhavan
Bhopal
India 462006
Cable address:
CHIEFSEC
Bhopal
India
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of Madhya Pradesh may be taken or executed by
a Secretary to the Government of Madhya Pradesh or such other
person or persons as Madhya Pradesh shall designate in writing,
and Madhya Pradesh shall furnish to the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signa-
ture of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
$$fRegional Vice President
South Asia
STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH
By
Authorized Representative


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   1.   Drilling and well development works may be carried out
either through force account or on the basis of competitive
bidding advertised locally according to procedures satisfactory
to the Association.
2.   Contracts for works other than those mentioned under
A.1 above, and for equipment, vehicles and materials may be
procured on the *basis of competitive bidding advertised locally
according to procedures satisfactory to t'e Association.
B.   1.   With respect to all contracts for civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, Madhya Pradesh shall furnish
to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in
the said documents or procedures as the Association shall reason-
ably request. Any further modification to the bidding documents
shall require the Association's concurrence before it is issued
to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, Madhya
Pradesh shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Association of the name of the bidder to which it
intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Asso-
ciation, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on
the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such
other information as the Association shall reasonably request.
The Association shall, if it determines that the intended award
would be inconsistent with this Schedule, promptly inform Madhya
Pradesh and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the


﻿-9-
submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account !.n respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and not governed by the preceding para-
graph, Madhya Pradesh shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Asso-
ciation of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the
Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies
of such contract, together with the analysis of the respective
bids, recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with this Schedule, promptly inform Madhya Pradesh and state the
reasons for such determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certif
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
1982RSCE.
FOR SECRETARY


