Documeit of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
RP1  No. P-3849-Er
REPORT AND RECOMIEMDTION
OF THE
PRES IfEN OF T E
I-  ENTIO1AL  EVEELOPIMENr ASSOCIATIOt
TO 7HE
:ECUTIVE DIRETORS
OS A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN LI MNMST EQUITAIEN TO SDR 38.7 MELLION
TO ETHIOPIA
FOR A
SIXIH TELECOMENICATIONS PROJECT
June 12, 1984
Thi dcument laos a resuicted dehgo mE may be ued by eipiens ony in td  perfomunc at
their officia dudes Us combef  ayt aw   s ssewlse be Cdicosed without- Would Dnk auhoid do



CURREICY EQUIVAILENTS 1/
Currency Unit = Ethiopian Birr (Br)
US$ 1.00 = Br 2.07
Br 1.00 = USS0.48
SDR 0.  = US$1.00
SUR 1.00 = US$1.
FISCAL 'YEAR (FY)
Government: July 8 - July 7
ETA       : July I - June 30
- WEIGHTS ALQD MEASURES
I Kilogram (kg)           -            2.205 pounds (lb)
1 frescula (fr)                        17 kg
100 kilograms (kg)                     1 qunrtal (qt)
1 metric ton (mt)         =            2.205 pounds (lb)
I hectare (ha)                         2.4711 acres (ac)
I kilometer (km)          -          - 0.62 miles Cmi)
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRBIS USED
AfDB            : African Development Bank
AIDB            : Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank of Ethiopia
CPSC            : Central Planning Supreme Council
DELs               Direct exchange lines
ETA             : Ethiopian Telecommunications Authority
ICR             : International competitive bidding
INMELSAT        : International Telecommunications Satellite Organization
ITU                International Telecommunication Union
MOTC               Ministry of Transport and Communications
OECD              Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development
SDR               Special drawing right
STD                Subscriber trunk (long distance) dialing
UNDP            : United Nations Development Programme
1/ The currency equivalent between the US dollar and the Ethiopian birr
has been constant from 1973 to the date of this report.



FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
ETHIOPIA
SIXTH TELECIMMUICATIONS PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECr SUMIARY
Borrower:          Ethiopia
Amount:            SDR 38.7 mill-on (US$40.0 million equivalent)
Beneficiary:       The Ethiopian Telecommunications authority (ETA)
Terms:             Standard
Relending Terms:  The Government will relend the proceeds of the credit to
the Ethiopian Telecommunications Authority at 12
percent interest per annym with a repayment period of 20
years, including five years' grace. ETA will bear the
foreign exchange risk.
Co-lenders:        Italy, Sweden and the African Deve_opment Bank
Project
Description:       The proposed project comprises the capital investment
part of ETA's development peugraa for thae years
1984-1988 which is designed to increase the availability
of telecommunications services and improve service
quality to support economic growth in agriculture,
industry, trade and the social sectors. In particular,
the proposed project will: (a) extend the national
telecommunications network, with regular service to
about 100 administrative and business centers not served
at present, as well as connect about 40 new remote
communities with radio call systems; (b) construct about
14 new broadband long-distance transmission links and
increase the capacity of existing ones; (c) add about
62,000 automatic and 5,000 manual switching lines and
about 5,300 inter-office junctions; (d) expand the local
cable networks by about 180,000 pair-km and connect
about 45,000 new telephone and 250 new telex
subscribers; (e) expand international exchange and
satellite transmission facilities; (f) provide equipment
and facilities to improve operation and maintenance of
existing and new installations; and (g) provide
project-related technical assistance.
Risks:             The project offers limited risks primarily relating to
possible delays in implementation. However, a
sensitivity analysis shows that a 10 percent increase in
capital and operating costs combined with a 10 percent
decrease in benefits would leave the project
economically viable. There is also a risk that the
This document has a restrited distibution and nay be ud by rents oly in the perfomance o
the ofrici duties. Its contents may not otherwise be dsdoedwitout World Bank authoriation.



- ii -
terms of parallel financing may vary from those
assumed. This risk has been minimized by a conservative
estimation of the onlending terms. The forelgn excbange rate
could vary but price contingencies are expected to be
sufficient to cover possible increases.
Estimated Costs:
US$ Million
Local     Foreign     Total
Items
Long Distance Inland Services              8.4         22.1       30.5
International Services                     2.1          5.0        7.1                        I
Local Services                            14.9         38.8       53.7
Telegraph, Telex, Data Services            0.5          1.5        2.0
Axlnl iaries                              8.3          7.1       15.4
Consultants' Services and Staff Training  1.1           3.2        4.3
Contingencies
Physical                              2.8         6.2         9.0
Price                                10.3         19.5       29.8
Total Project Cost                        48.4        103.4      151.8
Taxes and Duties                          20.5          -         20.5
Total Project Costs (net of
taxes and duties)                       27.9        103.4      131.3
Financing Plan:                                  US$ Million
Local     Foreign     Total
IDA Credit                                  -          40.0       40.0
Government of Italy                         -          25.0       25.0
Government of Sveden                        -          12.0       12.0
African Development Bank                    -          26.4       26.4
ETA's internal cash generation            48.4          -         48.4
Total                                48.4        103.4      151.8
Estimated Disbursemeaus
US$ Million
IDA Fiscal Year     FY85    FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89    FY90    FY91    FY92
Annual:               1.0     3.7     8.2    10.6      8.6     5.2      2.2     0.5
Cumulative:          1.0      6.7    12.9    23.5    32.1    37.3    39.5    40.0
Estimated Economic Rate of Return:  About 34 percent.
Staff Appraisal Report:    Report No. 4584a-ET, dated May 25, 1984.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPfENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECGIMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO ETHIOPIA
FOR A SIXTE TELEC0MMUNICATIONS PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to Ethiopia for SDR 38.7 million (USS40.0 million equivalent)
a         on standard IDA terms to help finance a sixth telecommunications project. The
Government will relend the prooeeds of the IDA credit to the Ethiopian
Telecommunications Authority (ETA), at 12 percent interest per annum, with a
repayment period of 20 years including five years' grace. ETA will bear the
foreign exchange risk. The Italian Government and the Swedish Government intend
to participate with parallel co-financing on a mixture of soft and commercial
terms for about US$25.0 million and US$12.0 million respectively. The African
Development Bank also intends to participate with parallel co-financing of about
US$26.4 million equivalent. The average terms of the co-financing have been
estimated at about 12 percent interest per annum, with a repaywent period of 15
years including three years' grace (para 49).
PART I - THE ECO,NOMY
2.        The last economic report on Ethiopia (Xo. 3552b-ET) Economic
Memorandum on Ethiopia) was circulated to the Executive Directors on
December 15, 1981. Since then, a Bank economic mission visited Ethiopia,
and a report is expected to be circulated shortly to the Executive
Directors. The mission's findings are reflected in the following
paragraphs. A summary of social and economic data is included in Annex I.
Structural Characteristics
K3.         Ethiopia, with a population estimated at about 33 million in
1982, is the third most populous country in Africa (after Nigeria and
Egypt). About 85 percent of the total population is rural. The country's
land area extends over 1.2 million square kilometers and may be broadly
divided into two main geographical zones, namely: the highland plateau of
central Ethiopia, and the surrounding lowlands. Its capital city, Addis
Ababa, located in the central highlands, has a population estimated at
around 1.4 million.
4.        Agriculture is the mainstay of the country's economy, accounting
for about 50 percent of GDP, 90 percent of exports, and 85 percent of total
employment. The major food crops are tef (a locally consumed cereal),
maize, barley, sorghum, wheat, pulses, and oilseecs.  Coff'e, the principal
export crop, generates over 60 percent of the couatry's export earnings.
Other export crops include oilseeds, pulses, cotton, sugarcane, fruits and
vegetables. The country's livestock herd is the largest in Africa; the
export of live animals has begun to increase in recent years.   Ethiopia's
known natural resources include gold, platinum, copper and potash. Some
petroleum exp'loration has taken place in the past, but no petroleum



reserves have yet been proven. None of these minerals has been exploited
on a large scale, and in most cases the potential for commercial
exploitation remains to be established. There are prospects for the
exploitation of geothermal energy. The country's main potential lies in
agriculture, for which the natural conditions of several areas are
favorable. Nearly 95 percent of the land under cultivation is operated by
individual farmers who have user rights to landholdings averaging two
hectares or less. Manufacturing indnstry, which accounts for about 10
percent of C-DP, is heavily dependent on agriculture; agro-based industry
constitutes around 70 percent of large- and medium-scale industry.
Handicrafts and small industry are operated by private owners. Domestic
trade, especially retail trade, and road transport are still largely in
private hands. Public sector control and ownership covers all of banking
and insurance, shipping, railway, airways, utilities, almost all of
large-scale manufacturing, and a large proportion of construction.
5.        With an estimated GNP per capita of around US$140 (1982) and with
a vast proportion of the populatioa (estimated at around 60 percent) living
below the absolute poverty level, Ethiopia remains amongst the poorest
countries in the world. Over the past decade, value added in agriculture
grew at only around 1.1 percent per annum, compared with a population
growth rate of 2.5 percent per annum. Problems are bound to be aggravated
by the projected population growth rate of 2.8 percent per annum. An
estimated three million people displaced by military conflicts and
persistent droughts call for relief and rehabilitation. Health services in
Ethiopia are limited and require major improvements to combat high rates of
morbidity, and infant and maternal iortality. Life expectancy is still at
a low level of about 46 years. Housing and sanitation facilities,
especially in the towns, are poor and need urgent attention.
Notwithstanding the country's rich endowment of fertile land and
substantial agricultural potential, its wide variation in topography and
extremely rugged terrain have been serious obstacles to internal
transportation and economic development in general. Nearly three-quarters
of Ethiopia's farms are more than half-a-day's walk from all-weather roads.
Recent Economic Developments
6.        Since the 1974 revolution, Ethiopia has made considerable social
progress, as reflected by significant increases in literacy and school
enrollment and a modest rise in life expectancy. The literacy rate rose
from 7 percent in 1973 to over 40 percent in 1981 and the primary school
enrollment rate increased from 19 percent to 47 percent over the same
period.  Agrarian reforms, in addition, have led to increased food
consumption in rural areas and to a more egalitarian distribution of
incomes. These achievements have not, however, been accompanied by
commensurate economic growth. During the decade ending 1982/83, the gross
domestic product grew at an average annual rate of only 2.2 percent in real
terms.
7.        The years 1974/75 through 1977/78 were marked by internal
political upheaval and armed conflicts which resulted in stagnation and in
some cases even declines of production in the commodity producing sectors.
The economy recovered thereafter, with GDP growth averaging 5.4 percent per



- 3 -
annuz during 1978/79 and 1979/80. Annual development campaigns (or
Zeme:chas) paved the way for this recovery through a target-setting and
ouniLorinx process, combined with increased budgetary allocations to
agriculture and industry.  Growth occurred mainly in agriculture, which
benefited from good weather, and from industry, through a greater
u.tilization of industrial capacity.  The economy, however, witnessed a
set-back during the following three years enduing 1982/83, with GDP growth
declining to around 2.9 percent per annum; the decline would have been
more severe but for a moderate recovery in 1982/83. The principal causes
*        for this set-back were droughts which affected agriculture, and capacity
constraints (notably in industry), owing to low rates of investment in the
past. The ratio of total investment to GDP has remained for many years
below 11 percent, due largely to constraints on domestic as well as
external resources. Domestic savings, which had averaged around 4 percent
of GDP in the recent past, fell below 3 percent during 1981/82 and
1982/83.  in addition, inflows of official development assistance have
remained low in recent years, averaging only around USS6 per capita as
compared to over US$20 per capita for developing countr4es in Africa.
S.        Ethiopia also experienced a sharp deterioration in the terms of
trade in recent years. The terms of trade index (1979/80 base) declined by
about 27 percent during the three-year period ending 1982/83, reflecting
mainly the decline in coffee prices and increased import prices. The value
of imports rose significantly in recent years while the value of exports
deelined (see Annex I). Consequertly, the current account deficit widened
to about 7 percent of GDP in 1981/82 and 1982/83. These external account
deficits were financed by significant increases in long-term capital,
reflecting in large part disbursements of concessional loans from various
sources, and also by a moderate increase in grant aid. Ethiopia's external
debt service ratio, which had been of the order of 6 percent of export
earnings in che late 1970s, increased sharply to about 11 percent in
1982/83, as export earnings declined and more debt service payments fell
due.
9.        Notwithstanding these adverse trends, government fiscal and
monetary management has continued to be prudent.   Ethiopia has a
relatively competent public service; in general, its ministries,
departments and public enterprises are well managed. There has been little
evidence of luxury consumption, and public investment levels have hitherto
remained manageable. The overall budget deficits remained below 5 percent
of GDP for the period 1978/79 to 1981/82 and modest current account
surpluses were achieved in these years. But during 1982/83, the overall
budget deficit rose to a level equivalent to about 13 percent of GDP,
principally due to a near doubling of capital expenditure and an increase
in current expenditure, reflecting in large part a government decision to
settle arrears due to parastatals in one year's time. The expansion in
money supply has been effectively controlled. During the three-year period
ending June 1982, money supply increased by around 8.5 percent per year.
But during the year 1982/83, mor.ey supply increased by over 15 percent.
Net credit to tbe Government expanded by 68 percent in 1982/83 owing to



- 4 -
the massive increase in government financing requirements. Meanwhile, net
credit to the prlvate sector declined by about 10 percent in 1982/83. The
inflation rate (as m-asured b-_ the Addis Ababa retail price index) dropped
from an average of 13 percent during 1978/79 and 1979/80 to about 4 percent
during the three year period ending 1982/83.
10.       The Government has taken a number of decisions since late 1982 to
reverse these deteriorating trends. The Government's ten-year plan is to
be phased into three sub-plans - a two-year plan, a three-year plan and a
five-year plan. Official pronouncements have stressed the importance of
revitalizing agriculture through guaranteed producer prices and diffusion
of improved technology to farmers; the need to restore confidence amongst
entrepreneurs engaged in small scale industry; and the need to attract
foreign investment and technology for development of the country's
resources.
11.       Senior government officials were reassigned in April 1983, with
the intent of strengthening the key ministries concerned with economic
development. Other noteworthy steps include a Joint Venture Code
introduced in January 1983 to promote joint ventures between foreign
investors (public or private) and Ethiopian public enterprises, and the
formulation of proposals to simplify and rationalize the system of direct
and indirect taxes and to make the tax system more Income-elastic.
12.       Since 1978, a Central Planning Supreme Council (CPSC) chaired bv
the Head of State has been responsible for the preparation, approval, and
oversight of economic plans, while a Council of Ministers has been
responsible for implementation. In April 1983, the Government introduced
measures that reduced the degree of centralized planning and the authority
of CPSC, and streamlined government institutions and authority
relationships along more traditional lines.
13.       Although the above-mentioned initiatives by Government are steps
in the right direction, there are several issues which require attention.
In regard to macro-economic planning and management, it is yet unclear as
to how the projected levels of investment are to be finaaced, given the low
domestic savings rate and limited inflow of official development assistance
(para 7). While overall budgetary deficits reflect prudent financial
management, they also indicate lm ited success in attracting external
concessionary assistance.
14.       Likewise, with the value of merchandise imports running at double
the value of merchandise exports, a major expansion In exports and
restraints on imports and/or import substitution are called for, in order
to reach a more sustainable external current account deficit. According to
the IMF, Ethiopia's real effective exchange rate appreciated by about 37.5
percent against the currency of major trading partners during the period
January 1975 to December 1982.  The overvalued exchange rate and the lack
of an effectivie package of export incentives have tended to reduce producer
margins in local currency and have inhibited the growth of exports.



- 5 -
15.       As regards sectoral issues, several other factors apart from the
drought appear to have impeded agricultural growth. Although some
initiatives have been made towards improving the Government's agricultural
and marketing policies, to date these have not been translated into
incentives for farmers to expand production and marketed surplus. Other
constraints include the low use of improved seeds and fertilizer,
inadequate agricultural extension and research, and restrictions on
inter-regional grain movement by private operators. The precise role of
the private sector is yet unclear - the business climate does not appear to
*       be conducive to savings and investment, particularly in industry.  All
sectors are also affected by the shortage of skilled manpower.
Medium Term Prospects
16.       The Ethiopian economy remains hampered by its weak infrastructure
(notably ro-.ds), low productivity in agriculture, heavy dependence on one
export commodity (coffee), a small industrial base, and shortages of
skilled manpower. Apart from this set of unfavorable initial conditions,
the availability of domestic resources for investment is constrained by the
Government's outlays on internal security, while import capacity is
constrained by the continuing deterioration in the terms of trade and by
low levels of external resource transfers. Moreover, the recent recession
in indu- rialized countries has Inter alia inhibited the expansion of
non-coffee exports. Further, production growth in industry is ''naing up
against capacity constraints due to the low levels of investnent in the
past.
17.       The need now is for a med4--m-tarm apprnach to develonment. and
for actions to accelerate the pace of economic growth. With a record of
generally satisfactory demand management, Ethiopia needs to orient economic
policy towards expanding the directly productive sectors, particularly
agriculture and industry, and to increase economic efficiency in the use of
resources. Tnere is a need to develop a more realistic macroeconomic frame
for the Government's forthcoming two-and three year plans and to present
well balanced portfolios of viable projects, within these plans. The
financing of increased public investment would call for greater efforts in
domestic as well as external resource mobilization. The marketing
framework and incentive structure in the agricultural sector need to be
improved in order to step up agricultural growth, and the business climate
for private small-scale enterprises, particularly in industry, should be
made more favorable for increased investment, output and exports. In
general, the authorities should consider making greater and more flexible
use of macro-level policy instruments (e.g. exchange rate and wage
policies) and less use of direct, administrative controls. The attainment
of higher growth rates will also depend on raising the operational
efficiency of public enterprises and on alleviating skilled manpower
shortages. Despite several constraints and limited room for
maneuverability on the part of the Ethiopia's economic policy-makers,
conditions exist for a GDP growth rate of 3-4 percent per



- 6 -
annum over the medium-term and for gradually improving the living standards
of the population provided the Government makes a concerted effort to
increase investment and to pursue policies which foster growth and
development.
External Assistance
18.       Unlike many other African countries, Ethiopia has no major
traditional source of technical and financial assistance. The Bank Group
was for some years the largest source of loans and credits, but in recent
years the European Economic Community, the African Development Bank, the
Soviet Union, the German Democratic Republic, and Czechoslovakia have
expanded their support, while development assistance is continuing from
Sweden, the Federal Republic of Germany and Italy. The level of
concessionary aid to Ethiopia has been very low (para.7). Ethiopia,
however, is in need of substantial resource transfers to support
investments that will enable a reasonable rate of growth to be achieved,
particularly in view of the country's poverty, low level of savings and
weak balance of payments position. Within the limits imposed by its
perceived security needs over the past few years, the Government has
directed available resources towards economic and social development; it
has restrained salaries, squeezed the import of non-essentials, and
increased taxes significantly.
19.    According to debt information provided by the Government to the
Bank's Debt Reporting System, the total debt outstanding and disbursed was
about US$1.1 billion as of June 30, 1983. The ratio of Ethiopia's debt
service to export earnings remained low (para 8) because of the relatively
low level of external loan commitments, and the tendency of some donors to
shift to support on grant terms. In addition, Italy, Finland, Sweden and
Japan have concluded debt forgiveness arrangements with Ethiopia. The
U.S. Exim-bank made a loan in i979 for aircraft purchases. The IMF has
provided Trust Fund loans and assistance under the Compensatory Financing
Facility (CFF). By July 1982, Ethiopia's net borrowings under the Trust
Fund stood at SDR26 million equivalent and drawings under the CFF stood at
about SDR54 million. In May 1981, an IMF stand-by arrangement for Ethiopia
in an amount equivalent to SDR 67.5 million was approved to support an
18-month program designed to strengthen overall fiscal performance and help
improve the balance of payments. This standby was fully disbursed and its
performance criteria were met. No formal request for further IMF
assistance has been made to date.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ETHIOPIA
20.       Bank Group lending to Ethiopia since 1950 totalled about US$702
million (less cancellations) as of March 31, 1984, consisting of 31 IDA
credits totalling about US$577 million, 12 Bank loans totalling about
US$109 million, and five IFC commitments totalling US$15.7 million. Much
of the lending (US$228 million) was committed between fiscal years 1974 and



- 7 -
1978. Subsequently, the compensation issue led to a two-year interruption in
new lending (para. 25). Since FY1973, lending has been on IDA terms only.
I3RPD's share of total public debt outstanding and disbursed as of June 30, 1983
is estimated at about 4 percent, and IDA's at 29 perceat. Their shares of total
debt service in FY1983 are estimated at about 9 percent and 4 percent,
respectively.
21.       Bank lending focussed on the construction oi trunk roads, power
and telecommunications facilities until the late 1960s, when its emphasis
*       shifted to agriculture and education.  Since 1973, eleven credits totalling
US$208 million have supported agricultural production and marketing, and some
att-racted co-financing or other complementary assistanice. Credit 1088-ET of
rebruary 2, 1981, together with co-financing from Sweden and the International
Fund for Agricultural Development, is assisting the agricultural minimum package
program, which represents the core of the Government's efforts to assist peasant
agriculture. The most recent credit (Credit 1429-ET of March 23, 1984) is
assisting the Government to increase the country's foreign exchange earnings
from coffee exports through improvements to coffee processing and marketing.In
addition, the Last four credits for roads have placed emphasis on meeting
agricultural needs. Since 1973, three credits totalling US$68 million have
supDorted educational development. Annex II contains a summary of Bank loans,
.DA credits, and IFC investments.
22.       Project implementation in Ethiopia, although subject to some
difficulties, is generally satisfactory. Ethiopia's overall record compares
favorably with other countries in the Eastern Africa Region. In recent years,
security problems affected three of our agricultural projects, but two of them
eventually made satisfactory progress. Projects sometimes suffer from management
problems, but those in the highways and education sectors particularly continue
to have strong management. Financial problems, rising labor costs and
occasional shortages of construction materials have also detracted from
efficient project implementation on occasion. However, our experience has been
that the Government and the project managements have generally been successful
in resolving these problems. In addition, the economic and social reforms
introduced since 1974 necessitated structural and operational changes in a
number of projects. In some cases, the changes were beneficial and in others
detrimental. For example, the scope of the first Coffee Processing Project was
widened as a result of the land reform and the take-over of washing stations,
whereas the Addis Ababa Dairy Development Project experienced production losses
following the take-over of some farms by peasant associations.
23.       Ethiopia's disbursement performance on projects assisted by the Bank
Group has also been reasonably satisfactory.  The ratio of disbursements to
undisbursed funds in Ethiopia over the past five years was about equal to the
Bank-wide average and above the average for the Eastern Africa Region.



24.       We propose to continue to assist the Government to devise and
implement policies and programs to improve the efficiency of both the public and
private sectors, to improve the macroeconomic framework for resource
mobilization and allocation, and to increase production and exports.   In our
economic and sector work, we have been carrying out studies of the agricultural
sector, including a joint study with the Government on farmers' incentives and
marketing efficiency, and also studies of the energy, industry, education, and               v
health and nutrition sectors. In our lending work, we plan to continue
emphasizing the productive sectors and essential infrastructure Lo help address
the country's capacity constraints and deteriorating terms of trade. A second
road sector project and a second coffee processing and marketing project have
been approved during the past year. Two other projects have been appraised -
an agricultural research project to help expand and strengthen existing research
capabilities and activities and a sixth education project to support the
Government's efforts to improve the quality, quantity and relevance of the
country's education programs. In addition, a third power project is being
prepared to help develop domestic energy resources to meet the needs of
Ethiopia's growing economy, and a peasant agricultural development project to
help increase the productivity and incomes of small farmers. We are making
concerted eLforts to arrange co-financing for proposed projects.
Compensation
25.       In recent years, the Government has made good progress in resolving
compensation claims for assets nationalized in 1975. Over half of the claims by
value have been settled. The Ethiopian Government has negotiated a
share-purchase agreement with IFC in respect of its shares in the Metahara Sugar
Company and in the Textile Mills of Dire Dawa. The Government's Compensation
Commission has settled with IFC's partner in Metahara, a Dutch firm which had a
large claim, and with IFC's major partner in the Textile Mills, a Japanese
company. A settlement with one of IFC's smaller partners in the Textile Mills
is in the process of being accepted by the parties. The Commission has recently
settled with a major British claimant, and has made an offer to a major American
claimant. The Commission has also settled with five or more smaller German,
Japanese and American claimants, and has entered into negotiations with a number
of others. In addition, the Ethiopian Government and the Italian Government
have agreed on an arrangement to settle all Italian claims.
PART III - THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
26.       Telecommunications services in Ethiopia are inadequate.  The scarcity
and low quality of services outside the major cities and the lack of
installations in rural areas have contributed to the slow development of these
areas and led to problems in the transportation, distribution and marketing of
agricultural and industrial goods. As of June 30, 1982, Ethiopia's telephone
density was about 0.25 Direct Exchange Lines (DELs) per 100 people. This was
below the 0.42 average for developing countries in Africa, and below neighboring



- 9 -
Kenya (0.5). but roughly the same as Sudan (0.24) and Somalia (0.20). Existing
celephone service in Ethiopia is concentrated in Addis Ababa, where the
telephone density, as of June 3G, 1982, was about 3.08 DEL& per 100 population,
and in the capital towns of the other 13 administrative regions where it
averaged about 2.74 per 100 people. Telephone density in the rest of the
country is a low 0.05 DELs per 100 people. As of June 30, 1982, there were
76,270 main telephone lines in Ethiopia-57 percent in Addis Ababa; 22 percent
in the 13 other regional capitals; and 21 percent spread over the rest of the
country.
27.       For administrative purposes, Ethiopia is divided into 14 regions, 102
provinces and 589 districts. The capital towns of the 14 regions, 101 of the
provincial main centers. and 285 of the district centers are provided with at
least some telephone service. Apart from the district centers, service is
extended to onLy 147 other towns. The capital towns of the regions, with the
exception of only three, are linked with microwave or radio circuits, and seven
of these towns have automatic telephone services. Thirty-nine percent of the
telephone subscribers in Ethiopia are estimted to be -.siness firms or
government and public service agencies. The proportion of business and
government subscribers is higher in the smaller towns. It is believed, however,
that a high proportion of the telephones listed as residential are used
primarily for business purposes.
Ethiopian Telecommunications Authority
2-8.      Public telecommunications services in Ethiopia are provided by the
Ethiopian Telecommunications Authority (ETA), a share company fully owned by the
Government and established by proclamation. ETA plans and coordinates all civil
communications within the country, coordinates with military authorities in the
allocation of the frequeucy spectrum, issues licenses to other users, and
represents Ethiopia on the International Telecoummnication Union (ITU) and other
iiternational telecommunications organizations. It provides and charges for
public telecommunications services (except broadcasting services) to all
categories of clients, including national and international telephone,
telegraph, and telex, as well as various leasing arrangements and special
services.  ETA prepares its own investment plans and budgets, but its investment
proposals require approval by the Government's Central Planning Supreme
Council.
29.       The corporate powers are exercised by a board of directors. The
Minister of Transport and Communications is the chairman of the board; other
members are nominated as individuals. At present, all of the board members are
nominated from within the Ministry of Transport and Communications. The chief
executive is the general manager who according to ETA's charter is not a formal
member of the board but assists at all meetings and participates in the
discussions. ETA will continue to retain its corporate existence in accordance
with its charter.
30.       ETA's organizational structure is adequate. It comprises departments
for finance and supply, operations, and engineering, and a division for



- 10 -
personnel and administration.   Planning and internal audit units also report to
the General Manager. In the operations department, subscriber relations and the
operation and maintenance of facilities are carried out by seven divisions
o-ganized into geographical regions. Managerial control is exercised through
formal periodic reports for management information, work orders for capital
works and service orders for cstomer service. The control system is effective
and works smoothly.  Improvements,  however, are needed to increase ETA's
managerial efficiency, and will be supported under the proposed project (para.
53).
31.       ETA has employed only Ethiopian nationals for the past 15 years, but
the number of staff, about 5,300, is excessive.  In FY1982, ETA employed an
average of 66 people for every 1,000 direct exchange Lines, although this ratio
also takes into account categories of staff that are usually hired under
temporary contracts in other countries. ETA will reduce this ratio during
implementation of the proposed project (para. 53).
32.       ETA has made concerted efforts to increase staff efficiency through
carefal and systematic recruitment, a comprehensive training program,
appropriate staff assigsments, and an incentive system. Together these efforts
have helped counter staff constraints brought on during the revolution. But
much more needs to be done. The UXDP is providing some assistance for training,
and the proposed project will complement this by providing specialist assistance
for- ETA's training center and also consultants' services to improve maintenance
systems, subscriber services, and management information systems (para.46).
Telephone Service Usage
33.       In automatic exchange areas, traffic generated by business and
goveranent subscribers, which accounts for only 35 percent of the automatic
exchange lines, makes up 63 percent of total traffic. Business, government and
residential connectiona used for business purposes generate most of the traffic
during the peak calling hours and are the primary determinants of system
capacity costs. Over 60 percent of ETA's metered telephone revenue is generated
by identified business and government subscriber lines, and about 74 percent is
accounted for by only 20 percent of the lines. The average revenue per main
telephone line in Ethiopia in 1982 was about USS368 equivalent, which is about
equal to the world average. The annual revenue per telephone is the highest in
Assab, the main port town on the Red Sea coast, followed by Dire Dawa, a
commercial and industrial center in the eastern part of the country.
Quality of Service and Existing Facilities
34.       The telephone service provided in Addis Ababa and the 15 other cities
with automatic exchanges is inadequate given the large unsatisfied traffic
demand and excess demand for the connection of new lines at most of these
locations. The automatic exchange installations in these 16 cities allow
24-hour subscriber-dialed local and interurban service.



- 11 -
35.       Depending on several factors, including the number of cubscribers
comnected, and the amount of traffic revenue produced, service at the 370
annually-operated telephone exchanges in other towns is available on either a Z4
hour, 12 hour, or office hours only (08O3-1200 and i300-1600) basis. Local
service quality is generally adequate. However, at practically all manual
exchange centers, there is a 1arge osatisfied demand for both additic-uil
cormections and for more interurban circuits.
36.       Statistics on the time delay in establishing operator assisted
long-distance calls indicate delays ranging from 84 minutes at peak time to 8
minutes in the evenings. The long delays at peak time resulted in 32 percent of
operator-assisted long-distance calls being cancelled. Thus, official
statistics grossly underestimate the demand for long-distance calls. For
subscriber-dialed commcnications, sample tests show that on average at peak time
only 75 percent of local calls and 50 percent of long-distance calls are
completed.
37-       As in most other countries, the volume of telegraph service is
stabilizing, while telex traffic $s increasing. In Ethiopia, the quality and
reliabililty of both of these services are adequate. Telegraph service is
available at about 460 locations, but telex service Is limited outsid-- of Addis
Ababa.
Demand for Service
38.       The official waiting list for connection of new subscribers contained
about 23,000 applicants as of June 30, 1982. About 60 percent of the listed
applicants are in the Addis Ababa area. In addition, there is a hidden demand
for new lines, which ETA estimates to have been at least 14,000 lines for the
entire country on June 30, 1982. This hidden demand is made up of (a) poteutial
custowers who are discouraged from registering due to the uncertainty about the
length of the waiting time; (b) potential customers at places where no switching
service exists, as ETA does not register applicants at such places; and (c)
potential customers at places where the service (for example, the possibility of
long-distance comamnications) is poor. ETA has conservatively estimated that
the total demand for telephone connections will grow by about 8.4 percent per
year, and that the number of connected lines can be increased by about 9 percent
per year, taking into account planned network expansion and ETA's resources.
Sector Goals and Constraints
39.       The most important constraints to sector development have been
consequences of the revolution in 1974, among which the following could be
noted: (a) changed priorities and, during the initial years, uncertainty as to
how specific sector objectives could be made commensurate with national
objectives; (b) a loss from ETA of a large number of senior and highly qualified
staff; and (c) a decline in traffic or in traffic grovLh during the years
1975-1978. A further constraint, which is still prevailing, is Ethiopia's
limited availability of foreign exchange resources which, in turn, has limited



- 12 -
the procurement of equipment and material necessary for maintenance and
expansion. Ethiopia has no telecommmnications manufacturLng industry, and it
iast rely on imports for its expansion program as well as for spare parts to
zaintain existing facilities.
40.       Under ETA's fifth development program (1974-1978), a significant
expansion of the long-distance network began, international commmnications were
tzproved, and a good foundation was laid for future expansion of the local
network.   But labor unrest in 1973 and 1974, and the revolution in 1974 and its
consequences, caused the implementation of the program to slip by about 5 years,
from 1978 to mid-1983.  In the meantime the demand for services from all over
the country has grown far beyond ETA"s ability to satisfy it, due mainly to the
lack of resources 'or equipment expansion.
Bank Involvement in Telecommunications
41.       Since 1951, the Bank Group has commstted about US$47.1 million
equivalent to help finance five telecommunications projects in Ethiopia. The
first four projects were approved between 1951 and 1969, and the most recent
project -;as supported by two credits (No. 453-ET of January 17, 1974 and No.
554-ET of June 4. 1975).  All the projects have now been completed.  No audit
reoorts have been prepared on the first four projects, but a completion report
for the fifth project is now being prepared. Apart from some delays in
implementation, the projects have generally achieved their objectives. They
have supported the establishment of ETA and its development into an efficient
conmercially-oriented telecommunications entity having substantial operational
and financial autonomy, and have helped to rehabilitate and expand the
telecommunications network and its services and to improve its reliability.
PART IV - TEE PROJECT
42.         A report entitled, -Ethiopia - Sixth Telecommunications Project;
Staff Appraisal Report,- No. 4584a-ET, dated May 25, 1984, is being distributed
separately.
43.         The proposed project was prepared by the Ethiopian Government with
the assistance of Bank Group staff. The project was appraised in January/
February, 1983, and negotiations were held in Washington from February 26 to
March 14, 1984. The Ethiopian delegation was led by Ato Mitiku Jembere, Head of
the Credit and Investment Department, ministry of Finance,and included Ato
Cirmaw Ingidayehu, General Manager of ETA.
Objectives and Project Description
44.         The proposed project will support economic growth in agriculture,
industry, trade and the social sectors and increase efficiency in administration
by upgrading the quality of public telecommunications services in Ethiopia; by
expanding the international long distance and rural telecommunications networks;
and by increasing the availability of telephone services throughout the country.



- 13 -
45.       Our proposed support for telecomuni cations accords with our overall
strategy to assist the Government particularly to construct the infrastructure
necessary to promote increased and more efficient agricultural and industrial
production (para. 24). We consider that further investment in the
telecommunications sector is of prime importance to the efficient pr_luction,
transportation. distribution and marketing of agricultural and industr_. .l goods,
particularly given the large geographic size of Ethiopia's economy. Under the
proposed project, the Association will also play an important role in: (a)
ensuring that project planning remains sound, with a proper balance between
urban and rural facilities; (b) providing a portion of the required external
assistance and in serving as a catalyst for attracting co-financing; (c)
supporting sound procurement; and (d) strengthening ETA's managerial and
operational efficiency, its business approach, and its staff development
program.
46.         The proposed project will comprise the capital investment part of
the Government's Sixth Telecommunications Development Program (1984-88), and
will assist the Government to: (a) extend the national telecommunications
network, with regular services, to aboat 100 administrative and business centers
not served at present, as well as connect about 40 new remote communities vith
radio call services; (b) construct about 14 new broadband long-distance
transmission lfnks, and increase the capacity of the existing ones; (c) add
about 62.000 automatic and 5,000 manual switching lines and about 5,300
inter-office junctions; (d) expand the local cable networks by about 180,000
pair-km and connect about 45,000 new telephone subscribers and 250 new telex
subscribers;(e) expand international services by installing a standard B earth
satellite station for direct links with countries served by the Indian Ocean
satellite, by increasing circuits in the existing standard A earth satellite,and
by installing a 600 line international digital exchange with toll ticketing
facilities; (f) add various auxiliaries for improved operation and maintenance
of existing and new installations; and (g) provide consultants' services for
ETA's institutional development and staff training in managerial, operational,
administrative and engineering subjects.
Cost Estimates and Financing
47.         The total cost of the project is estimated at about US$151.8 million
equivalent, including taxes and duties amounting to about US$20.5 million. The
foreign exchange component is e'ti,eated at US$103.4 million, or 79 percent of
the total project cost, net of taxes and duties, of US$131.3 million. A
detailed breakdown of costs is given in the Credit and Project Summary.
48.         Cost figures reflect mid-1983 price estimates based on information
obtained by ETA on the results of recent contracts in other countries in Eastern
Africa, and on quotations received by ErA from equipment suppliers. Physical
contingencies have been computed at the average rate of 8 percent of the project
cost in 1983 prices. Price contingencies for 'ocal costs have been estimated at
10 percent annually. For foreign costs, they have been estimated at 7.5 percent
for 1984, 7.0 percent for 1985, and 6.0 percent for 1986 and thereafter.
49.         The Association, the Italian Government, the Swedish Government and
the African Development Bank (AfDB) together are expected to finance the foreign



- 14 -
exchange costs of the project. The proposed IDA credit of SDR 38.7 million
(USS40.0 million equivalenf) - ''   n--   abo2  t 39 percent of the foreig-
exchange costs of the project, or about 30 percent of the total project cost,
net of taxes and duties. The Italian Government and the Swedish Government are
expected to provide parallel co-financing of about US$25.0 million and US$12.0
million equivalent, respectively, on a mixture of soft and commercial terms. In
addition, the African Development Bank is expected to provide parallel
co-financing of about US$26.4 million equivalent. The terms of the various
co-financiers have not yet been finalized, but the average terms are estimated
at about 12 percent interest per annum with a repayment period of 15 years
including three years' grace. ETA will finance the local costs of the project,
estimated at US$27.9 million equivalent, plus the taxes and duties,through
internal cash generation.
50.         The co-financing amounts have not yet been formally committed, but
the Government has received letters of intent from the prospective
co-financiers. The fulfillment of all conditions precedent to the effectiveness
of their loans will be a condition for effectiveness of the proposed IDA credit
(Section 5.01(b), draft Development Credit Agreement).
51.         The Government will relend the proceeds of the IDA credit to ETA at
12 percent interest per annum, with a repayment period of 20 years including
five years' grace. ETA will bear the foreign exchange risk (Section 3.01 (b),
draft Development Credit Agreement). The signing of a subsidary loan agreement,
satisfactory to the Association, between the Government and ETA will be a
condition for effectiveness (Section 5.01, draft Development Credit Agreement).
The 12 percent relending rate to ETA should assure a positive real rate when
viewed in terms of present domestic inflation of about 4 percent per annum and
projected inflation of about 9 to 10 percent per annum, and also in terms of the
costs of resources internationally.
Project Implementation
52.         ETA will have overall responsibility for project implementation.
Its staff are qualified to install most of the equipment including the digital
sw-itching and transmission equipment. Suppliers, however, will supervise and
assist the installation and testing of complex equipment. ETA will also
construct the buildings necessary to house the equipment using its own
departmental forces and its own financing.  A number of the buildings expected
to be required are either completed or under construction. The project is
scheduled to be fully completed by 1991, but most of the equipment is scheduled
to be in operation by 1990.
53.         Performance indicators satisfactory to the Association have been
prepared to assist ETA's management and the Association to monitor and evaluate
project implementation and ETA's operational and financial performance. The
indicators focus on ETA's performance in installing equipment in both rural and
urban areas, and in improving its staffing situation, its service quality, and
its financial operations. To assist ETA in improving its performance,



- 15 -
consultants, satisfactory to the Association, will be employed under the project
to p,opose measures to improve the efficiency of ETA's management information
systems, maintenance systems, and customer service operations (18 staff-months),
and of its staff training programs (72 staff-months) (Section 3.02 (b). draft
Project Agreement).
ETA's Finances
54.         ETA's financial performance has been satisfactory.  ETA's
self-generated cash contribution, before and after debt service, averaged about
95 and 50 percent, respectively, of its capital expansion requirements over the
1978-82 period. ETA's financial rate of return on the book value of net assets
in operation for this same period averaged about 12.6 percent annually. As of
June 30, 1982, ETA's debt/equity ratio stood at 45/55 and its current assets
exceeded current liabilities by 1.5 times. Operating costs amounted to 75
percent of operating revenues and debt service was covered about 2.9 times by
earnings.
55.         Accounts receivable as of June 30, 1982, amounted to about US$10.1
million equivalent, or about 31 percent of ETA's total revenue in FY1982.
Although high, this level of accounts receivable represents a significant
improvement since FY1979, when accounts receivable on June 30 represented about
59 percent of total revenue for the year. ETA plans to reduce the current level
to about 20 percent of total revenue by June 30, 1988, primarily by improving
its computer systems for processing and issuing bills. The consultants'
services to be provided under the project will assist ETA in this work, and
ETA's progress in reducing the level of accounts receivable will be monitored in
accordance with the performance indicators (para. 53).
56.         As of June 30, 1982, ETA's gross fixed assets were valued at the
historical cost of about US$114 million equivalent, waich is considered an
underestimate of the current market value of the assets. ETA will therefore
revalue its assets and has invited bids from consultants to carry out this
exercise. ETA will submit a report on the asset revaluation to the Association
by September 30, 1985 (Section 4.05 (a), draft Project Agreement). As a first
step, ETA has established a technical committee to inventory all of its fixed
assets. The consultants will also recommend measures to improve the efficiency
of ETA's inventory system for spare parts and equipment, and ETA's progress on
this during the project period will be monitored in accordance with a
performance indicator (para. 53).
57.         For the purposes of financial projections for the period from 1984
to 1990, ETA's assets as of June 30, 1982 have been assumed to have a value
about 30 percent higher than historical cost. Thereafter, the assets have been
assumed to increase in value by about 6 percent per annum. The projections have
also assumed that accumulated depreciation will be revalued proportionately to
the assets. On this basis, ETA's financial performance is expected to be
satisfactory. ETA's financial rate of return on revalued assets is projected to
average about 11 percent annually. From FY1985 onwards, the debt/equity ratio



- 16 -
is expected to range between 54/46 and 50/50. Operating costs are projected to
average about 70 percent of operating revenues and the times coverage of debt
service by earnings is projected to range between 3.3 and 2.2. ETA'sB net
internal cash generation (after debt service) is projected to average about 110
percent of the local costs of its investment program.  ETA -ll take all
necessary steps to ensure that its net cash flow during any given year will be
not less than the loca. fund requirement of ETA's approved investment program
for the following fiscal year (Section 4.04(a), draft Project Agreement).
58.         All public enterprises in Ethiopia are subject to tax regulations
which levy income tax at a 50 percent rate, plus a charge equivalent to five
percent of paid-in capital plus retained earnings. In addition, the regulations
limit the level of retained earnings to 30 percent of the paid-in capital; all
surpluses exceeding this level must also be paid to the Government. However, to
ensure that sufficient funds generated by ETA are available for ETA's investment
program, and to promote efficient and autonomous financial operations in ETA,
the Government will ensure that ETA has at its disposal, starting from the
beginning of the fourth quarter in each fiscal year, sufficient fundr to meet
the local fund requirement of ETA's approved investment program for the
following fiscal year (Section 3.03, draft Development Credit Agreement).
During the project period, however, ETA is expected to remit to the Government
about US$107 million equivalent in the form of income taxes, interest, and
customs duties.
59.         ETA's tariffs were increased by an average of about 30 percent in
1980 and no further general tariff increases are forecast during the project
period.  A-Rrage telephoae revenue per line in 1982 was about US$368 equivalent,
which compares iavvocably with experience in many other countries. Improvements,
however, can be made to the structure of ETA's tariffs, which has remained
essentially the same since- 1971. and ETA intends to carry out a study of its
tariff structure. ETA has invited consultants to bid for the study and the
results of the 3tudy will De reviewed with the Association not later than
September 30, 1995 (Section 4.05 (b), draft Project Agreement). ETA will also
take any necessary miaasure3 to ensure that it earns, from FY1985 onwards, an
annual rate of return of not less than 11 percent of the average current net
value of its fixed assets in operation (Section 4.03, draft Project Agreement).
60.         ETA has an internal audit branch with a staff of about nine,
including a Chief Internal Auditor, who reports directly to the General
Manager. But delays in preparing accounts have been experienced in recent years
and, in view of ETA's growth, the consultants who will be engaged for the
management information systems study wiLl also make recommendations for
improving ETA's internal auditing procedures. ETA will present unaudited and
audited financial reports to the Association as follows: for FY84, 4 and 8
months respectively after the end of the fiscal year; for FY85 and thereafter, 3
and 6 months respectively (Section 4.02, draft Project Agreement).



- 17 -
Procurement and Disbursement
61.         The procurement of equipment and materials financed by the
co-financiers (paral2-1 financing) will accord with the regulations of the
co-financing institutions. All IDA financed procurement will be procured on the
basis of international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Tank Group
guidelines, except for the following: (a) equipment for existing installations
which may be procured on the basis of negotiated contracts with suppliers who
previously supplied the equipment (total procurement not to exceed US$4.5
million); and (b) items each costing less than US$50,000, with a maximum
aggregate value of US$1,000,000, which may be purchased in accordance with ETA's
procurement regulations, which are satisfactory (Section 2.02 and Schedule,
draft Project Agreement). ETA has prepared specifications and tender documents
for the procurement of equipment and materials and has issued invitations to
bid.
62.         The Association will disburse against: (i) 100 percent of foreign
expenditures, 100 percent of local expenditures for locally produced items
(ex-factory) and 80 percent of local expenditures for other items procured
locally for the standard B earth satellite station, telephone and telex
exchanges, subscriber networks, long distance and international networks, power
equipment, air conditioning, vehicles, tools, instruments, training and office
equipment and related services; and (ii) 80 percent of local expenditures for
services of consultants domiciled within Ethiopia and 100 percent of foreign
expenditures for services of other consultants and training costs (other than
for training equipment). All disbursements will be fully documented. On the
basis of the project implementation schedule and IDA disbursement experience on
telecommunications projects in Eastern Af-rica, disbursements are expected to be
completed by June 1992.
Environmental Impact
63.         The project has no significant adverse environmental or health
aspects. The installarions and equipment are mostly unseen and consume little
energy. The use of telecommunications also tends to promote energy conservation
and reduce environmental pollution since telecommunications is, to an extent, an
alternative to communications involving physical movements.
Benefits and Risks
64.         The proposed project will benefit the Ethiopian economy through
communication-related improvements in government and business efficiency, and
the resulting lower costs of goods and services. Production and distribution
activities in agriculture, industry and energy are wideLy dispersed throughout
the country, and transportation is costly, thereby enhancing the importance of
telecommunications facilities to enable efficient information flows to improve
coordinatioc and decision-making within the economy.   In particular, the
project will significantly improve access to telecommunications services in many



- 18 -
smaller communities that are not served at present. The Government is opening
up new areas of the country for agricultural and agro-industrial production and
is resettling people form drought-stricken areas. These activities will benefit
greatly from telecommunications, particularly given the sparseness of the
country's road network. The improvements in telecommunications facilities will
also help to facilitate improved delivery of health services and emergency
care.                                                                                        '
65.         The internal financial rate of return on the entire ETA 1984-88
investment program, of which the IDA-assisted project represents the capital
investment part, is estimated at about 13 percent. This rate of return
understates the benefits to be derived from the investment program, and does not
take into account all of the indirect and external benef'ts received by
non-uzncs of the telecommunications services. An estimate of some portion of
the consumer surplus associated with the consumption of telecommunications
services has been made assuming that new consumers will be similar to the
average existing consumer, and that new consumers will be willing to pay for
telecommunications services prices in real terms equal to those which existing
consumers are demonstrating a willingness to pay. Based on these assumptions,
and after adjusting for taxes and customs duties and applying a standard
conversion factor of 0.80 to local costs and revenues, the minimum quantifiable
economic rate of return for the program has been estimated to be about 34
percent.
66.         The project contains limited risks, the principal one being the
possibility of delays in implementation due to unforeseen circumstances.
However, in telecommunications projects, which involve a relatively large number
of independent activities, delays in the completion of a few works do not
generally prevent the use of other newly created assets. Furthermore, costs and
benefits are often delayed in roughly the same degree, and thus, do not
significantly affect the rate of return. A sensitivity analysis indicates that
a 10 percent increase in capital and operating costs, combined with a 10 percent
decrease in benefits, would reduce the internal financial rate of return from
about 13 percent to about 4 percent, and the quantifiable economic rate of
return from about 34 percent to about 28 percent.
67.         There is also a risk that the sources of co-financing may apply
different interest rates and repayment schedules than those assumed. However,
this risk has been minimized by conservatively estimating the financing terms.
Foreign exchange rates also could vary, but price contingencies should be
sufficient to cover possible increases. The possibility of significant damage
to equipment is small, and insurance coverage is satisfactory. The growth rates
used in projecting revenues are suZficiently conservative to be attained.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
68.         The draft Development Credit Agreement between Ethiopia and the
Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and ETA, and
the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of



- 19 -
the Articles of Agreement of the Association, are being distributed to the
Executive Di.rectors separately.
69.         Special features of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III of this report.
70.         Additional conditions for effectiveness of the proposed credit will
be:
(i) the signing of a subsidiary loan agreement, satisfactory to the
Association, between the Government and ETA (Section 5.01(a), draft
Development Credit Agreement).
(ii)  the fulfillment of all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of
the Swedish, Italian and African Development Bank loans (Section
5.01(b), draft Development Credit Agreement);
71.         I am satisfied that the proposed credit will comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
72.         I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
June 12, 1984



- 20 -
AN'NEX I
Page 1 of 5
mnoiu - acm. Dww DlUn srn
EaTNOPIA                 SrdIAL    0A    (CIhl                    R  
MOST                    fNt  CERN  tErSM        lb
Tb          XS  S~~CC         LOW IC                sKEfll.
19a         97A        _t     AUCA go.   OF              AR A S. Or SAARA
A (TAs n 0DO
T0.-AL                           1221.9      1221.9      221.9
ACRICCL7RAL                       560. 4      591.       392.
.r PER CAPET (CM)                     40.0       60.0       140.0            234.4                   1147.9
caic    w  in carm
(KIr OCRMS OF COAL F4UIVALENI)       ..       31.0        25.0              79.6                   724.2 
PORLATWO  AM VITAL S STS
POPMLAflON.!ql-AR (THOUSANDS)  20920    23450.0    31986.0  i
CREAS POPULATION CE OF TOTAL)       6.4        9.7        14.1             19.5                     2S.5
POPLATION PROJECTIONS
?OPULATfOS IN YEAR 2000 (HILL)                          57.3
sTATMOERY rOPUtATrON (OM)                              243.6
TEAKg SrATIOflER POP- REEACI                           2153
pOrPLAT1,1ON DENSITY
PER SQ  v.                       16.4       20.8        25.4             29.5                     56.5
PER SQ. IL. AGER. AL             34.6       43.0        5z.A             96.                     131.3
POPULATV1K ACE STUCTU'RE (Z)
0-& YRS                         43.9        ".         4*5.t            45.0                     45.9
15-64 ns                         53.5       52.6        32.3             52.1                     51.2
65 AND ABOVE                      2.6        2.6         2.6              2.9                      2.S
POPt1ATOHN GROWT RATE CZ)
-VMAL                             2.1         2.4        2.1 1i           2.4                      2.8
5REAK                             5.5         6.5        5.5              6.2                      5.3
MCCE NIR;H RATE CPER TCS)          50.6       49.9        48.0             47.9                     47.6
CRDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)        28.3       25.7        24.1             19.2                     15.2
cROSS RFwDUCrTI  RATE      .        3.3        1           3.2              3.2                      3.2
FA$ILVY P.SHIlC
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (TCS)        -  _            _          _
-siS (_ ZF -t&zn   UtI)            -                      _
FOOD AND NOrRITID
lIDEX OF FOWD PROD. PER CAPITA
C 1969-71-100)                    103.D0     11.0        86.Dfe            67.8                     95.7
PERt CAPITA SPPLY OF
CJALRIES t: OF REQUSIRDETS)      q1.0       87.0        76.0             ".0                      *7.1
PROTEINS (CgANS PER DAY)         72.0       69.0        59.0             51.2                     56.0
OF WHICH A*3pg AND PULSE        29.0        2S.0       22.Od           18.1                     17.2
CHELD (AGES 1-4) DEATR RATE        39.9       35.1        31.2             25.7                     23.6
LIFE EXYEcr. AT BIRTH (TYEARS)       ..       64.6        *6.3             47.A                     51.9
uNTFAr -RPO. RATE (PER THROS)     175.0      158.5       145.1            126.5                    117.6
ACCESS DO SAFE WATER (-tOP)
.TAL                               ..        6.0         6.01.           24.7                     25.4
RBAN                               ..          ..       32.07;           56.8                     70.5
RLUAL                               -          -         2.07f           18.3                     12.3
ACCESS ;O ELCrTA DISPOSA
( OF POPULATION)
TCVAL                               .        14.0       14.0ff           28.1
RBAN                               .        67.0        56.07            63.7
RRAL                               ..        6.0         8.O0l           21.9
POPULATION PER PHMTSICIZ       100470.0    75740.0    58490.0g 11    27420.6                     12181.6
POP. rtt %CRStNC PERSON         14920.0     7U0.0       5440.   -        3456.2                   2292.0
POP. !R HOSPrIAL BED
-OTAL                          3000.0      3060.0     3390.0Id         1183.2                   1075.4
URBAN                           2o.o       290.0       790.07;          380.6                    402.3
RURAL                                     t5960.0         1015D.07;    3177.5                   3926.7
ADI!SSIOYS PER HOSPITAL RED          ..        0.
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              .         4.5
URBAN                             3.5        4.2
RURAL                              - --5
AVERAGE HO. OF PERSONS/ROOI
TOTAL                              ..          ..
URBAN                             2.7          ..
RURAL                              ''          '  
ACCESS TO  ECr. Ct OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              ..          ..         .                .
URBAN                            56.2/b       ..
RUMZ.                                          ..                           ..



ANNEX I
-21 -                                            Page 2 of 5
-SOCIAL INn WATeR  DATASET
EllIOPIA                             REFERE!NCE aOPS tMEltITCD AVERAGES) Ia
HOST                      CIST RECENT ESTtRATE) lb
lb         lb  RECENTr             LOW IESt                UDLE ZECIE
1S60_-.    1971   EsrTDATh-        AFRICA S. Or SARARA     Ar!CA S. or SAHA
EDCATM
ADJUSTEO EWOLLMENT RATIIS
PRINART:  TOTAL                    7.0        16.0        53.0  1/          63.9                      97.2
NALE                    11n       23.0        56.0              71.6                     103.1
FL4ALF                  3j.        I1.         3n.n              51.6                      11.5
SECON6ARY: TOTAL                   q,          4.0        11.0              12.5                      17.2
taLs             ~~~~~~t.n   fi.n        tz.              6.7                       23.5
2U,LE                   n. 1        2.0         4.0                .1                      14.2
%OCATIONAL CT oF SEXOHOARY)         20.3         4.5          ..               7.3                       5.2
PCPIL-TEACIER RATIO
PR.-AR?                           37.0        48.0        64.0              46.4                      42.9
SECONDARY                         13.0        24.0        41.0              25.1                      23.7
ADULT LITEtACT RATE CZ)               ..         6.0/       15.0  11          36.5                      37.t
PASSENIER CARS/THOCSAND POP          0.8         1.6         1.6/.             3.3                      1t8.
MDIO RECEIJERSITIWUSANO POP          4.9         6.3         8.0              45.3                     97.8
TV RECEIVERSIT1WUSAND POP              .         0.3         1.0               2.2                      18.6
NEILSPAPER C-DAILY GENERAL
TTsrREsr) CIRCULATION
P1R TOICASO POPULATION              2.1         1.1         1.7               6.7                      18.2
CINDIA AINCAL ATTNDANCEICAPITA        ..          ..          ..               1.0                       0.6
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (TMOUS)         S975.0    10957.0    13206.0
FOtALE (PERCENT)                  35.7        35.Z        33.3              34.5                      36.1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             68.0        84.0        80.0              76.9                      56.6
tDhStlRT (PERCENT)                 5.0         6.0         7_0               9.6                     17.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             44.7        43.1        41.3              40.9                      37.0
NALE                              5386        56.9        54.6              53.0                     47.1
FELLE                             11.3        z9.7        :7.7              28.9                      27.0
ECONCOIC DEPENDENCY RATIO            1.0         1.1         1.2               1.2                       1.3
ICCU DISBTRT[S                                                               ;
PERCENr OF PRIVATE ISOGE
RECElVED BY
RIAEST 5C OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..
RIGHEST ZO0 OF HOUSEHOLDS                       ..
IlWEST 20% oF  OS     S             ..          ....H...
LOWEST 4OX OF HOUSEHOLDS            ..
OwEa  rant mOOan
ESTIYATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOKE
LEVEL CUSS PER CAPITA)
URBAI                               .           ..       190.0             165.9                     534.2
RURL                                .           _.        65.0/.            87.4                    255.9
ESTI!ATFD RELATIVE POVFR1Y INCOME
LEVEL (US5 PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ,,          ,_        77.0/e           100.8                    491.5
RURAL                               ..          ..        37.07;            64.6                    1I8.1
ESTIYATED POP. BELCH ABSOLSE
POVERrY INCQM LEWD. CZ)
URBAI                               ..          ..        60.0/.            39.5
RURAL.                             .           ..        65.o7             69.0
NOT AVAAIURLE
RO APPLICABLE
/a  The group averages for each indicator are popuattow-welghted arithlCtic mae. Cveraga of cm tries moqg the
-ndicators depends on avalabiltlcy of data and la not u'Lforu.
/b  Unless otherwse noted  -Data for 1960 refer to any year benwe 1959 and 196t:  -Data for 1970 bowman 1969 and
1971; and data for Nloat Recent EatiSate bateten 1979 and 1981.
/c  FAD data dlffer somewhat from Molstry of Ariculture data. and wy esaggregace the apparent decline; Id 1977;
fe 1976; If 1975: fr 1978 b Addis Ababa only- 1i 1965.
1/ Escimates differ from those in the text of che Report since
the latter reflect the findings of the latest economic mission.
May 1983



303-3100t3 003 120(0 4 3.V:4..    30803333 -                                                                     33   03**00-0-3   0f0*093 1-233P300   A-
oo1*1~1o *33 in's  90~3000033                          30 o.oo.*-o  43.338330 4150  7004330 3.V 003330730* -4303.3343 Ao
3019 .0.. .0   W.0 .13  -..1. 013- .02.3040   30; 10334    33 P.0                        30  030331  044 --3. 4340  0733-0 00036., 033300  oo* .P
-f3     (3303  3003007-     2334 '3130*330 -14w73--3..3s-103                                            03   03 0--3033)J.0o3o--3I1*038150  3303Vd3
Ia   1 .-004300  P003-34     1f1o.0o. s0,4 3039  -lolhp,  '1I.",l0                                   0f3pf 040   f0  - 3.3V0333   000)313 030    .....
103320  11  3115   001      0  3.  03 do.*y 003. --I      .od *oT o.s                                  'I"3-130  353'34  1.33   03  .00d34  304a 01  3 
P-V0 0-       0.0-(3144w351   00  000   3.440030*93033                                                 e   00  *3338  01.   010.-(3000134  00   1343   030
'001000  33*3330000 330 90203i*10I  493"UAW                                                          *00ap6l3iAm7'34  13333
3.0 '303.3 30004  0 3330f00 0400034f 330 0300.3f310.134403o1   2       031331o.1 331 5           30 33030--Pooo - 43.00  2102 4V00V0340)   fl*
3- ..-.d  . .." P.    Ot  --l-    -1-I                   .,. .d 9onr,o a                                   I.1!w;     n 0ooag-..A4) 32 30
t  A. P..P."  -               -1 .-..I   i-d ~~'0103001-f3P   10  3f-441  0443.  00P-0. 041, 0338 903103  flf9                                                  .-1300
3013.131 0Z.133 3333P,
..dI1i,.   -  1--iP.-'03131.  1f01s033m-001000                                           33bEW        -.oSOd'33  04  3                 Z0..oo  Od  .383 J.  01*dd 30
0  '3.02 001110o3 333 '0*203040  -40 3  03033321 00-00M103430o1                   ofoidf I9 po.io-d(023        .00.-P3 .. -o      J 000303  30103  fi30
'09Ift '---J041313V  0937 34* 903                 W-f004     f1f 343       M. 4,4   937o3%'0                              4 33030  03.- 3)f- 00310 'CO-M,         0.3238000
00  330  P3.V1 0601  3.0i '03-0 ..0301 00- 9103. 013011 f3*f 11381                             0333.30   903  03   30033310  030033033oIo
P- 2030131334   -  103  30'00   313 -.4 350*0..0....8f333i V000V  3 303-0 -P-T                                            1 3-.01 30 V7333 1WA    P'2f9 3.4  .... .0. 4.
'3347 7.303  3301 3332  30030383304003.0 363 joio  3323143  0.0-                                                    f3914   S   )3  3-33100  P.-004I
304 -     *f 0023103 .0   .200    0134)3             0.303030.0                                        30  1033  '0116 0* 3.13  I.0   .3240   03340  737'0                 '0
Olio.o'02oo,.o,02.* 00.00.000. 3.33333200  03 000300033334f 03303       34 f1143 004  3200o3.3 olojiooo -lI1..)3.03  .0. 30033333...           340030.
3.00 019010  'Oooo4 031f 7033300-j  -       d(d.0033   )0   00   00                          03   000)-J,033430   00334   5330   00.3    43333
4- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~30300
u  3.           ..... .. ~~o320  .133= 71310*40   0  030f30ff20 - 301*00                                                            0003
311.10... 13)09130'3J-0  420f30303  '3.111.  P.'3f9  .3 L03497"333 -                                                                                       237oA.o..33Al3.
31 303090034 *03 0300103.3)1 - (0033f30408 3.030441054)1133320330 3:                                                               '00)3034~~~~~~~~~~~~~~]Is  V.  ;a     '11  llIT'
'03 240  10333                    0313.310040    a3533393   3L040*   loo 0-   03'04330   0   303
J-93  303333343  0  033333 33031          e 7 I330.03      9004 -3 303  330 33  .3.4)
833  0213  90  900  03  74f  319.` 3311-      10)0 3  lfi 900313.331.                                                                       ..3.30003....30.0  -353d-(033)0   -.33 -3390 A 030rT.-
Alz.d j-              -j "..'07900  20p04q                                                   '4711930 ~!l04l*Z034(00 .....
I-,0 P;"003V2300304   4009000343400   .  *034.3   00 A0l,330* 4-300*0d3f't" -:00dl510.   0.3003   .1.3).
333  01:005 0009313  0333 - 03390333                                                                               .....00     33333333.00  '. 0033... ~ 3'  ....  3...... O
a001113333330.3   30030   3  o53030.3.3   .03.30   0739   4V*0   *   .23.0230)-
.3049.3   3003   )1~   njo.  033   3  3031003'03 34.300341          (3   Of233009'4000  4.4  03330)-  1040)3334  33 431"I0
*003*0343103   0.0340301-40339333)330 3048330303) 3000330105 300300303                                     '03'9  43 333.3;,'3  '1'3,) 7373
'3334403300 331333.0.3    3003 70300-,3103339 303 0003f 01 )04f4340) - 9.f7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TP~I  A...131   I.
13333.  1*...3 - 0040)-33003  0  *303.  33103    30.033.320333233
'00  043   03380033004   0 03333   1i'3  033330300320  03  *30 3PI-0030334-%3.0530300M1.35
10003040(3 90300 L.. 220I1...03  303 ...09    .....* o   .110 003 30300                           .                            '70033....41  02 003 443:33.31-
303000..4801   O  3301  03334   0  3)3(f  34008                                           03.1303300   3393'33130f031132330   0   9  31'
17330  03013333033  3f00303900   39-3.0   303                                             .0*33  92004  443   30333  0  10100f507  03310
3.3030003 3003f3033 3  00 1003 3.otid-03.30.33040 105330*0                             4*Vs)toDAMON'  ,300   31033 30334d0i3030  O 0-3f-5343 0In
03f0039033f3033'334343080*2033)f343393300034  '1V004-;00032030003j0045 'flf3  40303f333108) 100430040  3330f7 346033383*-3523)4- 3.3330
801100 3000313.333 900033.    00203 503114d0  030fo    00303   1120034005    3102
3.70.30332    .0 .-3054393333  00   3343433d.0  333
I;  MA114             1~~~001;03'ai 0343002    A.011070404             - 430311300              Idt303033
.F..013 Al.. 203300  700      P.0'3431 '7133   4'33434001.040330333733330336)0   00.30.4
005.334  0-30304 303.  3  33333100310003..   f333003033330JP.   0010   ..   3/300   32.300031O;o
3035033.  '030.083     33313309  0  03314 03)3003)o1003                             33.31o4  .33093003.  0  31303f  113403030070?  0303.
M. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~340   .4093033'   0.133303   00   23  33  0   033ff   41'30
3.3033)33   083340389330330330   '33304 0'31303433  2   083030*.404031  000   *  '30 3p5333f
3f340100.00  p034000 3f13 90   3443  330        I I.  II9 0..!30t .                 00..300   20  0300.   33 .f 820334'.  3)  0230   3300071
3300 i033000390'0.0'313     33 0=o0013J33134o0.03130.300023  1:333  1)ooto*4  02dI*    '00
'0.03 0   701132I 333d.31300...                                     333343005 i 3.  373033  a10-,    P--- 00   .1  0N30033544f
03 9903.3  3 25  3030  00  fOpO  33 3033.  W'33003 300  33.1900'107 3. 3.3.  310003'I(9800117404   453307-31
.14PM)                                                                                                                    P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~304  033333   04
0333230310 201032 03033 0003 f'0f393013.3 30 40032.30 03330093 0100330004 3 0                                                      3003320.034.40.....0..
3000*3.0  f4301010 ....... 0..0.3  333000333  0004                                                                              00   80   0  747"43  01310300
'14~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~433                                     0395   13100303493   12033  3393.0.3133L20333
I Id ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~ ~ ~ ~~103730   f3333033   08  0-3433  4030   03755023
'00   93.3008.00q31   314.*01                                                                                                                    33
1330  3.3 '00310113300003401323140330 09300  33.138033031.407-                                                                      P0f473100   .0    3
oood34 30333 301  303083233308 3333.  30 30033 90330. is  *0o                            033   3   037004   043   00f34303130.   f0303000r0 0333
90   f300002    0114.3151   )30(313'3300'00'00000                             0303  -492  32.o   0330'830050   0133  40 3.')0030*0
103.     4034oil3d  33   8  3300a00403300003  310.733300   "0330d0300000303      372   )   0'7o0)130
90   303  93. :.0.3  0010   1*09000140  3   33



-23 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
FoAnomic Indicators
Aneual Rare of Growth of GDP
Gross National Product in FT 1983 1t                                at Constant Factor Cost (Z)
(Fiscal Years)
SSS Min      :                       19771-B     1981    1982    1983
GDP at lqarket Prices           4731.3     100.0                        3_2        3.0     1.5     4_2
Invcstment                       497.3      10.5
Gross Domestic Savings            87.4       1.8
Resource Balance                -409.9       8.7
Export of Goods and NFS          551.7      11.7
Import of Goods and NFS          961.5      20.3
Output in FY1983 _J
Value Added
uss .n        Z
Agriculture         2068.1        48.4
Industry             668.7        15.7
Services            1535.2        35.9
427Z.0      100.0
Covernment Finance                    Central Government
(Brflxn)          Z of GDP
FY _ 983__   FT 1983     FY1980-82
Current Recepits                    1980.6        20.2          19.3
Current Expenditures                2186.7         22.3         18.5
Current Surplus                     -206.1        -2.1           0.8
CapitaL Expenditures                1127.2        11.5           5.3
Money. Credit and Prices
(Fiscal Years)                                   1979       1980      1981      1982      1983 1/
(hillion Br. outstanding end of period)
Money and quasi-money                           2063.6    2332.1    2377.6    2643.7    3040.4
Dank Credit to Central Government                862.3     968.1    1107.9    1150.9    1979.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector and
Financial Institutions                        1222.7    1644.2    1721.8    1944.2    1741.4
(Percearages or Index .YNabers)
Money as Z of GDP                                 25.8       27.4      26.9      28.8       31.0
Annual percentage changes in:
Ceneral Price Index                              12.9       12.5       1.9       7.3       3.8
Bank Credit to Public Sector                     12.5       12.3      14.4       6.6      67.6
Bank Credit to Private Sector                    34.1       34.5       4.7      12.9     -10.4
Note:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate during the period
covered.
All Fiscal Years are from July 8 to July 7.
if     rrovisional Data for 1983.



APiau I
-    -                                   Page 5 of 5
Balance of Pats
cal Yrs)                                 1981     1982     1983 If       merchandise Exports
CMilUle USS)                   (Fis.cal Year Average 1981-83)
,ISS Mlni.     Z
Exports of Goods, SFS                    554.8    519.9   551.7          Coffee             241.4       61.0
imports of Goods, 5FS                    793.4   881.3   961.5           Pulses              13.3        3._
Resource Gap (deficit  -)               -238.6  -361.4  -409.8           Oilseeds            LO.2        2.6
Hides & Skins       43.1       10.9
Investment Income (neet)                 -6.5    -2.3    -2.1            Oilseed cake         3.4          9
Private Traasfers (aet)                   24.7     45.3    84.9          Other               84.5       21.3
Balance on Current Acct.                -22C.4  -318.4  -327.0           Total              395.9      100.0
Official Transfers (net)                  59.9     67.6   115.5          Exteral Debt, Jue 30.1983  1/
Private -YLT Capital (net)                 0.0      0.0      0.0                                  USS Mli
Public (SLT Borrowing (net)              110.4   245.6   181.6
Disbursements                         (132.5)  (278.0) (225.8)
Amortization                           (22. 1)  (32.6)   (44.3)        Total outstanding &
Short-term Capital                        -6.0     18.9    -9.5            Disbursed             -t5.0
Change in reserves                                                       Debt Service Ratio for FY1983 I1
(- = increase)                           59.7   -57.7      71.8                                    z
Mi:nor Items
(mzcl. err2rs)                          -3.6      44.Z   -32.4         Total Outstanding &       11.0
Set Foreign Assets                                                         Disbursed
(end year)                              118.6    178.6   107.3
Petroleum Imports                       138.7    159.1
Petroletm Product                                                        RmIIDA Lending (March 31, 1984)
Imports                               27.0      14.0
CDSS PIL
ThR     IDA
Rate of Exchange Since 1973
USSIOO - 3r. 2.07                                                     Outstanding 
Br.1.OO   USS0.48                                                       Disbursed          42.5    368.9
Undisbursed          -      203.6
Ottstanding luc.
Undisbursed        42.5   572.5
- nor applicable
- not available
If Provisional
April 1984



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANX GROWP OPERATIONS IN ETHIOPIA
STAEMNTOF BAN LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of Narch 31, 1984)
Aount
Loan or                                                               (US$ Nillon)
Credit                                                            (less   nllaos)  Undis-
Number         Year      Borrower     Purpose                      Bank      IDA       bursed
Twelve loans and twenty credits fully disbursed-                   108-6    233.2
Cr. 603-Er      1976      Ethiopia     Raneelands Dev.                       27.0          4.7
Cr. 708-Er      1977      Ethiopia     Road Sector                           32.0           3.5
Cr. 707-Er      1977      Ethiopia 11  Revised Azibara                       25.0          5.9
Cr. 789-Er      1978      Ethiopia     Grain Storage & Mkg.                  24.0          8.1
Cr.1088-ET      1981      Ethiopia     AgNieul.  inimum Pkg. II              39.2 Zf      11.7
Cr.1141-Er      1981      Ethiopia     Education V                           35.0 27      12.8
Cr.1275-Er      1982      Ethiopia     Agric. & Indust. Dev. Bank            30.0 2t      27.1
Cr.1366-Er      1983      Ethiopia     Urban Development                     20.0 21      19.2
Cr.1386-Er      1983      Ethiopia     Petroleum Exploration                  7.0 21       6.5
Cr.1404-Er      1983      Ethiopia     Second Road Sector                    70.0 Zt      69.1
Cr.1429-ET      1984      Ethiopia     Coffee Processing & Marketing         35.0 3/      35.0
Total                                               108.6   577.4        203.63
of which has been repaid                           66.1     4.9
Total nw  outstanding                                62.50  572.5
Amount sold                         6.0
of which has been repaid          6.0                -         -
Total now held by Bank & IDA
(prior to exchange adjustments)                   42.50  572.50
Total Undisbursed                                      -       -         203.6
L/  US$1.7 million disbursed under former Cr.418-ET, Amibara Irrigation, bas
been repaid out of the proceeds of the new Credit.
2/  Credits 1088-ET, 1141-ET, 1275-Er, 1366-Er, 1386-Er, and 1404-ET and 1429-Er are denominated
in SDRs (SDR 31.4 million, 28.2 million, 27.0 million, 18.0 million, 6.5 million, 64.9
million, and 33.2 million, respectively).
3,  Not yet effective.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. STIAIEMET OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1984)
US$ Million
Fiscal                                         Type of               Amount
Year       Obligor                             Business     Loan    Equity       Total
1965       Textile Mills of Dire Dawa I        Textiles     1.5       1.0         2.5
1966       Ethiopia Pulp and Paper Co.         Paper          -       1.9         1.9
1968       EVA Metabara, S.C.                  Sugar        5.5       3.5         9.0
1970       Textile Mills of Dire Dawa II       Textiles     0.4      0.2          0.6
1973       Textile Mills of Dire Dawa III      Textiles     1.5      0.2          1.7
Total Gross Commitments                          8.9      6.8         15.7
Less cancellations,
terminations,
repayments and Sales                   8.9      6.0         14.9
Total Commitments now held by IFC                  --     0.8          0.8
Total Undisbursed                                           -  



- 27 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
ETHIOPIA
SLXTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
r           I.  Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: About 15 months
(b) Preparation by: Ethiopian Telecommunications Authority with the
assistance of IDA staff.
(c) Initial Discussions with IDA: June, 1981
(d) Appraisal Mission Departure: January, 1983
Ce) Negotiations: February 27 - March 14, 1984
(f) Planned Date of Effectiveness: October 15, 1984
II. Special Conditions
Ca) Conditions for Effectiveness:
Ci) The Goverament and ETA will have signed a subsidiary loan
agreement (paras. 51 and 69); and
(ii) All conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Swedish, Italian, and African Development Bank loans will
have been fulfilled (paras. 50 and 69).
(b) Other Conditions:
(i)  ETA will submit a report to the Association on its asset
revaluation by September 30, 1985 (para. 56);
(ii) ETA will take all necessary measures to ensure that its net
cash flow during any given year shall be not less than the
local fund requirement of its approved investment program
for the following fiscal year (para. 57);



- 28 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(iii) The Government vili ensure that ETA has at its disposal,
starting at the beginning of the fourth quarter in each
fiscal year, sufficient funds to meet the local fund 
requirement of ETA's approved investment program for the
folloving fiscal year (para 58);
(iv) ETA will discuss the results of its tariff study with IDA
not later than September 30, 1985 (para 59); and
(v) ETA will take all necessary measures to ensure that it
earns an annual rate of return of not less than 11 percent
on the average current net value of its fixed assets in
operation (para. 59).



5:C:N   1''.,<-  N   r= ~ ~                   _      1_     11  '_<8                           _          _           (      1l  TELECOMRMUENICATIONS
<'   -   ,            t$_.                                            ,           ',U.                                            BpZ        ---      -
| S    U    D    A   N1          /D                                      v        \                      |        =     g.o3X-w
-                        wc    aw  g~~~~~~7(DJIBOU F a-''DIOT
} ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S                                                                                                     ,. M    A  L   ->  E I  A        
_ =Vt ee _|_ _t X~~~ j ~~ s \ S                                                                                             O M       A     L    I  A
. " E                                                                                   A    






