FILE COPY                                    Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.P-180 8-NI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATICINAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
FOR A
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
March 31, 1976
This document hus a restricled distribution and ay be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bnnk authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00 = 7 Cordobas (C$)
C$1.00 = US$ 0.1429
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORtT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
FOR A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan for the equivalent of US$11.0 million to the Republic of Nicaragua
for a second education project. The loan would have a term of 25 years,
including 7 years of grace, with interest at 8.5 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A memorandum entitled "Economic Memorandum on Nicaragua" (Report
No. 914-NI) was distributed to the Executive Directors in November 1975.
The following paragraphs summarize the conclusions of this report. A
country data sheet is attached as Annex I.
3.        Nicaragua's major natural  resource is its arable land, which
is suitable for a variety of products. Although the share of agricultural
production in total output has declined in recent years, agriculture con-
tinues to be the main source of economic expansion, and is responsible for
about 50-60 percent of employment and over 70 percent of export earnings.
The country is divided into three distinct agricultural zones: the Pacific
Zone, where about 60 percent of the nation's 2 million population lives, is
marked by a dual structure of farming -- a large number of small farms grow
basic grains with conventional technology, and a few large farms specialize
in cotton and sugarcarte using modern technology; the mountainous Central
District is devoted mainly to coffee and livestock; and the large Atlantic
Plain holds a largely unutilized potential for forestry and livestock
production.
4.        Nicaragua's longer-term economic growth prior to the 1972 earth-
quake was impressive, although it was characterized by sharp cyclical
changes.  Real income grew at an average annual rate of 6.4 percent (3.5
percent per capita) during the 1946-1972 period. The strong upward trend
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
in income resulted from the expansion of production for exports, primarily
of cotton, coffee, and beef, but also of less complicated manufactured
goods. The substantial growth of the economy, however, did not mitigate
the highly skewed distribution of wealth and income. Per capita cash income
of US$120 in rural areas is less than one-third of that in Managua. More-
over, within the rural sector, the distribution of income is even less
equitable than in the urban areas. Many of these inequities, which are
common in many other developing countries, result from the dualistic nature
of agricultural production and the related, highly concentrated pattern of
land ownership. The poorest one-third of the rural population, for example,
holds only about 3.5 percent of the country's arable land.
5.        Progress in reducing income disparities has been delayed by the
persistently low level of public expenditures. The slow growth of current
expenditures -- and a consequent shortage of important public service
facilities such as education and health -- largely reflects budgetary
stringency dictated by insufficient revenues. Outside the field of trans-
port and electricity, the process of project identification and preparation
has been extremely limited in the past. As discussed below, however,
progress has taken place in both fiscal performance and project preparation
in the past three years.
6.        The earthquake which struck Managua on December 23, 1972 took a
toll of about 10,000 lives, destroyed or rendered unusable practically all
the central zone of the city, including most government offices, hospitals
and schools, the financial and commercial buildings and perhaps 2,500 small
shops engaged in small-scale manufacturing and retail trade. About 32,000
housing units, or about 45 percent of the housing in the Managua area, were
destroyed. The impact of the earthquake on productive capacity, however,
was considerably lower than initially feared, and the economy has recovered
at a much faster pace than originally estimated. Growth in GDP was 2.2 per-
cent in real terms in 1973 and reached 11-12 percent in 1974. The impressive
growth of the latter year was mainly attributable to construction activity
in Managua. Unemployment, which had increased very steeply in 1973, moved
down to pre-earthquake levels in 1974. Present estimates are that GDP
growth returned again to about 2.2 percent in 1975 as a result of slackening
reconstruction activity, compounded by credit and import constraints. As
far as the accomplishment of physical reconstruction is concerned, most
public service facilities were back to, or exceeded, pre-earthquake levels
by 1975, but much remains to be done to rebuild housing and shops for the
poorer segments of the population.
7.        The emergency taxes introduced after the earthquake, and the new
taxes approved in late 1974 which succeeded them, reflect a major fiscal
effort which has raised taxes as a percent of GDP from 8.9 percent to nearly
12 percent. However, even with this substantial increase in domestic resource
mobilization, the financial requirements associated with the completion of
reconstruction and projected levels of investment in the Government's develop-
ment program will mean that Nicaragua will still require external assistance
over and above the foreign exchange component of its projects submitted for
international financing.



8.        The improved fiscal performance has been accompanied by progress
in overall planning and project preparation. The public investment plan
prepared by the Government for 1975-79 assigns priority to expanding agricul-
tural production and improving health, education and housing facilities for
the rural poor. While a major effort is still required to improve project
preparation in the fields of rural and social development, several projects
have been developed recently or are in preparation in these fields; for example,
in addition to the proposed Bank education project, the Inter-Amertcan Develop-
ment Bank (IDB) recently approved a loan for rural electrification, and the
Government is preparing a rural water supply project for our consideration.
Also, the Government is proceeding with the reorganization of the public sector
agricultural institutions with financial and technical assistance from USAID;
the main focus is on the implementation of a recently created integrated rura]
development program - INVIERNO - which will supply credit and technical assis-
tance to small producers in the Central Pacific and Central Interior regions
and will also coordinate public activities in education, health, housing and
infrastructure for the same target groups.
9.        With regard to balance-of-payments performance in the years following
the earthquake, cotton., coffee and beef have continued to be the leading tradi-
tional exports and constituted 29 percent, 13 percent and 9 percent respectively
of total merchandise exports on average over the period 1973-75.However,manufactured
exports (e.g., textiles, animal feed, chemical and wood products) have become
the largest single category, constituting about one-third of exports. Although
imports averaged less t;han 30 percent of GDP during the latter part of the 1960's
and up to 1972, the post-earthquake reconstruction process, rapid credit expansion
and higher import prices drove this figure up to 45 percent in 1974. Imports
increased by 131 percent from 1972 to 1974 while exports increased by only 50
percent, so that the resource balance changed from plus US$22.5 million to minus
US$184.0 million. Despite this, the heavy borrowing during the period (much of
it on commercial terms) held the net decline in international reserves to only
US$10.0 million. Even this small decline, however, reduced reserves to about
two months' imports.   Preliminary 1975 balance of payments estimates indicate
a significant improvement over 1974; exports grew by 14 percent while imports
grew by only 6 percent, thereby reducing the resource gap from a US$184.0 million
to US$171.0 million, or from 13 percent to 11 percent of GDP. It is estimated
that international reserves increased by US$17.0 million bringing the country's
reserves to just over :2 months' imports as of the end of 1975.
10.       Until recently, Nicaragua has maintained a reasonable and fairly
constant level of external debt service -- about 10 percent of exports.
However, since the earthquake, both the rising volume and the deteriorating
average terms of new borrowing - the latter mainly as a result of increased
recourse to commercial banks - have led to a rise in the debt service ratio
to about 13 percent irL 1975. Two factors are expected, however, to reverse
these trends in the volume and structure of the external debt and the debt
service burden. First, the Government recently announced that all foreign
borrowing by Government and semi-autonomous agencies must be cleared by the
National Planning Council and then be presented to the national legislative



assembly for approval; the Government expects that this review will facilitate
control of external borrowing. Second, it is likely that the Government will
be able to reduce imports substantially in real terms from the exceptionally
high levels of 1973 and 1974, without interfering with a satisfactory growth
rate of GDP. Present projections indicate that, if imports return to a more
normal share of GDP,and if, as seems feasible, loans from official sources rise
from the present 50 percent of new commitments to about 65 percent by 1980, the
debt service burden should reach about 26 percent at the end of the decade and
decline thereafter.
11.       The general prospects for the Nicaraguan economy for the near
future depend heavily on movements in international prices of its major
exports (cotton, beef and coffee) and imports (especially petroleum and
fertilizers), as well as on the success of policies in the following fields:
(a) export diversification, which is to be achieved through the promotion of
resource-based exports such as wood products, fruits and vegetables; (b) sub-
stitution of imports such as corn and some processed food products which
could be produced efficiently in the country; (c) holding imports down to a
reasonable level through appropriate domestic credit management; and (d) im-
provement of external debt management. If these policies are implemented,
the Nicaraguan economy may be expected to continue to develop at an acceptable
pace.
External Finance
12.       External concessional finance is provided principally by the Bank,
USAID, the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), and the Central American
Bank for Economic Integration (CABEI). In recent years a substantial portion
of the USAID assistance has been channeled to the reconstruction of Managua.
USAID has made loans for agriculture, highways, industry, rural electrification,
housing, education and health. In agriculture it has played an important
promotional role in developing the INVIERNO project to promote rural develop-
ment in some of the more depressed areas of the country. CABEI is financing
projects with regional impact, principally in transportation, industry and
power. In addition, CABEI has lent for housing and in lesser amounts for
education and agriculture. IDB is financing agriculture, water supply and
sewerage, industry, housing, transportation and higher education. The lending
of these agencies from 1950 to the end of 1974 is summarized below.
IBRD   IDA    USAID     IDB    CABEI
(In millions of US dollars)
Total                               110.3    23.0   137.1   124.5    98.0
Cumulative Lending 1950-65           35.6     3.0    20.7    42.4    13.3
Cumulative Lending 1966-74           74.7   20.0    116.4    82.1    84.7
Transport                         11.0    -        2.8     3.5    36.5
Power and Telecommunications      44.3    -       15.0     -      16.0
Education                          4.0    -        7.3     0.3     0.7
Health                             6.9    -        6.2    20.9     -
Housing                            -      -        3.7     6.0     6.8
Agriculture                        8.5    -       17.4    33.7     0.7
Industry                           -      -        5.0    16.7    18.9
Reconstruction                     -     20.0     35.0     -       -
Other                              -      -       24.0     1.0     5.1



- 5 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
13.       To date Nica:-agua has received twenty Bank loans and two IDA
credits, totalling US$:L38.9 million. As of March 26, 1976, a total
of US$37.9 million remained to be disbursed on six loans for education,
water supply, power, agriculture and ports and on the Earthquake Recon-
struction Credit. Progress in general on most of these projects has been
satisfactory, although cost overruns in the past three years have hampered
execution of several projects, particularly in ports and electric power.
With respect to the Earthquake Reconstruction project, the power and water
supply components have been implemented without significant problems. A
portion of the education component and the sites and services component
were delayed initially., largely because of difficulties in acquiring sites,
but are now proceeding satisfactorily. The industrial component suffered
initial delays in the submission of acceptable sub-projects, but most of
this component has now been disbursed. Annex II contains a summary statement
Pf banx loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of March 26, 1976 as well
as notes on the execution of on-going projects.
14.       In the past, Bank Group lending was heavily weighted towards
assisting Nicaragua develop basic infrastructure, through loans for electric
power, ports, and highways. More recently, an increasing share of Bank
lending has been directed towards agriculture, water supply and education,
and in 1973, IDA made a US$20.0 million credit for earthquake reconstruction.
The Bank's current lending program is designed to respond to Nicaragua's
development requirements in several different ways.    Given the importance
of efforts to strengthen the balance of payments, one objective Ls to support
Government programs for export diversification through loans for agricultural
and industrial credit. Another objective is to assist further institutional
improvement, and help neet the growing resource requirements, of the electric
power company, and to assist Nicaragua to develop its potentially large geo-
thermal energy resources. The Bank is also planning to give major emphasis
to assisting Government efforts to improve productivity and living conditions
in the rural sector. This objective would be supported through the proposed
Second Education Project, through components of projects for agricultural
credit, through a project being developed for providing water and sewerage
facilities for small towns and villages, and through projects designed to
strengthen efforts, now beginning under the INVIERNO program, to promote the
development of some of the most depressed areas.
15.       The Bank's share of total external public debt disbursed and out-
standing is likely to remain at about 10 percent on the average through 1981.
The Bank's share of debt service in 1974 was about 12 percent; it is projected
to decline during the remainder of the decade because of Nicaragua's substan-
tial relatively hard-term commercial borrowing in the past few years.
16.       In FY1968 IFC made two loans and an equity investment totalling
US$2.1 million equivalent to help establish a new cotton and synthetic fiber
textile company (FABRITEX). IFC's equity has since been sold to local investors.
FABRITEX was hampered in its early years by marketing problems associated with
difficulties in the operation of the Central American Common Market, and aggrava-
ted by the 1972 earthquake in Managua. The company is now in the process of re-
organizing its operations and financial structure. In March, 1976, IFC approved
a loan of US$6.5 million to Propiedades Azucareras de Nicaragua to help expand
their sugar production capacity.



- 6 -
PART III - THE EDUCATION SECTOR
17.       The formal education system comprises six years of primary
schooling, five to six years of secondary education, and courses varying
in length from two to five years at the post-secondary and university
levels.
18.       The Ministry of Education has the major responsibility for
formulating policy and administering all formal and non-formal public
education except for the universities. Private institutions, located
mainly in the urban areas, account for about 15 percent of primary, 38 per-
cent of secondary, and 25 percent of higher education enrollment. Education
administration is highly centralized, requiring the Minister's attention
even for relatively minor decisions. The Government plans to remedy this by
(a) training and upgrading national and regional administrators, and (b)
regionalizing the administration of primary and secondary education.
19.       A ten-year Education Development Plan prepared in 1971 emphasized
the importance of continued improvement and expansion of secondary education
with greater emphasis on prevocational courses to prepare graduates for entry
into the labor market or for future specialization. Recently, however, the
Government has been reformulating its Education Development Plan for the
1975-79 period to reconcile it with the National Development Plan and to
give emphasis to improving the socio-economic conditions of the poorer seg-
ments of the population. This revised plan gives priority to formal and
non-formal education and training for rural children and farmers, expansion
of prevocational secondary education, and strengthening of upper secondary
agricultural education.
Primary Education
20.       The curriculum is identical in all parts of the country.    However,
some qualitative improvements have been introduced in recent years; for
example, the number of courses offered has been reduced and made more flexible,
and school directors are allowed to adapt course content to local conditions.
Primary education is characterized by a shortage of schoolrooms and qualified
teachers, mainly in the rural areas, and by high dropout and repeater rates.
In 1974, the national average participation in primary education (excluding
over-aged students) was about 65 percent of the 7-12 group, while in rural
areas the average was only about 46 percent. The national target is to increase
participation ratios to 80 percent by 1981. As almost all school-age children
are now enrolled in urban areas, the rural population would benefit most.
21.       The Government plans to change radically the administration and
supervision of primary schools through the establishment of a system of "edu-
cational nuclei". A nucleus consists of one central school offering the full
six grades of primary education, surrounded by several four-grade associated
schools strategically located to serve the school age population of the
catchment area. Multigrade teaching methods and a multigroup classroom
organization would be introduced in the associated schools.     The centval



- 7 -
school would provicle technical supervision and administrative support to
the associated schools and also serve as a community learning center where
non-formal education and-training programs for youths and adults would be
provided.
22.       Other measures which are planned in order to improve efficiency
include: strengthening the Ministry of Education's curriculum development
unit and the recently created National Education Center (NEC) which is res-
ponsible for training and upgrading teachers; introducing automatic promotion;
increasing the supply of teaching materials; raising salaries to attract
teachers to the rural areas; and training teachers in multigrade teaching
techniques and practical subjects. With the implementation of this program,
the Government expEcts to increase the primary education completion rate from
22 percent in 1973 to 28 percent by 1980, a modest target which might well
be surpassed. The proposed education project would assist the Government in
achieving these gozls.
Secondary Education
23.       The first Bank-financed education project supported a significant
qualitative improvement in secondary education through the appointment of
full-time qualified teachers and the introduction of a well balanced curri-
culum, which is now being implemented in all secondary schools in the country.
Secondary education consists of a common three-year lower cycle (grades 7-9)
providing general and prevocational courses, followed by a two-to-three-year
diversified upper cycle (grades 10-11 in academic streams and 10-12 in tech-
nical streams) offering specialization in science and humanities, commerce,
agriculture, industry and primary teacher training. In 1974 enrollment in
secondary schools represented 23 percent of the 13-18 age group, including
overage students. Expanded opportunities and a more efficient flow of students
in primary education, as well as a growing demand for better trained manpower,
will place increasing pressure on the secondary school system in the future.
The Government's target is an annual rate of increase of about 8.5 percent in
secondary enrollment during 1975-81, to achieve a 30 percent participation of
the age group. Accordingly, secondary education facilities would be improved
and expanded, mainly in semi-rural areas where they are most needed.
24.       Future Government efforts will focus on decentralizing the adminis-
tration and supervision of secondary education by establishing regional
secondary centers, which will function as educational and administrative
units. Each will consist of a central institution offering diversified upper
secondary education and will be located in a departmental capital, surrounded
by several associated lower secondary schools in semi-rural areas. The
director of the central institute will be the administrative supervisor of all
secondary schools in the department, and the senior teachers of the central
institute will become technical supervisors responsible for providing tech-
nical assistance on teaching methods and content of syllabi to other depart-
mental teachers. Implementation of this system is feasible, since there
already exists a nunber of well equipped and properly staffecl central insti-
tutes established under the first Bank education project; associated lower
secondary schools in semi-rural areas will be provided in the proposed project.



-8-
Teacher Training
25.       Teachers for primary education are trained in a three-year course
at the upper secondary level (grades 10-12). The quality of training has
improved since 1970, when the Government took a number of steps, including
(i) the extension of the training program from two to three years, (ii) revi-
sion of the curriculum, and (iii) consolidation of 14 public and private
teacher training schools into five well staffed and equipped schools, three
of which were financed under the first Bank education project. The number
of graduates, about 400 per year, is adequate to meet the demand. However,
there is need for an extensive program to upgrade 2,000 unqualified primary
teachers (24 percent of the existing teaching force), assigned mainly to the
rural areas. The proposed second education project includes technical assist-
ance to help the National Education Center carry out such a program.
26.       Secondary teachers are trained in the university faculties of educa-
tion, where standards are comparatively high. Nevertheless, the number of
graduates (about 100 per year) is insufficient to meet present and future
demand. The National University has recently been expanding its teacher
training program, in close collaboration with the Government. The training
of teachers for practical subjects (industrial arts, home economics and
agriculture) is almost nonexistent except for a limited program, organized
by a private polytechnic institute. The Government will undertake a program
in these fields under the second project, giving priority to teacher training
for lower secondary and agricultural secondary schools. Training of guidance
counselors to assist secondary students in selecting fields of specialization
will also be part of the proposed second project. The National Education
Center will coordinate these programs.
Agricultural Education
27.       Agricultural education is provided to about 1,000 students in six
public and three private upper secondary agricultural schools. The public
schools are handicapped by unsuitable physical facilities, limited or non-
existent teaching equipment and materials, unqualified teachers, academically-
oriented curricula, and general inefficiency of operation. The Ministry of
Education plans to improve the quality and relevance of agricultural education
through: (1) replacement of existing unsuitable facilities; (2) provision of
equipment and teaching materials; and (3) development of new syllabi in accord-
ance with an already revised, practically-oriented curriculum. Furthermore,
the Ministry plans to concentrate efforts by phasing out two of the six public
schools. Through this consolidation, some reduction in the costs per student
will be obtained; the teaching staff will be better utilized; and study of
four major fields of importance to Nicaragua (forestry, livestock, sugarcane,
and basic grains) will be stimulated, with each school concentrating on one
of the four. The second project would assist the Government in executing
this consolidation program.
Vocational and Technical Education
28.       The Ministry of Education administers the most important vocational/
technical institutions in the country - the National Technical Vocational
Institute and the National Technological Institute - both operating in new



- 9 -
and well equipped facilities. The former is receiving assistance from
USAID and the latter, from Spain. However, the number of graduates (about
100 a year) is insufficient to satisfy manpower requirements of0 the country's
growing industrial sector; hence, the earthquake reconstruction project
(Credit 389-NI) provides for construction and furnishing of a new two-year
post-secondary technical institute. When fully operational in 1977, this
institute will enroll about 500 students and graduate some 250 technicians
annually, which would meet estimated demand by 1981. The Overseas Develop-
ment Administration (ODA) of the United Kingdom is providing te!chnical
assistance and equipment for the institute.
Non-Formal Education
29.       Various non-formal education/training schemes are being implemented
by public and private agencies. The Ministry of Education provides accelerated
literacy courses, in which about 12,000 youths and adults have been enrolled.
Also, trade training courses of varying duration are offered for skilled and
semi-skilled workers by the Ministries of Education and Labor and by private
agencies. The Central Bank recently completed an inventory and evaluation of
the existing resources for manpower training in the country and came to the
conclusion that there is considerable duplication and overlapping of programs
and a need to design a national scheme to coordinate vocational training and
avoid further wastage of resources.   The Government has not yet decided on
the timing for implementing these recommendations.
30.       Rural trainLng programs are being carried out by several agencies,
but their scope is not commensurate with needs. The Ministry of Education
operates eight agricultural schools ('"escuelas granjas") for out-of-school
youths to complete thesir basic education and receive agricultural training.
These schools have been unsuccessful because of irrelevant curricula, unquali-
fied teachers, inadequate procedures for selecting students, and recurrent
costs that are about esight times that of regular primary education and almost
double that of secondary technical education. The Ministry has initiated a
full conversion of the schools into agricultural training centers for small-
scale farmers and rural youths. Curricula, regulations for selecting students,
and the duration of courses are being determined by Ministry of Education
staff, in consultation with the Ministry of Agriculture. Sites for the new
centers have been selected and include land for farm activities. The Ministry
of Agriculture, through its limited extension service, provides some farmer
training; the service will be reinforced by better coordination with the new
centers and by hiring qualified graduates of the reorganized secondary agri-
cultural schools.
Financial Aspects
31.       Although public revenues and recurrent expenditures have traditionally
been low relative to GNP, the education and training sector has been accorded
priority within the Central Government budget. The sector was allocated as
much as 20 percent of the total budget and 27 percent of recurrent expenditures
in the early 1970's, which compares favorably with other countries at similar
stages of development. (In 1974, when reconstruction expenditures commanded
a large share of public resources, education and training received 13 percent



- 10 -
of total Central Government expenditures and 22 percent of recurrent
expenditures.) The Ministry of Education currently accounts for about 90
percent of total public expenditures on education, with 60 percent of the
Ministry's budget allocated to primary education, 12 percent to secondary
education and 13 percent to university education. About one-fifth of the
Ministry of Education's total expenditures is for school construction and
maintenance, half of which is financed by external sources in support of
on-going projects at the primary (USAID), secondary (IBRD) and higher (IDB)
education levels.
32.       While public primary education is free, there is a fee of about
US$35 per year for public secondary schools. This fee generates important
financing for school management, additional teachers, school maintenance and
materials. Although there is a scholarship program for deserving poor students,
the fees are likely to limit the access of the poorer classes to secondary edu-
cation, when the demand for places in the system rises as a result of increased
output of the primary system, unless the scholarship program is expanded. In
1974, 18 percent of students at secondary level were on scholarships. The Govern-
ment has agreed to take all necessary steps to insure that an adequate number of
scholarships will be available for students from low income families wishing to
attend lower secondary schools in semi-rural areas; such steps will be taken be-
fore the beginning of each school year starting in 1977 (Loan Agreement, Section
4.08 ),
33.       Based on the enrollment targets, Ministry of Education expenditures
(including those for, and generated by, the second project) are projected to
increase by 8 percent per annum (1974 prices) during 1974-81, which is approx-
imately the same growth rate as that projected for total consumption expendi-
tures of the Central Government. These projections assume that 20 percent
of the enrollment in secondary education will be in diversified education,
and they include provision for increased teaching materials and maintenance
and for a real growth in teachers' salaries. Unit costs for primary education
are estimated to decline by about 20 percent, as a result of more efficient
utilization of teachers and some double-shifting of students.
First Bank Education Project
34.       The first Bank loan, signed in April 1968 for US$4.0 million, is
supporting government efforts to improve and expand secondary education in
major cities and upgrade primary teacher training. Despite delays in imple-
mentation, related primarily to the 1972 earthquake in Managua and some
administrative problems, 13 of the 20 project schools are now in operation
and the remaining seven will be completed by the end of 1976. IDA is also
financing an education component (US$2.0 million) of the reconstruction
project, signed in June 1973, which includes the provision for Managua of
four temporary general secondary schools to replace facilities destroyed by
the earthquake, two new multilateral secondary schools and a post-secondary
technical institute. The four general secondary schools are now operating satis-
factorily,anu! the rest of the project is expected to be completed by September 197E.



- 11 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
35.       A report entitled "Appraisal of a Second Education Project,
Nicaragua" (No. 1003a-NI dated March 25,1976) is being distributed
separately. The main features of the loan and project are summarized in
Annex III. Sector uork in connection with the proposed project was carried
out in 1972 by a UNESCO mission and updated in 1974 by local specialists,
with planning assistance from the Bank. The Government prepared the project
in July 1975 with the assistance of UNESCO and the Bank. The project was
appraised in August 1975. Negotiations were held in Washington on March 4-5,
1976. The delegation of the Republic of Nicaragua was led by Dr. Marin
Abaunza, Minister of Education.
36.       The proposed project is designed to support the Government's rural
education and training development strategy by (a) expanding and improving
education and training opportunities through the establishment of basic
schools and community learning centers; (b) increasing agricultural training
opportunities by establishing centers offering non-formal training to farmers
and their families; (c) contributing to meeting the manpower needs of the
agricultural sector by establishing agricultural secondary schools in strategic
geographic zones; (d) expanding and improving secondary education for the
semi-rural populaticn and decentralizing education management by establishing
regional secondary education centers; and (e) improving teacher qualifications
by establishing in-service training programs.
Elements of the Project
(a) Rural Education Nuclei
37,       Eighteen rural education nuclei would be constructed, furnished and
equipped. Each educational nucleus would constitute a technical and adminis-
trative education ur,it composed of a"base school",two or more "sub-base
schools", and several "associated schools". The eighteen rural education
nuclei would include 152 four-grade primary schools ("associated schools"),
52 six-grade primary schools ("sub-base schools") and 18 rural community
learning centers ("base schools"). In 1981, when the 18 education nuclei
are expected to be in full operation, about 48,000 students, or 87 percent
of the 7-12 age group in the 18 areas, would be enrolled in formal educat:on
courses on a double--shift basis, and about 7,000 out-of-school youths and
adults are expected to be offered non-formral training courses. Accelerated
primary education w:Lll be offered to the population 14 years and over. The
Government has agreed that (i) the director of each nucleus will be selected
on the basis of cril;eria acceptable to the Bank and will be paid a salary
comparable to the h:igher salaries paid to urban school directors, and (ii)
the taking of measures satisfactory to the Bank for the establishment of the
nucleus system of school administration and supervision will be a condition
to disbursement of funds for civil works. (Loan Agreement, Section 4.03(c)
and paragraphs 1 and. 4(b) of Schedule 1.) Furthermore, the Government has
agreed to establish before the opening of each institution included in this
part of the project a comprehensive system for continuous evaluation of the
educational and tra:ining programs to be carried out by each institution (Loan
Agreement, Section 4.04).



- 12 -
(b) Agricultural Training Centers
38.       Nine agricultural training centers (five replacement and four new)
would be constructed, furnished and equipped. The centers would be located
close to selected project community learning centers in seven departments.
These would support the Government:'s reorganization and transformation of
the "escuelas granjas" into agricultural training centers and would train
about 2,500 youths and adults annually. The facilities would include, at
each agricultural training center, a classroom laboratory, a farm shop, a
dormitory for 30 trainees, a staff house and a school farm for student prac-
tice, demonstration and some production for marketing and school use. The
potential target population, within 45 km of the proposed agricultural centers,
includes nearly 30,000 farmers and more than 36,000 rural youths between the
ages of 15 and 21. Farmers would attend short training courses in agricul-
tural production techniques, farm planning, health, nutrition, child care,
family planning and home management. The youths would attend a 10-month
course during which they would alternate two weeks of training at the centers
with two weeks of supervised practical work on their family farms. Their
training program would focus on agricultural technology, farm planning and
community leadership. The location of the agricultural centers close to the
community learning centers would enable illiterate trainees to attend acce-
lerated primary and literacy courses and would enable the agricultural staff
to assist in teaching practical agricultural activities at the community
learning centers.
(c) Agricultural Secondary Schools
39.       New facilities would be constructed, furnished and equipped at
four agricultural secondary schools. The capacity of each school would be
210 students with boarding accommodations for 80 students. The project
schools, which would replace existing inadequate facilities, would be located
in four regions with distinct agricultural characteristics: Chontales
(cattle), Chinandega (cotton and sugarcane), Matagalpa (basic grains and
coffee), and Zelaya (forestry). The schools would offer a three-year upper
secondary program (grades 10-12), with emphasis on practical activities to
develop skills needed by agricultural technicians. The curriculum of the
four schools would be the same except for the third year, when emphasis would
be on the production of agricultural products predominant in the region;
thus, graduates would be qualified to work in posts requiring general agri-
cultural education or some type of specialization. The already revised
curriculum is well balanced between general and professional education, but
it will be necessary to revise syllabi to reflect the results of an occupational
analysis study to be conducted by the Government. The schools would have a
farm of about 70 hectares for student practice, agricultural experimentation,
demonstrations for farmers and some production for marketing and school use.
It is estimated that the recurrent costs per student in the project schools
would be slightly lower than those in existing schools as a result of con-
solidation of the six public schools into four schools and more efficient
use of resources.



- 13 -
40.       A National Advisory Committee, composed of the Ministries of
Education and Agriculture and other public sector agencies with respon-
sibilities in the field, will be created to establish overall agricultural
education policy. The Min4stry of Education will establish a tracer system
and conduct an occupational analysis study of agricultural technicians to
assure relevance of the instructional program. The project wi:Ll provide
technical assistance in implementing these programs and in improving the
training of administrators and teachers. The Government has agreed (i)
to initiate consolidation of the six secondary agricultural schools into
four schools by discontinuing admission of new students to institutions other
than those to be expanded under this project, effective with the school-year
commencing February 1977 (Loan Agreement, Section 3.03);(ii) on or before
December 31, 1976 to establish a National Advisory Committee for Agricultural
Education (Loan Agreement, Section 4.07); and (iii) on or before December 31,
1977 to (a) complete an occupational analysis study (Loan Agreement, Section
4.06(ii), (b) establish a course for upgrading administrators and agricultural
teachers (Loan Agreement, Section 3.06(b), and (c) establish a tracer system
for graduates of agricultural schools and training centers (Loan Agreement,
Section 4.06(i).
(d) Lower Secondary Schools
41.       The project would include the construction, furnishing and equipping
of 18 lower secondary schools in semi-rural areas, each with a capacity of
240 student places. These new schools would replace and expand existing
schools that are functioning without laboratories or workshops and in unsuit-
able accommodations (mostly rented houses). The new school would be used to
implement the Governinetit's policy of extending secondary education opportuni-
ties to semi-rural areas and decentralizing secondary school supervision and
administration by establishing regional secondary education centers composed
of a "central institute" (selected secondary schools in the first education
project located in the departmental capitals) offering diversified upper
secondary education and a number of associated lower secondary schools.
42.       The projeci: schools, working in two shifts, would enroll about
8,640 students when :in full operation by 1981. The curriculum to be imple-
mented includes practical subjects (industrial, agricultural and home economics)
to provide students with an opportunity for a more balanced education for
further specialization or work. School workshop units would also provide
facilities for job entry training for students and out-of-school youths and
adults. The establishment of the regional secondary education centers would
be a condition to disbursement for civil works (Loan Agreement, paragraphs
1 and 4(b) of Schedule 1).
(e) Teacher Upgrading Program
43.       The National Education Center (NEC) would carry out a comprehensive
program for upgrading about 1,000 teachers and 100 administrators, for rural
primary, lower secondary and agricultural schools during the period 1976-80.
In addition, NEC would coordinate with the National Technological Institute
the traini~-.g of 50 technical/vocational teachers for lower secondary schools



- 14 -
and about 20 agricultural teachers. These programs would be of short
duration, varying from four to twelve weeks. The Government has agreed
that it will (i) establish upgrading courses which include multi-grade
teaching techniques for existing rural primary teachers no later than six
months from the signing of the Loan Agreement (Loan Agreement,Section 3.06(a)(i);
(ii) establish teacher upgrading and training courses for lower secondary school
teachers at the NEC and the National Technological Institute not later than
six months from the signing of the Loan Agreement (Loan Agreement, Section 3.06(a)
(ii); and (iii) in order to attract and retain primary teachers for rural
communities, allow teachers in the rural education nuclei to work two shifts,
for vwhich they would be adequately compensated (Loan Agreement,Section 4.03(d).
(f) Technical Assistance
44.       A total of 11 man/years of specialist services and 17 man/years of
fellowships for local staff would be provided as follows: (a) specialist
services in (i) primary school administration (two man/years) to help estab-
lish and operate the nuclei system of school administration and supervision;
(ii) teacher training (two man/years) to assist in the implementation of
training programs for rural primary teachers, directors and supervisors,
with emphasis on multi-grade teaching techniques; (iii) student evaluation
(two man/years) for primary and secondary education; (iv) secondary school
administration and teacher training (two man/years) to help establish and
operate regional secondary education centers and advise on teacher upgrading
courses; (v) agricultural education (two man/years) to advise on organization,
operation and evaluation of the agricultural education programs of the project
agricultural secondary schools and agricultural training centers; and (vi)
short-term consultants (one man/year) in farm shops, extension service,
farm management, irrigation, dairy, horticulture, and instructional mate-
rials; and (b) fellowships for (i) primary and secondary school administra-
tors and supervisors (seven man/years) in courses of six to twelve months'
duration; and (ii) agricultural administrators, supervisors and teachers (10
man-years) in courses of six months to two years. (The cost of technical assis-
tance is estimated at US$42,000 per man-year of specialist services and US$9,000
per man-year of fellowships.) If the Government is successful in obtaining tech-
nical assistance from the UNDP or any other agency which might provide it on a
grant basis, the funds for the items affected would be cancelled or reallocated
for other project-related purposes acceptable to the Bank. The Government has
agreed that specialists will be employed on terms and conditions acceptable to
the Bank, and that all fellowship recipients will be selected and placed in
consultation with the Bank (Loan Agreement, Section 3.05).
Cost and Financing
45.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$19.8 million, of
which US$8.3 million, or 42 percent, represents the estimated foreign exchange
costs. Construction costs account for 58.3 percent of the total cost; furni-
ture and equipment, 12.6 percent; technical assistance, teacher training and
project administration, 6.3 percent; and physical and price contingencies,
22.8 percent. The proposed loan of US$11.0 million would finance 55 percent
of total project costs (US$8.3 million of foreign exchange and US$2.7 million
equivalent of local costs). The balance of the project costs will be borne
by the Government. Local currency financing is justified for the reasons
discussed in paragraph 7 above.



- 15 -
Project Administration
46.       The Government recently established a Direcci6n General de
Inversiones y Asistencia Financiera (DIAF) within the Ministry of Educa-
tion. The director of this office will be responsible for the implement-
ation of all education projects assisted by external sources, including
those of the Bank. Full-time personnel assigned specifically for Bank
project administration would include an educator, an architect, and an
accountant, all appointed in consultation with the Bank. Project adminis-
tration expenditures. included in total project costs are salaries of key
project staff, a vehicle, and essential office equipment. Basic designs
for the rural primary schools are already available and could be adapted
for project use with a minimum of professional input; this wo-rk may there-
fore be carried out by technical staff of the Ministry of PubLic Works or
Education under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank. All other architec-
tural design work and all related engineering and construction supervision
for the project institutions would be carried out by consulting firms
acceptable to the Bank and employed on terms and conditions acceptable to
the Bank. The Government has aereed to establish, within six months of
loan signing and prior to disbursements for civil works, furniture and
equipment, technical committees to review the architectural designs, equipment
and furniture lists and specifications to assure that they meet economic
and functional standards and the educational objectives of each project
school; the composition of such committees is to be acceptable to the Bank
and to include representatives of the Ministries of Education, Public Works
and Agriculture and of the DIAF (Loan Agreement, Section 3.10and paragraph
4(c) of Schedule 1).
Procurement and Disbursement
47.       Contracts for civil works would be awarded to prequalified bidders
on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance
with procedures sat:isfactory to the Bank. As most of the civil works are
of small size and scattered throughout the country, foreign contractors are
not expected to be interested; but they would be permitted to participate in
the bidding. Nicaragua has several medium and small construction firms which
are competitive and qualified to carry out the civil works included in the
project. Contracts for furniture and equipment would be awarded on the basis
of international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Furniture and equipment would be grouped to form sizeable packages for bulk
purchasing. However, items that cannot be grouped in packages of at least
US$15,000 and would not in the aggregate exceed the equivalent of US$300,000
(equivalent to about 10 percent of the total cost of equipment and furniture)
would be procured in accordance with local procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
Domestic and other Central American Common Market (CACM) member countries'
manufacturers would receive a preferential margin of 15 percent of the c.i.f.
base price or 50 percent of the import taxes applicable to non-CACM produced
goods, whichever is lower.



- 16 -
48.       The loan would be disbursed over a period of four and one-half
years to meet: (a) 40 percent of the total costs of civil works; (b) 100
percent of foreign expenditures for equipment and furniture and 85 percent
of total costs of such equipment and furniture when procured locally; and
(c) 100 percent of expenditures [or technical assistance specialists,
fellowships abroad, teacher training, furniture and equipment for the project
administrative unit, and architectural services. An amount of up to US$150,000
would be disbursed retroactively for expenditures incurred after September 1,
1975 for professional services, technical assistance and project administra-
tion.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
49,       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Nicaragua and
the Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement and the text of a draft resolution
approving the proposed loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. The draft Loan Agreement conforms substantially to the normal
pattern of loans for education projects, and its more important features
have been included in Part IV of this report.
50.       An additional condition of effectiveness would be that the full-time
services of an educator, an architect and an accountant be obtained by the
Direccion General de Inversiones y Asistencia Financiera (Section 5.01 of
the Loan Agreement).
51.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
52.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
March 31, 1976



Page i of 4 Page3
COUNTRY DATA - NICARAGUA
LAND AREA (TNOU K142D
NICARAGUA                           REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TDOAL       110.0                                      MOSt RECENT
ARABLE         .1960                              1910    ESTIMATE          GUATEMALA      PANAMA         COSTA RICA
GNP PER CAPITA (USI)                      230.0      450.0       540.0              380.0       710.0       560.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
_  -  ---- -  ---------_ _ - -_-_ - ------ 
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)              1.4         1.8        2.0                4.9         1.4         1.?
POPJLATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                         11.0       14.0        15.0               45.0        19.0        34.0
PER SOUARE KM. ARABLE LAND            51.0        r6.0          .2 .                        295.)
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE PER THOUSAND          45.0       46.0        42.0               42.0        17.0        33.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE PER THOUSAND          16.0       17.0        14.0               L5.0         F.0         7.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)         r0.0        54.0        65.0              8s.0         41.0        62.0
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)          ..        50.0        53.0               51.0          .         65.0
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                Z.1         3.3         3.3                3.1         2.0         3.4
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (1)
TOTAL                                  2.9         2.5         2.6                2.6         3.3         3.3
JRBAN                                   6.2/a      6.0a        4-.9/a              3.0        5. 0        4.7
URBAN POPULATION (I OF TOTAL)            41.0        45.0       49.0                34.0       *8.(0       46.0
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                         68.0/b     67.0        4A.0               65.0        63.0        69.0
15 TO 64 YEARS                         69.0/b     50.0        49.0               52.0        53.0       4A.o
65 YEARS AND OVER                       3.o7h      3.0         3.0                1.0         4.0         3.0
AGE DEPENOENCY RATIO                      1.0/b       1.0         1.0                0.9        0.9         1.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATID                 1.97        2.1        1 .7                1.5/a       1.5        1.6/a
FAMILY PLANNING-
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE. THOU)                                        .                           .        16.5
JSERS (2 oD MARRIED dOMEN)               ..          ..         ..
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)           470.0/b    500.0       560.0              1600.0      500.0/a     540.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (1)           60.o7       51.0       50.0                63.0        38.0       63.0
UNEMPLOYEO (I OF LABOR FORCE)              ..        16.0b         ,                                        5, 7.0.
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
t OF PRIVATr INCOME RECDO 8Y-
HIGHEST 5s OF POPULATION                 ..       42.4/c        .1 14.8 a                     2.2/b
HIGHEST ZO0 OF POPULATION                ..       65.67w        ..               59.0 L      49.37.
LOWEST   701 OF POPJLATION               ..        3.I7          .                8.9         A. 17 
LOWESt   40S OF POPULATION               ..        S.77w        .                21.8        13.B7.
DISTRIBUTION Of LAND OWNERSHIP
I OWNEO BY TOP 131 Of 04NERS             67.0         ..          ..                  ..        5.0
I OWNEO BY SMALLEST LO0 OWNERS            0.04         ..          ..                 ..         1.0
HEALtH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN               Z0oo.0     2060.0      2080.0             3620.0/c    1550.0      1630.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          5080.0     46860.0     4120.0             6930.0      1210.0      1690.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED             440.0      410.0       400.0               460.0      320.0       250.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (I OF REQUIREMENTS)           93.0      L06.0       109.0               97.0       109.0        1 0.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)                68.0       70.0        71.0                59.0       61.0        63.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           38.0       33.0           .               19.0        31.0        35.0
DEATH RATE (/THOJ) AGES 1-4               8.4,        ..          ..                  ..         7.0        6.0
EDUCATION
ADJJSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                         62.0       62.0        65.0                59.0      110.0       112.0
SECONDARY SCH03L                        7.0       20.0        17.0                 7.0/d     62.0        29.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)               12.0       12.0        12.0                12.0       12.0        11.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(X OF SECDNDARY)                       26.0        9.0         9.0                20.0       32.0        lO-O /c
ADULT LITERACY RATE (1)                  38.0        53.0       57.0                  .         82. 0/d    89.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (AVERAGE)                2.21 ..                  ..                 ..          .8         1.1
OCCUPIEO DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WAT-R                            87.0/b.d      ..       72.0                  ..        74.0/c
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(I OF ALL DWELLINGS)                   33.0/b       .         4 61.0               ..        52.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (Z)                      4.0/b        ..        7.0                  ..       16.0
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)           53.0        55.0        58.0              115.0       157.0        71.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)             5.0        17.0        17.0                9.0        34.0        23.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)            131.0       310.0       352.0              150.0       562.0      591.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                 0.9         1.8         1.9                1.6         4,.0        6.2
- -  -    _-  - - - --_-   - - - - --- - -  - - - -- - -  - - - - --  - - - - --- -_---- _   .  --- - -  --_- _ * -   ---- --- -- ...-



AMNE I
Page 2 of 4 s Pge
niseas otherwise noted, dats for 1960 refer to 1959-61, for 1970 to 1968-70, end for Most Recent Estimate to I97-73
asCosta Rica has been selected as an objective country since, althoughi it wee in the earne income bracket with Nicaragua in 1970, its per capita incme was
20-25 percent higher, which gave it a reasonable income target in the reditm term. Bat mnore ioportantly, Costa Rica, which has a resource base very
similar to that of Nicaragua has manLaged to obtain a much more equitable distribution of income and social services at the samne tine as it haa achieved a
siguificantly higer level of per capita incomes.
NICAR          19IL  0  /a  1950-63;  /b  1963;   /c  1965;   /d  Insides only.
1970   La  1963-68;   /b Nanagua only;     /i Rural only.
CDS? RECUWT ESIK(iE    /a  1963-72;    /b  Ratio of population under 15 end 65 end over to total labor force.
92ME           1270    /a  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 end over to total labor ferce;    /b  1966, i-oral wage earners (households);  /c   Registered,
not all practicing in the contariy    Ad Net enroibzmt.
19AM    I70    La Including residents working In Canal acme; lb    Incam recipient;      Li Inelds only;     d 10 year   end  over.
COSTA RICA     1970   /a   Ratio of population under 15 end 65 end over to total, labor force;   /b Open unemployment;     Li Teacher training not included.
R2 February 18, 1976
DoFPNrrlONS OP SOCT11. INDICATORS
Lend Ares (thou luo )                                                                Population per nursing person - Populetion divided by nmber of practl-
Total -Total surface ems coprising land eras and inland waters,                         cing male and female graduate nurses. "trained" or "certified" nuses,
Arable-Must resea    ealimat   of land ares used temporarily or peomanently             and auxiliary personnel with training or enpariente.
for Coitiv-ti-n, pastures. maket and kitchen gardens or to lie fallow.             Population per hospital bed - Population divided by number of hospital
beds available in public and private genea so. ed apecielleed hospi-
GNP per capit. (01$) - GNP percapits estimates at maker prius.     alu                  tel and rehabilitation centre, excludes nursing hone    and establish-
lated by sam  conversion aethod as World Bank Atlas (19 72-74 basis).                 sants for custodial end preventive care.
Per capita supply of calories (7. of ruimet)- ComPuted from
Popuatin an  vial  tatistica                                                      energy equivalent of net food supplies available in coun.try per
Population (mid-yr. nillion) - As of July first: if nor avsilable. avrrage              capita per day: available supplies comprise donesic producti on.
of two end-year estimates,                                                            imports less exports, end changes in stock; net supplies exclude
an,imal feed, seeds, quantities used in food processing and losses.
Population density - per esusre k. - Mid-year population per aquace kilo-               is distribution; requiremsanta were estimated by F-60 based on phyni-
motor (100 hoctares) sf total area.                                                   ologica1 needs for no.-I antivity end health considering environ-
population densicy - per sqar       of arabIe land - Computed as above fur              mental ceeprsture, body weights, ago and sen distributions of
srable land only.                                                                     population, and all1wing 107. fur waste at househuld level.
Per capita supply of protein (gres,a per day) - Protein concert of per
Vital statintico                                                                        capita net supply of food per day; net supply of food is defined as
Crude birth rate per thousand - ~cnua..  live births per th ous and of mId-             above; requirements for all ousntries established by USDA inonomic
year population ; .usualy fluv0-near averages ending in 1960, 1970 and               Research Servi.e. provide   for a minim,  allowance of 60 gresa of
1975 fcr developing con-     .total protein per day, and 20 gram                                                          of animal and pulse prctein, cof
Crude d!eath reMpteprthou.sand - Annual deaths per thousa nd of mid-year                which 10 gram  should be a-i-I peotein; these standards are lowr
papulation; usually five-yea   vunrage  ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                than those of 75 grams of total protein and 23 gram   of animal pro-
fur developing o.untries.                                                            tein as an average for the world, proposed by FiO in the Third World
Infant mortality rate f/thou) - Annual deatha of infants under one year                 Pood lSrvey.
of age per chosa..nd lion, births.                                                Per napita protein supply from animal andpulse - protein supply of fod
Life oxpectancy at birth (yi-) - 'verge number of years of life remin-                  derived Ores animls and pulses in gras    per day.
log at birth,usal      flue-yea  suerges ending in 1960, 1970 and                 Death rate f/thou) ages 1-4 - A-1ma   deaths per thousand in age group 1-4
1975 for develapingrou-trie..                                                        yerar, to children in this age group; suggested as an Indicator of
Cr-us repeoduction rate - Average n-bh- of luve daughters a     oa    ill               uslnutrition.
bear in her norma reproductive period if she experiencos present age-
specif-c fertility rates; usually flue-year averges ending in 1960,               Education
1970 and 1975 for developing countries.                                           Adiusced enrollment ratio - primary school - Enrolloent of all ages as
Popleton  rowh rte 7.)- ttal- Compound annual growth rates of mid-             percentage of primary schoul-age population; includas children aged
year population for 1950-60, 1960-70. end 1960 to most recent year.                  6-Il yearn but adjusted for different lengths of primary education,
Population growth race (7.1 - urban - Computed like groth rate of total                 for countries with universal. d-cation, enrollment may se...ed 1007,
populotion, different definitions of urh a,oreas nay affect compass-                 since sam  pupils are below or above the official school age
hbility of dsta amog countries.                                                    kdlusted enra1lmet ratio - secodary school - Computed ao above, second-
T;chae popolation (7. of total) - Ratio of urban to total population;                   ary education requires at least four years of approved primay     onctru-
dtfforecn doficitiona of urban areas   ay affect nomparahiliry of data               lion; provides gSs..rai, voctional. or teacher training instructions for
amog countries.                                                                      pupils of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence corses are generally
Age structure~ (prcnt    - Children (0-14 year), working-age (15-64 veers),             secluded.
and retired (65 years and ove) as percentages of mid-year po,pulation.            Years of schooling provided (fitre and secund levels) - Total ynar- of
Age dependency ratio - Ratio of populacius under 15 and 65 and over toschooling; at secondary level, vocational instruction may ho portiaIly
those of ages 1  through 64.                                                         or completely excluded.
iconoic dependency ratio - Ratio of population onder 15 and 65 and over              yocstgonal. enrollmsent (7. of secondary) - Vocational institu-lona include
to the labor force in age grop of 15-64 years.                                       technical, industrial or other program   which opertet independently
Family Pl.neinj - anneprors   cmlaie      thou) - Cumalative number of                  or as deparments of secondary institutions.
acceptors of birth-central devices andec auspices of national family              Adult literacy rate (7.) - Literate adults (sble to read and write) as
planning prsgrm sInce ince.ption.                                                    percentege of total adult population gagd 15 years and over.
F-icy planning - users (. oi marred woen) - Pnrcentagea of married
wcn,en of child-bearing ago (5-44 years) who -se birth-control. devices           Rousing
to all earned woen tsae age group                                                 Persons per noon (overage) - averge number of parsons per room in~ occupied
conventional dwellings in urbas areas; dwellings seclude non-pero-sent
Employment                                                                              structurea and unoccupied parts.
Total lahor force fthuu..scd; - Encom-ically active perons, including                Occu pied dwellings without pipad water (7. - Occupied conventional dwell-
sowed forces end omemplaynd hut encluding housewives, students, etc.;                legs in urban and rural areas without inside or outsIde piped water
definitions in various uconteic   are not cmp-rahle.                                 facilities as percentage of all occupied dwellings.
Labor force in ar~iculture (7.) - Agriculturl labor force (is farming.               A.eees  to electricity (7. of all dwellings) - Conventional. dwellings with
forestry, hunting and fishing) as percentage oftota1 labor force                     electricity in living quarters as percent of total dwellings in urhan
Ueemployed (7. of labor force) - Unemployed ore usually defined as persons              and rural areas.
who are able and vIlliog to take a joh, out of a Job on a given day.              Rural dwellings connected to electricity C7)    -Coputed as above for
remaiced ,sut of a joh, and seeking work for a specified minimum                     rura  dwellings only.
period not enceeding one week; may not be comparable between coumtrie8
due to different definItions of unemployed end sourc   of data, e.g.,             Consumption
eaployment offico statistIcs, semple survys, compulsory unemployent               Radio receivers (per thou pop) - All types of rece.ivers for radio bread-
insurance,                                                                           casts to general public per thousand of population. secludes on-
licensed receivers in coutries and in yerar when ragistr-tion of
Income distribution - Percentage of private incom   (both in cash and                   radio sets w.as in effect; data for recent years may not be cumparable
ki.d) received by riehesi 57., rIchest 207.. poorest 207., and poorest               since most co-xtries abolished licensing.
407. of population.                                                               Passe.ngter cars (per thou pap) - Passenger care conprisa motnr care seating
less than eight persons; encludes amabulance, heorsee and military
Distribution of land ownership - Percentages of land owned by wealthiest                vehicles.
107 ..ad poorest 10. of lend owers.                                               Electricity (kwh/yr per cap) - Annual comnssption of industrial, co--
mersia1, public and private electtricity is kilowatt hours pee capits;
Hesltb and Nutrition                                                                    geserally bsaed on produccise data, without allowance for losses. in
l'oulelonpe  phsican- Populattion divided by n-mber of practicIng                 grids hut allowing for imparts end exports of electricity.
physIcians qualified from a medical school nt university level.                   Newsprint (ha/yr per cap) - Per capitsaensuaI consumption in kilgram,a
estimated from domestic production plus net imports of newsprint.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 19714                                  ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTdH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.    _                        1965 -yo         1970) -73        1974
GNP at Market Prices        :-,359.0    100.0                       4.0              3.8           12.1
Gross Domestic Investment    411.9       30.3                      2.4               8.5           30.8
Gross National Saving        186.1       13.6                      1.0              13.3          -35.3
Current Account Balance      -226.0      16.6
Exports of Goods, NFS        436.9       32.1                      3.2              14.0            1.6
Imports of Goods, NFS        621.1       45.7                      0.6             14.3            19.8
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1974
Value Added                 Labor Force                 V. A. Per Worker
d JS$ Mln.   %                 Ths.      %                  US-$        %_
Agriculture        2,666     380.9       27.0            300.5    49.6                1,300        56.5
Industry 2/        2,236     319.4       22.7            110.8    18.3                2,900       126.0
Services           4,965     709.3       50.3            193.7    32.1                3,700       160.8
Unallocated
Total/Average 9,o67  ],040.96    100.0            605.0    100.0                2,300      100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                          Central Government
(  fLn.)   % of GDP                  (_     Mln)       % of GDP
1974        1974       15970-7_              1974      19      ,   1970- 73
Current Receipts                 1,693        16.o        13.6              1,338.4      12.7        10.3
Current Expenditure              1 231        11.6        10.4              1,011.0       9.5         8.1
Current Surplus                    -24.4                                 2      1* 4      3.2         2.2
Capital Expenditures              456          4.3         4.1                972.7       3.9         3.6
External Assistance (net)         639          6.o         2.4                661.9       6.0         2.4
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES               1962        1970        1971       1972        1973       1974
TMllion    outstanding end periodF 
Honey and Quasi Money                 745.9        923.9     1,061.5      1,399.5   2,017.2     2,395.6
Bank credit to Public Sector           91.5         78.8        94.0         57.2     -56.7     -254-3
Bank Credit to Private Sector        1,170.0     1,247.1     1,363.6      1,465.6   1,987.9     2,618.9
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP      13.5         15.4        16.4         20.6      26.0        24.2
General Price Index (1963 - 100)      116.1        119.9       123.0        125.4     140.6       160.9
Annual percentage changes ins
General Price Index                     0.1          3.3         2.5          2.0      12.1       14.4
Bank credit to Public Sector           94.2        -13.9        19.2        -39.2
Bank credit to Private Sector           6.1          6.5         9.3         7.4       35.6       31.7
NOTE: All conversions to dolLars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
I/ Total labor force; unemplo,ed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation. "Unallocated" consists
mainly of unemployed morke)!s seeking their first job.
g/ Includes Agriculture, Livestock, Forestry,  .. not ayailable
Fishing and Hunting.                         . not applicable
2 Includes Manufacturing, Construction and Mining.



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4 pages
TRADe PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                   MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 19'j1-73)
1974
1970     1973      1974                     Annual Average 1971-73     US $ Mln     eb
(Millions US $)                            Mls. US     .rcentage
Exports of Goods, NFS         215.2      377.1    436.8       Cotton            50.4         22.6       136.3      35.7
Imports of Goods, NFS         231.4      425.1   621.1        Coffee            34.7         15.5        46.6      12.3
Resource GaP (deficit = -)     -16.2       T. 0   -lc4'.3     Sugar             12.8          5.7        12.4       3.2
Beef              34.5         15.4        23.3       6.1
Interest Payments (net)         -6.2     -22.9     -13.8      Bananas            2.3          1.0          3.7      0.9
Workers' Remittances             ..        ..        ..       Other Agr.Prodts.20.0           8.9         20.9      5.4
Other Factor Payments (net)    -2?.9     -23.3     -36.7      Manufactures      59.3         26.6        123.5     32.4
Net Transfers                    6.1      57.4       9.0      All Other commo-
Balance on Current Account     -39.2     -36.8    -2 W:8       dities             o.8         3.9         15.1      3.9
Total   7277-                     3      o 1
Direct Foreign Investment       15.0      13.2      13.5            EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31. 1974
Net MLT Borrowing               27.6     100.9     111.7
Disbursements               43.7      150.5    132.1                                                        US $ Mln
Amortization                 16.1      49.6      20.4
Subtotal                     42.6     1114.1   125.2               Public Debt, incl. guaranteed              504.0
Capital Grants (SDRs)            3.2       1.1       -                Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)              .1        .        5.                Total outstanding & Disbursed
Other items n.e.i                7-4      47.5       :2
Increase in Reserves (+)       +17.0     +30.9     h2.14            DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 197L/
Gross Reserves (end year)       49.2     116.9     105.2
Net Reserves    (end year)      40.9      92.9      50.5               Public Debt. incl. guaranteed            10.7
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Materials                                             Total outstanding & Disbursed
Imports
of which:   Petroleum       11.4      16.9      6,0.9
Exports
of which:   Petroleum        -          -         -       IBRD/IDA LENDING,    (March 1976)  (Million US $):
IBRD         IDA
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                         IB_ D
RATSinceEXC1971E8Outstanding & Disbursed                                                               30.8        10.9
DE,op,,h  -1971                 Since   -     1971               Undisbursed                           28.6         9.1
US $1.00      7    Cordobas     US $ 1.00 =   7 Cordobas         Outstanding incl    Undisbursed       28.6         9.0
1.00 = us $0.14               e    1.00 = us $0.114           O
1/  Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
not available
not applicable
- negligible or zero
Marc' t1, 1n76



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NICARAGUA
A. STATEMENT OF BANE. LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 2b, 1Y76)
$ MilLion Amount
Loan/Credit                                             (net of cancellations)
No.       Year  Borrower           Purpose          Total  ID)A Undisbursed
Fifteen loans and credits fully disbursed              55.9   3.6       -
532       1968  Government         Education         4.0    --      0.5
808       1972  Emp. Aguadora
de Managua        Water Supply       6.9    --      1.6
840       1972  Emp. Nacional
de Luz y Fuerza   Power             24.0    --.7
943       1973  Banco Central      Agriculture       8.5    --      6.3
389       1973  Government         Earthquake
Reconstruction     -    20.0      9.1
879       1973  Autoridad Por-
tuaria de
Corinto           Ports             11.0    -       6.7
879       1975  Autoridad Por-
tuaria de
Corinto           Ports              5.0    -       5.0
Total                                              115.3  23.6
of which has been repaid                         31.0   0.1
Total now outstanding                               84.3  23.5
Amount sold                             4.4
of which has been repaid             4.1          0.3    -
Total held by Bank & IDA                            84.0  23.5
Total undisbursed                                                  37-9
* Supplemental loan.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 26, 1976)
$ Million Amount
Year                                Type of Business       Loan  Equity  Total
1968  Textiles Fabricate de         Cotton and polyester
Nicaragua, S.A. (FABRITEX)    fabrics                1.00   1.07   2.07
Total Gross Commitments                                    1.00   1.07   2.07
less repayments, sales and cancellations                 0.60   1.07   1.67
Net Investments held by IFC                                0.40    -     0.40
Undisbursed                                                 -      -      _
1/
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION-
Ln. 532   Education Project; US$4.0 million of April 10, 1968;
Effective Date: June 25, 1968; Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
This project is discussed in paragraph 34.
Ln. 808   Second Managua Water Supply Project; US$6.9 million of
March 17, 1972; Effective Date: April 26, 1972;
Closing Date: September 30, 1976.
This loan was signed on March 26, 1972 but was amended on
June 6, 1973 in order to meet changed conditions in the service
area resulting from the 1972 earthquake. Almost all funds have
been committed to approved contracts for equipment, materials,
and construction, and the project is expected to be completed
by October 1976.
Ln. 840   Eighth Power Project; US$24.0 million of June 28, 1972;
Effective Date: March 30, 1973; Closing Date: March 31, 1977.
The two main works of the project -- the steam power plant with
associated transmission lines, and the interconnection with
Honduras -- are delayed about 14 months on average for a number
of reasons: the need to make repairs and to relocate transmission
lines after the earthquake, late deliveries of equipment by
suppliers, and late loan effectiveness because of delay in
signing the interconnection contract with Honduras. The project
1/  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems
which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy them.
They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they
do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of the strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX _I
Page 3 of 4
is now being implemented satisfactorily, but with a substantial
(55 percent) cost overrun. ENALUF raised tariffs 30 percent on
average in February 1975, in addition to a fuel surcharge of about
50 percent which went into effect in late 1974. The Venezuelan
Development Fund has approved a US$16.1 million loan to assist
ENALUF in covering the financing requirements arising from the
cost overrun.
Ln. 943   Agricultural Credit Project; US$8.5 million of November 16, 1973;
Effective Date: April 10, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
After an initial delay in loan effectiveness caused by (1) additional
time requirecd for the Borrower to sign a subsidiary loan agreement
with the first participating bank, and (2) difficulties in hiring a
project director, the rate of sub-loan approvals by the Project Unit
and the participating banks is exceeding appraisal estimates. How-
ever, considerable cost increases are expected to reduce the number
of sub-loans to be made under the project below appraisal estimates.
Cr. 389   Earthquake Reconstruction Project; US$20.0 million of June 6, 1973;
Effective Date: August 7, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1976.
With the help of the US$5.0 million power component and the US$2.5
million water supply component, the National Power Company (ENALUF)
and the Wate-c Supply Company of Managua (AGUADORA) have completed
most repairs of their damaged equipment and are providing service
to people dislocated by the earthquake. No serious delays in project
execution or cost overruns are expected for these two components.
As for the US3$2.0 million education component, the four prefabricated
schools built under Part I of this component are in full operation.
Sites have been acquired and design work is nearing completion for
the multilateral secondary school and the technical institute to be
built under Part II. Because of difficulties in acquiring sites, the
construction of these two institutions is expected to be completed
only by September 1976, one year behind schedule.
Project execultion on the US$8.o million sites and services component
is proceeding, satisfactoriLy. Gonstraction ~n Masaya and Granada
will be compLeted in Ma>.   Civil works construction on all other
sites except Managua III is now underway. Detailed deXsign/ergineer-
ing for Managrua III is exnected to be completed by April 1976.
Design standards have been reduced for many of the sites to offset
the cost escalation which has taken place during the last two years.
After some initial delays in the submission of acceptable sub-projects
by the implementing agency, the industrial financing component is
now progressing satisfactorily. Out of a total amount of US$265 mil-
lion,over US$2.0 million have been committed and disbursed. US$0.3 mil-
lion is earmarked for industrial serviced sites, which are under
construction.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
Ln.  879  Second Port of Corinto Project; US$11.0 million of February 2,
1973; Effective Date: March 23, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The project has encountered substantial cost overruns primarily
because of world and domestic inflation and earthquake-related
delays in project execution. In order to help finance the over-
runs the Government agreed to provide US$12.8 million to the
Borrower in the form of equity and also requested the Central
American Bank for Economic Integration (CABEI) and the Bank to
participate in supplementary financing. The Executive Directors
of CABEI approved a US$7.8 million loan,and the Bank approved a
US$5.0 million supplementary loan on July 15, 1975.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
NICARAGUA SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER:              The Republic of Nicaragua
AMOUNT:                US$11.0 million equivalent
TERMS:                25 years including 7 years of grace at
8.5 percent interest per annum
PROJECT DESCRIPTION:   The project consists of:
(i) the establishment of 18 Rural Educational
Nuclei consisting of 152 four-grade primary
schools, 52 six-grade primary schools and
18 rural community learning centers; 9 agri-
cultural training centers; 4 agricultural
secondary schools; and 18 lower secondary
schools.
(ii) in-service training program for upgrading about
1,000 teachers and 100 administrators for the
project institutions; and
(iii)  technical assistance equivalent to 11 man/years
of specialist services and 17 man/years of
fellowship for local staff.
ESTIMATED COST:                                  (US$ million)
Local   Foreign    Total
Rural Education Nuclei                   4.0       2.4      6.4
Agricultural Training Centers            0.7       0.5      1.2
Agricultural Secondary Schools           0.9       0.7      1.6
Lower Secondary Schools                  2.9       2.0      4.9
Technical Assistance and Fellowships     0.1       0.5      0.6
Teacher and Administrator Training       0.3       0.1      0.4
Project Administration                   0.2        -       0.2
Sub-total                             9.1       6.2     15.3
Contingencies                             2.4      2.1      4.5
Total                                11.5       8.3     19.8
FINANCIAL PLAN
us$                Percentage
(millions)
Government                            8.8                   45
IBRD                                 11.0                   55
Total Sources                     19.8                  100



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS:                  (US$ millions bv CY)
'975   1976  1977   1978  1979
Annual                          0.1     0.3   4.7   5.1   0.8
Total Accumulated               0.1    0.4    5.1  10.2  11.0
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS:  Contracts for civil works would be awarded to
prequalified bidders on the basis of competitive
bidding advertised locally and in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Since most
of the civil works are of small size and scattered
throughout the country, foreign contractors are
not expected to be interested   although thev would not
be precluded from bidding. Nicaragua has several
medium and small construction firms which are
competitive and qualified to carry out the con-
struction involved in the project. Contracts
for furniture and equipment would be awarded on
the basis of international competitive bidding
in accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines. Furni-
ture and equipment would be grouped to form
sizable packages for bulk purchasing. However,
items that cannot be grouped in packages of at
least US$15,000 and would not in the aggregate
exceed the equivalent of US$300,000 (equivalent
to about 10 percent of the total cost of equip-
ment and furniture) would be procured in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Since
Nicaragua is a member of the Central American
Common Market, domestic and other member countries'
manufacturers would receive preferential treatment
in bid eviluation for procurement of furnf-ture
anid e'luipmert. The oreferential margin for
domestic an(d Common Market nianuf-cturers would
be li4ited to l5 oercent of c.i.f. base costs
of imoorts or ,C nercerlt of the aoppicable
m_F_rt duties, whic.-ever is lcwer.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE:      Local or foreign consultants will be contracted
to provide specialist services for primary school
administration, primary teacher training, primary
and secondary student evaluation, secondary school
administration and teacher training and agricultural
education; also short-term local or foreign consul-
tans will be contracted to provide advice and assis-
tance in farm management, irrigation, dairy,horticul-
ture, extension services, farm shops and instructional
materials.
APPRAISAL REPORT:          Report No. 1003a-NI, dated March 25, 1976.



IBRD-11905
e7  RB.                      0?                            Be ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~<  er ~~~~~~~~~~ DECEMBER 1975
I?5'                   NICARAGUA                                                                                                                            15j
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT                                      H 0 N D U R A S
- ~~~S~~RMW9A.,
,Pan American Highway    0 Rural Community Learning Centers                                    L      * .
- Main paved ouds      ASLower Secondory Schools              -                   r.0nLA2.cr
,     |All-weather roeds (gnovel)                                           Rv ,
- -- Dry wenther roads       0 C) Agricultural Training Certein
Dry weailrther roads     Agricultural Seconda,y Schools           r                                                                n MISQLIROS I
_Department Boundaries                                           -l                    ,                                                Q -   \
-  -]lAlternotonai Boundaries                                                                                             T
,__LJR,vers 
0     20   49         OD ,, 
OILoMIETErS                                                                                          -- ---url-
_M-  9       2r9      o        eo 4 0          t? Tn n inie r0 -:)n -T.                         'N;Pv.rgp-Co                            .I-
MILES                                   4!                              Lu Anoruno                               Kaa7ra7n
Snn*uos_ C%     'Ftv( VG.GA                           / rC '                                                 Cr)bbea
6ontotA orrt>;qJ     t       v/   Locxcz  t      \       < ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~<    Worota Lagoon
> dalpunnca  taviaiu} /                                            L>mba,ca                           S e a
'    '             . Pd                         R.-              I\E MLk DIk
;-unPd, dNuknik                                                                                                             BnAIunn
Iuf of
F.nd ,i<><s OEA;T \E50P6OCec                                                                                                          HOT URAL COMMUNITY LeARNING CENTERS
'N Pumui                    retELl     JINOJEGA~~~STE
I  0 1 .; > \.iZ...... t  I  0  LuT,n                                                                                  E LPASAyBO ,-. ---  13
0'tZq~~~~~~~~~-1OATAGA1.P  MATAGALPA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~L AR1
I       |K - " "                           OdA I                                                           S     ,. X
Lo AoL   >/ \CX   t GF A e   <  \'   \  NDOVO (|eO   t   SS AR=ABE YP= 10K
Ne-                                                                                              CR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o  ANTA   MARIO RC
Lol~Ds!ItsrdE/lStStitrT  S71. LUC AOSASAA
SON _OonbB       (      Sun eoo oo                o a:4 YO .. 6                                                  SUCN/D
L.k eaLOWER SECONDARY SCROOLS
ITO quO  7\  a                                                             , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ALmn.SonorR-
C  ~ ~ ~~~~\.to                     UGLA                                                                   ORDA
-12-  Pacific                                                                             I BIA                          12-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ tAB  II
I (  Ps~~~~~~~~~~~~~.Dat0'  l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nnRo5E  II  5  -  Ba/u'  , TELPANBEB~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T TLANC
Ocean                    lIS             Y                 'usSlu\I:
M.-h.p.  R  C PIC                                                                   SA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'RLAG
L. B   I              ~~~~~~I k, e7"                      'N-a, Gnna                               .-.. RnAoY ALLBNC
N  /  >'N                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AGRICULTARAL TRAINING CENTRES
El As,lrONRI                                           ~3OSLTCGA
iBIccnrOgAI7                                                    p BI~~~~~~~~~'pSNBC
S0 A>~~~~~~~o~~.  San BOon del ~~~~~~~~~~~~~  PaOasBluacas  idanrilln0t  5'       Roy of             p LIRAMO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~y o  :..
ORA' -                          OAR~~~~~~~~~~~S-JN .  u(  LETIM 5 M.                                              ABRICUTARAL SECONDARY SCHOOLS
S  - I                     '   ' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  dRAW  k 4   -/              Puatogorrlo      ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pvrgoo..TL
C-ibb-o                                    o  f-      ,-N                             4                                         B-TMAL
Pa  Q  Canal ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Slia
S..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                            B.
rAA-  C                                                          -SOR



