FILE COPY
Report No. 1003a-NI
Appraisal of a Second
Education Project Nicaragua
March 25, 1976
Education Projects Division
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its conitents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit - Cordoba (C)
US$ 1.00       = C 7.0
1 Cordoba      = US$ 0.143
Measures and Equivalents
1 meter (mi)           =  3.28 feet
1 sq. meter (m2)       = 10.8  sq. feet
1 kilometer (Km)       =  0.62 mile
1 sq. kilometer (M2) =  0.39 sq. mile
1 hectare (ha)         =  2.47 acres
Fiscal Year
January 1   -   December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NICARAGUA
APPRAISAL OF AN EDUCATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
BASIC DATA
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ......       .................    i - iii
I. INTRODUCTION                .       .       ..........       1
II.   SOCIO-ECONOMIC SETTING  .......................            2
Socio-Economic Background  ..         ..................   2
Rural Development Strategy and Human Resources.            2
III.   EDUCATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ...................     ....       3
Overview .........    .........................            3
Primary Education .............................            5
Secondary Education .............. .............
Teacher Education ...... ...............                   6
Agricultural Education .................                   7
Vocational and Technical Education ............            7
Nonformal Education ..         .........................   7
Educational Finance ..................                     8
IV.   THE PROJECT ..........................                     9
Project Strategy and Content ......... ..........          9
Elements of the Project ....................    ...       10
Cost of the Project ......      .....................     15
V.   IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENTS ...........     ...      17
Project Administration ........... .. ...........         17
Project Implementation Schedule ...............           17
Professional and Technical Services ........ ...          17
Sites       .........................................     18
Procurement              ...               ....... ..     18
Disbursements .......      .......................        19
VI.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS    ........         19
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Nicaragua in August 1975. The mission consisted of Messrs. A. Freire (Gen-
eral Educator), H. E. Peirce (Agricultural Educator), P. Eklund (Economist,
Consultant) and L. Secco (Architect, Consultant).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued)
ANNEXES
1.   Comparative Education Indicators
2.   Enrollments in Public and Private Institutions by
Area and Grade, 1974
3.   Education Pyramid
4.   National Education Finance 1974-81
5.   Expenditures by Level of Education 1970-75
6.   Summary of Project Institutions and Technical Assistance
7.   Summary of Estimated Costs
8.   Contingency Allowances
9.   Implementation, Expenditure and Disbursement Schedule
10.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
CHARTS
1.   Structure of the Formal and Nonformal System of Education
and Training
2.   Organization of the Ministry of Education
4AP



NICARAGUA
BASIC DATA
1974
2
Area                                                         130,000 Km.
Population /1                                                   2.022 million
Urban                                                      0.991 million
Rural                                                     1.031 million
Density                                                       15 per Km.2
Annual Growth                                                  2.5%
GNP (at market prices)  2                                  US$ 1,359 million
Per Capita                                            us$   540
Annual growth in real terms (1965-74)                          4.9%
Literacy Rates '3 (15 years old and over)
Country                                                       57.0%
Urban                                                         80.0%
Rural                                                         34.0%
Including          Excluding
Enrollment Ratios                            Overage Students   Overage Students
Primary Education                              88%                 65%
- in urban areas                              118%                 84%
- in rural areas                               59%                 6%
Secondary Education                            23%                 17%
Higher Education                                7%                  -
Education Finance
Share of education in central government budget               14.2%
Education expenditures as proportion of GNP                    4.1%
- public                                                       2.5%
- private                                                      1.6%
/1   United Nations Yearbook
L2   Bank Atlas
a3  Census 1971






NICARAGUA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises the Bank's second education project in Nicaragua,
for which a loan of US$11.0 million is proposed. The project would assist the
government in implementing its rural development strategy by providing basic
and nonformal education and training opportunities for children and adults in
rural areas, expanding access to lower secondary education in semi-rural towns
and decentralizing the national system of educational administration and super-
vision.
ii.       The first Bank financed education project is supporting government
efforts to improve and expand secondary education in major cities and upgrade
primary teacher training. Despite delays in implementation, related largely
to the 1972 earthquake in Managua and some administrative problems, most
project schools are now in operation and all will be completed by the end
of 1976. The Association is also financing an education component of the
earthquake reconstruction project, which includes provision for Managua of
four temporary general secondary schools, two new multilateral secondary
schools and a post secondary technical institute. The four temporary schools
are now operating satisfactorily, and the rest of the project will be completed
by the end of 1976.
iii.      In Nicaragua, as in many developing countries, past public sector
efforts have concentrated on the expansion of infrastructure and social
services in urban areas, with the result that the economy's substantial
postwar gains have not been reflected in any noticeable improvement of rural
standards of living. Although the main objective of the government's present
development strategy is to achieve a more diversified economic structure, high
priority is also attached to improving agricultural productivity and thereby
raising rural incomes. This will require an expansion and upgrading of rural
basic education and skill training opportunities, which are currently limited
in scope and effectiveness. Only 402 of rural primary schools offers at least
four grades, which is considered the minimum for attaining functional literacy,
and only 2% of children who enter the first grade in rural schools completes
grade six compared with 35% in urban schools. Access to secondary education
is also limited in rural areas, with most schools located in the large cities.
Some small scale efforts have been undertaken to provide training and exten-
sion services to adult farmers, but these need considerable strengthening.
The government has recently reformulated its education plan for the 1975-79
period to accord with the abovementioned needs, and the proposed Bank proj-
ect is designed to assist in its implementation.
iv.       Specifically, the proposed project would comprise:
(a) Construction, furnishing and equipping of:
(i) 18 rural basic education nuclei (including 152 four
grade and 52 six grade primary schools and 18 community
learning centers);



- ii -
(ii) 18 semi-rural lower secondary schools (grades 7-9);
(iii) 4 agricultural secondary schools (grades 10-12);
(iv) 9 agricultural training centers;
(b) In-service training for about 1,100 teachers and admin-
istrators of project institutions; and
(c) Related technical assistance, including 11 man/years of
specialist services and 17 man/years of fellowships for
local staff.
v.        In order to extend educational opportunities in rural areas in a
more efficient manner, the government would adopt a "nuclei" system of school
facilities planning, administration and supervision, and the proposed project
would finance the establishment of the first 18 such nuclei. A nucleus con-
sists of one central school offering the full six grades of primary educa-
tion, surrounded by several four grade associated schools strategically
located to serve the school age population of the catchment area. The
central school provides technical supervision and administrative support
to the associated schools and also serves as a community learning center
where nonformal education and training activities are offered for youths
and adults. In all, about 120,000 persons would be served by the 18 nuclei,
in areas selected from among those with the least access to adequate educa-
tion and training opportunities. After evaluation of the experience, it is
expected that the nuclei system would be expanded on a national scale.
vi.       The project would also support the decentralization of secondary
school administration and supervision through the establishment of regional
secondary education centers. Each center includes an upper secondary insti-
tute (selected from among existing schools financed under the first Bank
project), located in a departmental capital and offering diversified educa-
tion, and several associated lower secondary schools. About 8,640 students
would be accommodated in 18 lower secondary schools to be constructed under
the proposed project.
vii.      To assist in meeting the demand for middle level agricultural man-
power in a more cost effective manner, the project would provide for the
consolidation of six small and inadequate agricultural secondary schools
into four regional institutions with a capacity of 210 students each. A
new curriculum which has already been developed would be implemented, plac-
ing emphasis on practical training and on the specialized agricultural activ-
ities of the respective regions.
viii.     To support the government's rural development program and to meet
the agricultural skill needs of young and adult farmers, the project would
establish nine (five replacement and four new) agricultural training centers
in the same communities where a central nucleus school would be provided.



- iii -
The agricultural training centers would offer a ten month work study course
for youths and short courses for farmers and their wives. A total of about
2,500 persons would be trained annually.
ix.       About 11 man/years of specialist services and 17 man/years of fel-
lowships would be provided to help implement the project and train local
counterparts. Specialists would assist in establishing the nuclei system
in rural areas; organizing the regional secondary education centers; upgrad-
ing primary, secondary and agricultural teachers; and administering agricul-
tural training programs. The training of local staff, through fellowships,
would be primarily in multigrade teaching techniques and agricultural school
administration.
x.        The total project cost is estimated at US$19.8 million, including
contingencies, with a foreign exchange component of US$8.3 million. Prices
as of January 1976 were used to estimate the base costs, to which a physical
contingency allowance of 10% and a price contingency allowance of 20% have
been added. The proposed loan of US$11.0 million, equivalent to 55% of
total project costs, would finance the foreign exchange component and 23%
of local costs.
xi.       The project would be implemented by a new Directorate established
within the Ministry of Education and charged with planning and executing
all externally financed education projects, including those of the Bank.
The Director of this office would be assisted by a full time team assigned
specifically to manage implementation of the proposed project.
xii.      Contracts for civil works would be awarded on the basis of competi-
tive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with local procedures ac-
ceptable to the Bank. Since most civil works are small and scattered through-
out the country, foreign contractors are not expected to participate, although
they would not be precluded from bidding. Prequalification of contractors
would be required to ensure efficient work. Contracts for procurement of
furniture and equipment would be awarded on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding. However, furniture and equipment which cannot be grouped
in bid packages of at least US$15,000, not exceeding in the aggregate
US$300,000 (equivalent to 10% of the estimated total cost of furniture
and equipment), would be procured in accordance with local procedures ac-
ceptable to the Bank.
xiii.     The proposed loan would be disbursed over a four and one-half year
period. Retroactive financing of up to US$150,000 would be provided to cover
expenditures incurred after September 1, 1975, in respect of professional ser-
vices, technical assistance and project administration.
xiv.      The project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$11.0
million equivalent to the Republic of Nicaragua for a period of 25 years, in-
cluding a grace period of seven years.






NICARAGUA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Nicaragua has requested Bank assistance in fi-
nancing a project designed to meet the highest priority education and train-
ing needs of the rural population. The total cost, for which a Bank loan
of US$11.0 million is proposed, is estimated at US$19.8 million. This
would be the second Bank loan for education in Nicaragua.  The first (Loan
532-NI, signed April 10, 1968), for US$4.0 million, is supporting government
efforts to improve and expand secondary education in major cities and upgrade
primary teacher training. Despite delays in implementation, related primarily
to the 1972 earthquake in Managua and some administrative problems, 13 of the
20 project schools are now in operation and the remaining seven will be com-
pleted by the end of 1976. The Association is also financing an education
component (US$2.0 million) of the reconstruction project (Credit 389-NI,
signed June 6, 1973), which includes the provision for Managua of four tem-
porary general secondary schools to replace facilities destroyed by the earth-
quake, two new multilateral secondary schools and a post secondary technical
institute. Four secondary schools are now operating satisfactorily, and the
rest of the project will be completed by the end of 1976.
1.02      The proposed second education project would:  (a) expand and im-
prove education and training opportunities in rural areas by establishing
basic schools and community learning centers offering formal and nonformal
programs for school age children, out-of-school youths and adults; (b) in-
crease agricultural training opportunities by establishing centers offering
nonformal training to farmers and their families; (c) contribute to meeting
the manpower needs of the agricultural sector by establishing agricultural
secondary schools in strategic geographic zones; (d) expand and improve
secondary education for the semi-rural population by establishing lower
secondary schools in selected small towns; and (e) improve teacher quali-
fications by providing technical assistance to establish in-service train-
ing programs in rural primary, general secondary and agricultural second-
ary education.
1.03      Sector work for the proposed project was carried out in 1972 by
a UNESCO mission and updated in 1974 by local specialists, with planning
assistance from the Bank. In May 1975 a Bank reconnaissance mission vis-
ited Nicaragua to discuss with the government the content of a possible
second education project, and in July 1975 the government prepared the
project with assistance from UNESCO and the Bank. The project was appraised
in August 1975 by a Bank mission comprising Messrs. A. Freire (General Edu-
cator), H. Peirce (Agricultural Educator), P. Eklund (Economist, Consultant)
and L. Secco (Architect, Consultant).



II. SOCIO-ECONOMIC SETTING
Socio-Economic Background
2.01      Nicaragua's major natural resource is its arable land, which is
divided into three distinct agricultural regions suitable for a variety
of products: the Pacific, where the majority of the population is engaged
in small scale farming of basic grains using traditional technology, along-
side a few large modern farms specializing in cotton and sugarcane; the
mountainous Central, devoted mainly to coffee and livestock; and the large
but sparsely populated Atlantic plain, whose potential in forestry and live-
stock is gradually being exploited. Although agriculture's share in total
GDP has been steadily declining, it remains the main source of economic
growth, employment (50-60% of total) and export earnings (70-80%).
2.02      The economy's substantial postwar gains have done little to miti-
gate disparities between urban and rural areas, where per capita incomes
have shown no noticeable improvement for years, largely as a result of the
dualistic nature of agricultural production and the highly concentrated pat-
tern of land ownership. About one-third of the rural population, with only
some 3.5% of the country's arable land, produces basic grains using tradi-
tional techniques. Such small scale farmers receive limited technical assis-
tance and other modern inputs, and the average yield of their farms is very
low. This overall situation has led to substantial migration to cities and
towns, where earnings in marginal sectors such as petty services are often
50% above average rural incomes.
2.03      Past public sector efforts to address the needs of the poorer seg-
ments of the rural population have niot been very ambitious. Total fixed pub-
lic investment has been mainly for transport and electric power, and to some
extent for urban education. The labor force in general reports very low edu-
cational attainments, with about two-thirds having fewer than three years of
formal schooling and only 6% having post primary education. In rural areas
more than 60% of workers are illiterate. These data suggest low productiv-
ity, high training costs for the modern sector and little adaptability of
the rural population to new technology.
Rural Development Strategy and Human Resources
2.04      Although the main objective of the government's present development
strategy is to achieve a more diversified economic structure, high priority
is also attached to improving agricultural productivity and thereby the
incomes of the rural poor. Several steps have already been taken in this
regard: (a) new institutions are being established to implement integrated
rural development programs, and the densely populated Central Pacific and
Central Interior regions have been designated as the target areas for the
first such intensive effort (INVIERNO); and (b) tax changes were adopted in
November 1974 to generate the additional revenue needed to finance these and
other public sector rural development programs. The government intends to
transfer these revenues primarily to the rural poor through agricultural
credits and improved public services.



- 3 -
2.05      The whole education and training system has been undergoing a
thorough review to determine ways to improve its internal efficiency and
better adapt it to the development needs of the country. Formal and non-
formal systems need to be better integrated to economize available re-
sources; training opportunities for existing workers and new entrants to
the labor force must be expanded; and key institutions responsible for pre-
paring those individuals who will implement development projects need strength-
ening. In rural areas, raising skill levels to improve productivity would re-
quire revision and major expansion of basic education and agricultural train-
ing programs.
2.06      The effectiveness of efforts to extend the use of modern farming
methods is greatly hampered by the limited training opportunities in rural
areas and by the qualitative and quantitative inadequacy of the agricultural
extension service. With only 95 field agents, the service is inadequate, a
problem compounded by the fact that most of the agents lack practical train-
ing and are not prepared to advise farmers on the particular products of
each geographic zone. By 1980 the government plans to establish an addi-
tional 160 agricultural technician posts, which would substantially lower
the national farmer/agricultural technician ratio from the present 1,100:1
to 400:1. Although there is no imbalance in the projected national demand
and supply of agricultural technicians through 1984, it will be necessary
to offer better financial incentives for extension agents to attract more
agricultural technicians to public field service. A good start in that
direction has been made in the INVIERNO rural development scheme, which
may have a spillover effect to other regions. Finally, agricultural tech-
nicians should receive more specialized training oriented towards the speci-
fic needs of different geographic zones and towards the newly developing
sectors such as forestry.
[II. EDUCATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
Overview
3.01      The structure of the Nicaraguan formal education system comprises
one to two years of preprimary schooling, six years of primary followed by
five to six years of secondary education, and two to five years post second-
ary and university education (Chart 1). This is supplemented by various
nonformal education and training programs. Private institutions, located
mainly in urban areas, account for about 15% of primary, 38% of secondary
and 25% of higher education enrollments.
3.02      Educational opportunities are unevenly distributed throughout the
country. Some 60% of rural primary schools offers three grades or less,
while almost all urban schools offer more than four grades, which is con-
sidered the minimum for attaining functional literacy. About 84% of the
7-12 age group attends urban primary schools, but in rural areas the fig-
ure is less than half that. Only 40% of rural teachers, against 90% of
urban teachers, is qualified. Finally, in rural schools about 2% of



- 4 -
children enrolled in first grade complete grade six, compared with 35%
in urban schools. Opportunities for secondary education are also lim-
ited in rural areas; most schools are located in large cities and the few
in small towns operate under poor conditions. Enrollment figures for pri-
mary and secondary education do not suggest any discrimination between the
sexes, with girls accounting for about 48% of total enrollments at both
levels.
3.03      Educational administration (Chart 2) is highly centralized.  With
little delegation of responsibility, the Minister himself often has to resolve
minor problems. The lack of appropriately qualified professional staff and
of proper administrative regulations and manuals are major obstacles to im-
proving the situation.  The government plans to remedy this by (a) training
and upgrading national and regional administrators and (b) regionalizing
the administration of primary and secondary education. The proposed proj-
ect supports this strategy through the establishment of rural primary edu-
cation nuclei (para. 3.08) and regional secondary education centers (para.
3.11). USAID is also planning to include technical assistance for educa-
tional administration in its next sector loan.
3.04      Educational supervision requires considerable strengthening.  In
each of the 16 departments primary education is supervised by an inspector,
assisted by two or three teachers who are expected to visit an average of
120 schools per year; however, they lack technical preparation, transporta-
tion, equipment and subsistence allowances. Secondary education is super-
vised from the Ministry of Education headquarters by a total staff of four.
The government recognizes the present weaknesses and has plans to improve
both primary and secondary education supervision (paras. 3.08 and 3.11).
3.05      Educational planning and evaluation are the responsibility of the
Planning Department of the Ministry of Education. Since its establishment
about ten years ago, units have been set up in the Department (for curriculum
development, educational research and evaluation), personnel have increased
and substantial technical assistance has been received from USAID, UNESCO
and the OAS. However, the efficiency of the Planning Department has suffered
from frequent staff turnover, no clear definition of responsibilities, poor
administrative procedures and limited space and equipment. Some of these
deficiencies should be remedied when recommendations of the specialists
financed by the abovementioned external agencies are carried out and
planned new facilities become available.
3.06      Government strategy.  In 1971 the Planning Department of the Min-
istry of Education completed a Ten Year Education Development Plan (1971-80)
which underscored the need to continue improving and expanding secondary edu-
cation, with greater emphasis on prevocational courses to better prepare grad-
uates for entry into the labor market or for further specialization. The
first Bank financed education project and the education component of the
earthquake reconstruction project were designed to assist in meeting this
objective. Recently the government has been reformulating its Education
Development Plan for the 1975-79 period to reconcile it with the National
Development Plan and to accord higher priority to the problems of the poorer



- 5 -
segments of the population. The revised Plan emphasizes formal and nonfor-
mal education and training for rural children and farmers, expansion of rele-
vant prevocational secondary education and strengthening of upper secondary
agricultural education.
Primary Education
3.07      In recent years some qualitative improvements have been introduced.
For example, the number of courses has been lowered from 14 to 7 and made
more flexible, and although curricula are identical in all parts of the
country, school directors are allowed to adapt course content to local con-
ditions. Primary education is characterized by a shortage of schoolrooms
and qualified teachers, mainly in rural areas, as well as by high dropout
and repeater rates. In 1974 the average net participation ratio in primary
education was about 65% of the age group (7-12 years), while in rural areas
it was only about 46% (Annex 3). The national target is to increase net
ratios to 80% by 1981. Since almost all school age children are now en-
rolled in urban areas, the rural population would benefit the most.
3.08      The government plans to change radically the administration and
supervision of primary schools through the establishment of an "educational
nuclei" system. A nucleus consists of one central school offering the full
six grades of primary education, surrounded by several four grade associated
schools strategically located to serve the school age population of the catch-
ment area.  Multigrade teaching methods and a multigroup classroom organiza-
tion would be introduced in the associated schools. The central school would
provide technical supervision and administrative support to the associated
schools and also serve as a community learning center where nonformal educa-
tion and training programs for youths and adults would be provided.
3.09      Other measures designed to improve internal and external efficiency
include: strengthening the curriculum development unit and the National Edu-
cation Center, which has responsibility for teacher training and upgrading;
introduction of automatic promotion from grades one through four (first pri-
mary cycle) and grades five to six (second cycle) with a student selection
system at the end of grades four and six; increasing the supply of teaching
materials; raising salaries to attract teachers to the rural areas; and train-
ing teachers in multigrade teaching techniques and practical subjects. The
government expects to raise the primary education completion rate from 22%
in 1973 to 28% in 1980, a modest target which will surely be surpassed. The
proposed education project would assist the government in achieving these
goals (paras. 4.02-4.07).
Secondary Education
3.10      The first Bank financed education project supported a significant
qualitative improvement of secondary education through the appointment of
full time qualified teachers and the introduction of a well balanced cur-
riculum, which is now being implemented in all secondary schools in the
country. Secondary education consists of a common three year lower cycle
(grades 7-9) providing general and prevocational courses, followed by a



- 6 -
two-to-three year diversified upper cycle (grades 10-11 in academic streams
and 10-12 in technical streams) offering specialization in science and humani-
ties, commerce, agriculture, industry and primary teacher training. In 1974
enrollments in secondary schools represented 23% of the 13-18 age group, in-
cluding overage students (Annex 3). Expanded opportunities and a more effi-
cient flow of students in primary education, as well as a growing demand for
better trained manpower, will place increasing pressure on the secondary
school system in the future. The government's target is an annual rate of
increase of about 8.5% in secondary enrollments during 1975-81, to achieve
a 30% participation for the age group.  Accordingly, secondary education
facilities would be improved and expanded, mainly in semi-rural areas where
they are most needed.
3.11      Future government efforts will also focus on decentralizing the
administration and supervision of secondary education by establishing regional
secondary centers, which will function as educational and administrative units.
Each will consist of a central institution offering diversified upper secondary
education and will be located in a departmental capital, surrounded by several
associated lower secondary schools in semi-rural areas. The director of the
central institute will be the administrative supervisor of all secondary
schools in the department, and the senior teachers of the central institute
will become technical supervisors responsible for providing technical assis-
tance on teaching methods and content of syllabi to other departmental teach-
ers. Implementation of this system is feasible, since there already exists
a number of well equipped and properly staffed central institutes established
under the first Bank education project; associated lower secondary schools in
semi-rural areas will be provided in the proposed project (para. 4.13).
Teacher Education
3.12      Primary teachers are trained in a three year upper secondary course
(grades 10-12). Quality of training has improved since 1970 when the govern-
ment (a) extended the training program from two to three years; (b) imple-
mented a revised curriculum in which emphasis is given to teaching practice,
workshop activities for preparing simple equipment and teaching materials,
and strengthening knowledge of essential subjects such as language, math-
ematics and science; (c) consolidated the 14 public and private teacher
training schools into five well staffed public schools; and (d) provided
adequate buildings, equipment, furniture and teaching materials for all
five schools, three of which were financed under the first education proj-
ect. The annual supply of about 400 graduates is adequate to meet demand,
but there is need to upgrade 2,000 unqualified teachers (24% of the existing
primary teaching force), assigned mainly in the rural areas. The proposed
project includes technical assistance to help the newly established National
Education Center implement such a program (paras. 4.15 and 4.16).
3.13      Secondary teachers are trained in the university faculties of
education, where standards are comparatively high. Nevertheless, the number
of graduates (about 100 per year) is insufficient to meet present and future
demand. The National University has recently been expanding its teacher
training program, in close collaboration with the government. The train-
ing of teachers for practical subjects (industrial arts, home economics and



- 7 -
agriculture) is almost nonexistent since the only program, organized by a
private polytechnic, is very limited. The government will undertake a pro-
gram in these fields, giving priority to teacher training for lower second-
ary and agricultural secondary schools. Training of guidance counselors to
assist secondary students in selecting fields of specialization will also
be implemented under the proposed project; the National Education Center
will coordinate this program (para. 4.15).
Agricultural Education
3.14      Agricultural education is offered in six public (600 students) and
three private (370 students) upper secondary schools. The former are handi-
capped by unsuitable physical facilities, limited or nonexistent teaching
equipment and materials, unqualified teachers, academically oriented cur-
ricula and general inefficiency of operation. Ministry of Education plans
to improve the quality and relevancy of agricultural education include (a)
replacement of unsuitable facilities, (b) provision of equipment and teach-
ing materials, and (c) development of new syllabi in accordance with the
already revised curricula. The Ministry intends to concentrate all public
efforts in four of the six government schools, by phasing out the other two.
Through this consolidation some reduction of student unit costs will be ob-
tained; the teaching staff will be better utilized; and study of the four
major agricultural fields (forestry, livestock, sugarcane and basic grains)
of importance to Nicaragua will be stimulated, with each school concentrating
on one of them. The proposed project would assist the government in execut-
ing this consolidation program (paras. 4.10-4.12).
Vocational and Technical Education
3.15      The Ministry of Education administers the two most important voca-
tional/technical institutions in the country--the National Technical Voca-
tional Institute and the National Technological Institute--both operating in
new and well equipped facilities. The first receives assistance from USAID
and the other from Spain. However, the number of graduates (about 100 per
year) is insufficient to satisfy the growing manpower requirements of the
industrial sector; hence the earthquake reconstruction project provides
for the establishment of a new two year post secondary technical institute.
When fully operating in 1977, the institute will enroll about 500 students
and will graduate some 250 technicians annually, which would meet estimated
demand by 1981. The Overseas Development Administration (ODA) of Great
Britain is providing technical assistance and equipment for the institute.
Nonformal Education
3.16      Various nonformal education/training schemes are being implemented
by public and private agencies. The Ministry of Education provides acceler-
ated literacy courses, in which about 12,000 youths and adults have been
enrolled. Also, trade training courses of varying duration are offered for
skilled and semi-skilled workers by the Ministries of Education and Labor
and by private agencies. The Central Bank recently completed an inventory



- 8 -
and evaluation of the existing resources for manpower training in the coun-
try and came to the conclusion that there are considerable duplication and
overlapping of programs and a need to design a national scheme to coordinate
vocational training and avoid further wastage of resources. The government
has not yet decided on the timing for implementing these recommendations.
3.17      Rural training programs are being carried out by several agencies,
but their scope is not commensurate with needs. The Ministry of Education
operates eight agricultural schools (escuelas granjas) for out-of-school
youths to complete their basic education and receive agricultural training.
These schools have been unsuccessful because of irrelevant curricula, un-
qualified teachers, inadequate procedures for selecting students and high
unit recurrent costs at about eight times that of regular primary education
and almost double that of secondary technical education. The Ministry has
initiated a full conversion of the schools into agricultural training centers
for small scale farmers and rural youths (paras. 4.08 and 4.09). Curricula,
regulations for selecting students and the duration of courses are being
determined by the Ministry of Education staff, in consultation with the
Ministry of Agriculture. Sites for the new centers have been selected, and
they include land for farm activities. The Ministry of Agriculture, through
its limited extension service, provides some farmer training; the service
will be reinforced by better coordination with the new centers and by hiring
qualified graduates of the reorganized secondary agricultural schools (paras.
3.14 and 4.10).
Educational Finance
3.18      In 1974 expenditures on education and training totaled 4.1% of GNP.
of these, public expenditures amounted to 2.5% of GNP, with about one-tenth
externally financed (Annex 4). Although public revenues and current expendi-
tures have traditionally been low relative to GNP, the education and training
sector has been accorded priority within the central government budget. Ex-
cept for the recent transitory post earthquake years, the sector was allocated
as much as 20% of the total budget and 27% of recurrent expenditures in the
early 1970's, which compares favorably with other countries at similar stages
of development. The Ministry of Education accounts for about 90% of total
public education expenditures. A high 60% of the Ministry's budget is allo-
cated to primary education (Annex 5), with the share of general secondary
education remaining almost constant during 1970-74 at about 12% and that of
public university education increasing by more than half to 13%. Starting in
1974, more emphasis has been given to vocational and prevocational training;
nevertheless, agricultural training expenditures are still minimal at less
than 2% of the total recurrent budget. About one-fifth of the Ministry of
Education's total expenditures is for school construction and maintenance,
naif of which was financed by external sources in support of ongoing projects
at the primary (USAID), secondary (IBRD) and higher (IDB) education levels
(Annex 5).
3.19      While public primary education is free, there is a rather high fee
of about US$35 per year for public secondary schools. This fee generates



- 9 -
important financing for school management, additional teachers, school main-
tenance and materials. Although there is a scholarship program for deserving
low income students, the fees are likely to limit the access of the poorer
classes to secondary education when the demand for places rises as a result
of increased output from the primary system, unless the scholarship program
is expanded. In 1974 18% of students at the secondary level was on scholar-
ships. The government has provided assurances that in future it will ensure
that an adequate number of scholarships are made available to students from
low income families wishing to attend lower secondary schools in semi-rural
areas.
3.20      Based on enrollment targets discussed earlier (paras. 3.07 and
3.10), Ministry of Education expenditures are projected to increase by 8%
per annum (1974 prices) during 1974-81, which is approximately the same
growth rate as that projected for total consumption expenditures of central
government (Annex 4). These projections assume that 20% of secondary enroll-
ments will be in diversified education, and they include provision for in-
creased teaching materials and maintenance and for a real growth in teachers'
salaries. Unit costs for primary education are estimated to decline by about
20%, as a result of more efficient utilization of teachers and some double-
shifting of students. Capital expenditures to implement the government's
planned expansion and improvement of rural education would represent about
3% of total public investment for 1975-79, or about half the relative share
in 1970-74. The decline reflects completion of the reconstruction of schools
destroyed by the 1972 earthquake in Managua. Half of the proposed education
investment plan will be financed externally.
IV. THE PROJECT
Project Strategy and Content
4.01      The proposed project is designed to support the government's rural
education and training development strategy by (a) expanding and improving
education and training opportunities through the establishment of basic
schools and community learning centers; (b) increasing agricultural train-
ing opportunities by establishing centers offering nonformal training to
farmers and their families; (c) contributing to meeting the manpower needs
of the agricultural sector by establishing agricultural secondary schools
in strategic geographic zones; (d) expanding and improving secondary educa-
tion for the semi-rural population and decentralizing education management
by establishing regional secondary education centers; and (e) improving
teacher qualifications by establishing in-service training programs. Speci-
fically, the project would comprise (Annex 6):



- 10 -
(i) Construction, furnishing and/or equipping of the following educational
institutions:
Student
Schools            Places
am
U
+3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
(a)  Rural Educational Nuclei~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
0   0)b
0            , 4           £
cd                  Cd~~~r   C: $ 
:3  ~~~~~~ 
I'ype of Institution                z                                                         U
(a)  Rural Educational Nuclei
Four-grade primary schools           24   51    41   36   3,200   4,300  29,000          -      -
Six-grade primary schools             8   15    20    9   2,200   2,000  14,200               35
Community learning centers           18    -      -    -   2,220         -   4,800       -    18
(h)  Agricultural Centers/Schools
Training centers                      5    4      -    -      430      200   2,500   270       9
Secondary schools                     -    4      -    -       4s0     I00      840   320       4i
(c)  Lower Secondary Schools               -   18      -    -   2,220   2,100   8,64o         -    18
Total                                55   92    61   45  10,710   9.000  59.980   590   8a
(ii) In-service training for about: 1,100 teachers and administrators
of project institutions; and
(iii)  Related technical assistance, comprising 11 man/years of
specialist services and 17 man/years of fellowships for
local staff.
Elements of the Project
4.02      Rural Educational Nuclei.  This project item would assist in estab-
lishing 18 rural educational nuclei (para. 3.08), including 152 four grade
primary schools ("associated schools"), 52 six grade primary schools ('sub-
base schools") and 18 rural community learning centers ("base schools").
In 1981, when all facilities are in full operation, about 48,000 students,
or 87% of the 7-12 age group in surrounding areas, would be enrolled in
formal education courses on a double-shift basis. In addition some 7,000
out-of-school youths and adults would receive nonformal training, and
accelerated primary education would be offered to the population 14 years
and older.



- 11 -
4.03      Each nucleus would constitute a technical and administrative edu-
cational unit composed of a "base school," two or more "sub-base schools,"
and several "associated schools." In addition to classrooms, laboratories
and workshops, the base school would have a library, space for administra-
tion and teaching materials production and storage, and a house for the
director. Besides six grades of formal primary education for school age
children, the base school would offer out-of-school youths and adults one
or two year accelerated primary education courses and short term training
in plumbing, bricklaying, carpentry, operation of farm machinery, handi-
crafts and sewing. These courses would be implemented in coordination with
the agricultural training centers (para. 4.08) included in the proposed proj-
ect and the National Technological Institute (NTI) (para. 3.15). Some train-
ers would be selected from the most capable local workers in the community and
would receive assistance from NTI staff. Primary teachers, after training in
the NTI, would also teach practical courses. The base school would be respon-
sible for distributing teaching materials to the sub-base and associated schools.
The sub-base school would provide the full six grades of primary education to
a community within 10-15 kilometers of the base school. The associated school
would provide only the first four grades of primary education and would be
located near (one to three kilometers) a base or sub-base school where students
might attend the fifth and sixth grades. In general, associated schools would
have only one or two classrooms and the same number of teachers, but would
offer four years of primary education through organization of multigrade
classes.
4.04      Each rural area in which there will be an educational nucleus has
an average population of 7,000 inhabitants and is disadvantaged in terms of
both income level and provision of education and training facilities. Cri-
teria have been established for selecting these areas and for determining
the number of new and replacement schools to be provided and inadequate
facilities to be expanded, and the number of teachers to be trained and
upgraded. The criteria include (a) a higher ratio between rural population
and grade 4 primary enrollments, (b) the existence of or plans for rural
development programs, (c) a higher proportion of small scale farmers who
own their land, (d) a higher proportion of subsistence and annual crop cul-
tivation as against large scale farming of cash crops, and (e) the results
of a school mapping exercise by the Ministry of Education.
4.05      About 1,000 teachers for the project schools would be trained at
the National Education Center (para. 3.12). Multigrade teaching techniques
would be introduced in both the pre-service and in-service teacher training
courses. To attract and retain teachers in rural school communities, the
government plans to allow them to work two shifts, for which they would
receive adequate remuneration. Two man/years of specialist services have
been included in the project to assist the government in implementing these
programs. The government has provided assurances that it will (a) establish
upgrading courses which include multigrade teaching techniques for existing
rural primary teachers within six months of loan signing and (b) allow the
rural primary teachers at the project schools to work two shifts, for which
they would be adequately compensated.



- 12 -
4.06      The director of the base school would also direct the nucleus and
would supervise nucleus teachers and coordinate nonformal training programs
for adults and out-of-school youths. The government has provided assurances
that (a) the director of each nucleus will be selected on the basis of cri-
teria acceptable to the Bank and will be paid a salary comparable to the
higher salaries paid to urban school directors; and (b) the nuclei system
of rural school administration and supervision will be introduced before
construction bidding of nuclei institutions.
4.07      The programs implemented at the basic education and community
learning centers would be continuously evaluated with a view to their
future expansion throughout the rural areas. The government has provided
assurances that it will establish an evaluation system acceptable to the
Bank. The project includes specialist services to assist in developing
this system.
4.08      Agricultural Training Centers.  This project item consists of the
construction, furnishing and equipping of nine agricultural training centers
(five replacement and four new) to be located near project community learning
centers in seven departments. It supports the government's policy of trans-
forming the escuelas granjas into agricultural training centers (para. 3.17).
Designed for 70 trainees each, the facilities would include a classroom lab-
oratory, farm shop, dormitory for 30 trainees, staff house and school farm
for student practice, demonstration and some production for marketing and
school use. These centers would provide a training program for rural youths
15 to 21 years of age and adult farmers.   The potential target population,
within 45 km. of the proposed nine agricultural centers, includes nearly
30,000 farmers and more than 36,000 rural youths.   The latter, in two
groups of 35 each, would alternate two weeks of training at the center
with two weeks of supervised practical work on their family farms during
the 10 month work study course. Training programs would focus on agricul-
tural technology, farm planning and community leadership. Adults, also in
groups of 35, would attend short training courses varying from one or two
days to two weeks in agricultural production techniques, farm planning,
health, nutrition, child care, family planning, home management and sewing.
Those trainees who are illiterate could attend accelerated primary and lit-
eracy courses at nearby community learning centers and the agricultural staff
could assist in teaching practical courses at the community centers.
4.09      About 2,500 people, youths and adults, would be trained annually.
The teaching staff would include a director/teacher, two agricultural teachers
and a farm mechanics instructor. About 16 teachers and directors from the
present escuelas granjas would be transferred to the new training centers.
These and additional needed personnel would be upgraded in short courses at
the National Education Center, with the collaboration of the National Tech-
nological Institute. The agricultural training centers would coordinate their
activities with the agricultural extension services and the rural community
learning centers.
4.10      Agricultural Secondary Schools.  This project item supports the
government's program to consolidate secondary agricultural education (para.
3.14). It consists of the construction, furnishing and equipping of four



- 13 -
new facilities to replace unsuitable premises at existing agricultural second-
ary schools. The capacity of each school would be 210 students with boarding
accommodation for 80 students. The project schools would be located in four
zones with distinct agricultural characteristics: Chontales (cattle),
Chinandega (cotton and sugarcane), Matagalpa (basic grains and coffee) and
Zelaya (forestry). The schools would offer a three year upper secondary
program (grades 10-12), with emphasis on practical activities to develop
skills needed by agricultural technicians. The curriculum of the four
schools would be the same except for the third year, when emphasis would
be on production of agricultural products predominant in the respective
zones; thus, the graduates would be qualified to work in posts requiring
general agricultural education or some type of specialization. The already
revised curriculum is well balanced between general (34%) and professional
(66%) education, but it will be necessary to revise syllabi to reflect the
results of an occupational analysis study to be conducted by the government.
The schools would have a farm of about 70 hectares for student practice,
agricultural experimentation, demonstrations for farmers, and some produc-
tion for marketing and school use. It is estimated that the recurrent costs
per student in the project schools would be slightly lower than those in ex-
isting schools due to consolidation of the six public schools into four schools
and more efficient use of resources.
4.11      Each project school would require 10 teachers and a director, for
a total of 44. In addition to-the existing personnel, 22 new teachers would
have to be hired. To improve the qualifications of present and additional
staff, the project would include an in-service training program of short
courses at the National Education Center and fellowships for study abroad.
A national advisory committee composed of representatives of the Ministries
of Education and Agriculture, the National Bank, INCEI (National Institute
of Foreign and Domestic Commerce) and INVIERNO would be established to set
overall agricultural education policy. Existing local advisory committees
would be responsible for assisting the school directors in adapting the
general policy to specific conditions at each school.
4.12      A tracer system would be developed by the Agricultural Director-
ate, and an occupational analysis study of agricultural technicians would
be conducted to assure relevancy of the instructional program. The proj-
ect would provide technical assistance in implementing these programs as
well as in improving the training of administrators and teachers. The
government has provided assurances that it will (a) initiate consolidation
of the six secondary agricultural schools into four schools by discontinuing
admission of new students at the secondary agricultural schools not included
in the project effective the school year commencing February 1977; (b) on or
before December 31, 1976, establish a National Advisory Committee for Agri-
cultural Education; and (c) on or before December 31, 1977, (i) complete an
occupational analysis study; (ii) establish a course for upgrading adminis-
trators and agricultural teachers; and (iii) establish a tracer system for
graduates of agricultural schools and training centers.
4.13      Lower Secondary Schools.  This project item would comprise the
construction, furnishing and equipping of 18 lower secondary schools in semi-
rural areas, each with a capacity of 240 student places. These new schools



- 14 -
would replace and expand existing schools that are functioning inadequately
without laboratories or workshops and in unsuitable accommodations (mostly
rented houses). The project would support the government's policy of extend-
ing secondary education opportunities to semi-rural areas and decentralizing
secondary school supervision and administration (para. 3.11) by establishing
regional secondary education centers composed of a "central institute"
(selected secondary schools in the first education project located in the
departmental capitals) offering diversified upper secondary education and
served by a number of associated lower secondary schools. The director of
the central institute would be the administrative supervisor of the surround-
ing lower secondary schools, and the institute's senior teachers would be
responsible for providing all teachers in the region with technical assistance
on teaching methods and on the content of curricula.
4.14      The project schools, working in two shifts, would enroll about
8,640 students when in full operation by 1981. The curriculum to be imple-
mented includes practical subjects (industrial, agricultural and home eco-
nomics) to better prepare students for further specialization or work.
School workshop units would also provide facilities for job entry train-
ing for students and out-of-school youths and adults. To ensure that the
vocational courses will be job oriented and meet the training needs of the
regions, the government has provided assurances that the operation of the
workshops and the syllabi of the courses will be conducted under the direc-
tion of personnel from the National Technological Institute. Students com-
pleting education in the project lower secondary schools may further their
education in the central diversified secondary institute in the departmental
capital, or continue occupational training prior to or after obtaining employ-
ment. The project would provide finance and technical assistance for carry-
ing out teacher upgrading courses, mainly in science and mathematics, at the
National Education Center. The teachers and instructors of vocational sub-
jects would need to be trained and upgraded by the National Technological
Institute. The government has provided assurances that it will establish
(a) teacher upgrading and training courses for lower secondary school teach-
ers at the National Education Center and the National Technological Insti-
tute within six months of loan signing and (b) the regional secondary edu-
cation centers as technical-administrative units for decentralized school
administration and supervision before construction bidding of project lower
secondary schools.
4.15      Teacher Upgrading Program.  The project would include funds to
assist the National Education Center (NEC) in carrying out a comprehensive
upgrading program for about 1,000 teachers and 100 administrators of rural
primary, lower secondary and agricultural schools during the period 1976-80.
In addition, NEC would coordinate with the National Technological Institute
in Granada the training of 50 technical/vocational teachers for lower second-
ary schools and about 20 agricultural teachers. These programs would be of
short duration, varying from four to 12 weeks.
4.16      Technical Assistance.  The project would provide 11 man/years
of specialist services and 17 man/years of fellowships for local staff as
follows: (a) specialist services in (i) primary school administration (two/
years) to help establish and operate the nuclei system of school administra-
tion and supervision; (ii) teacher training (two man/years) to assist in the



- 15 -
implementation of training programs for rural primary teachers, directors
and supervisors, with emphasis on multigrade teaching techniques; (iii)
student evaluation (two man/years) for primary and secondary education;
(iv) secondary school administration and teacher training (two man/years)
to help establish and operate regional secondary education centers and
advise on teacher upgrading courses; (v) agricultural education (two man/
years) to advise on organization, operation and evaluation of the agricul-
tural education programs of the project agricultural secondary schools and
agricultural training centers; and (vi) short term consultants (one man/year)
in farm shops, extension service, farm management, irrigation, dairy, horti-
culture, and instructional materials; and (b) fellowships for (i) primary
and secondary school administrators and supervisors (seven man/years) in
courses of six to twelve months' duration; and (ii) agricultural adminis-
trators, supervisors and teachers (10 man/years) in courses of six months
to two years. The cost of technical assistance is estimated at US$42,000
per man/year of specialist services and US$8,000 per man/year of fellowship.
4.17      If the government is successful in obtaining technical assistance
from the UNDP or any other agency which might provide it on a grant basis,
the funds for the items affected should be cancelled or reallocated for
other project related purposes acceptable to the Bank. The government has
provided assurances that specialists will be employed on terms and condi-
tions acceptable to the Bank, and that all fellowship recipients will be
selected and placed in consultation with the Bank. Suitable counterparts
for the specialists would be provided by the government.
Cost of the Project
4.18      The total cost of the proposed project is estimated at US$19.8 mil-
lion. The breakdown by type of program is shown in Annex 7 and summarized
as follows:



- 16 -
Costs in                Costs in
Cordobas ¢ Million           US$ Million
Item                 Local Foreign Total   Local  Foreign Total
18 Rural Educational
Nuclei             27.6   17.1   44.7       4.0     2.4    6.4
9 Agricultural
Training Centers   4.9    3.6    8.5        0.7     0.5    1.2
4 Agricultural
Secondary
Schools             6.3    4.9   11.2        0.9    0.7    1.6
18 Lower Secondary
Schools            20.5   13.6   34.1        2.9    2.0    4.9
Technical Assistance
and Fellowships    0.9    3.3    4.2         0.1    0.5    0.6
Teacher Training      2.5    0.6    3.1        0.3    0.1    0.4
Project Adminis-
tration             1.1    0.3    1.4        0.2     -      0.2
Base Cost Estimates 63.8   43.4  107.2         9.1    6.2   15.3
Contingencies        16.7   15.0   31.7        2.4    2.1    4.5
Physical (10%)        6.3    4.0   10.3        0.9    0.6    1.5
Price    (20%)       10.4   11.0   21.4        1.5    1.5    3.0
Total Project
Cost               80.5   58.4  138.9       11.5    8.3   19.8
4.19      The base cost figures are estimated as of the end of January 1976
and reflect recent school building costs in Yicaragua.  Unit costs would be
moderate and range from US$62 to US$98 per m . A local cost adjustment of
10% to 15% has been included for schools outside the Managua area to allow
for transportation costs of materials. For the project primary schools
simple module designs have been developed, direct community participation
would be encouraged, and local labor and materials would be used to the
greatest extent possible.  Site development costs have been estimated at
about 10% of the building costs in rural areas, where most of the site
development work for primary schools is expected to be a community contri-
bution, and at about 20% of the cost of the lower secondary schools, which
will be located in semi-rural areas. Costs of site acquisition are not
included in the project; in cases where the site cannot be donated by the
community the cost will be borne by the government.



- 17 -
4.20      Furniture and equipment cost estimates are based on recent procure-
ment contracts for the first project schools. For 1976-77 prices for project
related items are expected to increase by an average 7% per annum, rising to
8% in 1978. In 1979 an increase of 10% is expected, except for furniture and
equipment, for which it would be 8% and 7.5% respectively. The project would
be implemented in about four and one-half years, requiring an average allow-
ance of 20% for possible price escalation. Altogether, contingencies amount
to US$4.5 million, or 30% of the project base cost (Annex 8). The foreign
exchange component is estimated at about US$8.3 million equivalent, repre-
senting 42% of the total project cost. This has been calculated as follows:
(a) construction and site development, 34%; (b) professional services, 20%;
(c) furniture, 36%; (d) equipment, 95%; (e) technical assistance and fellow-
ships, 80%; and (f) teacher training and project administration, 21%.
4.21      Project Recurrent Costs.  By 1981, when the project institutions
and programs would be in full operation, it is estimated that the additional
project related recurrent costs would amount to about US$1.6 million, less
than 1% of total projected central government current expenditures and well
within the government's financial capacity as projected in the latest Bank
Economic Memorandum on Nicaragua (Report No. 914-NI of November 5, 1975).
V.  IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEIENT
Project Administration
5.01      The government recently approved the establishment within the
Ministry of Education of a General Directorate of Investment and Financial
Assistance (DIAF). The director of this office will be responsible for im-
plementation of all externally financed education projects, including those
of the Bank. Full time personnel assigned specifically for Bank project ad-
ministration would include an educator, architect and accountant, appointed
in consultation with the Bank as a condition of effectiveness of the loan.
Total project costs include project administration expenditures on salaries
of key staff, a vehicle and essential office equipment.
Project Implementation Schedule
5.02      To assist in the effective and timely execution of the proposed
project, a comprehensive implementation schedule has been prepared (Annex 9)
and discussed with the government and mutually agreed upon as a project im-
plementation and monitoring tool.
Professional and Technical Services
5.03      Basic designs for the rural primary schools are already available
and could be adapted for project use with a minimum of professional input;
this work may therefore be carried out by technical staff of the Ministry
of Public Works or Education under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank.
All other architectural design work and all related engineering and construc-
tion supervision for the project institutions would be assigned to consulting



- 18 -
firms acceptable to the Bank and employed on terms and conditions acceptable
to the Bank. Project staff within the DIAF would update with the assistance
of consultants the agreed project implementation schedule, including inter
alia (a) basic educational specifications and construction standards and
specifications for preparing architects' briefs and (b) unit costs for the
project institutions. The government should establish special technical
committees with representatives of the Ministries of Education, Civil Works
and Agriculture and the DIAF to review the architectural designs, equipment
and furniture lists and specifications to certify that they meet economic
and functional standards and costs and the educational objectives of each
project institution. The government has provided assurances that the mem-
bership of these committees and their staffing composition would be accept-
able to the Bank and that they would be established within six months of
loan signing and remain in effect for the duration of project implementa-
tion. The establishment of these committees will be a condition of disburse-
ments for civil works and procurement of equipment and furniture.
Sites
5.04      An existing school map provided the basis for locating the pro-
ject schools within the 18 rural educational nuclei; no major problems are
expected in regard to site selection and acquisition since they will be in
rural areas where land belongs to the government. About seven of the 18
lower secondary school sites are privately owned, and their acquisition is
in progress. No major problems are anticipated in the site acquisition for
the agricultural training centers and the agricultural secondary schools.
The government has provided assurances that sites acceptable to the Bank
will be acquired as and when needed for the construction and operation of
the facilities included in the project.
Procurement
5.05      Contracts for civil works would be awarded to prequalified bid-
ders on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally and in accord-
ance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Since most civil works are
of small size and scattered throughout the country, foreign contractors
are not expected to be interested, although they would not be precluded
from bidding. Nicaragua has several medium and small construction firms
which are competitive and qualified to carry out the construction involved
in the project.
5.06      Contracts for furniture and equipment would be awarded on the basis
of international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines.
Furniture and equipment would be grouped to form sizable packages for bulk
purchasing. However, items that cannot be grouped in bid packages of at
least US$15,000 and would not in the aggregate exceed US$300,000 (equivalent
to about 10% of the total cost of equipment and furniture) would be procured
in accordance with local procedures acceptable to the Bank.
5.07      Since Nicaragua is a member of the Central American Common Market,
domestic and other member countries' manufacturers would receive preferential



- 19 -
treatment in bid evaluations for procurement of furniture and equipment which
are subject to international competitive bidding. The preferential margin
for domestic and Common Market manufacturers would be limited to 15% of c.i.f.
base costs of imports or 50% of the applicable import duties, whichever is
lower.
Disbursements
5.08      The proposed loan of US$11.0 million, equivalent to 55% of the total
project cost of US$19.8 million, would finance the full foreign exchange compo-
nent and 23% of local currency costs. The loan would be disbursed over a four
year period (Annex 10). To ensure that funds are available in the timely man-
ner for the implementation of priority project items such as the rural com-
munity learning centers and for developing as soon as possible a longer term
policy for improving the quality of education, the loan would cover the local
costs of teacher training courses and professional services. Thus, disburse-
ments would finance: (a) 40% of the cost of civil works; (b) 100% of foreign
expenditures or 85% of locally procured equipment and furniture; and (c) 100%
of expenditures on technical assistance specialists, training abroad, upgrad-
ing of teacher training courses, and architectural professional services.
Retroactive financing not exceeding US$150,000 is recommended for expenditures
made from September 1, 1975, for professional services, technical assistance
and project administration. The project would be completed by December 31,
1980. Any surplus funds would be used for priority items closely related to
the original project, subject to the Bank's approval.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During loan negotiations agreement was reached on the following
principal points:
(a)  establishment of upgrading courses for school direc-
tors, rural primary teachers and lower secondary
teachers (paras. 4.05 and 4.14);
(b)  selection of the directors of project community learn-
ing centers (base schools) on the basis of criteria
acceptable to the Bank (para. 4.06);
(c)  establishment of a system for continuous evaluation
of the educational and training programs of the
project basic educational and rural community learn-
ing centers (para. 4.07);
(d)  consolidation of the six existing secondary agricul-
tural schools into four schools (para. 4.12);



- 20 -
(e) establishment of (i) a National Advisory Committee
for Agricultural Education; (ii) upgrading courses for
administrators and agricultural teachers; and (iii) a
tracer system for graduates of agricultural schools
and agricultural training centers (para. 4.12); and
(f) establishment of technical committees to review the
architectural designs and equipment and furniture
lists and specifications (para. 5.03).
6.02      Appointment within the General Directorate of Investment and Finan-
cial Assistance of a full time architect, educator and accountant, in con-
sultation with the Bank, to work specifically on the proposed project will
be a condition of loan effectiveness.
6.03      A condition for the disbursement of funds will be (a) the legal
establishment of (i) the nuclei system of rural school administration and
supervision (para. 4.06) and (ii) the regional secondary education centers
as education technical-administrative units (para. 4.14); and (b) the es-
tablishment of the technical review committees to the satisfaction of the
Bank (para. 5.03).
6.04      Subject to the fulfillment of conditions described above, the
project constitutes a suitable basis for the proposed Bank loan of US$11.0
million equivalent, with a repayment period of 25 years, including a grace
period of seven years.
March 25, 1976



A.o. I I0 
00KPA1ATIVX EDUCATION INDI1CATORS
73-1013 9. 197~6
-t       %G TSP        rAL01 73 OF9 PULIC                                                                  FIT           A3. 711.'                                         0
CAPIT        900910         POELIC               ED CTION               LI1TER-         PRI.        CPLZx            STU-         BCH.Sh0E'   PROGRESS-                0.         sri-
AT                  iTo ROD.         Up.               100091091                 A03         101011          T 1106        88129V 3.41                    ION RAU          NFR0LL       DENTS       HTCH09
)ARI10T              (POEIc         MEOOTD            Eup ALLUCATuD              RATE          1AT90        16A20 PM          PER         SLElATit         7929 091l        RAT10          PER       9011
FOIP.      PRICES        UP.             Tit                    T.:                  4% or          UT?         Mi. MR.        fTEa           To GM9/    ' TO i20.               MT7         Tnu-    RATio
30   (000)           (U00)         ONLY)           0110         FRI.     gmC.      01.   'ADULTS)            (1       'C11MK()              KR          161176*             91                           ER 1   '(%4
* (I)       '4              (31'44)'                               1f..A)...                           47)      '(9f       '494'41                 0)       '       14            42              1)      (4
6013T1IA                    73       7.00        0,410C         4.3l            9.9         4744      2598      2044        99            99             93           26              2.0              99             51             19        8.00
CANADA6                     72      211.9        4 440          7.2            19.4         30        39        19          99            99             90           24              2.0              99             92             17        0.00
IlooqAN  P. UP.             73    61.6           3.390          4.2            14.2         *...      740*      26          919           01            59            33              ...99                           91             22       07.OOCY
JAPAN                       71    106.00C        2,320C         4.3            30.7         39        39        12          99            990            900          25C             2.0               99T           94D            20C       MO.OD
917910R0A11S                72      13.31        3,840          9.5            19.10        32        45        19          90            95            95            29              3.0              94             73             20       11.00
9002161.020                 75       290         3,600          5.2            ...          39        24        29          99            99             99           29              ...              99             67             19       24.00
190WAY                      72       3.9         3.340          7.0            15.2         59        23        13          99            99             9920                         1.9              99             76             14       11.00
09911                       73       SiC         4,40k          9.9            16.9         36        14        13          9995                         99           37..                             90             91             to1      30.00
O 1            72      55.9         3,9~~ ~ ~~~~                ~ ~~~~~00  63 12.7  26   39        72          99            99                          2  26             70              ..            47                      11.00
0.8 A.                      72    206.9          5,590          60             15.4          . ..     73*       27          9             5              99           25              20.                              3              9       29.0
EUROPE
0111CR                       1        0          1,6401         2.3             11          543       293       144         8261          953             .2                                            706           54             433      44.00
1111Am            42      3~~ ~ ~~~~~~              ~~.0  1.590  5.1  13.3D       437      410       147          98           9796                         3.95719                                                                 700
0970                    42      9.7            730          ...                             ..                           .           9103           .             ...                              ...            6513Y          ...       7.605
0319N                       71      340          1,193loa       2.41           15.3u        49        290       153          M            91A            ...          356              ....                           296            30        6.006A
61L881A                     73      1400C           4100        9.3a                        43        32        14          2Sk           67             06           43              6.0               37            1ax            26        3.50
01921                       73       2.00C          1100        3.3           33.0          67        23        144         11            32X9           700          500            25.30             4307                          390       5.44(Y
9.0T9S                       6        .             30           .             20.0          A0       20        15          25            70             5            35              5.                4              3              0         .0
BURUMt                      72       3.6             60         ...                   ..                                    ...           2700           ..           361Y             ...              . ..           2213          1163      0.osoy
0A0,DM                      743      6.00           2093        3.0            20.9         364       293;      173         .             74X            5..          41y             ..                ..23cr                                 0.9000
4 .R.                      70       I1.9          1600        4.10            20.0         56        15        ..          ...          64C1           25            65(3..                           19.             473           2703     0.073
CHAD                        75       3.0 SC           00        4.3            14.3         77        23         0            7           29109          ...          660Y            ..                ..               29          30        0.0113
0000(0                      73       1L.0           3000        6.0            26,4         4591      3513      1393        so'          13r             ...          63              .....29                                        433       2.44(3
13591P1A                    73    273 "'C            so         3.1            200          42        29        10            7           17C            42           50              3.               13              2             30        0.20
GUM0                        73       0. 0          0900         5.0            2.6 D        25                  11           ...         19010           20           46C             5.0              106            200            210       1.40CY
"980"                       71       9. 1C         3000         4.7            24.401       3898      139       23           ...          561(C          6            30C3             .                14            110            16(3      0.74uY
7933 109                     2       5 4           360          4.3           24.7          2717      319Y      133           3A          52             SlA          46              .                ...10                         25        1.2993
K113A                       73      12. 10          170         9.4            27.0         63        10        11          40           1050                         40              9.0               14            11             23        1.0363
40901T90                    73       00              900        4.7            22.9         400       100       24C         40            65             ..           45               ..                .                           22        0.03
LIBERIAk                    44       1 60           39331       2.7            13.9         25        13        22           . ..         59             ...          39              1.0..                            20            20        1.1063
941151                      74       4,70           1ow         1.1            29.9     ....                                25            540            60           50              7.0               40             42            20        0.26Cr
KW2.                        74       1.1C            700        4. 69          32.3         34        529       120         10            19             202          40             14.0               37             4             17        0. 1603
I&OU.IaTOI                  75       1.21           193         4.5            21.0     . ..  .         .        ...        10            150             .           22               ..4.....2
WNuITIlO72                           0.9            300         3.7            1,1.7        71        10         4          90            96             99           31                 ...3                                        30        1.470Y
lniC0                       74      15 91,          270         5.00           14.5         44        47         9          267           541            21           37              3..                1            231            21        2.0
91(G9IA                     71      49 0            1500        3.20                        43A       24        20           ...          3903            .           3403..Y.                                                       2003      0.37CY
060246             73        7C    63                  3.21          29.00.                        .23                           5922           ..            1              ...               ..                           1          .20
0191131L                    71       4.00          2500         4.06           22.50        39        424        5A         10            303            ...          46              ....110                                        25        1 .7103CY
971914A LIM0                73       7 70           4900        3.4            21.4         31        36        30          157           34X            45           32              4.66                            131            21        0.5303
90962.1                     73       200c            93         ...             7.0         57        16        13            5           13             91           35             15.0              45               4            le        1.0
109m"                       41     14.5             120         4.5           13.2          43        29        2           15            3975                        45              4.               24             1              20        1.23Y
99WA1I1A                    72       0.61c         260          4.36           19.7         37        24        19          20            6              22           39              7.0.                              D 50         20        1.0
7ANCWOA             ~~~     ~~~~79  13.21   1100        3.I1           17.0          36        .         12          63            440            . .           97. 
371N131k                    73       5 00          3911         6.3            23.4         37        43        10          55            72             91           41              6.7               31            14             21        3.0
U7A693                      70      10.40           1ISW        5.20           13.40        499       2298      259         25A           4900            .           36               ...              144            4103          21        0.5093
1U970  V0O.74               72       5.6             64         4.0            23.          65        13         6           5            10             ...          45             19.0               20              2            23        0.01RY
01011                       73      23.4            127         5.001          21:.0        5.4       17        200         15            63             20           444             O.                43              6            24        O.9693
ZAMBIA6                     73       400C           390         5.6            16'.5        44        32        10          43            951            ...          50               ...              20             150           20        0.4463y
00024 10C6                  71       1.00           6300        3.2            22.7         37        25        12          07            0603c          63           29               3.0              50              20           23       12.110y
30970706   REP.             72       42             400         2.             1 5.9        42        24        22          591          90              17           54              3.0               33             1             24        7.00
7EL 161.0V0                 7        3.70C          3400        3.6,           23.9         61          5       72          5863          7121R          ..           3007             ...              . ..           13003         2113      4.351Y
G776E190IA                  53       5.67          4200         4.9            16.0         55        23        14          47            64             21           35              3.0              39               S            25        4.093
HAITI                       '2       44             137         5.9             '.461       41        11         0          200           22             25-4                         5.0               50              3             213      1.20
HONDI9IAS                   72       2 7            320         3.9            26.55        64        13        18          52            810            10           3,              6.0              '5140                         14        3.06'
69941CA                    72       19             010         6.55           19 .7        333       223        73         04           10603y          . ..          52             ......3205                                      19       4.793
4411100                      0      541 7IC                     2.6             93           4        24        1           73            71             31           46              3.0               3123                                    .30
N936C44RAG                  74       2 10            30         2.5            14.2         61        43        13          57            45             21           37               2.0             9317                           4        7.0
TRINID0AD .                 71       1.0             60 1                      78.9         53        27        12          90            950            07           35              4.0               15            49              25       2.564Y
BSA21 4L                     4      992             5930        4.3            12.00        42        20        37          79            g0m..                       270Y                                           is ..4          4003      6.000
CH1LE                       77      T0.             boo         4 43           19.67         3444     1590      430Y         . ..        111101          ...          37BY                                             4)my           ... 4...
1701001                     79      239             490C        40O            10.9          35       18        20           73           67             20            36             4.0               903            17             14       4.00
1(090101                    72       6:5            360         3.7           2hOC          4303      42443     1917        69            72             ..           38               ...              ...            I5            14        4 9703
0G7YA20                     44       077           *001         59an           14.30        47        35        14          036           901            39            33             3.                1               20           24        1.00
761642263            7~~~~~~4 2.0           320          19            1.             7        150       29           1            9              26           29              1.96                            151            10        40
7911                        71      14.10           590         4.5            14.10        so        22        15,         720                          39           3903             3.90             70             30             230     12.Ou
0061741A                    73    5110c          1,2400         4.             19.9         399       298       3544    ~    776         0ox                          33               2.4              .33                           ...     12.63CY
MX9SIA0                     73      72.00            710C       1.2            20.      .         .         .23                           562            . ..         40               . ..     ..                     031           1
0403  (761941)  73     15.10          ~~~~~       ~~~4900  1~.3V  140           2        41.       22.         92            59             94           40             14.0               04             55             2        50
2201.4                      71    563.0             1100        234..                                                       29            790            . ..         436                .                             200           7043      4.0003
1916 L                      73    12.I               2 1        1.             1.0          33        23        14          62            63             40           32                .091                           12             16       7.00
10039             43      29.00          4500         3.3            12.6          50EC19             129          54           72             74A           32              5.0062                                          2       4.32C3
196                         72      10 4            370         37             13.30      .        .         .26                          61173          . ..         22              ...                               M07           2o        6.28C3
b0ID01x                     73       240            2700        70              8.8         52        15'       21          5       9      12            746           3               5.6              04'            502            22        4.00
1(30                        73      3200C           310C        2.9            19.3         64        76          a         92            97             90           53               300              'I             51             39        6.00
LLBAfl                      72        9             70          3.5            19.0         39        40        10O         6             96             65            19              2 00             03             2.4            25       13.00
VAI.6707                    72      11.4            430         6.              23..                                         0            90!            ...           32              ....330                                        26         .
20419                       72       0.             530         2.3             3.a         96                               20           241            99            33              :.00                .          0.40             9        ..
P"   sum                     5     667C             1300        1.6             6.          45        25        19          21            470            50            39             206                              170            19       3.5
PH9ILIPPINS                 74      39. 00          229         2 .5           14.9q        73        15        12          97           1060             ..          3              15.06                             401            . ..    21,.06
SINAOf                      72       2L          1,200          3L1I           16 .0        4         31        15          75A          1972            72            33              ...C             99             47             24        9.256
OSATLWS                     73      55              29          3.06           10.7         65          9       17          92            B70            900           32             3.01              9117           210            24        2.90
14A390                      72      37 0            370          ..            13. o         ..         ...  .     .         . ..        105003          ...           3993            ......                          2203           2703      5.3103
0129                        73       4 3            100         8.5             4.0         4541      21?       237          10           151            19            36              5.00             73              21            19        0.05B3
----1 ------72 1-- A5   1------00---------- 2                              ,---12.6   79       10--                   1 0          701            31            29            40.06              99             127            20         .096
3090113 PM0 WUEVlOnwI COONTIIOS:
009000 OP WORM910                                               67             12           61        59        59           62           73             41            72               38              41             73             09       67
E.490                                                      40.1-          43.9-          725-       (0-       70-         75-          416-          717-          419-            (1.9-               '
9.04         32.34           944       577       40,         994          7917            59           66)            25 .04             99            7.4-           (9-     4 01-
75.04         434      23.04
QU001T11.92  U709                                               4.7            21.0          57        36        20          60           91             76            45              7                70             26             26        4.79
931606                                            4.0            18.2          50        27        15          5             71I5                        38              4                63              14            23        2.00
1(39                                               3 0           14.0          42        17        71          20            48             25           33              3                 25             0              19       0.53



All'X 1
Page 2 of 2
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION INDICATORS (CONTD)
JANUARY 9, 1976
SYMBOLS:  ...  DATUM UNAVAILABLE             A=1970 OR BEFORE  M=CURRENT PRICES
-  MAGNITUDE NIL OR NEGLIGIBLE  B=1971               N=GDP
?  QUESTIONABLE                   C=1972             P=INCLUDING FOREIGN AID
*   INCLUDES PART-TIME STUDENTS  D=1973              Q=CENTRAL GOVT. ONLY
**   COMBINED WITH PRIMARY         E=1974             R=MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
(MOE) ONLY
S=MOE AND STATE GOVT. ONLY
T=EXCLUDING CENTRAL GOVT.
U=PUBLIC ONLY
V=INCLUDING PRIVATE
EXPENDITURE
X=INCLUDING OVERAGED STUDENTS
Y=UNESCO SOURCES
SOURCES: COLUMNS 1 AND 2 WORLD BANK ATLAS; 3 TO 14 IBRD MISSIONS AND/OR UNESCO STATISTICAL
YEARBOOK.
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION DATA ARE USEFUL IN THE EVALUATION OF VARIOUS EDUCATION SYSTEMS AND
ANALYSIS OF RELATIVE STAGES OF EDUCATIONAL DEVELOPMENT BETWEEN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. HOW-
EVER, ON THE BASIS OF THE PRESENT DATA, CROSS-NATIONAL COMPARISON SHOULD BE APPROACHED
WITH GREAT CAUTION. DATA PRESENTED IN THE ABOVE TABLE HAVE BEEN COLLECTED LARGELY BY THE
BANK MISSIONS FROM GOVERNMENT SOURCES: THE REMAINDER ARE STAFF ESTIMATES OR DATA FROM
UNESCO. EFFORTS HAVE BEEN MADE TO STANDARDIZE DEFINITIONS AND WITHIN LIMITS, TO CHECK
THE ACCURACY OF THE DATA. NEVERTHELESS, SUCH DATA ARE STILL IMPERFECT IN SEVERAL RESPECTS
AND THE BANK IS WORKING TO IMPROVE THEM PROGRESSIVELY ON THE OCCASION OF ITS OPERATIONAL
WORK. IN THE USE OF THESE DATA, THE FOLLOWING QUALIFICATIONS SHOULD BE BORNE IN MIND:
(1) "EDUCATION" AS DEFINED IN THE TABLE INCLUDES ALL EDUCATION AND TRAINING, FORMAL
AND NON-FORMAL;
(2) "PRIMARY EDUCATION REFERS TO EDUCATION AT THE FIRST LEVEL AND "SECONDARY" EDU-
CATION REFERS TO ALL EDUCATION AT THE SECONDARY LEVEL REGARDLESS OF TYPE (E.G.
GENERAL, TECHNICAL, AGRICULTURAL);
(3) "LITERACY RATES" (COL.6) ARE OFTEN OBTAINED FROM COUNTRY CENSUSES. IN MANY
COUNTRIES THEY ARE ONLY APPROXIMATIONS AND IT IS DOUBTFUL THAT ANY UNIFORM
DEFINITION OF "LITERATE" HAS BEEN FOLLOWED CONSISTENTLY;
(4) "PUBLIC EXPENDITURE IN EDUCATION" (COLS.3, 4 AND 5) REFER TO ALL CAPITAL AND
RECURRENT EXPENDITURES DEVOTED TO EDUCATION BY PUBLIC AND QUASI-PUBLIC AGENCIES;
(5) "ENROLLMENT RATIOS" (COLS. 7, 12 AND 14) REFER TO SCHOOL YEAR AND MEAN THE
PERCENTAGE OF ELIGIBLE CHILDREN ENROLLED FULL-TIME IN THE APPROPRIATE SCHOOL,
PUBLIC AND PRIVATE BY LEVEL. THEY ARE OFTEN SUBJECT TO A WIDE MARGIN OF ERROR
IN THE DEVELOPING COUNTRIES OWING TO VARIATION IN THE ACCURACY OF BASIC DATA
(I.E. AGE-SPECIFIC POPULATION AND ENROLLMENTS). ENROLLMENT FIGURES FREQUENTLY
ARE HIGHER THAN THE NUMBER OF STUDENTS ACTUALLY IN SCHOOL. OVERAGED STUDENTS
WHOSE INCLUSION IS INDICATED BY FOOTNOTES ALSO CAN INFLATE THE RATIOS.



ANNEX 2
NICARAGUA
SECOND EDUCATICN PROJECT
Enrollment in Public and Private Institutions by Area and Grade, 1974
Age Group/      Gross
Grade               Total       Urban       Rural   Population  'Percentage
Preprimary
1                 9,336       6,829      2,507
Primary
1               132,516      72,016     60,500
2                72,423      42,346     30,077
3                49,803      36,234      13,569
4                38,121      30,939       7,182
5                29,757      25,969       3,788
6                23,268      20,998       2,270
(7-12)
TOTAL     345,888    228,502    117,386        392,937       88
Lower Secondary
7                24,494      21,643       2,851
8                17,120      15,126       1,994
9                12,455      11,007       1,448
(13-15)
TOTAL      54,069      47,776       6,293      167,334       32
Upper Secondary
10                10,339       9,815         524
11                 7,901       7,502         399
12    TOTAL        1,091       1,036          55
(16-18)
19,331     18,353         978      144,572       13
(13-18)
TOTAL SECONDARY       73,400      66,129       7,271      311,906       23
Higher
1                 9,395       9,395           -
2                 2,753       2,753           -
3                 1,885       1,885           -
4                   983         983           -
5                 1,130       1,130           -
(19-24)
TOTAL      16,146      16,146            -     210.858        7
NOTE:     Enrollment in secondary schools outside departmental capital cities
is considered as rural.
/1   Figures include overage estimated at 23%.
Source:   Ministry of Education and Mission



ANNEX 3
NICARAGUA
EDUCATION PYRAMID
ENROLLMENTS IN PUBLIC AND PRIVATE INSTITUTIONS
1974
(IN THOUSANDS)
GROSS
PER-
GRADE  TOTAL                                                                                                                                  TOTAL    LEVEL.    CENT
OF AGE
5______ t1GROUP
5         1.1                                                       1,130
4         1.0                                                         983
3         1.9                                                       1,185
16.1      HIGHER         7%
2         2.7                                                      2,753
1         9.4                                                 0         j395
12         1.1                                                       1,036    50
1P1        7.9                                                  76502         390                                                            19.3   SEC   1ARY        3%
10        10.3                                                 9,815          524(
9        12_4                                                1.007 II448
8        17.1              16 26                                               1,994                                                       64.0 0     LOWER         32%
URBAN                                                                        RURAL STCONDARY
7       24.5                                       21.643             . it851
6       2333                                        20.
5       29.8                                    25.969                .         'J~
4        38.1                               30,939                                 4jI82
348.9     PRIMARY        88%
3       49.8                            38,234                                         13.569
2  72.4   42.346                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~30,077
1  132-5                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~60.800
PRE-
PRE        9.3                                                    689            2079.3                                                                 PIMR
_ _ _I                       II  I                         I       I       I       I          I       I       I       I       I      I               _  _   _        _
80     70      60      50      40     30      20      1 0      0      1 0    20      30      40      s0      60      70     so
IIN THOUSANDS)
Enrollments include overaep estimate at 23 percent.                                                                                                      World B.nk-15500



AMNEX 4
NICARAGUA
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
National Education Finance 1974-81
-_Lj rdobass 000 ___
1974              1981      L2
Expenditure on Education                              Amount    %  NP   Amount      % GNP
1.  Ministry of Education                            216.319     2.3  347,000        2.6
a.  Recurrent Expenditure                        173,165     1.8  300,000        2.3
b.  Capital Expenditure                           43,154    0.5    47,000        0.3
2.  Other Ministries                                  23.579    0.2    35,000        0.3
a. Ministry of Defense                             2,330             3,400
b.  Ministry of Public Health                      2,027             3,000
c.  Ministry of Agriculture                        6,o66             8,900
d.  Ministry of Labor                             13,156            19,700
3.  Total Public Education Expenditure (1+2)         239.898     2.5  382,000        2.9
Less foreign financed expenditure             21,693            25,000
included in the above
u. Net Public Expenditure on Education               218,205     2.3  357,000        2.7
5. Total Private Expenditure on Education A          154,620     1.6  268,000        2.0
a.  Fee incme, net of stipends
(public institutions)
(i)  Secondary Education                      9,220            16,000
(ii)  University Education                     8,ooo            14,000
b.  Private Institutions                         137,400           238,000
6.  Total Domestic Expenditure on Education          372,825     3.9  625,000        4.7
7.  Total Expenditures on Education (3+5)            394,518     4.1  650,000        4.9
/1 Estimated
/2 1981 ONP (at constant 1973 prices) estimated at US$ 1,882 million.



NICARACtUA                               ANNEX S
SECOND EDUCATICK PROJECT
Ministry of Education
Expenditures by Level of Education
(Ourrent Prices in Cordobas 000's)
1970-75
A.                           Recurrent Expenditures
Level                  1970     1971      1972     1973     1974 4/   1975 4/
Primary Education           75,474    80,349   86,018   87,082   104,102    114,559
Secondary Education        15,115    15,755   19,669   30,890    21,717       26,403
Physical Education             953       869      921       952     2,266      1,517
Primary teacher training    3,996      4,001    4,344    4,281      4,083      4,395
Commercial                   1,117    1,210    1,372    1,858       2,310      2,931
Industrial  Xj               1,156    1,364    1,640    1,560       1,655     13,305
Agricultural                1,423      1,388    1,932    1,896      2,414      3,672
University 2/              11,485    11,949   13,592   12,185    22,876       27,210
Administration               5,100     5,543    5,562    5,701      9,742     10,095
and other programs
Current transfers  3/       7,797      9,357      -         -        -          -
and miscellaneous
Total                      123,616  131,785  135,050  136,405   173,165    204,OE7
B.                           Capital Expenditures   /
Level                  1970      1971     1972     1973      1974       1975  /
Primary                     4,103      3,658      350   20,782        384     10,417
Secondary ZJ                2,336      7,115   11,864    8,o43    38,046      32,247
Physical Education             -         -      2,200       -           5           5
Commercial                      39        39       36        40      -           _
Industrial                     11         11       18        20        56         18
Agricultural                     8         9        2       -          63           18
University                     -         -      1,950       863       860         922
Other                                    -        -         -       3,740      2,146
Total                       6,497    10,832   16,420   29,748    43,151       45,773
L/ From 1970-73, Industrial technical education; thereafter expenditures include
those for the industrial arts program and the National Teehnological Institute
Training.
/ National University
/ Current transfers include transfers to private school; from 1972 onwards
scholarships to secondary and higher education are included in respective
programs and not in transfers
4  Excludes institutions' own funds for 1974 and 1975
/ Includes foreign financed expenditures
/ Budget estimates
Z   Includes Primary Teacher Training
Source: Ministry of Education



0
11 I C A k A G U A
SECOND EDICATION PROJECT
Proiect Institutions and Technical Assistance
Rural Education ItdIsi
Lower Secondary Schools
Wo  umberp ofNumber of
Workshops,                                                                                                           Workshops.   Stadent        Staff
Classrooms    Labs.          Student         Staff           Code             Depart-ent                   Town          crssroo-ms         Labs.        Places       Houses
Code                                                          P.tent  Ton  (Ceo   40)  (Cap. 20)  Places  Houses
CIBA  I         Chinandega                Somotillo              5             5          240           1
B I          Boaco                 El Rodeo                    34           15           1,360            6             cIBA  3         Chontales                 La Libertad             5            5          240            1
B 2          "                     Villa Esperanza             14            9             560            2             CIBA  4         Esteli                    La Trinidad             5            5          240            I
B 3          "                     El Paraiss                  29           14           1,160            6             CIBA            E atnl                    Pueblo Nuon             5            5          240            1
CIBA  6         Craned.                   Naedaime               1             5          240 
Chi I        Chimandega            Juan XXIII                 48            17           1,920            8             CIBA  7         Granada                   Dirioo                  5            5          240            I
CIBA  8         Jinotega                  S. Rafael del Norte  5               5          240           1
Cho 1        Chontales             Cuisals                     11            7             440            3             CrBA  9         Leon                      La Pee Centro          5             5          240
Ch. 2                              La PaIn1                     6            4             240            1             CIBA 10         Leon                      Nagarote               5             5          240            1
Cho 3                              Gral. Somosa GCrcia         17            7             680            3             CIBA 11         Madriz                    Telpameca               5            5          240            1
L I          Leon                  Luis H. Debayle              9            3              360           1             CIBA 12         Masayga                   Tipitapa                5            5          240            1
L 2                                Larreynaga                  11            8             440            3             CIBA 14         Matagalpa                 Esquipulas              5            5          240            1
CIBA 15         Nueva Segovia             Jalapa                 5             5          240            1
M 1          Madriz                San Lucas                   10            5             400            1             CIBA 16         Rio San Juan              San Carlos              5            5          240            1
M 2          11                    Dr. Hone Schick             23            S              920           1             CIBA 17         Rivas                     Tola                    5            5          240            1
CIBA IS         Zelay                     El Ramls               3             5          2401
N I          Nueva Segovia         Santa Maria                 23            S              920           3
N 2          '                     Las Manos                    9            5              360           2                                                                             90            90        4.320           18
N 3          "                     Susucayan                   20            7              800           3            Tote93
R 1          Rivas                 Andres Castro               31            9           1,240            4
Z I          Zelaya                Bilwaskara                  40            5            1,600           2
z 2                                El Ram                      16            5              640           2                                                                       Specialists                       Fel
Z3                                 Ls Leup                     15            5              600           2                                                                 Number         Man/Years         Number         Man/Years
Total                                                         366          141           14,640          53
Primary School Administration            1                2                5               3
and Supervision
Agricultural Centers/Schools                                                                   Primry Teacher TraininR                  1                2                -
Student Evaluation                       1                2                -
Number of                                              Secondary School Administration           1               2                5                4
Workshops,  Stodent        Staff                           sod Teacher Training
Code            Department                   Town           Classrooms      Labs.      Places         Houses                         Agricultural Education                   1                2               12               10
1.  Agricultural Training Centers                                                                                                        Farm Shop, Estenrio  Servics,                              1               -
Farm Manageient, Irrigation,
EAC 1           Chontales                 Sante Tunas            1             2          105           1                            Dairy, Horticulture, and
SAC 2            Hives                    Tola                   1            2           105           1                            (Short Term CoOsItamts)
EAC 3           Chinandega                Posoltesg              1             2          105           1
EAC 4           Nueva Segovia             Santa Maria            1             2          105           1                                                                      5+             11               22               17
EAC 5           Boaco                     Boa.s                  1             2          105           1                            Total
EAC 6           Leon                      Larreyn.gs             1             2          105           1
EAC 7           Zelaya                    Waspam                 1             2          105           1
EAC 8           Zelays                    Siuns                  1             2          105           1
EAC 9           Zelaya                    El Rawa                1             2          105           1
Total                                                            9            18          945           9
2.  Agricultural Secondary Schools
IA I            Chinandega                Sonotills              3             3          210           1
IA 2            Chontales                 Juigalpa               3             3          210           1
IA 3            Zeleay                    Siuns                  3             3          210           1
IA 4            Matagalpa                 Matagalpa              3             3          210           1
totW                                                            12           12          840            4



N.ICARAGUA
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
S-ry of Estimated Costs
(it US5 OOO's)
Workshops,                                                                   t ti
Classroom. s    Labs.     Stodet   Sctff    Gro-              Site         Prof.    Academic &                Gtaff                                           Terhbio.a    Tearher        Project
(Cop. 40)   (tsp. 20)   flares    Soosee    m.            Development  Services   ConSeie)    Noardimo    HouBet    Toteal            Furniture  Esofemenlt  Aeiafsm-e   TretB            4dmir,e    Tot l
18  Rtoal Co-nity Learsing Ce-ters
B I        Nears             ES Rodeo                       34           15        1,360        6           -           50          22           458         -           45        575            32          70            -            -            -          677
B 2                          Vitla Enporama.                14            9          560        2           _           24          10           214         -           21        269            15          33           -             _            _          317
B 3                          El Par-if                      29           14        1,160        6                       4 42        19           385         _           38        484            26          58           -             _            _          568
Chi I     Chibandega         J.an  YXIII                    48           17        1,920        8           -           59          26           535         -           52        672            37          81           -             -            -          790
Cho I      Chontel-s         Cis.1aa                        11            7          440        5           -           22           9           194         -           19        244            14          30           -             _                       288
Cho 2                        L. P.ma                         6            4          240        1           _           11           5            98         -           10        124             7          15           _             _            _          146
Che 3                        Gral. Sbses GDevio             17            7          680        3           -           23          10           208         -           20        261            14          32           -             -            -          307
L 1        L.oo              Lois H. Debayle                 9            3          360        1           _           11           5           104         -           10        130             7          16           -             -            -          153
L 2                          Larreysaga                     11            8          440        3           -           22          10           195         -           19        246            14          30           -             -            -          290
M 1         .Mdrif          SCoLAA                          14            3          400        1           _           14           6           128         -           13        161             9          19            -            -            _          189
M 2          "Dr  Rene Dhick                                23            8          920        1           -           25          11           229         -           23        288            16          35           -             -            -          339
N I        Norva SgQvia    Samta Maria                     23            8          920        3           -           28          13           257         -           25        323            18          39            -            -            -          380
N 2                          LasMamaS                        9            5          360        2           _           15           6           135         -           13        169             9          20            -            _            _          198
N83          "               Ooasuay.a                      20            7          85o        3           -           26          11           236         -           23        296            16          36            -            -            -          348
* I        Ri-va             Asdre-  Castro                 31            9        1,240        4           -           35          16           321         -           32        404            22          49            -            -            -          475
Z I        Zlaya             Bilwaskar=a                    40            5        1,600        2           _           32          14           291         -           29        366            20          b4           -             -            -          430
Z22          "               El Ru.-e                       16            5          640        2           -           18           8           167         -           17        210            12          26            -            -            -          248
Z 3                          taLs                           15            5          600        2           -           18           8           166         -           16        208            11          25            -            _            _          244
Sbtrt.a1                                                   366          141       14,640       53     51,669           475         209         4,321         -          425      5,430           299         658            -            -            _        6,387
18  Loeas  Soe.odary Schools                                    90           9D        4,320       18     26,006           628         189         2,863         -          281      3,961           285         630            _            -            -        4,876
9 Agricolt-lai Training Ce-ters                                 9           18          945        9      11,232           83          45           561       172           92        953            55         207            -            _            _        1,215
4  Agricolt-ral Secondary Sihools                              12           12          840        4      10,918          106          58           697       300           63      1,224             72        300            -            _            _        1,596
Teehbical Asnistfane 4 Pellooships                           -            -            -        -           -            -           -             -         -            -          -             -           -         600             -            -          600
Tearher Tr-itg                                                                                  --                                                                                                                                    440                        440
Project Adimia-tratiom                                                    -            -        -           -            -           -             -         -            -          -             -           -           -             -          200          200
TOTAL COST EXCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                           -            -            -        -           -        1,292         501         8,442       472          861    11,568            711       1,795         600          440           200       15,314
Physical Coefiogenries                                                    - _                                 _        129          50           844        48           86      1,157            70         180           -           44            20        1,471
Price Contisgentien                                                       -            -        -           -          263          58         1,720        96          176      2,313           128         372         128           84            37        3,062
Subtotals                                                                 -            -        -           -          392         108         2.564       144          262      3.470           198         552         128           028           57       4.533
TOTAL COST INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                           -            -            _        _           -        1,684         609        11,006       616        1,123     15,038           909       2,347         728          568           257      19,847
Foreign Emoheog-                                                          -            -        -           -          573         124         3,744       210          382      5,033           325       2,232         586          120            53       8,349
Perce- tage of Fo-eigs E6oheage above Total Coat/2                        -            -        _           _           34X         20%           34%       34%          34%        33%           36%         95%         80%           21%          21%          42%
-  PIoca for accaletratd c-oures  (720 pltcs-  is 18 ol.asr.oms) have beam i-cioded.
Diffee-t F-freig  and Local .Icideoce in Cootiog.acias were takes intoons-ideraftio



NICARAGUA                                                                                              AMNI  8
SECNDUDCAT!ON PRn
Site                                                  Professional           Technical            Teacher             Project
Civil Works          Development         Furniture           8auiDnt             lerviee    .       Aselitance           Training          Administration               TOTAL
Local   Foreign    Local   Foreign    Local  Foreign    Local   Foreign    JLj    Fore ign    Local   Foreign    Local   Foreign    LoCal   Foreign    Local   Foreign    Total
Total Proiect Cost
Excluding Contingenciea         6,647      3,128       879       413       462      249         90     1,705       401        100      120        480      352         88      160         40    9,111      6,203   15,314
Phs ical  Contingencies
Percentage                        (10)      (10)      (10)      (10)      (10)     (10)       (10)      (10)      (10)      (10)        --         --     (10)       (10)     (10)       (10)    (9.6)       (9.6)    (9.6)
Amount                             665      313         87        42        46        24         9        171       40         10       --         --        35         9        16         4       898        573    1,471
Cost Including Physical
Contingencies                   7,312    3,441         966       455       508      273         99     1,876       441       110       120        480      387         97      176         44   10,009      6,776   16,785
Price Contingencies
Percentage                          15       26         15        26        15        19        16        19        tO         13       18         22       16         24       16         19   (14.9)    '23.2)   (18.2)
Amount                           1,097      895        145       118        76       52         16       356        44         14       22        106       61         23        28         9    1,489       1,573    3,062
Cost Including Contingencies      8,409    4,336       1,111       573       584      325        115     2,232       485        124      142        586      448        120      204         53   11,498      8,349   19,847



NICARUOlA
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Implementation, Expenditure and Disbursement Schedule
* 1976            1977                          1978                        1979                          1980
Implementation Chart
2         1              2             1             2                             2              .              2
Phase 1      Survey and Preparatior, of Sites            X
Phase 1      Programming, Architectural Briefs
and Designs                                X      X       X      X
Phase 1      Construction Drawings                              X       X      X
Phase 1      Construction Tender and Contract Award                                   X
Phase 1      Construction                                                                   X      X       X      _       _      _
Defee ts & Liabilit  Period
Phase 1 & 2  Equipment and Furniture Master Lists                              X
Phase 1      Equipment and Furniture Tender and
Contract Award                                                          x
Phase 1      Equipment and Furniture Procurement                                            X      X       X
C,uar mte-e Period
Phase 2      Survey and Preparation of Sites                   X        X      X     X
Phase 2      Programing Architectural Briefs and
Designs                                                                 X     X      X       X
Phase 2      Construction Drawings                                                          X      X       X
Phase 2      Construction Tender and Contract Award                                                               X
Phase 2      Construction                                                                                                X       X      X       Def ctr and Liabi ity Period
Phase 2      Equipment and Furniture Tender and
Contract Award                                                                                      X
Phase 2      Equlpment and Furniture Procurement                                                                         X       X      X       -Gua antee Perfod
Technical Assistance and Teacher Training                                      X     X      X      X       X      X      X       X      X       X      X       X      X      X
Project Administration                                   X     X        X      X      X     X      X       X      X      X       X      X       X      X       X      X       X
Estimated Semi-Annual Expenditure and                   1976              1977                       1978                          197ff9                          80                  Total
Disbursement (in US$ 000')                               2         1              2                _          2              1                             1               .
Expenditure          100      90             970          5,740         -,980           ,680         3,750            220           1,020        19,850
Semi-Annual Totals
Disburseaent          90      60             ?40          -,11O         1,650           .040         2,030            180             600        1  ,0o0
Expenditure          100     190             4(;          u,200         9,180         14,860          13,61o        18,830         19. 8;
Cumnulative Totals
Disbursement          90     150             3 9          -. 'oo        5,10o          S,l90          10,220        1.4DO          11,000_



ANNEX 10
NICARAGUA
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$000o s)
Calendar year            Semester           Total         Government         Bank
1976                     2              100                10              90
1977                     1               90                30              60
2             270                 30            240
1978                     1            5,740             2,630           3,110
2           2.980             1,330           1P650
1979                     1            5,680             2,640           3,o4o
2           3,750             1,720           2,030
1980                     1              220                40             180
2           1,020               ]20             600
Total           9          19,850              8,850         11,000






-                                                                                     I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
........         ............. ..............I..;;. 1
I  A
ui~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
wo 
cc                                                                                                   I
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
X 0t                                                                                                                        ;.
z~~~~~~~~                                         
4~~~~~~~~ E                                                                                                      F->        






NICARAGUA
ORGANIZATION OF THE MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
1975
Miister1
Educat rue
_ ~~~~~~Planning
Vice-Minister 
DieTrt                             Directorate |DiDrectorate||                              Directorate] |Di<                                                                              |rectorate            Dietrt
Investments                      Ag,icutural                         PrimarF Administratie ISeconda y                                                                                                            Culturai
ari Fiancin                          Education                        Education                                       Ser Ci4S                                      Edu atien                                      Eatasiri
> L ; L  =   |  Ayrlaultu;al  |  r =        L                            i  /    ntirlg    L   _i                  |   | ~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~Secondary    PrimaryPblC 
LIR  Prine                ISI    net              Schrols    IDIoetlopmeIrrl                                                                    Conturol1              nduarici|   Education   |                    Rela-ions           
9 }         ~~~~~~~ea                      Trainieg:uu         Suervii                     Rura               Pay Ottior              Transprtaru          Commarcoal |-c {                 ic          |  ditnirl                    Museum
Engineering<                Areimcur                                               EduocationSalar                                             Suplie               Trii          |Suevs                         Schularatrips               <brOria
I   I        I                                                                       I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~     ~~~~Corressmollrdence                Guidance1
1 | a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ne Filet                                                                                                              Counseling 
| Budgot                FeroW                                                                                           -  =
World guru- t hSGt






i-1  .  .s  Hr;2Xp022 .. . j; _Ls s $ ' 2S2 2,,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~wevo W ;* DECEMEvER 1975~DCEMEFI197
W !nt 'z'RsE*"'8                                                                                               /; igh%-  5
LAC 5 t¢' 3   ;  X <5  a 153U. S3i  ;     (ACA.t'           -1 T -                                     *'2                                               OLPANEfiCARt<t         3
rAmA-                      - tillztS                                                                          22 COudkd, , # i      ,)  i d   12                    14CANCCIAN
Ocean          2~~~~~~~~~~<                                               CSortboId,~~~~~~~JN           -t
Si-i o  C-.                                                                           r bwe  >  ~  y   <  '   '  bE anRSOYG ACANE
Fonsecaa x       t X r2             G   gw VO  /.' ^   ; <               ^oComcloco             ^k3  OSonto D,omingo                      AA'TA                                                     , C U         LEAANIN CENTERS
VILLNA TSAMZAS          1-
CHIN, A.                                                                                                                                                                                            S\ATA  IIOSA
Oce vNIo n ;Ae53nU b old3 As   \  XtElie OS AC.-PA
I y/ Ae e                  ,S,        AA   gto                                                 / 'U .  'O                                                           IIAR TNMA
La~~~~~~~~~~                             BIOMAgS                    Moati,                                                                             A T8     / sNe:Gi :.SRICUTRALD SEC ALONDAYSCOL
Punragorda                      SAM AT7 L L' L A   A
REIE          SJAJMAICAS3   4-I                                                                                                                   LASYt.   i'+\\rtf                                                  SIA/NA
t t J~ar«ibba                                                              0                                                 \¾-                                                                                            M+SATASAGLPLA
El,   I                                                                                                                                       HE-on O   dI NO
66.. .'O .. 6,-.A-



