Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No, 19952
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(Core ICR)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 36.6 MILLION (US$50.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF NEPAL
FOR A ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
PROJECT ID: P010475
L/C NUMBER: 25780 - NEP
DECEMBER 21, 1999
Infrastructure Sector Unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Nepalese Rupees (NRs.)
US$1.00  =    NRs.45.47 (Appraisal May, 1993)
US$1.00  =    NRs.49.26 (FY 94)
US$1.00  =    NRs.49.94 (FY 95)
US$1.00  =    NRs.55.22 (FY 96)
US$1.00  =    NRs.57.03 (FY 97)
US$1.00  =    NRs.61.95 (FY 98)
US$1.00  =    NRs.67.95 (FY 99, until December, '99)
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
Mid-July to Mid-July
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric   British/US Equivalent
1 kilometer (km)    0.62 miles (mi)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB       Asian Development Bank
BUMP    Bridge Upgrading & Maintenance Program
DDC       District Development Committee
DFID      Department for International Development
DOLIDAR Department of Local Infrastructure Development & Agriculture
Roads
DOR       Department of Roads
DRTU      District Roads Technical Unit
DTMP    District Transport Master Plan
EFYP      Eighth Five Year Plan
EIRR      Economic Internal Rate of Return
ERROM   Eastern Region Road Maintenance Program
FAR       Financial Administration Regulation
FIA       Field Implementation Advisors
FY        Fiscal Year
GEU       Geo-Environment Unit
HMGN    His Majesty's Government of Nepal
HMIS      Highway Management Information System
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
ICR       Implementation Completion Report
ID       Institutional Development
IDA       International Development Association
IRI       International Roughness Index
LRCC      Local Road Coordination Committee



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS (cont.)
MLD       Ministry of Local Development
MOF       Ministry of Finance
MRCU    Maintenance & Rehabilitation Coordination Unit
NCB       National Competitive Bidding
NPC       National Planning Conmission
ODA       Oversees Development Agency
PAP       Policy Action Program
PIP       Priority Investment Plan
PLRP      Pilot Labor-based District Road Maintenance & Rehabilitation
Project
QAG       Quality Assurance Group
RMDP    Road Maintenance & Development Project
RMP       Road Maintenance Project
RMRP    Road Maintenance & Rehabilitation Project
RPA       Regional Procurement Advisor
RSSDU   Road Sector Skill Development Unit
SAR       Staff Appraisal Report
SCAEF   Society of Consulting & Architectural Engineering Firms
SDC       Swiss Development Agency for Cooperation
SMD       Strengthened Maintenance Division
SRIP      Second Road Improvement Project
TESU      Traffic Engineering & Safety Unit
TRIP      Third Road Improvement Project
UNDP    United Nations Development Program
USD       US Dollar
VDC       Village Development Committee
Vice President          Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director        Hans M. Rothenbuihler
Sector Director         Frannie Leautier
Team Leader             Guang Zhe Chen
Task Team Leader        Amer Zafar Durrani
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
1. PROJECT DATA ...................................................................................1
2. PRINCIPAL PERFORMANCE RATINGS ...................................................................................1
3. ASSESSMENT OF DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE AND DESIGN, AND OF QUALITY AT ENTRY .. 2
4. ACHIEVEMENT OF DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES AND OUTPUTS .................                                                                                 .................................6
5. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOME ............................................ 13
6. SUSTAINABILITY ..................................................................................                                                                             16
7. BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE ..................................................................................                                                              17
8. LESSONS LEARNED ................................................................................... 20
9. PARTNER  COMMENTS  BY  DFID   (ODA) ..................................                                                  ................................................ 21
10. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ..................................................................................                                                                    22
iv



Project ID: P0 10475                   Project Name: Road Maintenance & Rehabilitation
Team Leader: Amer Zafar Durrani        TL Unit. SASIN
ICR Type: Core ICR                     Report Date: December 21, 1999
1. Project Data
Name: ROAD MAINTENANCE &              L/C Number 25780
REHABILITATION
Country/Department.  NEPAL                              Region  South Asia
Sector/subsector: Infrastructure/Transport
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD  January 6, 1992    January 6, 1992
Appraisal May 15, 1993       May 15, 1993
Approval March 15, 1994     March 15, 1994
Effectiveness April, 1994      September 12, 1994
MTR  August 1, 1996     March 23, 1997
Closing June 30, 1999      June 30, 1999
Borrower HIS MAJESTY'S GOVERNMENT OF NEPAL
Implementing Agency DEPARTMENT OF ROADS (DOR)
Other Partners ODA, SDC, UNDP
STAFF                     Current                   At Appraisal
Vice President            Mieko Nishimizu           D. Joseph Wood
Country Director          Hans M. Rothenbuihler     Ann 0. Hamilton
Sector Director           Frannie A. Leautier        Marie Garcia-Zamor
Task Leader of ICR        Amer Zafar Durrani
ICR Primary Author        Amer Zafar Durrani
Task Leader of Appraisal    Juan Gaviria
2. Principal Performance Ratings
Outcome:  Satisfactory
Sustainability:  Likely
Institutional Development Impact:  Satisfactory
Bank Performance:  Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:  Unsatisfactory
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:             n/a                  Satisfactory
Project at Risk at Any Time:   Yes                 (Dec 1996 through Nov 1997)
1



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1. Original' Objective: The primary institutional development objective of the Project
was to address the development of road maintenance and rehabilitation capabilities and to
support maintenance and rehabilitation activities, by:
(a) insuring adequate funding of priority maintenance activities by establishing funding and
budgeting arrangements which would channel a much greater, timely flow of funds to
support maintenance within sectoral allocation ceilings based on a rolling 3-year priority
investment program to be revised annually and reviewed with IDA;
(b) strengthening sectoral planning by introducing network-based planning, initially to
prioritize maintenance and thereafter to support the development of a Priority Investment
Plan (PIP) and review process for all sector investments;
(c) improving public sector implementation capacity to expand the coverage and enhance the
quality of maintenance with a program of institutional strengthening and human resource
development based primarily on training and technical assistance inputs (establish regional
maintenance capabilities, coordinate and develop a comprehensive training program for
DOR's staff) and increasing incentives to DOR staff with increased funding levels for road
maintenance, enhanced quality control, and introduction of performance targeting
(d) supporting development of private sector capabilities to do maintenance on contract by
supporting on-the-job training, improving procurement of maintenance contracts, gradually
developing a critical mass of yearly or multi-yearly maintenance contracts, streamlining
contract supervision and insuring timely and regular funding and payments; and
(e) testing ways to develop DDCs' road maintenance capabilities for local access roads (i.e.,
district roads) through a pilot project.
3.1.1 The direct economic impact of the project was to reduce vehicle operating costs and the
delays associated with a deteriorated road system and generating much-needed rural
employment through adoption of labor-based technologies, involving appropriate and efficient
combination of existing capital or labor intensive techniques.
3.1.2 The project objectives were clear, and
* was based on extensive consultations with stakeholders - specifically the Policy Action
Programme (PAP) Workshop2 which emphasized the need for better planning, budgeting,
and funding of road maintenance, and improving the road maintenance delivery
mechanism/institutions,
* supported IDA's country assistance strategy and sector strategy - shifting focus of sectoral
allocations to maintenance, completing essential new construction, improving farm-to-
market roads in Terai, and accessibility in the hills,
Staff Appraisal Report, March 15, 1994
2 The Poticy Action Programme (PAP) Workshop held in Kathmandu during February 23-25, 1993.
2



* assisted HMGN's Eighth Five Year Plan (EFYP), 1993-97 for the sector, that was
moderately consistent with IDA's strategy in the sector, and targeted maintaining the
existing highways and feeder roads, establishing a revolving fund, and improving rural
access, while also supporting new road construction.
3.1.3 Having said that the project objectives were responsive to HMGN/DORs circumstances -
which included an absence of cohesive sectoral planning, neglect of road maintenance, a
patchy project implementation track-record especially in the past four IDA projects, extra-
ordinary administrative inefficiencies in the entire HMGN bureaucracy, governance issues, and
highly active donors - the project objectives were ambitious.
3.1.4 There was some disconnect between the Bank strategy and the 'politically motivated'
development priorities of HMGN. Therefore, even though EFYP did mention sustainability of
investments, it did so with a distinctly 'new construction' flavor. This disconnect could be
attributed to the divergence between the 'development' and the 'political' priorities in Nepal.
The project objectives (a) and (b) targeted this issue, and the project included such
requirements as the development of three year rolling plans, and the preparation and use of the
Priority Investment Plan (PIP).
3.1.5 The project was complex. There were in excess of forty (40) sub-projects3
(works/projects, goods, and services) scattered in four of the five regions in Nepal. There were
four co-financiers (which in itself was a wonderful achievement, and should not be derided)
along with the government with, at times, varying objectives. The DOR's institutional
improvements were elaborate, with fifteen or more areas of intervention in parallel. Post-facto
interviews with project stakeholders suggest that the because of its complexity, the project was
demanding for HMGN/DOR(and MLD) - the very fact that the project undertook such detailed
and comprehensive institutional strengthening measures is indicative of the level of starting
institutional capability prevalent at that time.
3.1.6 In summary, the project objectives were clear and responsive to the borrower
circumstances; but at the same time they were ambitious. The project design was complex, and
demanding for the Borrower.
3.2 Original Components: The project components designed to achieve the objectives
were as follows.
(a) Road Rehabilitation and Overlays: Supporting rehabilitation and overlays of 320 km of
selected highways and 133 km of feeder roads of the strategic road network (30% of total
Project cost) - comprising nine sub-projects.
(b) Resealing and Re-gravelling of Strategic Network: Supporting a backlog periodic
maintenance program of roads and bridges of the strategic road network in the Central,
Western, Mid-Western and Far-Western regions including the resealing or gravelling, and
minor bridge repairs, to 609 km of route (37% of total Project cost) - comprising twenty
four (24) sub-projects.
3 Each sub-project procurement requiring anywhere from three to twelve months based on IDA's procurement
guidelines.
3



(c) Pilot Labor-based District Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation: Supporting rehabilitation
and maintenance of 147 km in 4 selected districts and promotion of appropriate rural
transport technology to encourage community participation in road maintenance and
related activities (6% of the total Project cost).
(d) Institutional Development and Training: Supporting institutional strengthening of MOWT,
DOR and four DDCs, and includes components financed in parallel by IDA, ODA and
SDC (16% of total Project cost). The IDA financed components were:
* Field Implementation Advisors (FIA) who provided substantial support for periodic
maintenance activities, including quality control and strengthening the capacity of domestic
contractors and consultants;
* Continued support to the Mechanics and Operators Training Center: involved extensive
training and improvement to the training center;
* Consultant services for -
-  special studies on road construction and maintenance materials - report completed
and now widely distributed;
-  assistance for the preparation of the Priority Investment Plan (PIP) - reports and
strategy forms basis of most externally aided programs and partly adopted by
HMGN/National Planning Commission of Nepal,
4 follow-up of the road contractor industry study - workshop held and working group
subsequently established;
' conduct of an operational audit of maintenance and rehabilitation operations -
completed;
4 development of a management plan for Bardiya National Park to address adverse
environmental impacts of completed road construction under Cr.1515-NEP - not
undertaken, due to overlap with U NDP activity, although strong mitigation actions
established on the highway; and
X preparation study for follow-up to pilot labor-based district road component.
* Specialist assistance for maintenance of the Karnali Bridge - subsequently not required as
inspections undertaken by DOR staff;
* Implementation of the sector environmental assessment - completed; and
* Vehicles and Equipment - procured and used on project activities.
3.2.1 The UNDP would support the District Road Services Development Unit the Ministry of
Local Development (MLD) and labor-based training school at Butwal - completed: district
transport master plans (DTMP) developed and contractors trained.
3.2.2 The SDC and DFID (then ODA) financed components were:
* Establishment of a Road Sector Skills Manager position in the Road Sector Skills
Development Unit (RSSDU) - done: skill assessment undertaken
* Establish and organize on-the-job management training for DOR's staff and a small
training/study exercise
* Contractor training in cyclic maintenance operations - done: strengthened works quality
and capacity of DOR and contractors
* Bridge management - system established and data collected
4



* Geo-environmental/bio-engineering unit - Unit very effective in disseminating improved
practices for sustainable slope stability protection
* Plant management (Heavy Equipment Divisions/Mechanical Training Center) -major
progress achieved in charging for external use of DOR equipment, leading to more efficient
utilization and repairs, and increased private purchase of equipment
* Road Safety Unit (TESU) - substantial progress in introduction of road safety analysis and
mitigation measures, including two pilot implementations under the rehabilitation
component
* Strengthened Maintenance Divisions (SMD) - substantial improvements in effectiveness of
routine maintenance management, including introduction of one-person contractors
("lengthmen") responsible for short road segments
(e) Routine Maintenance: Supporting a gradually developed comprehensive routine
maintenance program by contract (11% of total Project cost).
3.2.3 The project components' design was well linked to achieving the objectives set forth.
The project's Institutional Development (ID) components were comprehensive and quite
extensive: they took into consideration the project implementation requirements as well as long
term DOR development needs. The works components were designed to leverage the ID
interventions, such as the requirement for developing an annual rehabilitation and maintenance
work program, with detailed prioritization, economic feasibility, and environmental
assessments - hence building in a mechanism for utilizing products from all the ID
interventions during project implementation. The project design broadly drew on relevant past
lessons from prior projects in Nepal's road sector with a few exceptions.
3.2.4 The project components' design was ambitious with regard to DOR. The implementation
schedule was unrealistic in relation to the implementation capacity within DOR/MLD/HMGN
and not enough recognition was given to the overall HMGN system. Past experience had
showed that shortage of funding had not been 'the' problem in the road sector in the previous
ten years rather, it has been the lack of ability to coordinate, administer, and implement the
funding where the problems have arisen - basically administrative and financial management
capacity. Consider the following facts. At the time of project appraisal, and effectiveness,
there were thirteen (13) donors active in the road sector and over fifty (50) projects in progress,
or under negotiation. A review as part of the recently approved RMDP (Road Maintenance
and Development Project) recognized that the demonstrated weaknesses in the financial
management capacity of the DOR4. Given this, although the project start-up 'hiccups'
associated with such an environment were recognized in the SAR, the time required for
overcoming these hiccups was not factored into the project components' design.
3.2.5 There seemed to have been some divergence in views, at the time of project preparation,
regarding DOR's capability to improve delivery of road maintenance and rehabilitation
activities, as well as new road construction. Some views, based on lessons learnt from
4"..the level of coordination between various component managers was not adequate for purpose of efficient
operations. There was only one accountant ofjunior level responsible for coordination and monitoring of
financial transactions. In the first few years the project did not maintain basic financial control
records .. frequent staff changes affected operations." Note by the Financial Management Specialist in the World
Bank Office in Kathmandu.
5



previous road sector projects in Nepal and conclusions from the 1993 Policy Action
Programme Workshop on Road Maintenance, indicated that the institutional capacity of DOR5,
being a part of the broader HMG's civil service set-up, can not be improved in isolation, as has
been demonstrated over the past 20 years. Hence it had been proposed that road maintenance
operations should be planned outside the normal civil service - "to develop a non-governmental
roads agency to provide a service to the government"6.
3.2.6 The project preparation team recognized the institutional weakness of DOR and designed
a comprehensive program for strengthening its capacity. The involvement of four key donors
in the road sector in the project through co-financing was a major step in improving donor
coordination and consistency in policy dialogue which, it was hoped, would lead to substantial
pressure on DOR to improve. However, the implementation of such comprehensive program
itself turned out to be too demanding for the HMGN system (DOR/MLD/MOF/HMGN).
3.3 Quality at Entry: The quality at entry assessment at the ICR stage was based on the
seven key dimensions: project concept, objectives and approach; technical, economic and
financial analyses; environmental analysis; social and stakeholder analysis; institutional
capacity analysis; readiness for implementation; and, risk assessment and sustainability. The
project's quality at entry is rated satisfactory7 as: the project concept and objectives were clear
and responsive to demand; the technical and economic analysis was satisfactory (most of the
problems during implementation arose due to time elapsed between design and actual
implementation); substantial stakeholder analysis; and a satisfactory risk assessment. The few
shortcomings included: questionable implementation readiness; a financial management
analysis (which was sufficient by the standards prevailing within the Bank at the time, but not
by current Bank standards); absence of a defined exit strategy and unclear linkage to
alternative project design; complexity; and some oversight on ability of the HMGN system to
implement the project.
4. Achievement of Development Objectives and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/Achievement of Objectives and Output by Components: The project was
able to improve road maintenance capabilities (as indicated in the original objectives) and
supported maintenance and rehabilitation activities, while delivering a significant part of the
envisioned economic impact of the project by targeting and improving significant sections of
the strategic road network with high traffic flows. The project through, its development of the
PIP as a base document, which was accepted by all donors and DOR (albeit less popular with
HMGN), and its support in development of basic maintenance management systems and
techniques, was able to effectively raise the profile of road maintenance needs and brought
about a significant shift in DOR/donor strategy on roads in Nepal. This resulted in an overall
improvement in the condition of the strategic road network. The overall project outcome is
An agency employing 300 plus graduate engineers-traditionally DOR employs over 10 percent of the engineers
in Nepal.
6Road Maintenance: Policy Action Programme Workshop and Background Papers - Workshop Proceedings,
February 1993, Department of Roads, Ministry of Works and Transport, Nepal.
7 Based on a four point scale used by the Bank's Quality Assurance Group (QAG), i.e., Highly Satisfactory/Best
Practice, Satisfactory, Marginally Satisfactory, and Unsatisfactory, the ICR team would have rated the quality at
entry as marginally satisfactory.
6



satisfactory (see Annex 5) even though the wider HMGN system continued to be plagued by
inefficiencies.
4.1.1 In 1992 over half (52%) of the main road network8 was recorded as being in poor
condition, with a further 36 percent in fair condition only. By 1999, the proportion of the
Strategic Highway Network9 in good and fair condition had increased to 88 percent of the total.
Despite the reduction in scope, the project was able to implement works, under the
rehabilitation and periodic maintenance components, on more than 30% of the network. A
comparison of Strategic Highway Network condition between 1992 and 1999 is shown below:
Network Condition         Good            Fair          Poor
Before the Project (1992)      11%            36%           52%
After the Project (1999)       31%            57%           12%
4.1.2 While these improvements to the overall condition of the road network cannot be
attributed solely (or directly) to the RMRP, they are indicative of the change in condition and
emphasis towards maintenance that was achieved over the project period.
4.1.3 The considerable improvement of the Strategic Network condition over the past seven
years is due primarily to the substantial programmes of 'back-log' maintenance undertaken over
this period - including the Rehabilitation and Periodic Maintenance activities under the
RMRP. Other major initiatives during the same period include the ADB Second and Third
Road Improvement Project (SRIP and TRIP), the ODA-funded Eastern Region Road
Maintenance Programme (ERROM) and the SDC-funded Arniko Highway Improvement
Project.
4.1.4 The total length of road completed under the Rehabilitation Component was reduced by
50 percent, from the original 453 km to 228 km. The revised project list as actually
implemented is presented in Annex 3, which includes also the actual expenditures, periods of
construction, and roughness and traffic data. The overall costs of the component have
increased from Rs 860 million in the SAR to an actual expenditure of Rs 1,184 million, which
represents an increase in cost per km from Rs 1.9 million (USD 38,000 @ SAR exchange rate
of Rs 501USD at SAR) to Rs 5.2 million (USD 76,500 @ ICR exchange rate of Rs 68/USD).
4.1.5 This increase in cost is attributed to: change in road conditions due to delay in actual
implementation coupled with DOR ignoring maintenance of roads selected for the project at
appraisal; substantial rain damages; inclusion of substantial geo-technical and traffic safety
works; and changes in extent of work on some contracts (such as increased lengths and
variations that caused quantities to exceed beyond the normal allowance under the contract;
resulting in claims from contractors). Specific examples of these additional works [in keeping
with the overall SAR objectives], that were financed under the project but were not originally
envisaged, include completion of flood damaged bridges on the Prithivi Highway, traffic safety
8 Defined as the 'arterial' network of 2200 kIn: approximately equivalent to the Strategic Highways.
"Expenditures in the Roads Sector" quoted in SAR, February 1994.
9 Black-topped sections only; total length 2007 km. The equivalent figures for the full Strategic Network of 3260
km of Highways and Feeder Roads are: Good 31%; Fair 57%; and Poor 12%.
7



improvements on Butwal-Tansen and Thankot-Naubise (additionally the length of
improvement to both of these projects was increased), and flood damage repairs and off-road
works at a number of sites, including Mugling-Narayanghat. The increased costs reflect
essential additional works that were identified and defined during the detailed project design
and implementation phases. Such increases are typical on road works in Nepal, given the
fragile nature of the terrain and the potential for monsoon damage when improvement works
are delayed. Similarly, increases are reported on other donor supported road projects in Nepal.
4.1.6 A total of 504 km of road were improved under the Periodic Maintenance Component,
compared with an initial proposal for 609 km. The costs of the works increased from an
estimated Rs 571 million to Rs 915 million, representing a doubling on a per km basis from Rs
0.9 million to Rs 1.8 million.  The increases were due primarily to the delays in
implementation and the resultant deterioration in road condition in the intervening period, plus
increases in the scope of works including the adoption of bitumen seal, in place of gravel, on
certain Feeder Roads in the Terai. Of the original 24 sub-projects, seven have been deleted
from the programme and five have been combined to produce 12 sub-projects as shown in
Annex 3.
4.1.7 The projects actually improved under the PLRP closely followed the original proposal:
all 10 roads originally identified were improved at a total civil works cost of Rs 148.5 million,
compared with the initial estimate of Rs 109 million. The length of road improved was 138.7
km compared with the proposal for 147 km. The proposed and actual works completed are
summarized in Annex 3.
4.1.8 The project satisfactorily supported road maintenance and rehabilitation activities.
Although some physical targets were curtailed, these were generally the more marginal
components, with low traffic volumes, resulting in an improved overall project performance.
The net effect of the project activities on the network, was complimentary to other donor
agency interventions, resulting in an overall improvement in the network condition during this
period, as indicated above.
4.1.9 The project was able to improve the road maintenance capabilities, a positive change in
sectoral policies indicates that the project's contributions in this regard were satisfactory.
DOR/HMGN commissioned the Priority Investment Plan (PIP) for the period of 1997-2006,
which was completed in 1997. The PIP assessed resource constraints, funding requirements,
sustainability of investment projects in Nepal, and environmental impact and policy
considerations for road construction and maintenance. Some aspects of the PIP
recommendations have been adopted by HMGN/DOR, but further progress is required in the
acceptance of an overall balanced strategy towards maintenance and network development.
While the political domain of HMG may not have accepted the PIP wholly, DOR and donor
community (who fund 60%, or more, of the road sector budget) are essentially using PIP as a
guide for planning.  There has been relatively more emphasis on maintenance and
rehabilitation, coupled with some increase in allocations for routine, recurrent, and periodic
maintenance. Department of Local Infrastructure Development and Agriculture Roads
(DOLIDAR) was set up within MLD to assist DDCs road maintenance and development.
Overall the PIP has had a positive impact in re-ordering priorities with DOR towards
maintenance and limited low-cost network expansion.
8



4.1.10 To ensure adequate funding of priority maintenance activities, the project's
achievements were satisfactory; it helped achieve the following. Sixty percent of the road
sector budget in HMGN's Ninth Five Year Plan has been directed towards road maintenance
and rehabilitationl. In the fiscal year 1998/99, the budget allocation for recurrent and periodic
maintenance (excluding donor-funded road projects) is about Rs. 420 million (USD 6.2
million), which is substantially higher than the Rs 100-200 million (USD 2-4 million) allocated
in FY-1993/94, but short of the HM[GN agreement under RMRP to Rs 470 million in FY-
1997/98, and barely half of the estimated requirement of Rs 1,000 million per year. A
amended Road Fund Act is being introduced and will assist in securing a regular and reliable
source of funding for road maintenance. Efforts are now underway to establish a joint public-
private sector Roads Board to oversee collection and expenditures of the road user funds for
the maintenance of both the strategic and local road networks. The Nepal Roads Board Act has
just been approved by the Cabinet, and is being forwarded to the Parliament for consideration.
4.1.11 As a result of the efforts of the Maintenance and Rehabilitation Coordination Unit
(MRCU)11, DoR has systemized its data collection activities and now maintains a Highway
Management Information System (HMIS) within the Planning Branch. This contains, on an
annual basis, information on road condition (physical parameters, surface distress, roughness,
etc) for all links in the strategic network (3260 km) and traffic count data for selected sites
throughout the country. A road condition survey has been undertaken by consultants annually
since 1995/96 with a detailed report produced in May each year. Since 1997/98 the data are
available in electronic form. Traffic count data have been collected on a systematic basis since
1994/95 using automatic traffic counters with loops installed in the roadway. Other manual
counts have also been undertaken and all available data compiled into the database.
4.1.12 The establishment of the HMIS, together with Strengthened Maintenance Divisions, the
Geo-environmental Unit, and the Traffic Safety Unit (see below), have been major
achievements in the capability building of DOR in recent years under RMRP, and are likely to
be sustained.
4.1.13 The pilot labor-based district roads rehabilitation component (PLRP) has shown
encouraging results in development of labor-based road construction techniques among loca'
contractors, and institutional and planning capability among the district technical units. District
Transport Master Plans (DTMPs) were developed, using a participatory approach, under the
project, for the four districts, through DDC, VDCs, and DRTUs (district roads technical units).
4.1.14 Similarly, the Strengthened Maintenance Divisions (SMDs - SDC funding) have
improved the capacity to plan (yearly plans of operation are being produced), program, and
execute maintenance at the division level. The SMD approach has been shown to work in
pTinciple, and DOR is gradually taking ownership of this strategy/approach.
4.1.15 The various interventions, under the project umbrella, to improve public sector
implementation capacity through institutional development and human resource development
10 On a cautionary note, more than fifty percent of the road sector budget is financed through external donors, this
figure could be reflecting donors targeting road maintenance and rehabilitation.
" Set up in DOR in September 1991, as a result of a tripartite agreement between HMGN, British Govemment,
and Swiss Government. RMRP did not directly fund the MRCU.
9



satisfactorily supported project implementation (immediate project needs) and made some
impact in developing DOR's implementation and management capacity. No proper base line
data for DOR as an institution is available, to really quantify the impacts of the RMRP - hence
subjective reviews of literature, observations and interviews are used in this ICR assessment.
Overall, the project implementation assistance was satisfactorily utilized. Field implementation
advisors for DOR and maintenance activities were partially effective in achieving objectives.
Technical training and assistance to contractors was partly effective.
4.1.16 The Institutional Development (ID) assistance was successfully utilized, but its 'take-
up' within the DOR has been slow. Substantial progress has been made in improving the local
capacity for environmental assessment, geo-technical engineering, and bio-engineering. The
Geo-Environmental Unit has generated interest among the DOR engineers, and is an example
in the region. The unit is successfully educating the DOR engineers about the relevance and
importance of addressing environmental aspects of road sector activities early on and through
out the project cycle. It has also produced tools to this end, including simple and practical
Environmental Assessment Guidelines on environmental processes, mitigation measures, and
sensitive areas.
4.1.17 The Traffic Engineering and Safety Unit (TESU) has also prepared and implemented
some effective low cost road safety measures after carrying out road safety audits on parts of
the network, and is collecting some accident data on the network. The Bridge Management
unit did carry out an overall assessment of the bridges and structures on the network, but has
not been able to carry out any periodic surveys, nor another overall survey, which is now
required. The Road Sector Skills Development Unit (RSSDU) assisted DOR in better tapping
training opportunities provided by various donor agencies, but was unable to contribute
significantly in other areas targeted by the human resource development policy (improved
incentives, staff development plans, etc).
4.1.18 In the context of the Institutional Development, the links made between physical
rehabilitation (IDA-funded), human resource development (DFID and SDC), policy
fornulation (DFID/SDC-MRCU) and field testing (DFID/EROM and SDC/SMD), began to
show the potential of a coordinated donor approach, as opposed to a project-based approach
used previously.
4.1 .19 Overall the ID components met with varying degrees of success. It was observed that
while the ID approach was comprehensive and cohesive in design, many individual ID
components remained project-based during implementation and did not benefit from
coordination with other project elements. In general the 'system-based' components performed
better that the 'people-based' components.
4.1.20 In supporting development of private sector capabilities, RMRP was partly successful.
The project provided a major opportunity to the local consulting and contracting industry in
strengthening their technical ability and financial standing. It was the first time that the private
industry was able to carry out substantial work in the road sector for a substantial period.
However, generally due to delays in procuring and processing, much of the work was
undertaken (especially in the case of the periodic maintenance contracts) at great speed during
the final months before the close of the project. Thus the project was only partly able to create
a stable and sustainable flow of work in order to strengthen the capacity and capability of the
10



local contracting and consulting industry. This also resulted in, at times, poor perception of the
private industry (and public agencies as well) in the eyes of the road users/general public.
Regional maintenance capabilities were improved, but improvement in procurement of
maintenance contracts, gradual development of a critical mass of yearly, or multi-yearly
contracts, streamlining contract supervision, and ensuring timely and regular funding and
payments was not sustainably achieved during the project.
4.1.21 The project was partly successful in testing ways to develop DDC's road maintenance
capabilities. Pilot districts formed District Roads Technical Units (DRTUs) - DRTU staff
underwent training - and prepared the District Transport Master Plans (DTMPs) which have
been approved by the District Councils.  Over 30 small contractors have successfully
undergone training. Local Road Coordination Committees (LRCCs) were formed for the
model and trial roads who were involved in PLRP and coached on various aspect of road
works. Various approaches tested were documented by District Road Services Development
Unit-Helvetas (DRSDU). The drawback in this component was the limited involvement of
DDCs in project implementation. The component was managed by a unit under MLD at the
central level, inconsistent with the decentralized approach envisaged for the component. A
follow-up Rural Infrastructure Project by IDA has already been prepared and the issue of DDC
responsibility and accountability in project implementation is being addressed during
implementation.
4.2  Economic Rate of Return: The SAR presented (in Annex 11) an economic evaluation
of the main civil works components, indicating an overall EIRR of 21.4 percent. The results12
of the analysis for each main components are summarized below. No evaluation was
attempted for the Routine Maintenance Component nor for any of the training or institutional
strengthening activities.
Summary of Economic Evaluation Results from SAR
Length  Fin'cial Cost   NPV    EIRR
l                       ~~~~~~~~~(km)  (R m)    *(Rs m)
Rehabilitation of Strategic Highways  320  650.58   553.55    19.4%
Rehabilitation of Feeder Roads  133      209.65      4.57     10.4%
Periodic Maintenance            609      570.68     826.06    27.3%
Pilot Labour Based Maintenance  147       26.72      29.77    36.0%
Overall                         1209     1,457.63    1,413.95   21.4%
4.2.1 A simplified spreadsheet approach has been adopted to undertake a revised economic
evaluation of the rehabilitation and periodic maintenance components, taking account of the
actual costs incurred, timing of implementation and updated traffic and roughness data.
Individual cost and benefit streams have been developed for each of the seven rehabilitation
and 12 periodic maintenance projects.
4.2.2 Wherever possible comparable assumptions have been made to those in the earlier SAR
work. However the approach is somewhat different and has been applied uniformly to all
projects as actually completed. The SAR economic analysis presented a detailed analysis of
only two (heavily trafficked) sections of the strategic highway improvements, with only limited
12 Source: SAR, February 1994, Annex 11, Page 1.
11



analysis for the others: the justification for the periodic maintenance projects was based on a
matrix approach. This economic re-evaluation applies a series of assumptions regarding road
condition and deterioration to assess individual projects on a comparable basis: the validity of
the assumptions is demonstrated in a series of sensitivity tests.
4.2.3 Overall, the results of the re-evaluation illustrate that the -project produced acceptable
returns - despite the increased costs and reduced lengths of route improved. The reasons for
this are the relatively modest costs of the periodic maintenance activities, the actual higher-
than-forecast traffic volumes at completion and, most significantly, the increasingly poor
condition of the roads in the without-project case (which was exacerbated by the fact that DOR
did not maintain road sections included in RMRP from appraisal till the contractors started
work on those sections). This latter effect was influenced by the delays in implementation and
the consequent additional monsoon damage.
Summary of Economic Re-Evaluation for ICR
Length    Actual Cost   NPV      EiRR
(km)       (Rs m)     (Rs m)
Rehabilitation of Strategic Highways  215.0     1,077.8    2,800.4   35.6%
Rehabilitation of Feeder Roads       12.3       106.0       6.7     12.9%
Periodic Maintenance                504.0       914.6     1,474.3   27.6%
Pilot Labor Based Maintenance       138.7       148.6      264.5    30.3%
Overall Total                       870.0      2,247.0    4,526.3   31.4%
4.2.4 The significant improvement in the results of the rehabilitation of Strategic Highways is
attributable to two heavily trafficked components (Naubise-Thankot and Mugling-
Narayanghat). From an examination of the individual projects, it is evident that the greatest
returns are from those roads firstly with the higher traffic volumes and secondly with high
initial roughness. Rates of return for rehabilitation work exceed 20 percent for those projects
where traffic volumes exceed 800 vpd - or slightly lower volumes if the initial roughness is
high (e.g., over 12 IRI). However, even with high initial roughness, projects with low traffic
(e.g., Naubise-Bhainse) do not justify expensive rehabilitation work.
4.2.5 For periodic maintenance, returns of over 20 percent were obtained where traffic levels
exceeded 300 vpd: with lower traffic volumes the returns were marginal - even in cases with
high initial roughness. With higher traffic volumes, the works were justified even in situations
with relatively low roughness.
4.2.6 The Pilot Labor-Based Rehabilitation projects appear - on the basis of savings in
transport costs alone - to generate adequate returns, due to the modest cost of the works, but
only for roads with over 120 vehicles per day. Of the ten roads improved, two were in the hill
and the remainder in the Terai.
4.3  Institutional Development Impact: The overall Institutional Development (ID) impact
is considered satisfactory, whilst individual ID interventions had varied levels of success as
described above. However, within the overall context of Nepal before the project, and the
DOR in particular, substantial progress has been achieved over the duration of the RMRP.
Importantly, these developments have been achieved within the overall structure of the DOR
and not solely on an individual project basis as in previous projects. DOR's budget has
12



increased by 70% in the past five years Statistics shows that the annual expenditure as a ratio
of annual budget allocation has increased from 50% in 1992/93 to 87% in 1997/98, indicating a
gradual improvement in effective budget utilization.
4.3.1 Notable successes were achieved in the coordination of actions between a number of the
donors active in the roads sector and the establishment of technical units within the DOR,
which are being retained on a continuing basis. Overall the levels of data collection, analysis
and storage (particularly within HMIS and MRCU) have shown significant improvements, and
the Geo-Environmental and Road Safety Units are now established within the DOR structure.
4.3.2 As described earlier, RMRP addressed the institutional strengthening needs in two parts:
the programs required for the immediate needs of the project and those for the longer-term
development needs of the department. The activities for the immediate needs of the project
achieved generally satisfactory outcomes. In terms of the long term developmental goals of
DOR, the future of the various units established in DOR under RMP is important. It is
encouraging to note that these units are being incorporated on a permanent basis.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1.1 Factors outside the control of Government or Implementing Agency: Overall, the
project design was ambitious and complex and the implementation schedule not entirely
realistic. Insufficient allowance was made for preliminary activities and the learning process:
the 'start-up' time was not factored in - in short, "too much, too fast" in an environment with
low recipient capacity. This led to a protracted procurement process for civil works and
consultants which has resulted in substantial delays in project implementation.
5.1.2 The overall capability of the private sector consultants and contractors was limited, more
so at the start of the project, and the use of international 'sleeping partners' in Joint Ventures to
bid for ICB contracts was detrimental to timely implementation. In certain instances, the
international partner was introduced solely to allow for qualification under ICB, and took no
substantive part in the actual works. The performance of both private domestic and para-statal
contractors was also a major cause of implementation delays. Similarly the performance of
ICB contractors was not up to the standard expected. The delays between project appraisal,
project negotiations/approval, signing, and effectiveness resulted in a change of priorities and
the nature of planned interventions. At times, the initial designs and specifications prepared by
project consultants were not suited to site conditions resulting in the need for major variations
and claims during construction.
5.1.3 Project design did not give appropriate weight to externalities - operating solely within
DOR has limited impacts, many of the institutional constraints were elsewhere in HMGN, and
whilst any individual project cannot solve these problems, each project must recognize the
environment within which it has to be implemented. It was unrealistic to add to an already
complex project a series of objectives related to civil service reform: this element was dropped
at appraisal.
5.2.1 Factors subject to Government Control: The various tiers of government involved in
the project were highly politicized: democracy in Nepal is but a decade old, with frequent
changes in government, and the previous system's credo is still entrenched in all spheres of
13



life. At the time of project design, democracy had been restored for only two years. All levels
of government administration are highly politicized resulting in institutional instability,
frequent staff turnover, adversely affecting continuity, which leads in turn to poor performance
of any programmed or project-based intervention. At the same time, it is important to
recognize that while the advent of democracy - and subsequent government changes and
instability - may have had a direct impact on continuity of personnel directly, or indirectly,
related to the project, the systems - such as financial regulations, procurement procedures,
centralized decision making - were the same before and after the advent of democracy.
5.2.2 HMGN was unable to follow planned policies included in Eighth Plan (FY-1993/97): for
instance, the introduction to the Ninth Plan document indicates that of the planned target of
1778 km, 1092 km were actually built, but additional 1771 km of unplanned roads were built.
The recurrent allocations for road maintenance have remained low in comparison with demand.
Although maintenance allocations increased by a factor of three between 1992/93 and 1996/97,
the share of maintenance allocation has not increased by similar factors, and actual
expenditures were only around 75% of the budgeted amount.
5.2.3 There was an obvious lack of cross-sectoral coordination during policy formulation.
Examples include introduction of new taxes affecting road projects without knowledge of what
can be claimed back by contractors under subsequent legislation clauses, inflexibility in
customs regulations, etc.
5.2.4 Financial releases (HMGN/MOF) against allocations were delayed considerably -
resulting in an inability to program works effectively or to fully utilize available funds.
Additionally, DOR was not able to utilize the retroactive financing facility which could have
helped in overcoming many of the start-up delays.
5.2.5 Overly centralized decision making - within both DOR and HMGN - resulted in project
processing decisions being delayed.
5.2.6 Some other key factors that were outside the purview of DOR alone, affecting project
implementation and outcome, and identified at the project's mid-term review workshop, were:
equipment import delays; custom clearances; visa processing; transfer of equipment from one
site to another; disposal of low value/scrap equipment by contractors or government; controls
on procurement of explosives, bitumen, cement, steel; problems in obtaining bank guarantees
and foreign exchange; delay in approval of procurement master lists by MOF; lack of training,
and continuity of financial officers related with project financial matters, and delays caused by
them; problems with Ministry of General Administration in project staffing; timely resolution
of land and forest issues; and conflict between various project procurement guidelines.
5.3.1 Factors subject to Implementing Agency Control: Within DOR, slow decision making,
lack of complete awareness about modern contracting procedures and documentation, some
apathy towards private sector, "too much" and at other times "too little" oversight, generally
weak management at the project and division level, poor perfornance of DOR officers
seconded to consultants, were some of the major factors that delayed project implementation.
5.3.1 The project's financial management system did not receive the in depth attention at
appraisal that more recent projects have received following the introduction of Bank's OP/BP
14



10.02. Although the financial systems put in place serviced most of the projects basic needs,
the lack of ability to coordinate and administer funding where problems arose is indicative of
weak administrative and financial management capacity. A better financial management
system would have improved project management in these respects, tightened financial
controls and improved the monitoring of the project's physical and financial progress
5.4. Costs and financing: Cost changes in physical components varied from substantial in
some contracts to marginal in others. The cost increases primarily resulted either directly or
indirectly from the delays in project implementation: these delays led to increases in the scope
of works required, resulting from additional monsoon damage, a lack of routine maintenance in
the intervening periods, and off-road remedial works. As indicated earlier, additional road
safety measures were included in two key projects. These cost changes are discussed in detail,
in context of the economic re-evaluation, in Annex 3, while the summary of the costs
comparison is shown in the following table.
Components:           SAR       SAR Estimates by          ICR Actual
Totals  Financier (IDA & related    Expenditures
(all in US$ Millions)  *       HMG funds ONLY)
IDA   HMG    Total   IDA   HMG   Total
Rehabilitation        24.265
Civil Works                 19.594   2.177   21.771  18.769  3.003  21.772
Emrg'cy/Prithivi Br                                   3.218   3.763   6.981
Consultants/Supervn         2.370   0.125    2.495   3.567         3.567
Sub-Total                  21.964   2.302   24.266  25.554   6.766  32.320
Periodic Maintenance   30.270
Civil Works & Eq'mnt        15.519   1.518   17.037  12.242  3.262  15.504
Consultants/Supervn         3.673   0.192    3.865   3.092         3.092
Sub-Total                   19.193   1.709   20.902  15.334   3.262  18.596
PLRP                   4.785
Civil Works & Eq'mnt        3.426   0.170    3.596  3.333   0.222   3.555
Consultants/Supervn         0.162   0.059    0.221   0.292      -  0.969
Sub-Total                   3.587   0.230    3.817  3.625   0.222   4.524
Instit Devel & Training   12.109  4.986               3.731
Routine Maintenance    8.885   0.023                    0.0
Project Prep!n Facility  0.750  0.750                 0.591
Total                 81.065  50.502                 48.835
* includes contingencies
5.4.1 It should be noted that the Rehabilitation Component was financed by IDA & HMG
alone but that other components were jointly financed also by ODA, SDC and ITNDP. With the
exception of the first column, the above figures relate to IDA funding (and associated HMG
funding) only. The total project cost estimate (including contingencies) was US$ 81.1 million,
of which the IDA funded element was US$ 50.5 million.
5.4.2 Actual IDA expenditures on the two main components (Rehabilitation and Periodic
Maintenance) were US$ 40.9 million, compared with an initial estimate (including
contingencies) of US$ 41.2 million.
15



5.4.3 For the Rehabilitation Component, it can be seen that the civil works expenditure (by
IDA) was marginally increased due to the inclusion of the emergency works and Prithivi
Highway Bridges - and that the HMG contribution was significantly increased. IDA
expenditure on the Periodic Component was correspondingly reduced, but HMG expenditure
was again increased.
5.4.4 For the PLRP Component, the actual expenditures are similar to the original estimate and
include the UNDP contribution.
6. Sustainability
6.1.1 Rational for Sustainability Rating: The overall probability of maintaining the
achievements of this project is likely, given that, as discussed earlier, the Priority Investment
Plan is being used by DOR and other donors to push for better sectoral planning, with a focus
on road maintenance and rehabilitation. The roads improved under the project are being
subsequently taken up by the Strengthened Maintenance Divisions of the DOR and the DOR is
proposing to sustain the successful ID initiatives under the RMRP. The Road Fund Act is in the
process of receiving Parliamentary approval and the follow-up interventions by IDA to assist
the DOR program are already underway - the Road Maintenance and Development Project and
the Rural Infrastructure Project.
6.1.2 The physical assets created under this project are likely to be maintained through the
Strengthened Maintenance Divisions, which automatically take up all maintainable road assets
generated in their division. SDC (through its on-going SMD program) and IDA (through its
follow-up project) will be closely involved with the further development of these decentralized
routine maintenance capabilities. However, it is important that: HMGN does not default on its
routine maintenance releases and increases allocations by 15% or more every year; HMGN
does not cut the routine maintenance budget after the introduction of the road fund; DOR
provides the required level of administrative and financial autonomy to the divisions for
efficient operations; and divisions are able to retain good staff - i.e. they do not move to the
central DOR office in Kathmandu. Another important aspect is the resolution of pending
RMRP contractors' payments and claims that DOR has been unable to process in time to claim
disbursement from IDA.
6.1.3 It is too early to comment on the sustainability of the long term ID interventions under
RMRP, but generally sustainability can be rated as being likely in some cases and unlikely in
others. As in the case of the physical achievement, a majority of these interventions are being
supported further through the follow up IDA and other donor projects, such as the TESU,
RSSDU, GEU (with social assessment capabilities being added), bridge management (through
BUMP/DFID), SMD (through SDC), etc. DOR is also planning to assimilate the MRCU into
its formal structure. It is however unclear how (or if) these units will maintain incentives to
retain the trained professionals in the absence of donor support.
6.1.4 Continuing donor support will ensure the sustainability of key ID interventions in the
short to medium terrn, although it will be necessary for DOR to assume responsibility in the
longer term - as is currently proposed in the case of MRCU, SMDs and HMIS.
16



6.1.5 While continued donor support is not a valid argument for likely sustainability, in
Nepal's case, where more than 60% of the roads sector budget is donor funded, withdrawal of
the donor funding in the medium term [at least] is not likely [barring a force-majeure event].
6.2  Transition Arrangements to Regular Operation:  It is proposed that DFID will
continue to support TESU and GEU, at least in part, under the Rural Access Program, and the
Bridge Management Unit under BUMP. The resealing programs will be carried out partly with
assistance from ADB s planned Fourth Road Improvement Project and the yearly periodic
maintenance component being undertaken in three regions under RMDP, and partly from
HMGN's own resources.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank Performance:
7.1.1 Lending: The Bank's performance during lending was satisfactory. The project was
fairly complex and ambitious. Although setting a high standard for the sector is not in itself a
problem, DOR's institutional capacity to handle such a project was not adequately appraised.
The policy, planning and institutional development dimensions of the road sector were
however discussed at length during preparation, and as such received a substantial share of
resources.
7.1.2 At the time of appraisal, under IDA s lead other key donors (DFID, SDC and UNDP)
joined an umbrella institutional strengthening program to support some components of the
institutional strengthening strategy previously prepared under an ADB technical assistance
program. IDA agreed during preparation with DOR on the specific strategies for each unit in
DOR. to a much greater detail than usual, including MRCU, SMD and GEU. These actions
have changed the approach within DOR in an important (and hopefully sustainable) manner.
7.1.3 The human resource development and training was needed at an early stage, and should
have received more attention during project preparation. However, human resource
development has progressed reasonably well from previous projects into this one. The ICRs
for the previous two projects noted that training was achieved but institutions lagged behind;
this project has improved institutional capabilities substantially, but incentives and
accountability are still problems.
7.1.4 Institutional development was a key focus during project preparation. It was agreed that
training of DOR staff would be prepared in key areas and in a sustainable manner, and the
project therefore supported the RSSDU, which probably lacked sufficient momentum and
support from the donors during implementation. Lessons from past projects and consultations
were selectively used in project design.
7.1.5 The project experience at the time of appraisal indicated that past projects had focused
too much on physical activities favoring construction: this was reflected in project design
which included a substantial shift to sustainable maintenance. Many past projects had suffered
from delays in decision making and procurement, and during preparation an effort was made to
broaden the understanding and procurement capacity in the DOR. In hindsight, the political
17



instability was much greater than anybody could have anticipated in a new democracy (only
since 1991).
7.1.6 Another lesson brought in from general Bank experience was that much more emphasis
was required on addressing the sustainability of investments and proper funding and
management of maintenance - this was a major theme during preparation. Finally, even
though at the time of appraisal the Bank did not have the benefit of the two ICRs (Cr. 1515 or
Cr. 1922), the same team in charge of appraisal was supervising these operations.
7.1.7 As part of project preparation, IDA developed the foundation for major achievements of
the project including: a quantum leap in road condition, more sustainable funding for
maintenance, start-up of policy reform, attention to environmental safeguards, and institutional
strengthening. These factors have contributed to the major changes that have taken place in the
thinking and actions within the DOR.
7.1.8 A further important contribution of the Bank during the lending period was to set in
motion a fundamental shift in the sector from a traditional public works agency dedicated to
attending the politician needs (construction) to one where attention was given for the first time
to maintenance. Moreover, it was a daunting task to get 4 donors together in an environment
where previously the multiplicity of donors had been a major bottleneck.
7.1.9 During preparation IDA sought and achieved a very broad participation of DOR's middle
management, anticipating the many changes of staff as a result of the political environment.
The preparation team was successful in raising the ownership and stakes of the project. This
provided a platform on which project management at the end had a much greater continuity
and chance of succeeding in the implementation of the project.
7.2.1 Supervision: The Bank's performance during supervision was satisfactory - this has
been assessed against: the focus on development impact; supervision of fiduciary aspects;
appropriateness of inputs and processes; and supervision reporting. Given that there was no
clear exit strategy identified during the lending phase, Bank staff showed timeliness, flexibility
and foresight in solving the various problems that surfaced during project processing and in
guiding DOR/HMGN. The Bank fielded on an average three missions staffed with appropriate
skills each year. The Kathmandu-based Bank staff were available at all times to assist
DORJIHMGN. The Bank staff used workshops and consultations very creatively to broaden the
awareness of the problems being faced during the project implementation, which helped solve
the problems quickly. The quality of supervision reporting was satisfactory.
7.2.2 However, a lot of the pending variations were not resolved until late in the credit period,
when DOR realized they might lose the funding, and as a result some of the works completed
may have quality problems associated with forced rapid execution of works. The design on the
district roads under PLRP were probably too high for the traffic used in those roads. The
complaint from the DDCs of their lack of involvement in the PLRP was not timely addressed.
Due to the complexity of the project, with many sub-projects/components, it may not have
been possible to address all problems in a timely manner.
7.2.3 Due to the delays in implementation, too much attention was paid to the physical
components rather than institutional strengthening objectives. Specifically, insufficient
18



attention was given to the areas of procurement speed, DOR supervision, government obstacles
to efficient works, and district involvement. The amount of supervision in the last 18-24
months was probably insufficient given all the activity, and contributed to the reduced
effectiveness of donor coordination.
7.3 Overall Bank Performance: The overall Bank performance was satisfactory.
Borrower Performance:
7.4  Preparation:   Overall HMGN/DOR performance during project preparation was
satisfactory. Most of the delays in starting negotiations and project effectiveness were
attributable to the wider HNGN system which was strained by political turmoil at the time.
7.5.1 Government Implementation Performance: HMGN performance during project
implementation was unsatisfactory. Sector policies were abrogated (as shown by the Ninth
Plan's assessment of the Eight Plan); commitment to project varied (as also indicated during
Mid Term Review Workshop in March 1997); there were delays and lack of coordination
among government departments in operational decisions; and, there was a lack of commitment
to adopting the PIP.
7.5.2 HMGN failed to adopt a 3-year rolling plan for road expenditures, which would have
ensured continuity and certainty in the budgeting process and would have enabled a more
consistent work program to be developed. Additional problems associated with HMGN
include: (i) numerous delays and obstructions relating to customs, explosives, imports; and (ii)
a very inefficient annual pattern of late release of regular non-project funds to DOR, resulting
in poor planning and contracting practices.
7.6 Implementing Agency: DOR's performance was satisfactory. Considering the
complexity of the project and DOR's capacity in general, they were instrumental in the project
achieving an overall satisfactory outcome. Even though project compliance was poor and
decision making was delayed at times, DOR's efforts towards the later part of the project
helped deliver the desired improvements in the network. DOR keenly received and acted on
donor and consultative advice, and used technical assistance relatively effectively.
7.7 Overall Borrower Performance: Not withstanding the project's satisfactory outcome,
the overall Borrower performance is considered unsatisfactory, based on the problems
associated with HMGN/MOWT/MOF relating to the late release of funds, lack of commitment
to the strategic planning objectives, and continuing political interference. The project's
satisfactory outcome was a direct result of the efforts put forth by the DOR managers and the
coordinated interventions of the project's co-financiers in particular, and the broader donor
community in general. The unsatisfactory performance rating of the Borrower as a whole is
based on the numerous wider HMGN systematic issues that have been highlighted earlier in
this ICR, and has been necessitated, partly, to raise the awareness of these issues during Bank's
further dialogue with HMGN.
19



8. Lessons Learned
8.1  Notable success was achieved in the coordination of the activities of the multiple donors
involved in the project, despite differing individual guidelines and procedures.
8.2  Human resource and institutional development reforms in sector departments (such as
DOR) should be designed in view of the broader HMGN civil service rules and regulations.
8.3  While designing improvements in service delivery - such as better road maintenance -
alternate delivery mechanisms, to the existing public set-up, should not be entirely discarded.
A Roads Board is only now feasible - after 5 years of the RMRP - to a great extent because
the RMRP was successful in contributing to the improvement of average quality of the
strategic highways in Nepal.
8.4 The divergence in objectives amongst the public and private sectoT - civic obligations vs.
paid service provision - should be clearly recognized and the private sector should not be out-
rightly expected to absorb costs incurred due to poor performance of public institutions;
concurrently, the private sector should be held strictly accountable to its performance
guarantees.
8.5  The time provided for engineering investigations and design should be increased, and
consultants should improve the efficiency of their design and supervision. They should
provide rational professional liability for all designed works. Road works specifications need
to be revised, utilizing the results of the Materials Study completed as part of RMRP.
8.6 Strengthened Maintenance Divisions have improved the capacity to plan, program and
execute maintenance at the division level. Divisions need financial autonomy and timely
budget releases - and clearer accountability for results - in order to effectively take on a
stronger decentralized role in managing minor works and contracting out routine maintenance.
8.7  Periodic updating of initiatives like the PIP should be encouraged, and more effort is
needed to ensure their adoption of these policy planning tools by NPC/HMGN.
8.8  Privatization/commercialization of government equipment and mechanical training
programs should be accelerated. At the same time it should be recognized that in Nepal's road
sector - where landslides and other natural disasters are frequent - certain force account works
will be necessary as public service obligations: traffic levels are currently not high enough to
make emergency interventions commercially sustainable.
8.9 Nepal is a land locked country with very few land links to neighboring countries and a
weak economy with a small workload for numerous contractors to keep machinery engaged all
year around. There is thus a continuing role for the commercialization of DOR's equipment
rental facility as well as encouraging contractors to procure their own (when subsidized
equipment was no longer available).
8.10 A careful scrutiny of the track record of contractors during pre-qualification and post-
qualification is required. In cases where the Borrower has documented evidence of firms' non-
performance or poor performance, the Bank has accepted the position taken by Borrowers to
20



disqualify firms based on that past performance. There is an urgent need to develop a database
for comparative rating of consultants and contractors in the road construction industry, which
can be subsequently updated regularly (this should be done by a third party, under contract).
8.11 Multiple procurement guidelines amongst the many donors and agencies in Nepal can
create problems in project processing: there is an immediate need for a review of current
procurement guidelines and development of the national procurement guidelines for goods,
works and services for Nepal which are acceptable to all concerned.
8.12 Strengthening of basic institutional capacities for effective project management need to
be prepared and implemented early in the life of the project. Procurement capabilities need to
be bolstered from project design, with initial contracts based on completed designs, strict
qualification criteria and awards planned before project effectiveness.
8.13 Labor-based projects with community-participation, which was introduced for the
rehabilitation and maintenance of district roads, have shown good results in the development of
institutional and planning capability at the district level. Districts have begun to develop their
capacity for road planning and labor-based contracting of works through the preparation of
DTMPs and forming DRTUs (aided by the new DOLIDAR). As a lesson learned to support
the decentralized government system, DDCs should be allowed to actually prepare, procure,
implement, and manage the work; whereas under the RMRP, project preparation and
implementation was centralized and came under the responsibility of MLD.
8.14 Project impacts are generally more effective if they are prepared by stakeholders with
beneficiary participation and where communities gain from their involvement in road
rehabilitation and development. This process of decentralization to DDCs should be closely
monitored, to ensure rapid interventions relevant to its success.
9. Partner Comments by DFID (ODA)
9.1 The Road Maintenance Project (RMP) was part of an umbrella Road Maintenance and
Rehabilitation Project. The main objective of the RMRP was to ensure that Nepal's strategic
road network would be maintained according to planned procedures. The RMP component
supported the development of DOR capacity to plan and manage road maintenance by
providing technical and managerial training to DOR and the private sector.
9.2 The RMRP umbrella programme supported by World Bank, SDC and DFID represents
the first attempt to apply a coherent approach to support for HMGN road sector activities.
Taking the previously neglected road maintenance activities as its focus it has been successful
in rehabilitating sections of main road to a maintainable standard, and has assisted in
developing capability within the Roads Sector in Nepal to undertake maintenance. One of the
most interesting aspects for DFID is the links made between physical rehabilitation (World
Bank), human resource development (DFID and SDC), policy formulation (DFID/SDC-
MRCU) and field testing (DFID/EROM and SDC/SMD) to create this coherent approach.
Possibly one of the more important lessons learnt has been how much more effective
potentially a common donor approach can be than the type of projectised approaches applied
previously.
21



9.3 Of course not all the components within RMRP were equally successful. As to be
expected implementation of the capacity building components lagged behind the engineering
components and ultimately met with varying degrees of success as evidenced by review of the
DFID funded RMP components. On reflection RMP was perhaps overly ambitious in trying to
introduce five different aspects of road sector skill at the same time. Perhaps a lesson for the
future is to consider a phased approach over a longer time period for the institutional
components based on an institution's capacity and willingness to take on board new initiatives.
9.4 Whilst acknowledging the fact that the different components of RMP have met with
varying degrees of success, it is considered that the components identified were appropriate to
improve Road Sector capacity to plan and manage road maintenance, and furthermore that
these were complementary and have contributed to achievement of the overall RMRP
objective. In cases where the components have had limited impact their failure can be
attributed to skills transfer training being implemented prior to policy formulation and take up.
9.5 The provision of training prior to policy development is a recurrent problem on capacity
building projects such as RMP as Donors/ Government often become anxious to demonstrate
activity on the ground. In the case of RMP this tendency should have been mitigated by the
fact that the project formed part of the umbrella programme. Unfortunately as the RMRP
programme progressed the approach became fragmented, lacked overall co-ordination and the
components comprising the whole began operating in a projectised fashion. This resulted in the
RMP components trying to resolve issues within their narrow spectrum rather than taking a
broader outlook. This observation is not intended as any criticism of a common approach but
rather it is intended to highlight the need for common review, common monitoring and co-
ordination to ensure that fragmentation does not occur.
9.6 It is too early to comment on the future sustainability of the capacity built by RMP. The
programme ended with no clear exit strategy defined for each of the units established under the
programme to implement the components. The challenge remains for DOR to identify which
units should remain and which should be integrated into general DOR maintenance activities.
To assist with this each component has developed procedures which could quite easily be
integrated in to DOR management practices. Clearly a lesson for the future is to ensure that
exit strategies are devised at least a year or two before programme end.
9.7 This report has been drafted by the World Bank in consultation with DFID and
accurately reflects the partners' joint views concerning programme impact.
10. Additional Information
10.1 There was a strong feeling in the Nepal consulting industry community that the current
method of procurement based on quality and cost is not yielding the desired objectives and the
regulations governing consultants in Nepal are not efficient/effective. The bottom line is that
they argue that consultant selection always boils down to the least cost proposal amongst the
qualified consultants.
10.2 The following contribution is provided by Mr. Badan Lal Nyachhyon and forwarded by
Mr. Subama B. Joshi, General Secretary of Society of Architectural and Engineering Firms,
22



Nepal. The SCAEF's comments received by the ICR team, are included here, with the intent
to invite a dialogue between RPA and SCAEF.
10.3 "... Regulation governing Consulting Services:  The existing regulations in Nepal
governing the Consulting Industry in Nepal are
-    Financial Administration Regulation (FAR)
-    Company Act
-    Industrial Occupation Act
-    Income Tax Act
10.4. The basic flaws of these regulations in relation to the Consulting Industry are:
*  The pre-requisite criteria for professional development of the industry is not
considered
*  FAR relies on non-professional ways of selection of consultants as low bid among
technically responsive consultants.
*  Direct award of jobs to government subsidiary companies without considering
technical capability.
*  The concept of working directors-professionals is not considered as against other
business houses where professional liability is non-existent.
*  Tax system  is not based on reality and fairness. Tax hassles are very much
characteristics.
*  The government committedfacilities of tax rebate are practically not utilized due to
cumbersome process and negative attitude of the government.
10.5 SCAEF has recommended that the Financial Regulation shall be reviewed in relation to
the problems and issues mentioned above. A draft of such regulation is submitted to the
government. SCAEF has also recommended that a Charter by law shall be sought with
formulation of Consulting Services Act.
10.6 Pros and Cons of Evaluation of Priced Proposals: The World Bank's new approach of
evaluation of the proposals for selection of the consultants include weightage to the financial
proposal with score ranging from 70-85% for technical part and 30-15%forfinancial part. A
case study of various combination of the weightage is illustrated in Figure 1.
10. 7 Figure 1 has three different distinctive parts. The left part where the technical score is
60% and over the effect offinancial difference is less and a the merit of technical excellence is
predominant. The right part of the Figure indicates that when the technical score is less than
53%. The financial component becomes a decisive factor in wining the job. The middle part of
the Figure may be called afield of Gambling when the decisive combination would be a guess
work and wouldfall in the hands of the evaluator tofavorfor.
10.8 The clear message from this exercise is that one should quote less if technical merit is
not quite clear and ultimately the job will be awarded based on the power of lower bid price
irrespective of the technical merits. A big question arises before us. Whether we want to
promote Gambling in the Profession and in the Project Life Cycle or we want to promote
sound professional practice for better economy. The choice is in hands of the evaluators. It is
quite clear that the promotion of the Gambling Scenario can not be the purpose of the Project
23



and the objectives of the Client. In this case, it is very much require that the negative effect of
the priced proposal shall be eliminated by firmly establishing the criteria of evaluation of the
financial proposal and maintaining transparency in evaluation by consideration of inclusion of
external experts in evaluation team or provision of independent auditing prior to the contract
award"
Evaluation of Priced Proposals
(for a set of given data)
753 ''      
|Tcnia 70     -_                                       __   __    ___   ___p *      Zn              _
0
m    65_____                                                                __
,) 60
>.  55 -Financial Meri
TeIchnical Merit                                                                  'Zon
Zone 50                             Gambling Zone                                    Zn
4.0  3.6  3.2  2.8  2.4  2.0  1.8  3.2  2.1  3.2  2.0  2.0  2.8  2.4  1.8  1.4  1.0
Financial Proposal CurPnrce/MinPre
+--FS85 15    -4    FS80 20         FS90 10    -          FS95 5     FSIOO 0    +FS70 30
24



Annex I
Key Performance Indicators
Outcome/Impact Indicators
Indicator           Projected in SAR/PAD*              Actual/Latest Estimate
(a) HMG/N incorporates Priority             Yes           Done
Investment Plan (PIP)
recommendations for maintenance
funding in National Planning
(b) Priority Investment Plan completed      Yes           Endorsement in progress: 9th plan includes most
and formally endorsed by HMG/N                       roads as recommended by PIP, with some additional
and included in 9th plan.                            roads; Proposed 9th plan expenditure is 27020
Resources allocated to network on                    million compared with PIP recommendation 29631
basis of PIP recommendations                         million.
over the full study period (10
years)
(c) Length of roads with Average            Yes           Currently 32% of core roads in good condition and
Daily Traffic greater than 250                       58% in fair condition, which appears to be well
vehicles per day in good/fair                        ahead of target. Length is being confirmed. A
condition (Surface Distress Index                    substantial proportion of the core network is
less than 3.0) progressively                         currently under construction.
increased from 1,270 km in 1996
to 2,460 km at the end of 1999
(d) Annual value of contracts awarded       Yes           Increase from 95/96 to 96/97 was 24 % (from Rs.
in road sub-sector increasing by                     2969 million to Rs. 3182 million).
15% per annum
(e) Designed serviceability of district     Yes          Initial works only recently completed; condition
road maintained                                      good; to be further monitored in coming missions.
(f)  Selected road maintained in            Yes
good/fair condition with average
Surface Distress Index less than
3.0



Annex 2
Project Costs and Financing
Project Costs by Components (in US$ million equivalent)
Project Component                                        Appraisal Estimates                             Actual/Latest Estimate      Percentage of
Appraisal
Totatc without    with Conktiligelcy             HMG funids  Total (IDA
Conthiugency     diCtributed    IDA Coinpoaenit  related to IDA   & assoc    IDA  HMG   Total*  IDA funds  Total *
Canthigency  distributed            ~~~Coiitpoiieait 11MG funds)
Road Rehabilitation                                   20.7              24.26           21.96        2.30     24.27   25.55    6.77    32.32      116.3       133.2
Periodic Maintenance                                  25.3              30.27            19.19       1.71     20.90    15.33    3.26    18.60      79.9        89.0
Pilot Labor-Based District Road Rehabilitation         4.2               4.78            3.59        0.23      3.82     3.63    0.22     3.85     101.1       100.8
Project Preparation and Implementation Support        0.74               0.75            0.75                  0.75    0.59              0.59      78.8       78.8
Technical Assistance
Institutional Development Technical Assistance        10.8              12.11            4.99                  4.99     3.73             3.73      74.8       74.8
Routine Maintenance                                    7.4               8.89            0.02                  0.02     0.00             0.00                  0.0
Contingencies                                         11.9
Total                                                 81.0              81.06           50.50      =          54.74   48.84   =         59.09      96.7       107.9
* Components with IDA involvement ONLY



Annex2b
Project Costs and Financing
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (In US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure                                                   Procurement Method
Categories                       Appraisal Estimate                                        Actual/Latest Estimate
ICB       NCB        OTHER         NBF*        Total        ICB        NCB      OTHER        NBF*         Total
1. Works           26.98      9.87          2.43        12.42      51.70        25.47     9.31        1.90       12.38         49.06
2. Goods            4.52          -         0.80        0.91        6.23         4.25        -        0.78                      5.03
3. Services            -                   13.06         7.54      20.60            -                 11.43       7.39         18.82
4. Misc.          =            =                                  =                                 =                        =
Total          31.50       9.87        16.29       20.87       78.53        29.72     9.31       14.11       19.77         72.91



Annex 2c
I'roject Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Component                        Appraisal Estimate                       Actual/Latest Estimate                Percentage of Appraisal (%)
Bank        Governimlenit   Cofinancier   Bank        Governemnt   Cofinanicier    Bank   Government  Co-financier
1. Road Reiabilitatioi and        21,863.600      2,301.800                 24,190.000     2,572.000                  110.64      111.74
Overlays                                                                                                               106        111.74
2. Resealing and Gravelling of     19,192.600     4,870.300    6,058.700    17,282.000     4,385.000    5,331.650      90.05       90.04           88.00
Strategic Net
Road Rehabiloitation                3,587.400      292.200      967.500      2,895.000       236.000      967.500      80.70       80.77          100.00
Roa RehabiitationalDvlpe   n
4. Instit.ional Developme.itaid    5,008.900       631.600    6,970.800     3,870.(X))      630.00()   6,482.840      77.26       99.75           93.00
I rainitig
5. Routine Maintenlanlce                          6,365.400    2,104.400                   6,238.090    2,082.310                  98.00          98.95
6. Project Preparationi Facility     750.000                                   591.0(0                                 78.80
50,402.500    14,461.300   16,101.400    48,828.000    14,061.090   14,864.300      96.88       97.23          92.32



Annex 3
Economic Re-Evaluation of Rehabilitation & Periodic Maintenance Components
A.    Introduction
1. The total project costs for the Nepal Road Maintenance & Rehabilitation Project (RMRP),
as presented Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) of February 1994, were estimated at US$
81million. The Road Rehabilitation and Periodic Maintenance (Resealing & Gravelling)
Components represented 30% and 37% respectively of this total, as indicated below.
Project Costs (US$ million)   % of
Project Component                          L                               Base
.  Local    Foreign  Total     Costs
Road Rehabilitation & Overlays               9.631     11.101    20.732    30
Resealing & Gravelling of Strategic Network  9.518    15.768    25.286      37
Pilot Labour Based District Road Rehab       2.121      2.113     4.234     6
Institutional Development & Training         2.549      8.205    10.754    16
Routine Maintenance                          6.227      1.168     7.396     11
Project Preparation Facility                 0.453      0.291     0.743 X
Total Baseline Costs                        30.500    38.646     69.146    100
Physical Contingencies                       2.361      3.243     5.603     8
Price Contingencies                          2.377      3.939     6.316     9
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                         35.238     45.827    81.065    117
Source: SAR, February 1994, Annex 8, Page 1
2. The SAR presented (in Annex 11) an economic evaluation of the main civil works
components, indicating an overall EIRR of 21.4%. The results of the analysis for each main
components (in Rupees) are summarized below. No evaluation was attempted for the
Routine Maintenance Component nor for any of the training or institutional strengthening
activities.
Fin'cial Cost   Econ Cost    NPV     EIRR
(Rs m)       (Rs m)     (Rs m)
Rehabilitation of Strategic Highways     650.58       585.52    553.55   19.4%
Rehabilitation of Feeder Roads           209.65       188.64      4.57   10.4%
Periodic Maintenance                     570.68       513.61    826.06   27.3%
Pilot Labour Based Maintenance            26.72        23.31     29.77   36.0%
Overall                                1,457.63      1,311.08   1,413.95   21.4%
Source: SAR, February 1994, Annex 11, Page I
B.    Project Components as Originally Defined
3. At the time of project inception, the Rehabilitation Component contained six sections of
Strategic Highway and three sections of Feeder Road. The characteristics of each and the
anticipated economic returns are summarized in the following table. The evaluation of the
Feeder Roads was based on extremely limited information.



Rehabilitation Component: Summary of Results of SAR Economic Evaluation
Length   IRI   AADT   Finc'lCost  Costper Econ Cost  NPV    NPV per [ EIRR
_   km    (1993)   1993)   (Rs m)   km (Rs m)  (Rs m) E (s0%      km
Highways:
Thankot   Naubise       12.171   12.6   1,435.      90.02'    7.40    81.02   385.60    31.68,   42.3%
Naubise    Hetauda       106.4   12.0     82        97.77     0.92    87.99     2.42     0.02    10.5%
Mugling   Narayanghat    36.24    5.1   1,291       63.04,    1.74    56.74]   40.87     1.13    16.2%
Marshyandi Khairenitar  44.131    7.0    378       171.190    3.88    154.07    37.80    0.86[   12.7%
Butwal    Tansen        36.85i   10.8    280       142.07'    3.86    127.86    52.20    1.42    14.8%
Tansen    Syanga        84.421    9.0    136|       86.49|    1.02    77.84    14.40     0.17    12.2%
Sub-Total Highways:  320.21                   650.58    2.03   585.52   533.29      1.67    19.1%
Feeder Roads:                                                                       i
Birgunij   Kalaiya         15                      122.10     8.14   109.89     8.04     0.54    11.1%
Tansen    Ridi-Thamgas     68                       55.28     0.81    49.75     0.631    0.01:   10.4%
Nepalgunj  Bagauda         50                       32.27     0.65    29.05     1.44     0.03,   11.1%
Sub-Total Feeder Roads:    133                  209.65     1.58   188.69    10.1 1     0.08o   11.0%
Total Rehabilitation:  453.21                      860.23     1.90   774.21|  543.40     1.20
Source: SAR, February 1994, Annex 11, Tables 1-4 & Final Feasibility Report, ND Lea, May 1993
4. For Highways, an  overall EIRR  of 19.1%   was demonstrated. It can  be  seen  that
improvement costs vary significantly from over Rs 7 million per km for Thankot-Naubise,
including substantial reconstruction and slope stabilization, to less than Rs 1 million per km
for Naubise-Hetauda, which involved only relatively minor works. The highest rate of
return was achieved for the Thankot-Naubise section due to the substantial traffic volumes
and high level of initial roughness.
5. Only limited information was available in regard to the Feeder Roads and it was agreed
that further evaluations would be undertaken prior to implementation. The Birgunj-Kalaiya
project includes the replacement of three bridges. [It is noted that the EIRRs quoted for the
individual projects differ from those in the overall project assessment.]
6. The benefits were calculated using the HDM3 model calibrated and adapted for use in
Nepal. The benefit streams over an assumed 20-year project life include: reduced vehicle
operating costs due to improved road surface; reduction in future major rehabilitation costs
through regular re-surfacing; reduced emergency maintenance resulting from improved
drainage and off-road works; and road user savings due to reduced road closures. An
annual traffic growth rate of 6% was assumed.
7. The without-project scenario assumed minimal maintenance (patching and pot-holing only)
and a continuing deterioration to the road surface, resulting in ever-increasing vehicle
operating costs. This approach (which, it can be argued, produces an unrealistic situation
with an excessively deteriorated road surface) acts as a proxy for the inevitable major
costly reconstruction that would otherwise have to be implemented.
8. For the Periodic Maintenance Component, an initial screening was conducted using a
matrix approach with each potential section classified according to its traffic volume
(AADT), roughness (IRI) and pavement condition (Surface Distress Index, SDI). The NPV
per km was calculated using HDM3 for each cell in the matrix, so that each section could
be prioritized and those with a negative NPV eliminated.
2



9. About 40 sections of the network passed the initial screening and subsequently 24 sections
were selected in the Central, Western, Mid-Western and Far-Western Regions. The costs
were estimated based on unit rates for the extent and type of improvement works
envisaged. The results of the initial economic evaluation are presented in the following
table.
Periodic Maintenance Component: Summary of SAR Economic Evaluation
Project:                        Lengt   IRI I AADT  Finc'l Cost Cost per  Econ Cost  NPV              | NPV per    EIRR
h km   (1993) | (1993)    (Rs m)   km (Rs m)  (Rs m)         10%         km
Bhittamod       Dhalkebar           43     5.3      00         49.04       1.14      44.14      18.65        0.43     13.6%/
Hetauda         Lothar              41     4.71   1000         44.38       1.08      39.94     287.56        7.01     38.0%
Lothar          Narayanghat         33     4.7   1000          34.84       1.06      31.36     233.32        7 07     38.50/
Nawalpur        Malangwa BT          9    15.9      70          4.76       0.53       4.28       9.88        1.10     17.2%
Nawalpur        Malangwa GR         16   15.9       70         18.90       1.18      17.01
Kakani          Trisuli             63    12.0      70         56.41       0.90      50.77      10.28        0.16     13.0%
Chand'pur       GaurBT              34     9.1      96         17.51       0.52      15.76&     58.70        1.73     39.8%
Chand'pur       Gaur GR              8    15.0      96          9.63       1.20       8.671     *
Godavari        Puichoki             6   13.8       50          3.12       0.52       2.81'      3.32        0.55     26.9/o
Syangja         Kubinde             21     5.5    210          12.49       0.59      11.24;      0.91        0.03     10.8%
Kubinde         Pokhara             15    5.5    210            8.92       0.59       8.03      *
Tansen          Bartun/Hartok        4    13.5    100           2.07       0.52        1.86      5.77        1.44     37.6%
Bhairahawa      Lumbini             20     8.6    290          16.57       0.83      14.91      46.90        2.35     36.80/0
Khrishnagar    Chanuta              20    6.8    250           16.80       0.84      15.12      13.64        0.68     23.8%
Lumbini         Tailihawa      |    22    12.0      50         25.74       1.17      23.17      48.90        2.22     33.1%
Kohalpur        Chisapani           13   16.7       80          8.39       0.651      7.55      13.23        1.02     36.5%
Chisapani       BiTendranagar  1    78   16.7       80         93.46       1.20      84.11        1.98       0.03     10.6%
Nepalgunj       Gulariya BT          9    16.0      80          7.39       0.82       6.65        0.34       0.04     10.2%
Nepalgunj       Gulariya GR         26,   16.0      80         32.60       1.25      29.34
Kohalpur        Jamunaha            221    5.7    150          10.34       0.47       9.31        1.54       0.07     13.6%
Karnali         Balia          i    13;   2.5       56          7.73       0.59       6.96       0.18        0.01     10.5%
Balia          IAtaria              571   2.5       56         33.90       0.59      30.51        1.55       0.03     11.2%
Ataria          Chaudar             25     6.8    132          21.40       0.86      19.26      77.91        3.12     46.1%
Chaudar         Gaddachauki         11    15.4    132          34.31       3.12      30.88      53.23        4.84     27.5%
Total Periodic Maintenance:        609            =           570.71       0.94     513.64     887.79        1.46     27.3%/
Source: SAR, February 1994, Annex 11, Tables 5-7
Notes: * evaluated with adjacent Section
10. It can be seen that EIRRs ranged between 10% and 50%, with the higher rates associated
with roads with either a high traffic volume or high initial roughness. The average cost of
the works anticipated was less than Rs 1 million per km, and ranged from Rs 500,000 per
km for single surface treatment on a single lane road to over Rs 3 million per km for the
provision of new base material and double surface treatment on a two-lane road.
11. An economic evaluation of the PLRP was undertaken based on four projects totaling 59 km
in length at a cost of Rs 26.7 million. The evaluation assumed that the volume of non-
agricultural traffic would be unaffected, whereas as agricultural traffic was assumed to
increase by 15% in the first year, 10% in the second year, 3% in the third, 1.5% in the
fourth and 0.5% thereafter. Benefits were calculated from savings in transport costs and
increases in production and productivity brought about by better access to the market1. It is
understood that the parameters used in this analysis were based on limited data from one
previous road upgrading2.
SAR, February 1994, Annex 11, Page 12
2     Source: Priority Investment Plan, Volume III Rural Transport, Chapter 2
3



12. The overall project comprised two 'model roads' (18.8 km) that were to be used for
training, four sections of 'trial roads' (24 km) to be used to evaluate contractors and ten
sections of 'standard roads' that would be improved under the project. The total cost of the
civil works was estimated at Rs 108.8 million, with an additional Rs 121.6 million for
training  (Rs 51m), equipment and bike trailers (Rs 46m), tree planting  (Rs12 m),
construction supervision (Rs 9 m) and routine maintenance (Rs 6m).
C.     Projects as Implemented
13. Substantial changes to the scope and extent of the projects as originally defined and
evaluated in the SAR took place during implementation. These changes resulted from
revisions during the detailed design phase leading to increased costs and from delays in
implementation which led to increases in the scope of works required due to additional
monsoon damage.
14. The total length of road included in the Rehabilitation Component was reduced by 50%,
from the original 453 km to 228 km. The revised project list as actually implemented is
presented in the table below, which includes also the actual expenditures, periods of
construction, and roughness and traffic data.
Rehabilitation Component: Summary of Projects as Completed
Project:              Length    Actual Cost   Cost/km   Date    Date   IRI *        AADT
kmi    Rs m  I uss   (Rs m)  Started Complete Spring 96 1996  1998 1 1999
Thankot   Naubise       16.54  197.01   3.907   11.915 Nov-95  Jun-99   12.6   2152  27901 2379
Naubise    Hetauda      65.22  252.13   4.167   3.866 Sep-96   Dec-98   15.0    100
Mugling   Narayanghat    36.10   40.70   0.638    1.127 Jan-98 , Mar-99    5.7    2117  2376  2650
Marshyandi Khairenitar  44.15  229.85   4.441    5.207 Oct-95   Mar-99    8.5   697  768
Butwal    Tansen        41.00  296.37   5.851   7.229 Jun-95  May-99   13.9    350  675
Gaddach'ki Chaudar      12.26   61.71   1.174   5.034 Sep-95   Mar-98    8.4    149   _
Sub-Total Highways     215.26 1,077.78  20.178   5.007I
Birgunj   IKalaiya      12.33  106 05   1.594   8.604 Dec-97 | Mar-99    8.9    339  721  631
Total Rehabilitation:  227.58 1,183.83   21.77   5.202                                -
Source: Department of Roads and HMIS
Note: * Roughness refers to dominant section (1997 data for Gaddachowki-Chaudar)
15. Of the original projects, one section of Highway (Tansen-Syanga, 84 km) and two Feeder
Roads totaling 118 km were dropped3. A 12.3 km section of the East-West Highway in the
Far-Western Region (Gaddachowki-Chaudar) was transferred from the Periodic
Component.
16. The overall costs of the component have increased from Rs 860 million in the SAR to an
actual expenditure of Rs 1,184 million, which represents an increase in cost per km  from
Rs 1.9 million to Rs 5.2 million. The costs for Thankot -Naubise have more than doubled
from Rs 90 million to Rs 197 million, as a result of substantially increased scope of works,
monsoon damage due to delays, and a 30% increase in length. The unit cost of this section
is more than double the average at Rs 12 million per km.
17. Budget constraints have resulting in only 65 km being completed of the Naubise-Hetauda
section of the Tribhuvan Rajpath: the original proposal was for the whole 107 km. An 11
3    11 km of the Tansen-Thamgas Feeder Road was transferred to Periodic Maintenance
4



km section between Bhainse and Hetauda has been improved under German aid (KFW),
but a 32 km section in the central portion has been left unimproved. Expenditure on this
lightly trafficked road was however substantially higher than originally proposed (Rs 252
million compared with Rs 98 million): on a per km basis, this is four times the initial
estimate - Rs 3.9 million as opposed to Rs 0.98 million.
18. The costs for the Mugling-Narayanghat section have remained low (and well within the
budget estimate) with only surface treatment being undertaken. The improvement to the
Marshyandi-Khairenitar section of the Prithivi Highway were similarly completed with
only a modest increase in overall expenditure of about a third.
19. The costs for the Butwal-Tansen section of the Siddartha Raj Marg were approximately
double the estimate, due to extensive additional slope stabilization works, monsoon
damage and an additional 10% of route length. The actual costs for the one Feeder Road
remaining in the program (including two bridges) were less than estimated.
20. A total of 504 km of road were improved under the Periodic Maintenance Component,
compared with an initial proposal for 609 km. The costs of the works increased from an
estimated Rs 571 million to Rs 915 million, representing a doubling on a per km basis from
Rs 0.9 million to Rs 1.8 million. Of the original 24 projects, seven have been deleted from
the program and five have been combined to produce 12 projects as detailed in the table
below.
Periodic Maintenance Component: Summary of Projects as Completed
Project:                    Length   Actual Cost  Cost/km    Date     Date    IRI *           AADT
km    NER       s    (Rs m)  Started Complete Spring 97 1996  1998  1999
Bhittamod    Dhalkebar         42.75  56.18   0.952    1.31 Nov-97   Jan-99      6.4     185   369   750
Hetauda     Lothar            41.00  50.19   0.851     1.22  Oct-96   Feb-98    7.0    2177   1678  1684
Lothar      Narayanghat       33.70  37.15   0.630     1.10  Oct-96   Feb-98    5.2    2177   1678  1684
Nawalpur    Malangwa          26.50  47.45   0.804     1.79 Nov-97   Mar-99    17.5      198
Kakani      Trisuli           44.86 155.71   2.639     3.47  Dec-97   Mar-99    15.5     100
Chand'pur    Gaur             43.95  71.23   1.207     1.62 Nov-97  May-99    10.5       143   495   311
Godavari    Pulchoki       Deleted                                                                  _
Syangja     Pokhara           36.93  26.03   0.441     0.71  Dec-97   Dec-98     8.7     175   330   545
Tansen      Hartok             10.85  35.83   0.607    3.30  Oct-96   Oct-97    19.7      67    92   226
Bhairahawa  Lumbini        Dropped                                                             _
Khrishnagar  Chanuta       Dropped               1                                    .
Lumbini     Talhawa        Dropped
Kohalpur    Chisapani      completed by otherslI
Chisapani    Birendranagar    77.34 191.09   3.239     2.47 Dec-97   Jun-99     21.0      51   134   271
Nepalgunj    Gulariya         35.86  69.911 1.1         95 Nov-97  Mar-99    17.6        120 _
Kohalpur    Jamunaha       included in RMP Cyclic Maintenance Program
Kamali      Ataria            73.931 34.44   0.584     0.47  Dec-97   May-99    7.5      214   431   424
Ataria      Chaudar            36.311 139.501  2.364|    3.84 Apr-97   Jul-98   12.4     1491  275   394
Chaudar     Gaddachauki   transferred to Rehab             I___
Total Periodic Maintenance:  |  503.981 914.731  15.501   1.815     l_l_l_=
Source: Department of Roads and HMIS
Note: * Roughness refers to dominant section
21. As with the Rehabilitation Component, there were significant delays in the implementation
of the component, with most of the projects not being completed until 1999. This resulted
in increased costs due to monsoon damage.
5



22. The costs of three Feeder Roads (Nawalpur-Malangwa, Chandrangapur-Gaur and
Nepalgunj-Gulariya) and the Chisapani-Birendranagar section of Highway were
substantially increased by the decision to seal the roads throughout: the original proposal
was for the existing gravel sections to remain. In total, the cost of these projects more than
doubled from Rs 184 million to Rs 380 million.
23. The costs for Kakani-Trishuli increased from Rs 0.9 million per km to almost Rs 3.5
million per km, due to substantial monsoon damage and the need for more extensive works.
The length was reduced from 63 km to 45 km as the ADB had undertaken improvements
between Kathmandu and Kakani.
24. Significant additional costs were also incurred on the Ataria-Chaudar and Tansen-Hartok
projects which were substantially enlarged in scope. The total length was increased from 29
km to 47 km and the combined costs increased from Rs 23.5 million to Rs 175 million (Rs
0.8 million per km to Rs 3.7 million per km).
25. The Bhittamod-Dhalkebar, Hetauda-Narayanghat, Syangj a-Pokhara and Karnali-Ataria
sections of strategic highway were completed at a total cost Rs 204 million compared with
a budget estimate of Rs 191 million (i.e. within 10%) for 228 km of resealing.
26. The projects actually improved under the PLRP closely followed the original proposal: all
10 roads originally identified were improved at a total civil works cost of Rs 148.5 million,
compared with the initial estimate of Rs 109 million. The length of road improved was
138.7 km compared with the proposal for 147 km. The proposed and actual works
completed are summarized in the following table.
Pilot Labor-Based Rehabilitation Component: Summary of Projects as Completed
As Proposed                        As Implemented
Road Section            Length   Cost   Type of   ADT    Length    Cost      Work       ADT
(km)   (Rs m)   Road    (1994)   (km)    (Rs m)  Completed   (1999)
Manigram-Rohini*          7.8    5.2    Model    88         7.02    12.81   Rehab/New    120
Gorusinge-Patharkot      11.0    8.5    Model      -       11.00    0.89    Maint'nce    63
Lumbini-Kothi-Taulihawa   8.0    4.0     Trial     -       22.90    24.19    Rehab       132
14.0    7.6   Standard
Khrishnanagar-Bhagwanpur*   19.0    6.5   Standard    39   19.00    2.47     Rehab       96
Bardaghat-Pratappur*      6.0    4.8     Trial     75      10.28    10.73    Rehab       190
8.7    7.2   Standard
Bhairahawa-Parasi*        6.0    4.4     Trial     44      18.47    19.65    Rehab       499
11.8    8.3   Standard
Naudanda-Karkineta        4.0   I14      Trial      .      10.00    17.23     Rehab       1
6.0    2.1   Standard
Walling-Chapakot         23.0    35.8   Standard            6.68    19.64   Rehab/New    32
Bahadurganj-Taulihawa     9.0    7.0   Standard            20.75    25.92    Rehab       131
Parasi-Jamuniya          12.4    6.4   Standard            12.60    15.01    Rehab       34
Total                   146.7   108.8                     138.71   148.54
Source: SAR, February 1994, Annex 8, Page 28 & PLRP, Butwal 1999
Note: * Roads used for initial economic appraisal
27. There were some amendments to the length of road improved (notably a reduction on
Walling-Chapakot and an increase on Bahadurganj-Taulihawa) and a reduction in the
scope of works to Gorusinge-Patharkot which is now  included for upgrading under the
RMDP. On many of the remaining roads (e.g. Manigram-Rohini, Lumbini-Taulihawa,
6



Naudanda-Karkineta, Bahadurganj-Taulihawa, and Parasi-Jamuniya) the actual costs for
rehabilitation works were substantially higher than the estimate.
28. Traffic data before improvement are only available for the four roads on which the initial
economic evaluation was based. These roads have all shown a very high rate of traffic
growth - but the data may not be directly comparable and other factors may have affected
growth. Some of the other roads that have been improved have daily traffic volumes of 30
vehicles or less.
D.    Economic Re-evaluation
29. A simplified spreadsheet approach has been adopted to undertake a revised economic
evaluation of the rehabilitation and periodic maintenance components, taking account of
the actual costs incurred, timing of implementation and updated traffic and roughness data.
Individual cost and benefit streams have been developed for each of the seven
rehabilitation and 12 periodic maintenance projects.
30. Wherever possible comparable assumptions have been made to those in the earlier SAR
work. However the approach is somewhat different and has been applied uniformly to all
projects as actually completed. The earlier work presented a detailed analysis of only two
(heavily trafficked) sections of the strategic highway improvements, with only limited
analysis for the others: the justification for the periodic maintenance projects was based on
a matrix approach. This revised work applies a series of assumptions regarding road
condition and deterioration to assess individual projects on a comparable basis: the validity
of the assumptions is demonstrated in a series of sensitivity tests.
31. The benefit calculations are based on reduced vehicle operating costs (VOCs) on the
improved road surfaces in the "with project" case. Representative VOCs have been
determined for each road section using HDM4 and taking account of traffic mix, elevation
and road geometric. A base VOC has been determined for each road at a roughness of 4 IRI
and a linear increase in VOC of 6% per unit IRI above 4 has been applied for Terai road:
an increase of 8. 1% is applied on hill roads.
32. The rehabilitation works are assumed to result in an initial roughness of 3.5 for an asphalt
concrete (AC) surface and 4.0 for surface treatment (DBST). An annual roughness
progression is assumed thereafter of 0.1, 0.1, 0.1, 0.2, 0.3 and 0.6, after which subsequent
reseals are applied on a 6-yearly cycle, which reset the annual roughness increments,
although not the actual roughness. For the periodic maintenance projects, the initial
roughness is assumed at 5.0 IRI for sealed roads and 9.0 IRI for gravel roads (which are
subsequently assumed to be regularly maintained at this standard in the "with project"
case)5.
4   Highway Design & Maintenance Model as modified for use in Nepal by Transport Research Laboratory,
UK, 1997: spreadsheet model provided by MRCU April 1999 reveals a linear increase in VOC with
roughness above IRI=4 of 8.1 percent in the hills and 6.0 percent in the Terai.
These initial roughness values are broadly confirmed by data available from DoR (HMIS): the effect of
variations to these assumptions are presented in the sensitivity tests below.
7



33. For the "without project" case, no regular resealing is assumed and a roughness progression
of 0.5 IRI per annum is applied, subject to a maximum of 15 IRI for sealed roads and 20
IRI for gravel roads. This, minimal intervention approach, is similar to that adopted in the
earlier SAR evaluation.
34. An overall traffic growth rate of 6% per annum has been applied, as in the SAR work,
although the results (see below) are not sensitive to this.
35. The results of the economic re-evaluation for the Rehabilitation Projects are presented in
the following table. The overall component demonstrates an EIRR of 34% based on the
above assumptions. Substantial returns are evident from the improvements to the two
heavily trafficked sections - Naubise-Thankot and Mugling-Narayanghat: the latter is also a
very cheap project.
Rehabilitation Components: Summary of Economic Re-Evaluation
Length  Total Cost AADT      IRI        VOC @    EIRR    NPV
REHABILITATION                (kmn)   (Rs ni)   1998                   JR1=4
1996 w/o 1999 with (Rs/km)
Naubise-Thankot               16.54    197.0   2790    12.6    3.7       13.79  69.4%  1,446.1
Gaddachowki-Chaudhar          12.26    61.7    250    8.4    4.0         10.40   5.6%    -32.0
Marshyangdi-Kairenitar        44.10    229.9    870    8.5    4.0        10.20  25.1%   310.3
Butwal-Tansen                 41.00    296.4    650    13.9    4.0       10.77  21.8%    226.4
Naubise-Bhainse (less 32 kin)  65.10    252.1    120    15.0    4.0      15.09  11.0%    -18.8
Birgunj-Kalaiya (incl 2 bridges)  12.30    106.0    600  8.9    4.0       9.99  12.9%     6.7
Mugling-Narayanghat           36.00    40.7  T 2350    5.7    3.5        10.00  212.5%   864. 1
TOTAL REHABILITATION          227.30   1183.8                                   34.4%   2,807.1
36. Of the remaining projects, two (Marshyangdi-Khairenitar and Butwal-Tansen) have returns
in excess of 20% and Birgunj-Kalaiya has an EIRR of 12.9%. The remaining two projects
which both have low traffic flows (Naubise-Bhainse and Gaddachowki-Chaudar) fail to
achieve the 12% level. However traffic levels on Gaddachowki-Chaudar may be expected
to increase following the completion of the bridges on the East-West Highway west of the
Karnali Bridge.
37. Results of the re-evaluation of the Periodic Maintenance projects are similarly presented in
the table below. The overall component has an EIRR of 28% and all projects except
Tansen-Hartok and Attaria-Chaudar achieve the 12% level: both these latter projects were
expensive on a per km basis. The highest returns are achieved on the high volume sections
of the East-west Highway between Hetauda and Narayanghat, and further west between
Kamali and Attaria where the improvements were relatively inexpensive.
8



Periodic Maintenance Components: Summary of Economic Re-Evaluation
Length  Total Cost AADT            IRI          VOC @      EIRR       NPV
PERIODIC MAINTENANCE            (kin)    (Rs mn)    1998   196wo199wt    RI-4
1996 w/o t1999 with |(Rs/km)
Hetauda-Lothar                  41.00         50.2    1670   7.0       5.9          9.88     55.6%      448.4
Lothar-Narayanghat              33.70         37.2    1670   5.2       4.7         10.03    47.60/0     311. 
Tansen-Hartok                   10.85         35.8      90   19.7       9.0        12.82     11.6%       -1.3
Attaria-Chaudhar                36.31        139.5     275   12.4       5.0        10.56     10.4%      -16.9
Bhittamod-Dhalkebar             42.75         56.2     370   6.4        5.5        10.29    20.3%        54.5
Nawawlpur-Malangwa              26.50         47.4     200   17.5       5.0         9.81     21.9%       31.6
Chandranigahapur-Gaur           43.95         71.2     300   10.5       5.0        10.23     31.9%      116.0
Kakani-Trishuli                 44.86        155.7     300   15.5       5.0        10.95    27.30/0     171.3
Nepaljung-Guleria               35.86         69.9     150   17.6       5.0        10.25     14.2%/c     10.1
Chisapani-Birendranagar         77.34        191.1     130   21.0       5.0        10.86     15.7%       43.3
Karmali-Attaria                 73.93         34.4     400   7.5        5.0         9.98     77.7%      240.2
Syangja-Pokhara                 36.93        26.0      330   8.7       7.8         10.14     34.4% 0     65.5
TOTAL PERIODIC                 503.98        914.6                      =                    27.6%    1,474.3
38. No attempt has been made to re-create the economics for the PLRP component, which was
based on increased agricultural output: inadequate before-and-after traffic data are
available for a meaningful comparison to be made and no data are available on the changes
in agricultural production. However a simplified economic analysis has been undertaken
based on transport cost savings, assuming the roads to be maintained to an average
roughness of 9.0 IRI rather than 15.0, rising to 20, in the no-project case.
39. This demonstrates, for the current traffic levels which are assumed to grow at 6% pa, an
overall EIRR of 30.3% and an NPV (at 12%) of Rs 264 million. The results for the
individual projects vary considerably, as shown in the table below. Two of the projects
show abnormally high EIRRs, due to low capital costs (around Rs 100,000 per km), and
three projects with low traffic volumes (less than 35 vpd) fail to achieve a 12% return. The
remaining five projects with EIRRs over 12% all have traffic volumes in excess of 120
vehicles/day and costs of between Rs 1 and 2 million per km.
9



Pilot Labor-Based Rehabilitation Component: Revised Economic Appraisal
Road Section                        Length       Cost    Cost/km        ADT        EIRR         NPV
(km)      (Rs m)    (Rs m)    (1999)                     (@12%
Manigram-Rohini*                      7.02      12.81        1.82        120       13.0%         1.4
Gorusinge-Patharkot                  11.00       0.89        0.08        63          **         12.4
Lumbini-Kothi-Taulihawa             22.90       24.19        1.06        132       25.6%        35.8
Khrishnanagar-Bhagwanpur*            19.00       2.47        0.13        96          **         30.6
Bardaghat-Pratappur*                 10.28      10.73        1.04        190       39.3%        27.4
Bhairahawa-Parasi*                   18.47      19.65        1.06        499       91.3%        156.4
Naudanda-Karkineta                   10.00      17.23        1.72         11        -6.0%       -13.1
Walling-Chapakot                      6.68      19.64        2.94        32        -1.4%        -11.1
Bahadurganj-Taulihawa               20.75       25.92        1.25        131       24.6%        28.1
Parasi-Jamuniya                      12.60      15.01        1.19        34         7.7%        -3.5
Total                               138.71      148.54       1.07                  30.3%       264.5
Notes:  * Roads used for initial economic appraisal
* Excessively high due to low costs quoted
E.      Sensitivity Tests
40. A series of sensitivity tests have been undertaken to illustrate the impact on the results of
changes to the input assumptions. These are summarized in the following table, which
shows the effect on the rates of return and NPVs for both the rehabilitation and periodic
maintenance components. The tests have examined the effects of different traffic growth
rates, the assumed roughness progression and 'terminal' roughness in the no-project case,
the rate of increase in vehicle operating costs in relation to the roughness, and the assumed
starting roughness in the with-project case.
Results of Sensitivity Tests on EIRR and NPV (at 12 %)
Rehabilitation          Periodic Maintenance              Total
EIRR         NPV           EIRR          NPV          EIRR          NPV
34.4%         2807         27.6%         1474         31.5%          4272
Base Case
Traffic Growth Rate (Base Case = 6 % pa):
Growth Rate= 9% pa         38.1%          4022         31.5%         2284         35.3%          6296
Growth Rate = 3% pa        30.6%          1922         23.5%          887         27.6%         2800
Roughness Progression in D/N (Base Case = 0.5 IRI/year):
IRI = + 1.0 pa              38.6%         3365         35.7%         2267         37.4%          5623
IRI =+ 0.25 pa              30.9%         2145         20.2%          603         26.6%         2740
Maximum Roughness in D/N (Base Case = 15 IRI sealed, 20 IRI gravel):
MaxIRI=20s/25g              36.4%    |    3581         31.6%         2057         34.4%          5629
Max IRI = lOs / 15g         22.6%          955         13.9%          105         19.4%          1047
VOC Increase with IRI>4 (Base Case = 6.0% hills, 8.1 % terai):
Incr8.1%throughout          39.1%         3582         33.3%         2152         36.6%          5725
Incr 6.0% throughout        30.5%         2294         25.6%         1279         28.4%          3564
Assumed Starting Roughness WITH Project (Base Case - see earlier table):
Starting IRI minus 0.5      36.1%         3070         30.4%         1746         33.7%         4807
Starting IRI plus 0.5      32.4%          2525         24.8%         1202         29.2%         3718
10



41. The results are presented for comparison with the Base Case, which produced an overall
EIRR of 31.5% (Rehabilitation 34.4% and Periodic Maintenance 27.6%). The tests
illustrate that the initial results are relatively insensitive to the input assumptions, with
EIRRs being effected by generally less than 5%age points. The greatest potential reduction
in benefits is demonstrated by changing the assumption regarding the maximum roughness
in the do-nothing case: on the assumption that a higher standard of routine maintenance
was applied (to prevent roughness exceedinglO IRI in the no-project case) then the overall
benefits from the project could be reduced to 19.4%.
F.     Conclusions
42. Overall, the results of the re-evaluation illustrate that the project produced acceptable
returns - despite the increased costs and reduced lengths of route improved. The reasons for
this are the relatively modest costs of the periodic maintenance activities, the higher-than-
forecast traffic volumes and, most significantly, the increasingly poor condition of the
roads in the no-project case. This latter effect was influenced by the delays in
implementation and the consequent additional monsoon damage.
Summary of Economic Re-Evaluation for ICR
Length     Actual Cost    NPV       EIRR
l _______________________________ _   l (km)         (Rs  m)     (Rs  m)
Rehabilitation of Strategic Highways    215.0          1.077.8    2,800.4   35.6%
Rehabilitation of Feeder Roads           12.3           106.0        6.7   12.9%
Periodic Maintenance                    504.0           914.6    1,474.3   27.6%
Pilot Labour Based Maintenance     i   138.7            148.6      264.5   30.3%
Overall Total                           8              2,247.0    4,526.3   31.4%
Source: ICR, Economic Re-evaluation, Sept/Oct 1999
43. From an examination of the individual projects, it is evident that the greatest returns are
from  those roads firstly with the higher traffic volumes and secondly with high initial
roughness. Rates of return for rehabilitation work exceed 20% for those projects where
traffic volumes exceed 800 vpd - or slightly lower volumes if the initial roughness is high
(e.g. over 12 IRI). However, even with high initial roughness, projects with low traffic (e.g.
Naubise-Bhainse) do not justify expensive rehabilitation work.
44. For periodic maintenance, returns of over 20% were obtained where traffic levels exceeded
300 vpd: with lower traffic volumes the returns were marginal - even in cases with high
initial roughness. With higher traffic volumes, the works were justified even in situations
with relatively low roughness.
45. The Pilot Labor-Based Rehabilitation projects appear - on the basis of savings in transport
costs alone - to generate adequate returns, due to the modest cost of the works, but only for
roads with over 120 vehicles per day.
11



Annex 4a
Bank Inputs: Site Visits
Stage of Project Cycle                         Monith/Year                                     No. of l'erso,is astd Speciality"                                     Performance Ratings2'
ltmpleincnitationl          Development
P rgress                 Objectives
Identirication/Preparation               January 22 - February 19, 1992           TS, Con - 2
May 4 - 17, 1992                        TS, HE, EC - 3
September 11 - 30, 1992                  TS, CE, BMS-Cuo, EC - 4
Appraisal                                February 15 - March 11, 1993             TS, PTS, HE, SHE. PS, SD-Con. RES, Chief SAIEI. 1'0
May 15 - Jone 6, 1993                   TS, HE,  tE[Eco-. RSP, PS, SDS, Env. S, Chiet SAIEI. PO
Negotiations                             January 11 - 14, 1994                    TS, CC, DO, PTS, PE, SHE, IIE -7                           ==
Supervision                              June 21, 1999                            TM, HE/Cons_                                                                             S                         HS
August 27, 1999                          TM, HE/Cois., PS                                                                         S                        HS
December 14, 1994                        TM, HE/Conis.                                                                            S                        HS
April 19, 1995                           HE/Coos. - 2, HE - 2                                                                    S                          S
November 8, 1995                         HE/Cotis. - 2, HE - I                                                                   S                          S
March 3, 1996                            IIE/Cons. - 1, lIE - 2                                                                     S
June 28, 1996                            Eng. - 2, Eco. - 1, Eniv. Coni. - I                                                      S                         S
Dccmllber 11, 1996                      TM, Eng. - 3                                                                            U                          U
March 22, 1997                           TM, Te, Eng. - 2                                                                        U                          U
September 30, 1997                       HE, TEco., Eng., Soc.                                                                    S                         S
February 13, 1998                        BE, TEco. - 2,1S -2                                                                     S                          S
July 10, 1998                            ML, HIE, IS                                                                              5                         S
December 8, 1998                         TM, HE, TS - 2                                                                           S                         S
March 27, 1999                           TM, Fng., HIE, PS, Trp. Ecu                                                             S                          S
lIney lv vpvilaivv vl rfji,l
tOrey I, ,vvv,o,. h,ev,, iv nu,svt.vcvi,-i,,l F,,,, vet
Aeh. - Anlhre,p,,I,,uiet                                                                                                                                        IIS = t      fiJiy S Y
BMS  Bridge MAi-tee-ece Specilie                                                                                                                               S = Sl,vzv'ey
CC - Ce-try Cr-ni 1dN - U                                                                                                                                             I. ritec,..ey
CE - Civil Eqie-r                                                                                                                                              IIU = Highly U-60ujfislcry
Chied EISA - Chia. ler-gy rnd Ielrv.cure Op-rOi.-, C-e-eley DOp-rt,e-t I                                                                                       NA   N,o A.rlic.hle
C-. - Cenvule-e-                                                                                                                                                NR = N5t IrMd
DO - Divh--vevt offi.r
E. Cen. aCnvulevi Engi-er
eve<}- F.cvv,eimiO
Ec-.CeC- - Evangint Ceovletan
ev. C-. - Eevir.unmenol Sptcili
IHIEc,..- Highwvy Engim  r/E kvevriu
IS - Infr;e-tevur-e Spewielor
ML - Missi,k Lender
PE- P--ecueeeenl Enginvr
PO - Pro,g.. Off-r
PS - Pe-r-erem  Srecialier
PTS - PriH.ipnt Tr,n-p,rv Spacbirle
nSS - R  d Serer Spevinliri
SD C-,n. - S1W MMovept.pnm    C,,nroln
SDS - Staff tDevet,mee  Spre iti
SHE - Senh  ligleh-y Enginer
Sr. HE - Se-ier Highbey Engiver
TE - Tr,-cprm Ergireo
TECe-. - Troostreln Eueiei
TS - Ten-rp.rr Sprmcinlt



Annex 4b
Bank Inputs: Staffel
Stage of Project Cycle               Actual/Latest Estimate
Staff weeks           US$ (000)
Identification/Preparation                        69
Appraisal/Negotiations                            27              680,865
Supervision                                      168              411,301
ICR                                               33                    27
Total                                            297             1,092,193
1/ Also includes Bank-financed and trust fund consultants



Annex 5
Rating for Achievement of Obiectives I Outputs by Components
! g E t L S? _E



Annex 6
Rating of Bank and Borrower Performance
-A  WI
1                                              <~~~~~~~~~~~~~1






Annex 7
HIS MAJESTY'S GOVERNMENT OF NEPAL
MINISTRY OF WORKS AND TRANSPORT
DEPARTMENT OF ROADS
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project (IDA Credit 2578-NEP)
1.   Introduction
Nepal's transport system relies heavily on a relatively recent but modest road network.
Government has given priority to RMRP in order to develop maintenance implementation
capacities to safeguard past investment and strengthen the implementing agency DOR capacity
to maintain increasing road network efficiently. The project had been financed jointly by
HMG/N, IDA, DFID, SDC and LTNDP totaling 81.1 million US$. The project consists of six
main components
Components                                         Financing
a)      Road Rehabilitation (_ 400 Ki)                     IDA
b)      Periodic Maintenance (m 500 Kin)                   IDA
c)      Pilot Labor Based District Road Rehabilitation (140   IDA
I_=_  Kin)
d)      Project Preparation  and  Implementation  support
Technical Assistance
i)    Priority Investment Plan (PIP)                 IDA
ii)    Material Study and Specification updating     IDA
e)     Institutional Development and Technical Assistance
i)    Mechanical Training Center                    IDA
ii)   Plants and Equipment                           IDA
iii)   Road Maintenance Project (RMP)
1) Resealing Program                          DFID
2) Traffic Engineering and Safety Unit        DFID
3) Bridge Unit                                DFID
4) Plant Management                            DFID
5) Geo Environmental Unit
a) Bio Engineering                         DFID
b) Environment                             IDA
6) Road Sector Skill Development Unit (RSSDU)   DFID/SDC
f)      Operational Audit                                  IDA
g)      Strengthening of Maintenance Division (SMD)        SDC
h)      Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (MEU)               SDC



The SAR of the Project was prepared on February 1994, DCA was signed on June 1994
and the project had been effective from September 1994 to be completed by June 1999.
2.    Project Background
Even though Nepal's Road transport network is modest and new before the start of the
project even this strategic road network has more than 60% in poor shape and has been fast
deteriorating. In order to preserve huge investments in roads and to promote economic and
social development of the country, there has been strong need to rehabilitate and to do back log
maintenance of Roads (Periodic) and at the same time to strengthen implementing agency to
develop its capacity to develop and maintain the strategic road network efficiently with the
inputs of different technical expertise.
3.    Objectives
In order to facilitate development process of the country by reducing vehicle operating
cost and delays associated with deteriorated roads, the project is to address the road maintenance
capabilities of DOR and support maintenance and rehabilitation activities by:
a)   Insuring adequate findings of maintenance activities in priority basis.
b)    Strengthen sectoral planning by introducing network based planning initially
prioritize maintenance and rehabilitation later on support priority investment plan
(PIP).
c)   Improve public and private sector implementation capacity with a program of
institutional strengthening and human resource development strategy based on
job training and technical assistance inputs.
d)    To support private sector capabilities to do maintenance on contract by
developing yearly or multi-yearly maintenance contract ensuring timely and
regularly funding.
e)    Develop DDC's road maintenance capabilities generating rural employment
through incorporation of labor based technology.
4.    Scope of Works
a)    The original scope of rehabilitation component includes six section of strategic
highways and 130 Km of strategic feeder roads subject to feasibility.
Rehabilitation component had to be implemented in two phases. In the first phase
Thankot - Naubise (12 Km), Marsyangdi - Pokhara (44 Kin) and Chaudhar -
Gaddachowki (174 Kin) roads had to be rehabilitated and in the lind phase
Mugling - Narayanghat (36 Km), Tansen - Syangja (84 Km) of strategic
highway and Birgunj - Kalaiya (15 Km) including reconstruction of two timber
bridges Ridi - Tamghas (38 Km) and Nepalgunj - Baghauda (50 Km) subject to
feasibility had to be rehabilitated. But due to delay in procurement, excessive
monsoon rain of 1997 and deletion of some sections of Naubise - Hetauda due to
inclusion on German grant aid for rehabilitation and reconstruction of road and
bridges between Bhainse to Hetauda and design changed and cost overrun final
contract as shown in table 1 could be finalized within the prescribed time frame.
2



b)    Originally for periodic maintenance approximately in 660 Km of strategic road
network reconstruction, upgrading, resealing, gravelling, drainage improvement
and other backlog maintenance work had to be done but at the time of mid term
review in February 1996 the works could not be completed within the cost and
time frame hence some sections of the road had been transferred to resealing
program funded by DFID. Hence within this component the work had been
constrained as per table 2.
5.    PLRP
Four pilot districts had been selected in the western region around Butwal: Nawalparasi,
Kapilbastu, Rupandehi and Shyangja. In these districts total 140 Km of district roads had to be
rehabilitated and upgraded by labor based method, procure 8 sets of small equipments for road
works and 6 vehicles, 8 motorcycles for supervisors funded by IDA and training of small local
contractors and develop the capacity of DDC technical works to rehabilitate and maintain
district roads preparing District Transport Master Plan (DTMP) funded by UNDP.
DTMP of the four pilot districts had been prepared adequate numbers of local contractors
were trained and engaged in the selected road contracts to complete the works. The equipment
and vehicles for supervision of road works were procured but due to delay in procurement of
equipment those could not be properly utilized in the road works. Similarly due to time
constraint and administrative procedure not being cleared DDC's technical units had been
trained but implementation of works had been done directly by DRSDU (District Road Services
Development Unit) located at Butwal supervised by local consultants. Training of the selected
contractors in labor based method were done in Butwal. Promotion of appropriate transport
vehicle could not be developed due to time constraint and lack of technical know-how. Details
of roads (Districts) rehabilitated and maintained is given in table 3.
6.   Institutional Strengthening:
It had been envisaged that the project would support institutional strengthening of DOR
and four DDC's which will be cofinanced by HMG/N, IDA, DFID, SDC and UNDP.
IDA financed components included:
i) Field Implementation advisors for backlog Periodic and Routine Maintenance to
Divisions and Region along with concerned contractors and consultants.
ii) Continued support for the training of Mechanics and Workshop operators, supervisors,
laboratory technicians ensuring adequate maintenance and operation of training
facilities.
iii) Consultant services for special study on road construction and maintenance material
for all parts of the country and updating the specification for roads and bridges.
iv) Consultant services for the preparation of priority investment plan for 10 years in road
sector.
v) Conducting operational audit of maintenance and rehabilitation works
vi) Follow up study of road contractor industry.
vii)Developing the management plan for Bardiya National Park to address possible
adverse environmental impacts of completed road construction under Cr. 1515 NEP.
viii) Special assistance for the maintenance of Karnali Bridge
ix) Preparation study for follow up to PLRP.
3



x) Implementation of the sector environmental assessment
xi) UJNDP will support DRSDU and labor based training school at Butwal.
xii)SDC and DFID would finance to establish Road Sector Skill Development Unit in
DOR to coordinate and manage database, road sector trainings, a small trainings and
study tours to other countries by key officials in order to assess institutional options to
merge road networks including road authority and Governments Departments.
xiii) DFID will finance to train DOR officials, consultants and contractors to do resealing
program effectively and efficiently.
xiv) DFID will finance to establish Bridge unit in DOR to manage bridges stock
establishing a system of bridge maintenance of strategic road network.
xv) Similarly with DFID assistance in order to establish sound road side support practice
Bio-Engineering has to be established.
xvi) Similarly with DFID assistance in two heavy equipment divisions to improve plant
operation in order to promote private sector ownership of maintenance plant.
xvii) To establish traffic engineering and safety unit in order to build safer roads and
develop a national road safety strategy with DFID assistance.
xviii)Development of Strengthened Maintenance Division (SMD) in order to establish
efficient maintenance management system with SDC assistance.
xix) Development of monitoring and evaluation system in every level of DOR in order to
complete the roads development and maintenance works efficiently within cost and
time frame and regularly report it.
7.    Evaluation and Achievement of Objectives
In general the targeted objectives have been fulfilled, contemplating overall DOR objective
of bringing strategic road network to good and fair condition and carry planned maintenance. At
the start of project more than 50% of the SRN was in poor condition now it is less than 10%.
However, there has been some reduction in the scope of work. In rehabilitation and periodic
maintenance due to budgetary constraint Tansen - Syangja, Ridi - Tamghas and 32 Km of
Naubise- Bhainse section of Tribhuvan Rajpath had to be deleted from this project. Table 1.
Similarly in periodic maintenance originally targeted 660 Km of SRN had been reduced to 504
Km and the rest had been adjusted to DFID financed resealing program Table 2. In PLRP, even
though the program had been delayed but physical target of rehabilitating and maintaining 140
Km of district roads in four districts had been accomplished, along with presentation of DTMP
and training of small contractors and DDC technical units in maintenance and rehabilitation.
Overall with the consistent policy of Government with donors support to preserve road asset
in order to facilitate the development of the country, DOR could achieve to reduce vehicle
operating cost and delay in transport in SRN by bringing the poor SRN to good and fair
condition and starting planned maintenance, on those roads.
In the process institutional capacity of DOR, selected DDC's and that of four contractors and
consultants have been greatly strengthened. Now DOR is in the position of planning road
development and maintenance in the network level supporting the recommendation of PIP.
4



Now DOR is trying to do more and more maintenance work Iin contract along with
developing norms and procedure for maintenance contract aiming for yearly and multi-yearly
maintenance contract.
Similarly, through following project increasing District Road network are being rehabilitated
and maintained through increasing numbers of DDC along with strengthening their capacity and
that of small contractors and consultants in the labor based technology generating employment.
Local contractors and consultants capacity have been dramatically increased to handle
bigger volume of works. Overall contractors have owned more than 1000 million Rs.
maintenance equipment to do the road works and similarly in consultancy and contractors
increasing numbers of technician are engaged, which seemed to be getting recognition and
respect in public.
In general the objectives of the project are more in the institutional capacity building in
private sector, in implementing agency DOR for SRN and in local bodies DDC for local roads,
along with bringing the deteriorated SRN to maintainable condition i.e. good and fair in order to
carryout planned maintenance. These objectives had been mostly achieved but it has to be
consolidated with the consistent policy supported by donor ultimately to achieve efficiency
benefiting the road user with the reduction of VOC and delays.
In some section of rehabilitated roads Thankot - Naubise and Butwal - Tansen
recommendation of recently established Traffic engineering and safety unit had been
implemented which has greatly helped to reduce accidents and making the road safer.
There has been many initiatives to increase the capacity of DOR and private sector in order
to deliver better service to road user. DOR is in change process incorporating different expertise
units and there has been start to incorporate different initiatives in road works.
In order to construct and make existing road more safer Traffic Engineering and Safety Unit
has been established and its guidelines have been prepared and propagated among DOR
personnel and consultants and others in order to incorporate it in road construction and
maintenance.
Bridge unit also prepared the inventory and condition of bridge stock for proper and timely
maintenance and rehabilitation in order to sustain them upto design life. It has prepared
guidelines for bridge maintenance and initiated some demonstration of maintenance (major)
works to develop the capacity of DOR, contractor and consultants in bridge maintenance.
Now there has been start in looking for bridge maintenance.
Geo-environmental unit has been established under it bio engineering has been well
established. Guidelines and norms have been developed and widely distributed in DOR,
consultants and others. Many engineers, overseers and supervisor from DOR, consultants,
contractors and other Government agencies had been trained for the application of bio-
engineering and it is widely applied in road construction and maintenance. Similarly
5



Environmental Assessment Guidelines have been prepared and is being widely distributed in
DOR for its application. But in Geotechnical side there has not been progress to develop
guidelines for cost effective Geo-technical structures that can be widely used in Nepal. Highway
Management Information System (HMIS) has been established and regularly data of traffic,
road conditions and other data concerned with SRN has been collected and used for
maintenance management allocation of budget and resealing program on the network level.
With the input of Plant Management there has been start of commercialization of plants and
equipment of DOR which has positive impact in private sector to own and establish hiring unit.
In order to establish data of human resources in DOR and develop it as per need of DOR
and motivate them for delivering better services RSSDU has been established. It has
coordinated to conduct many trainings in country, short term training, long term training and
study visits and seminars abroad and in country. But in the absence of Human resource
development policy the process could not be very much effective.
For effective and timely use of scarce resources as per program Monitoring and evaluation
at all level of DOR & MOWT is must. In order to establish the system of ME, MEU has been
established. It has started to facilitate the process in every level of DOR and encourage the
reporting to the concerned authority. It is moving slowly. MEU has been facilitator in this
process.
DOR is slowly changing from traditional responsive type of management to management
to control, for this communication network is being strengthened with the introduction of Local
Area Network (LAN) and planning for Wide Area Network (WAN) in order to have efficiency
in management, planning, monitoring, evaluation reporting and data collection.
In order to preserve road assets and make best use of it improvement in maintenance
management has been initiated and increasingly the maintenance works are being done in
contracts through private. This is being expanded to cover all maintenance division by 2003.
Similarly resealing program has been prepared on the long-term basis in the network
level. Accordingly the program is being prepared.
8.    Project Sustainability
The road rehabilitated and maintained after Periodic Maintenance has been handed over to
concerned Division. These roads are being put to SMD for systematic maintenance.
Manpower, capability of DOR and budget for maintenance of SRN are being
properly in place; based on network length, road condition as evaluated every
year by DOR. Monitoring process is being strengthened, inputs of different units
TESU, Bridge Unit, GEU to the Division are regularly available.
In order to strengthen capability of private sector increasingly maintenance and
other road works are being planned and programmed in coming plans so that the
contractors and consultants have more opportunities to get works. Similarly
training of mechanics and operators for private sector and DOR are also being
6



continued and Mechanical training center is going to run on commercial line for
its sustainability.
9.    Bank's Performance
-     Bank's performance in coordinating various donor agencies has been quite good.
-     Bank's support to carryout roads development and maintenance work as per DOR
Strategy on network level is praise worthy
-     Bank's continuos support for institutional development of DOR and MOWT is
good.
-     Country office has been cooperative and prompt to process the document.
-     Bank supervision mission is helpful to sort out problems and facilitate the
development process (institutional and physically)
10.   Borrowers Performance
-     IDA Guidelines being fully followed
-     Coordination among various ministry of HMGN is satisfactory.
11.   Assessment of Outcome
Despite delays, constraints of political unstability and frequent staffs changes RMRP has
been quite successful in achieving the objectives but for sustainability and further development
of the objectives through future projects they have to be consolidated.
Drawbacks of the project implementation has been procurement delays resealing cost
overrun reducing scope of works and key staff sustainability and delays in program approval
and budget release which had adverse impact on maintenance.
12.   Future Objectives
Maintenance of strategic road network has been planned and programmed as per road
condition and traffic data annually collected in HMIS of planning divisions.
Dedicated road fund is being established independent of Ministry of Finance starting with
Toll tax, to finance maintenance of SRN. In future road fund will be supplemented by other
charges such as levy etc which will be managed by road board.
Road Board will be represented by Government and Private sector.
For few years to come still there will be need of Donor support for resealing program until
the road fund will not be sufficient to cover in full, the resealing program which had to be done
strictly in time frame.
13.   Key lesson learned
-     Procurement of civil works should be done just before monsoon so that within
the monsoon period contractor can mobilize and after monsoon they can start the
work.
-     Work Program should be spread in such a way that there should be enough time
(more than one year) at last so that work can be smoothly completed.
7



Bioengineering work has to be given to the local communities and to at last for
project period.
In ICB contract with joint venture of foreign and local contractors, foreign
contractor had been virtually remained sleeping partner, the work had been solely
completed by local contractors. Hence NCB works has to be encouraged more.
DOR presence should be increased in site deputing Project Managers in order to
reduce cost and ensure quality and at the same time to properly monitor the
supervision consultants to get the work completed within stipulated time.
Monitoring at every level of DOR to be strengthened to complete the work in
time and within cost.
Key staffs have to be made responsible and accountable along with stability at
least for minimum two years.
Regular evaluation of contractors and consultants has to be made every year and
bad performer (contractor & consultants) have to be disqualified for future
(limited time) in order to get good and dedicated works and service.
N.B. Additional information about finance is attached herewith in table 4, 5 and 6
8



Annex 7
Table 1
FINAL CONTRACT PACKAGES
Road                      Original Lengths (Km)         Lengths actually undertaken (Km)
Phase I
Thankot - Naubise                                    12                               16.535
Gaddachowki - Chaudhar                               11                                12.26
Marshyangdi - Khairenitar                            44                               44.145
Butwal - Tansen                                      37                                 41
Naubise - Simbhanjyang                              107                               42.55
Simbhanjyang - Bhainse                                                                22.666
Phase II
Birgunj - Kalaiya                                    1 5                              12.325
Dudhara Bridge along Birgunj Kalaiya road   1 No. (Span =58.72 m)              1 No. (Span =59.37 m)
Bangari Bridge along Birgunj - Kalaiya road  1 No. (Span = 58.72 m)            1 No. (Span = 59.37 m)
Mugling - Narayanghat                                36                                36.1
Tansen - Syangja                                     84                              Deferred
Tansen - Ridi - Tamghas                              58                              Deferred
Total                                               404                              227.581



Annex 7
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project
Periodic Component
Road Packages
Final Contract Packagc
Table 2
Final Contract Packages
Road              Original Lengths Km  As Built Lengths (Km)
Sealed    Gravel    Sealed      Gravel  Year / Pkg.
CENTRAL REGION
Hetauda - Narayanghat Part I       41.00       0.00      41.00       0.00     I
Hetauda - Narayanghat Part 11      33.70       0.00      33.70       0.00     I
Bhittamod - Dhalkebar              42.75       0.00      42.75       0.00    2/A
Chandranigahapur - Gaur Part 1     23.00       0.00      23.00       0.00    2/A
Chandranigahapur - Gaur Part 11     12.95      8.00      20.95       0.00    2/A
Nawalpur - Malangwa                 10.19     16.31      26.50       0.00    2A
Kakani - Trishuli Part I           21.21       0.00      21.21       0.00    2/A
Kakani - Trishuli Part 11          23.65       0.00      23.65       0.00    2/A
WESTERN REGION
Tansen - Ridi (Tansen - Harthok)    0.00      10.85       0.00      10.85     1
Syangia - Pokhara                  36.93       0.00      36.93       0.00   3&4/C
MID WESTERN REGION
Chisapani - Birendranagar Part I    0.00      33.45      33.45       0.00    2/B
Chisapani - Birendranagar Part 11   0.00      43.89      43.89       0.00    2/B
Nepalgunj - Guleriya Part 1         8.61       5.60      14.21       0.00    2/B
Nepalgunj - Guleriya Part If        0.00      21.65      21.65       0.00    2/B3
FAR WESTERN REGION
Karnali - Balaia - Atarai          73.93       0.00      73.93      0.00   3&4/C
Ataria - Chaudhar                  36.31       0.00      36.31       0.00     I
Total                             364.23     139.75    493.13      10.85
504.00               504.00



Annex 7
Ministry of Local Development
Pilot Labor Based District Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project (PLRP), Butwal
Costs of All Project Roads
Table 3
S.No.      Name of the Road Improved         Length of the Road    Total Cost *(Mil.      Duration of        Type of Improvement
improved (Km)            Rs.)             Improvement
1 Manigram - Rohini Road                              7.025               12.814 1996/97              Rehab. + New Construction
2 Gorusinghe - Patharkot Road                         11.000               0.892 1997/98              Maintenance
3 Lumbini - Kothi - Taulihawa Road                   22.900               24.186 1995/96 - 1997/98    Rehabilitation
4 Krishnanagar-Chhota-Bhagwanpur Road                 19.000               2.471 1998/99              Rehabilitation
5 Bardaghat - Pratappur Road                          10.280              10.731 1997/98 - 1998/99    Rehabilitation
6 Bhairahawa - Parasi Road                            18.474              19.646 1997/98 - 1998/99    Rehabilitation
7 Naudanda - Karkineta Road                           10.000              17.225 1997/98 - 1998-99    Rehabilitation
8 Waling - Chapakot Road                              6.680               19.645 1998/99              Rehab. + New Construction
9 Bahadurgunj - Taulihawa Road                       20.750               25.924 1997/98 - 1998/99    Rehabilitation
10 Parasi - Jamuniya Road                             12.600               15.010 1998/99              Rehabilitation
* This doesnot include the cost of supervision. The total cost of supervision for all project roads is NRs. 22.788 Million.



Project Costs
PLRP
Table 4
I  Appraisal Estimate (US$ M)                 Actual / Latest Estimate (US$ M)
Item              Local Costs    Foreign Costs       Total        Local Costs    Foreign Costs        Total
1. Civil Works                      2.151           0.432            2.583           2.222            -               2.222
2. Equipments                       0.143            1.046           1.189           0.884            0.449           1.333
3. Expatriate Specialists *         0.030            0.579           0.609            -               0.516           0.516
4. Local Specialists *               0.068           0.165           0.233            -               0.161           0.161
5. Construction Supervision         0.009            0.162           0.171           0.292             -              0.292
Total a                             2.401            2.384           4.785           3.398            1.126           4.524
UNDP TA Component



Annex 7
His Majesty's Government of Nepal
Ministry of Worsk and Transport
Department of Roads
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project
Table 5
SL. NO.   Component Name    Category         Amount US$        Remarks
I Rehabilitation Naubise  1-A            19,310,000.00
Naubise                  1-A            2,188,000.00
Sub total                              21,498,000.00
2 Periodic Maintenace     1-B            12,242,000.00
3 PLRP                    1-C             2,188,000.00
4 MTC                     1-D               45,000.00
5 Machenical Devision     2-A             1,950,000.00
6 PLRP                    2-B              562,000.00  ___  _
7 Rehabilitation          3-A             3,567,000.00
fNaubise                 3-A              550,500.00
_Periodic                3-A              766,500.00
i________ Sub total                              4,884,000.00
8 Periodic                3-B              492,000.00
FIA                     3-B               650,000.00
,Sub total                               1,142,000.00
9 PLRP                    3-C              357,000.00
GEU                      3-C               53,000.00
Sub total                                 410,000.00
10 FIA                     3-D             1,185,000.00
II Material Study          3-E              941,000.00
PIP                      3-E            1,233,000.00  _
_RMDP                    3-E              256,000.00              X
FIA                      3-E                4,000.00
MTC                      3-E            1,309,000.00
GEU                      3-E               22,000.00
Operational Audit        3-E               46,000.00
Sub total                               3,811,000.00
18 PPF                      4               591,000.00
Grand Total                   _50,508,000.00 
dAAccount\icr anxs 1,2,4,5,6,7 fin.xis



Annex 7
His Majesty's Government of Nepal
Ministry of Works and Transport
Departmoett of Roads
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation proict
IDA Credit No. 2578 NEP
Table 6
Disbursement Status as at 15 Oct, 1999
S.No.       Component           Category                       Disbursement                             Disbursed              Allocated Anount            tIndisbursed
No.                US$                       SDR                      in SOR                    in SDRI              Balance in SDR
Civil WoMkI                                               _        _   ._                           . .                                             __  _
I Rehabilitation               I-A                  15,277,257.02             11,048,557.97                                                        ___
Noubise                      I-A                   2,02t,045.24               1,575,773.38
Noubise (Consul)             I-A                     487,286.15                209,477.52                                                __            =
Sub Tobtl     I-A                   17,785,588.41             12,877,775.29             12,877,775.29              15,400,000.00           2,522,224.71
2 Periodic                     I-B                   8,617.799.77              6,360,804.51
Sub Total     I-B                    8,617.799.77             6,360,804.1I               6,360,804.51               8.710,000.00           2,349,195.49
3 PLRP                         I-C                    1.506.243.13             ,I110t164.27                                 .__                     _._._
Sub Total      I-C                   1,506,243.13              1,1 0, 164.27              1,110,164.27              1,610,o00.o0            499,835.73
4 M.T.C.                       I-D                      19,897.70                 14,398.39               ____                                   _         _
Sub Total     I-D                      19,897.70                 14,398.39                  14,398.39                1IW,009.00               85,601.61
Heavy Equip.ent Proe-rueol
_   Mecht. DIvision                2-A                    1,839,058 98              1,331,702A49                                                        _
Sub Totat     2-A                    1,839,058.98              1,331,702.49               1,331,702.49              1,600,000.00            268,297.51
6 PLRP                         2-B                     385,558.47                281,313. 83
SubTotal      2-.                     385,558.47                281,313.83                 281,313.83                460,000.00              178,686.17
7 Ve/Eqp PTB                   2-C                           0.00                     0.00                                             20,000.00              20,000.00
Coosollanc Services                                                                                                                            .
0Rehabilitation                3-A                   2,601.829.74              1,850,528.07
9 PPF                          3-A                     585,667.95                401,065.52                                                                 _       _
PedHodic                     3-A                     704,761.38                469,272.56
Sub TOal      3-A                    3,892,259.07              2,720,866.15              2,720,866.15               3,000,000.00             279,133.85
10 Pefiodic Moinenooce          3.-                     285,407.63                252,145.29
IIFIA                           3-B_                    649,970.62                445,585.93                                                            ..
Sub Total     3-H                     935,378.25                697,731.22                 697,731.22                990,800.00             292,268.78
12 PLRP                         3-C                     170,292.62                122,107.88
13 3EU                          3-C                      52,811.51                 38,515.00
Sub Total     3-C                     223,104.13                160,622.88                 160,622.88                260.000.00              99.377.12
14 HIA                          3-D                   1,030.492.32                762,065.88                                                           _
Sub Total     3-D                    1,030,492.32               762,065.88                 762,065.88               Lo400,00l0J0            637,934.12
15 FIA                          3-E                       3,619.89                  2,615.98                          .
16 0EU                          3-E                      13,326.67                  9,257.20
17 M.T.C.                       3-E                   I,191,103.37                039,s68,72                                                                            .
18 Material Study               3-E                     940,676.39                643,282.87                                     _      .
19 PIP                          3-E                   1,232,901.40                872,996.20
20 Periodic                     3-E      ._.
21 RMDP                         3-E                     255111.18                188,749.27
22 0per. Audit                  3-Ei                     25,008.26                 18,807 30
Sub Tota      3-E                    3,661,747.16              2,575,677.54              2,575,677.54               2,511o,l0l0.(o0         (75,677.54)
23 PPF/728-0/1/2                 4                        5,237.79                  3,586.04
Sub Tota       4                        5,237.79                  3,586.84                   3,586.84                550,0o0.O0             546,413.16
24 Spec. A/c. Initial Dcposit                         1,680,583.89              1,112,210-54               1.112,210.54                                     11,112,210.841
25 PPF Adjosle,et                                             0.00                    (45 55)                    (45 35)                                           45.35
Groand Tol,                           41,582,949.07             3l1o,100874.48             301,I08,874.48            36,6101,l6IlIl.00      6f.591,125.52



IBRD 30656
sr                                                          82                                                            84                                                              86o                      NE PAL                                 SE
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND
-. - ',.,.    N                         -> - N_                                                                                                                                    REHABILITATION PROJECT (Cr. 2578-NEP)
'  'N                    -                    IPROPOSED AND COMPLETED PROJECT ROADS
)                                                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJECT ROADS:
30'                       /                .                                                                                                                                                      PROPOSED  COMPLETEE ED
~~~~~~~~..; ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJEKT    PROJECT
/'         {' 9 ' <''W'<i->                              '' /-'                                                                                                                      , - .   RLHAEILITATION AND OVERLAYS OF HIGHWAYS
_    .8hua     e /     _>     -  REHAILITATON AND OVERLAYS OF FEEDER ROADS
-v     ,                 v-N                                                                                                       - --- -          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RESEALING OF ROADS
'/   S      ,lad1      "zthe r           -;                                          - N>                                                                                             .OGRAVELLING AND RESEALING OF ROADS
f                                                                                             .                                                                                                          PILOT LABOR-BASED DISTRICT ROADS
SnI dE    l     dhDra Sp'           ,               . < X                                       Jumian  LonrIn  t';                                                                             - '  /     '    = PRIMARY ALL-WEATHER HIGHWAYS
v                                                                                                                                                             G~~~d8'  0    RAVELLED/EARTHIEN ROADS
.4'     4.4                                                 '*                                                                        4 4lF   X  M   R  #,> S  n    R4TERNATIONAL AIRPORTS
MaenA,nagpr                                                                                                                   . -DOMESrIC (PAVED) AIRPORTS
K    Ano         o-   t                                                                                                                                                                              SELRCTED TOWNS AND V/LEAGES
*  NATIONAL CAPITAL
-    DISTRICT BOUPNDARIES
w    E, j   t   j  W  '    o   r  N   W    Er.$<   T t-. Ent Ei4,_, 5   t                -  - ST  ZONE BOUNDARIES
3_        DEVELOPMENT REGION BOUNDARIES
>> \_ f(ChisDp f m   L      U6                        L           i           b           a           n          s                      S          iN9   ~  8  ~   \  S  {'  (BI--^,  *  b  j    if    ~   '   ~  '  ~NINTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
N I                                        h N
28-                                                                                                                                         G.,k. 4  ah  1  1Ks'                           ' -  [   pRod   akp                                                           >
0   20   40   60   80      lD0 MILES                                                                                                                                                              JoRb4m  s .                                , Jrf,3~~~~Mu., 
IN DIA                                                                                                                                                          Sha~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nana PBik.k.,  IDAOa8B
26 ~   ~     A 80'                    120o        160>=epeon  SEOMIER ,nd,  B7n8o8r'pu38                                                                                                                                                                         n       2
In nN.n .                                                                   BA                                                                                                                                              199B
G.,gh.t  D -r--   'N~ ~ ~~DECMBR 99



