Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 2578 NEP
                       Development Credit Agreement
               (Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project)
                                  between
                             KINGDOM OF NEPAL
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                            Dated June 1, 1994
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 2578 NEP
                       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June 1, 1994, between KINGDOM OF NEPAL (the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the financing of the
Project;
      (B)   the Borrower intends to obtain from the United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP) a grant in an amount of one million dollars
($1,000,000) (the UNDP Grant) to assist in the financing of Part A.6 of the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the UNDP
Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and UNDP;
      (C)   the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland (UK) has agreed to make available to the Borrower up to
nine million six hundred thousand pounds sterling (\1a9,600,000) to assist in
the financing of Parts A.7, B.5 (a) and B.6 of the Project as set out in an
Exchange of Letters, dated December 13, 1993, between the Borrower and the
UK (the UK Grant Agreement); and
      (D)   the Borrower intends to obtain from the Government of  the Swiss
Confederation (Switzerland) a non-reimbursable contribution in an amount of
Page  2
up to four million three hundred thousand Swiss francs (Swf 4,300,000) (the
Swiss Contribution) to assist in the financing of Parts A.8 and B.5 of the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the Swiss
Contribution Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and
Switzerland; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last
sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02
(b) of this Agreement;
      (b)   "MOWT" means the Ministry of Works and Transport of the
Borrower;
      (c)   "DOR" means the Department of Roads of the Borrower within MOWT;
      (d)   "DOTM" means the Department of Transport Management of the
Borrower;
      (e)   "MLD" means the Ministry of Local Development of the Borrower;
      (f)   "NPC" means the National Planning Commission of the Borrower;
      (g)   "DRSDU" means the District Roads Services Development Unit to
be established within MLD;
      (h)   "RSSDU" means the Road Sector Skills Development Unit to be
established within DOR;
      (i)   "SMD" means the Borrower's Strengthened Maintenance Division,
being the basic administrative unit established for the purposes of road
maintenance;
      (j)   "Nepal Rastra Bank" means the Borrower's Central Bank
established and operating pursuant to the Borrower's Nepal Rastra Bank Act,
2012 (1955), as amended;
      (k)   "Fiscal Year" means the Fiscal Year of the Borrower beginning
about July 16 and ending about July 15 of the following calendar year;
      (l)   "Nepalese Rupees" or "NRs" mean the currency of the Borrower;
and
      (m)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation
advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to letter
agreements dated March 5, 1992, October 14, 1992 and January 13, 1994
between the Borrower and the Association.
                                ARTICLE II
                                The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty-six million
Page  3
six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 36,600,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in dollars a special deposit account in Nepal Rastra Bank on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments
out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay itself the
amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation
Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid
charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999 or such later
date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from
time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each
year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates
on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account
or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately
preceding the accrual date or at such other rates as may be set from time
to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June
30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in that year
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind
imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency
specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time
to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual
installments payable on each January 1 and July 1 commencing July 1, 2004
and ending January 1, 2034. Each installment to and including the
installment payable on January 1, 2014 shall be one percent (1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%)
of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita,
as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985
dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the
Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to
the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the
Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the
Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of
each such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
Page  4
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may
revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase
in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment
of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic
condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so
requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform
to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and,
to this end, shall carry out the Project, through DOR with the assistance
of MOWT, except for Parts A.5 and A.6 thereof which shall be carried out by
DRSDU with the assistance of MLD and MOWT, and for Part B.6 (d) thereof
which shall be carried out by DOTM, with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate educational, administrative and financial
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this
Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect
of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for the
                  Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in
                  accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                  consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
                  to the Association;
            (ii)  furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than twelve months after the end of
                  each such year, a certified copy of the report of such
                  audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                  as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
            (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and the audit thereof
                  as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
                  request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall:
Page  5
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
                  reflecting such expenditures;
            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Association has
                  received the audit report for the fiscal year in which
                  the last withdrawal from the Credit Account or payment
                  out of the Special Account was made, all records
                  (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                  documents) evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)   enable the Association's representatives to examine such
                  records; and
           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
                  annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section
                  and that the report of such audit contains a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together
                  with the procedures and internal controls involved in
                  their preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
                        Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   The UNDP Grant Agreement and/or the Swiss Contribution Agreement
shall have failed to become effective by July 31, 1994, or such later date
as the Association may agree; provided, however, that the provisions of this
paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction
of the Association that adequate funds for the Project are available to the
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
      (b)   (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
                  (A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
                        of any loan or grant made to the Borrower for the
                        financing of the Project shall have been suspended,
                        cancelled or terminated in whole or in part,
                        pursuant to the terms thereof, or
                  (B)   any such loan shall have become due and payable
                        prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
            (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the
                  Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the
                  Association that: (A) such suspension, cancellation,
                  termination or prematuring is not caused by the failure
                  of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
                  such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project
                  are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms
                  and conditions consistent with the obligations of the
                  Borrower under this Agreement.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely that any event specified
in paragraph (b) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur,
subject to the proviso of paragraph (b) (ii) of that Section.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
Page  6
                Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Secretary, Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            His Majesty's Government of Nepal
            Kathmandu, Nepal
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  ARTHA                      2249-ARTHA NP
                  Kathmandu
                  Nepal
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                    248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.            82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
                        KINGDOM OF NEPAL
                        By /s/ Pradeep Khatiwada
                        Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        By /s/ D. Joseph Wood
                        Regional Vice President
                        South Asia
                                SCHEDULE 1
                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit
to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
Page  7
                                 Amount of the
                                 Credit Allocated      % of
                                (Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                        SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)      Civil works for:
    (a) Part A.2 of
         the Project              12,800,000        90%
    (b) Part A.1 of
         the Project               8,300,000        90%
    (c)  Part A.5 of
         the Project               1,400,000        100%
(2)      Vehicles and                               100% of foreign
    equipment for:                                  expenditures,
                                                    100% of local
    (a)  Parts A.1                                  expenditures (ex-
         and A.4 of                                 factory cost) and
         the Project               2,450,000        90%  of local
                                                    expenditures for
    (b) Part A.5 of                                 other items pro-
        the Project700,000                          cured locally
    (c)  Part B of the
         Project60,000
(3)      Consultants'                               100%
    services and
    training for:
    (a)  Parts A.2
         and A.3 of
         the Project               1,600,000
    (b)  Parts A.1
         and A.3 of
         the Project                 750,000
    (c)  Part A.5 of
         the Project                 120,000
    (d)  Part B.2 of
         the Project               1,600,000
    (e)  Parts B.1,
         B.3 and B.4 of
         the Project               3,300,000
(4)      Refunding of                550,000        Amount due pur-
    Project Prepara-                                suant to Section
    tion Advance                                    2.02 (c) of this
                                                    Agreement
(5)      Unallocated               2,970,000
                                  __________
         TOTAL                    36,600,000
                                  ==========
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
and
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the
Borrower.
Page  8
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date
of this Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not to
exceed SDR 870,000 may be made in respect of Category (1) on account of
payments made for expenditures before that date but after August 31, 1993.
4.  The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditures under contracts for goods
not exceeding $50,000, contracts for works not exceeding $250,000 and
contracts for consultant services not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, under
such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are: (a) to support the Borrower's efforts
to develop road maintenance capabilities and to increase road maintenance
and rehabilitation activities; and (b) to that end (i) ensure adequate
funding of priority maintenance activities based on a three-year rolling
plan, (ii) strengthen sectoral planning by introducing network based
planning and developing a priority investment plan, (iii) improve public
sector implementation capacity to expand the coverage and enhance the
quality of road maintenance with a program of institutional strengthening
and human resource development, (iv) support the development of private
sector capabilities in the road sector, and (v) test ways to develop road
maintenance capabilities for local access roads under the responsibility of
District Development Committees and promote appropriate technology in road
construction and rural transport.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Maintenance and Rehabilitation Programs
1.  Carrying out periodic maintenance of selected roads and bridges of the
strategic highway and feeder road network in the Central, Western, Mid-
Western and Far-Western regions of the Borrower.
2.  Carrying out rehabilitation and overlays of selected sections of
strategic highways and feeder roads in the Central, Western, Mid-Western and
Far-Western regions of the Borrower.
3.  Provision of technical assistance for road maintenance engineering,
equipment management and quality control, construction supervision,
preparing annual maintenance programs and review of progress.
4.  Acquisition and utilization of equipment for carrying out road
rehabilitation and maintenance programs.
5.  Carrying out of a pilot program for: (a) labor-based rehabilitation and
maintenance of selected District roads in the Western Region of the
Borrower; (b) promotion of appropriate rural transport technology; and (c)
community participation.
6.  Provision of technical assistance to DRSDU and the labor-based training
school at Butwal to assist in carrying out such pilot program consisting of:
(a) training of small enterprises on labor-based methods of road
rehabilitation and improved management techniques; (b) promoting appropriate
rural transport technology; and (c) encouraging community participation in
road maintenance and related activities.
7.  Carrying out a cyclic resealing program including (a) a training program
for local contractors, and (b) training for DOR staff and local consultants
in supervision and quality control.
8.  Developing systems for, and carrying out, routine and recurrent road
maintenance within SMDs.
Part B:   Policy and Institutional Development
Page  9
1.  Provision of technical assistance to improve road sector planning and
to develop a priority investment plan for all road sector investments,
including an annual review capacity in respect of such investments, at NPC
and MOWT.
2.  Provision of field implementation advisers to assist DOR in carrying out
road maintenance programs through, inter alia, developing systems and
procedures for assessing progress, assisting in preparing reports and
monitoring and evaluating progress, and providing on-the-job training.
3.  Improving the operations of DOR's Training Center in Patan through,
inter alia: (a) the provision of technical assistance to design new training
courses; (b) the recruitment and training of additional training and support
staff; (c) the rehabilitation and expansion of the infrastructure at the
Center; and (d) the provision of equipment for operator training.
4.  Provision of technical assistance for carrying out studies on local
materials for road construction, reviewing and preparing a follow-up report
on the completed study related to road contractor industry, preparing a
report following the completion of the pilot program referred in Part A (5)
hereof, conducting an assessment of road maintenance programs, developing
a management plan for the Bardiya National Park to address possible adverse
environmental impacts of earlier road construction activities, implementing
an environmental action plan for the road sector, and carrying out
maintenance of the Karnali bridge.
5.  Carrying out of the following activities:
    (a)   establishing and maintaining a Road Sector Skills Development Unit
(RSSDU) and a Road Sector Skills Manager position in DOR to coordinate and
manage road sector training;
    (b)   providing on-the-job management training for DOR's staff,
supported where necessary by overseas study tours, to assess institutional
options to manage road networks; and
    (c)   providing on-the-job training to DOR's technical staff and local
contractors in information, supervision of works, quality control, contract
management and procurement, supported where necessary by overseas training.
6.  Carrying out of the following activities:
    (a)   establishing systems for managing and maintaining, and carrying
out limited maintenance of, the bridges of the strategic road network of the
Borrower;
    (b)   establishing an appropriate capacity for bio-engineering and
environmental works;
    (c)   improving plant operations in DOR to increase their commercial
orientation with a view to encouraging private sector participation in road
maintenance plant ownership; and
    (d)   developing and implementing a national road safety strategy within
DOTM.
7.  Developing, implementing and maintaining a road management information
system.
                                   * * *
    The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
Page  10
1.  Civil works for the rehabilitation of the Naubise-Hetauda road under the
Project, and except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and other civil
works under the Project shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and
II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
    (a)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in
paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is
delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid
price will be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed
correction factors acceptable to the Association, one to be applied to all
foreign currency components and the other to the local currency component
of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the
bid evaluation.
    (b)   In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with this Part
A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Association shall have
agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant
standard bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall
use bidding documents based on other internationally recognized standard
forms agreed with the Association.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described
in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Nepal may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs
2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2
thereto.
Part C:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
    In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures described
in Part A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference to
domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2
thereto.
Part D:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.  Except as provided in paragraph 2 hereof, civil works estimated to cost
less than the equivalent of $1,000,000 per contract up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed the equivalent of $10,000,000 may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally,
in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.  Civil works under Part A.5 of the Project: (a) for model roads, may be
carried out through force account as part of the training of contractors
under the labor-based program; (b) for trial roads, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of limited competitive bidding among
contractors who are being trained under such program, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association; and (c) for other road works,
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of limited competitive
bidding among contractors who have completed their training under such
program, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
3.  Tree planting works and services for assembling and promoting rural
transport vehicle types under Part A.5 of the Project, up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed the equivalent of $100,000, may be procured by direct
contracting with non-governmental organizations in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
4.  Except as provided in paragraph 4 hereof, equipment estimated to cost
less than the equivalent of $200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount
not to exceed the equivalent of $700,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list
of at least three suppliers from at least three different countries eligible
under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
5.  Equipment estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000 per
Page  11
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $200,000, may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
obtained from at least three suppliers, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association.
Part E:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
    (a)   With respect to each contract for goods and works under Part A
hereof, each contract for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of
$250,000 or more and each contract for equipment estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall
be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required
to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall
be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first payment out
of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
    (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply
to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.  The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.  In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the
Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such
consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for
consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall
have been agreed by the Association. Where no relevant standard contract
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other
standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review
or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to
contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each. However,
this exception to prior Association review shall not apply to the terms of
reference for such contracts or to the employment of individuals, to single
source selection of firms, to assignments of a critical nature as reasonably
determined by the Association or to amendments of contracts raising the
contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above.
                                SCHEDULE 4
                          Implementation Program
1.  The Borrower shall: (a) by May 31, 1994, prepare and review with the
Association a three-year rolling plan for the road sector; and (b) up-date
and review such plan with the Association by March 31 of each subsequent
year.
2.  The Borrower shall: (a) by December 31, 1996, prepare a priority
Page  12
investment plan, satisfactory to the Association, for new construction,
upgrading and maintenance of roads setting forth the scope of work, sources
of financing, and a timetable for implementing such plan; and (b) implement
such plan in accordance with such timetable.
3.  The Borrower shall ensure that average annual budgetary allocations and
expenditures for the road sector during the implementation of the Project
do not exceed the equivalent of $70 million.
4.  The Borrower shall, within the framework of the budgetary allocations
established pursuant to paragraph 3 of this Schedule: (a) increase funding
for carrying out periodic, emergency and routine maintenance of all roads
of the Borrower during Fiscal Year 1993-94 to an aggregate amount of NRs 230
million; and (b) for each subsequent Fiscal Year, allocate funding for
carrying out such maintenance works as follows: NRs 270 million during
Fiscal Year 1994-95, NRs 330 million during Fiscal Year 1995-96, NRs 400
million during Fiscal Year 1996-97, and NRs 470 million during Fiscal Year
1997-98.
5.  The Borrower shall, by August 31, 1994, establish a mechanism for
funding periodic, emergency and routine maintenance of all roads of the
Borrower, including guidelines and procedures for its operation,
satisfactory to the Association.
6.  The Borrower shall:
    (a)   by May 31, 1994, establish RSSDU and appoint a Road Sector Skills
Manager in DOR, referred to in Part B.5 (a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
having adequate qualifications and experience for purposes of managing and
coordinating road sector training under the Project;
    (b)   appoint consultants and advisers required for supervising road
rehabilitation and periodic maintenance works under: (i) Part A.3 of the
Project, by May 31, 1994; (ii) Part B.1 of the Project, by July 31, 1995;
(iii) Part B.2 of the Project, by May 31, 1994, and (iv) Part B.3 of the
Project, by July 31, 1994;
    (c)   prepare terms of reference, satisfactory to the Association, for
carrying out the studies referred to in Part B.4 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement as follows: (i) local materials for road construction, by May 31,
1994; (ii) an assessment of road maintenance programs, by May 31, 1994;
(iii) management plan for Bardiya National Park, by July 31, 1994; (iv)
implementation of the sector environmental action plan, by May 31, 1994; and
(v) follow-up to the pilot project, by December 31, 1997;
    (d)   by July 31, 1994, establish DRSDU in MLD and appoint consultants
to assist in carrying out the technical assistance referred to in Part A.6
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
    (e)   by May 31, 1994, establish an environmental unit in DOR and
appoint a senior engineer to head such unit having adequate qualifications
and experience;
    (f)   by May 31, 1994, appoint a Project Coordinator in the Foreign
Cooperation Section of DOR to be in charge of the road rehabilitation works
under the Project, a Project Coordinator in the Maintenance Section of DOR
to be in charge of the maintenance works under the Project and a Project
Manager in DRSDU to be in charge of the pilot program of labor-based
rehabilitation and maintenance of roads under the Project; and
    (g)   by May 31, 1994, approve the appointment of the specialist
consultants for the purposes of Parts B.6 (a), (b), (c) and (d) of the
Project.
7.  The Borrower shall, by March 31 in each year, beginning, however, with
May 31 in 1994, appoint consultants for supervising periodic road
maintenance works under Part A.1 of the Project for each following Fiscal
Year.
8.  The Borrower shall through DOR:
    (a)   carry out periodic maintenance and rehabilitation activities under
Parts A.1 and A.2, respectively, of the Project in respect of those roads
Page  13
and sections selected with the approval of the Association;
    (b)   by October 31 of each year submit to the Association for its
approval a draft annual program of maintenance and rehabilitation works to
be carried out in the following Fiscal Year under Part A of the Project,
together with precise identification of the roads and bridges to be included
in such program from among the selected roads, final economic evaluations
and completed environmental screening;
    (c)   revise such annual program taking into account the Association's
comments and recommendations, and provide an updated program to the
Association by March 31 of each year together with final cost estimates,
traffic projections and selected engineering solutions; and
    (d)   carry out such annual work programs in a manner satisfactory to
the Association.
9.  The Borrower shall, by June 30, 1994, prepare an environmental action
plan for the road sector, satisfactory to the Association, for purposes of
screening the design and construction of roads in order to ensure
environmental safeguards in respect of: (a) landscaping borrow areas,
quarries and spoil tips; (b) storage areas and especially those for diesel
fuel and bitumen; and (c) office yards to avoid groundwater and stream
pollution.
10.       The Borrower shall: (a) by December 31, 1997, complete the studies
referred to in Part B.4 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and based on the
results thereof prepare a plan of action, including a timetable,
satisfactory to the Association; and (b) implement such plan of action in
accordance with such timetable.
11.       The Borrower shall by June 30, 1995 and every two years thereafter
during the implementation of the Project carry out a technical assessment
of road maintenance works carried out under the Project, and implement in
a manner satisfactory to the Association the recommendations resulting from
such assessment.
12.       Without limitation to the generality of Section 9.06 of the
General Conditions of the Association, the Borrower shall, not later than
30 days after the end of each quarter during the implementation of the
Project, provide to the Association quarterly reports on the progress of
carrying out of the Project.
13.       The Borrower shall, in consultation with the Association and in
accordance with terms of reference and methodology satisfactory to the
Association, undertake and complete by October 31, 1995, a mid-term review
of the Project, and, shall, promptly thereafter, carry out the agreed
recommendations of such review in a manner satisfactory to the Association.
14.       The Borrower shall, in association with the Association, UNDP, the
UK and Switzerland, take all necessary steps to ensure timely and effective
coordination of the activities in respect of, and the assistance to, the
Project of the Association, UNDP, the UK and Switzerland.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                              Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means any of the Categories set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time
to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement; and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$2,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
Page  14
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the AuthorizedAllocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall
be made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits
which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits into
                the Special Account at such intervals as the Association
                shall specify.
         (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Association the documents and other
                evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule
                for the payment or payments in respect of which replen-
                ishment is requested. On the basis of each such request,
                the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
                from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special
                Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested
                and as shall have been shown by said documents and other
                evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for
                eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other
evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence showing that
such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special
Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
    (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice
the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in
an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was
not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the
Page  15
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit
or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover
further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding
amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
