Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14684
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
OFFICE NATIONAL DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS (ONPT)
FIRST TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
(LOAN 2798-NOR)
JUNE 23, 1995
Private Sector Development, Finance and Infrastructure Division
Maghreb and Iran Department
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bY recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



EXCHANGE RATES
Currency Unit = Moroccan Dirham (DH)
Equivalency of I US$ in DH since 1987
(Annual Average)
1987                 8.36
1988                 8.21
1989                 8.49
1990                 8.24
1991                 8.71
1992                 8.54
1993                 9.30
1994 (through Dec)   9.21
MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
Government and ONPT: January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DEL   - Direct Exchange Line (Telephone line in service)
GDP   - Gross Domestic Product
EBRD  - International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB    - International Competitive Bidding
ICR    - Implementation Completion Report
IMF   - International Monetary Fund
ONPT  - Office National des Postes et Telecommunications du Maroc
P&T   - Posts and Telecommunications
TORs  - Terms of Reference (study, mission)
VAT   - Value added tax



Implementation Completion Report                                                             FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
OFFICE NATIONAL DE POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS (ONPT)
FIRST TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface
Evaluation Summary
Part I:          Project Implementation Assessment
A.  Statement and Evaluation of Objectives--------------------------------                                    1
B.  Achievement of Objectives-----------------------------------------------                                  2
Sector Policies --------------------------------------------------------                           2
Institutional Development -------------------------------------------                              3
Physical Objectives ---------------------------------------------------                            4
Staff Productivity -----------------------------------------------------                           5
Cost of the Project----------------------------------------------------                            6
Procurement-----------------------------------------------------------                             7
Disbursements---------------------------------------------------------                             7
Financial Objectives --------------------------------------------------                            7
C.  Major Factors Affecting the Project ------------------------------------                                 9
Factors Not Generally subject to Government Control-----------                                     9
Factors generally subject to Governm ent Control ----------------                                 10
Factors generally subject to ONPT  Control -----------------------                                10
D.  Project Sustainability -----------------------------------------------------                             10
Project Benefits-------------------------------------------------------                           10
Sustainability----------------------------------------------------------                          11
E.  Bank Performance --------------------------------------------------------                                1 I
Preparation, Appraisal -----------------------------------------------                            I 1
Supervision------------------------------------------------------------                           12
F.  Borrower Performance---------------------------------------------------                                  13
Compliance with Loan and Guarantee Agreements Covenants--                                         13
This document has a restricted distnibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Implementation Completion Report
Page No.
G. Assessment of Outcome--------------------------------------------------  13
H. Future Operation----------------------------------------------------------  14
I. Key Lessons Learned-----------------------------------------------------  14
Part II:       Statiscal Tables
Table 1:      Summary of Assessments
Table 2:      Related Bank Loans
Table 3:      Project Timetable
Table 4:      Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5(a):   Operational Targets
Table 6(a):   Forecast of the Operational Targets
Table 6(b):   Forecast of the Financial Targets
Table 7:      Studies Included in Project
Table 8A:    Project Costs
Table 8B:    Project Financing
Table 9:      Internal Economic Rate of Return
Table 10:     Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:     Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:     Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:     Bank Resources: Missions
Appendix: Borrower Contribution to the ICR



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MOROCCO
FIRST TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT (LN 2798-MOR
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the First
Telecommunications Project in Morocco, for which Loan 2798-MOR in the amount of
US$125.0 million equivalent was approved April 27, 1987 and made effective on
November 30, 1987.
The loan was closed on December 31, 1994, the original closing date. In August
1988, US$9.0 million was canceled following the award of a contract to a domestic cable
manufacturer, which was not in compliance with Bank procurement guidelines. The
revised loan amount of US$116.0 million was fully disbursed, with the last disbursement
taking place on February 28, 1995. There was no cofinancing for the project.
The ICR was prepared by Philippe Lechamy of the Telecommunications and
Informatics Division of the Industry and Energy Department, and reviewed by Henri
Beenhakker, Acting Division Chief, Private Sector Development, Finance and
Infrastructure Division, Maghreb and Iran Department (managing division) and Rene
Costa, Project Advisor. The borrower provided comments that are included as an
appendix to the ICR.
The ICR is based on material in the project file, and its preparation was begun
during the Bank's final supervision/completion mission in October 1994. The borrower
contributed to preparation of the ICR by preparing a working paper incorporating a great
deal of information and data, their own evaluation of project execution and providing
comments on the draft ICR.






Implementation Completion Report
First Telecommunications Project
Loan 2798-MOR
MOROCCO
Evaluation Summary
Introduction. Prior to the First Telecommunications Project, the Bank had had no
previous experience in the sector. A Bank sector study carried out in 1982 recommended
sector restructuring as a prerequisite for rapid sector expansion and modernization. The
Bank strategy underlying the project was to help ONPT identify and alleviate institutional
and financial constraints to sector expansion. During project preparation, the legal
framework for restructuring the sector was put in place, and improvement of sector
organization and management was undertaken.
Project Objectives. The primary objective of this project was to expand, improve and
modernize Morocco's telecommunications infrastructure, with the primary emphasis on
institutional development as the principal means of strengthening implementation capacity.
On the basis of a large development program of needed investments put together by
ONPT, the project would help to increase access to service in urban, rural and isolated
areas to meet the large unsatisfied demand, improve service quality and reliability, and
maximize the mobilization of fiscal resources.
Due to IMF restrictions on Morocco's extemal financing, and scarcity of foreign
exchange, it was agreed that the Government and ONPT would not be able carry out the
large amount of investment needed to achieve the level of growth desired in the sector, all
at one time. Therefore, ONPT's program of institutional improvements and physical
investments were split into two phases; Phase I covered by the First Telecommunications
Project, and Phase II to be covered by the ongoing Telecommunications Restructuring
Project. Phase I included providing and installing telephone lines together with the
associated external plant and transmission equipment, including replacement of worn out
and obsolete equipment, provision of specialized services (data systems, mobile land and
maritime radio communications), strengthening ONPT's subscriber line connection,
maintenance and service quality monitoring capacity, and training and technical assistance.
(para. 5)
Implementation Experience and Results. ONPT's unfamiliarity with Bank procurement
rules, given that the project was the first in the sector, did delay completion of most of the
contracts financed through the loan. However, efforts made to correct the difficulties did
make up most of the delay and the physical objectives of the project were realized by the
project's closing date. (para. 11)
The primary sector objective of expansion and modernization of the network was
fully met, particularly with respect to DEL connections, telephone exchange capacity,
digitilization of the network, and service access to rural areas (paras. 12, 13). Service
quality objectives, however, proved to be a little too optimistic, with call completion rates



Implementation Completion Report     ii
of only 57% for local and 47% for long distance, instead of 80% and 90%, respectively, as
originally projected. Maintenance rates for the local networks were close to targets, as the
percentage of faults repaired within 48 hours increased from 50% to 85% with the original
target being 90%. Local network reliability, measured in number of subscriber complaints
per 100 DELs per year, although somewhat improved, is still high at 67% compared to the
target of 30%. ONPT is aware of the problems and is taking corrective actions (para. 15).
The project's sustainability is assured through ONPT's current commitment,
through a performance contract (Contrat Programme 1993-97) with the Government, to
continue network expansion, improve service quality and maintain adequate financial
performance of its operation. The focus placed on projected performance indicators for
the coming years will contribute to this and the ongoing projects' long term institutional
and financial sustainability (para. 38).
A comparison of the average cost per installed line unit at appraisal and at
implementation, shows that actual cost at implementation, in 1991, was approximately 4%
higher than estimated at appraisal. However, during the period 1992-94 when the
network was being expanded by 419,000, the cost per line decreased by about 28% due to
worldwide price reductions on telecommunications equipment as a result of technological
advances and competitive procurement on the part of the borrower (para. 17).
The amount of the Bank loan was appropriately tailored to finance project
components less attractive for bilateral and commercial financing. Although representing
only 18.5% of the original financing plan, the Bank's contribution had a significant
catalytic effect on raising financing for the investment program (para. 41).
One important factor that positively affected the overall cost of the project and
achievement of physical objectives, was the substantial reduction of international market
prices for high technology digital switching and transmission equipment. These new
systems also provide better and more reliable service, and less maintenance. A factor
which negatively affected the project was the difficulty in finding qualified personnel, or
being able to train staff to improve their skills. As a result, domestic contractors with
underqualified or improperly trained staff carried out substandard works that are now
affecting the reliability of the networks (para. 31).
The Government's vision for a modem Morocco provided a positive and
supportive environment for the commercialization of ONPT, the reorganization of its
structure and the progressive introduction of a business management culture. With the
launching of the Government's privatization program in 1992, it is expected that the
Government will continue to pursue a policy of sector liberalization and private sector
participation in the framework of the ongoing Telecommunications Restructuring Project
(para. 33).
When considering the overall outcome and achievements of the project, Bank
performance was satisfactory. However, considering the length of time that was required



Implementation Completion Report     iii
to prepare, appraise, negotiate and finalize the project, Bank performance was less than
satisfactory. ONPT's performance was highly satisfactory, particularly considering the
original low level of development and the lack of experience in managing a large
development project. The performance of contractors, consultants, and suppliers was
satisfactory (para. 45).
The projects outcome is satisfactory. It exceeded some of its physical objectives
and fully achieved other major objectives. It is expected to achieve satisfactory
development results with only a few shortcomings regarding the timely completion of the
management improvement component, which is being taken care of under the current
Telecommunications Restructuring Project (Ln. 3557-MOR) (para. 47).
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned. Project
benefits are significant and higher than expected. They include: (a) a dramatic increase in
both quality and coverage of telecommunications services; (b) transformation of ONPT
from a government agency into a more commercially oriented entity; and (c) the splitting
up of ONPT's telecommunications and postal activities in preparation for the creation of
the fully autonomous Maghreb Telecommunications Company and the Postal Entity (para.
36).
Building upon reforms initiated under this project, the follow on operation, the
Telecommunications Restructuring Project, is pursuing and deepening the reforms
through: (a) full separation of postal activities and telecommunications into two distinct
legal entities; (b) set up of a regulatory structure outside of ONPT; (c) elimination of
ONPT's monopoly on value added and basic services; and (d) corporatization of ONPT
and opening of its equity to private capital (para. 48).
A key question debated at the time of project completion was whether ONPT
should continue to operate in its present form, or if its efficiency could be increased if it
were totally or even partially privatized. By building a strong relationship with the
borrower and the Government during project implementation, the Bank was able to
convince them to develop a restructuring strategy more far reaching than if such a strategy
had been discussed in the early stages of project preparation. As a result, it was decided
to separate the postal and telecommunications services and privatize the accompanying
services before deciding on the privatization of telecommunications (para. 51).






a
a
1
a
I
so






Kingdom of Morocco
Office National de Postes et Telecommunications (ONPT)
First Telecommunications Project
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Statement and Evaluation of Objectives
1.    The first telecommunications project in Morocco, which was supported by the $125.0
million Bank Loan 2798-MOR, was implemented by the Office National des Postes et
Telecommunications (ONPT) as Borrower, under the Guarantee of the Kingdom of Morocco.
ONPT was created in 1984, shortly before project preparation started, as a State-owned semi-
autonomous operating entity under the policy guidance of the Ministry of P&T. Prior to the start
of the project, the telecommunications sector in Morocco was severely constrained by lack of
financial resources and adequate institutional capacity to develop and operate the system and to
provide satisfactory services to the public and the economy. The sector was characterized by
chronic underinvestment resulting in slow development growth, low telephone penetration (on
average 1.0%) 80% of which was concentrated in urban areas, large unsatisfied expressed demand
(60% of demand met), traffic congestion particularly in long distance and international services
(only about 30% of call completion rate) and reduced service reliability due to obsolete facilities.
2.    The primary sector objectives set up by the Government of Morocco at the onset of the
project specifically addressed the modernization and expansion of the country's
telecommunications infrastructure. These objectives were to increase access to service in urban,
rural and isolated areas to meet the large unsatisfied demand, improve the service quality and
reliability, as well as maximize the mobilization of fiscal resources. To meet these primary sector
objectives, ONPT designed a large development program for the period 1987 to 1994, aimed at
expanding the total installed exchange capacity from 285,000 line units at the end of 1986 to
about one million in 1994. Over the period, the number of subscribers would increase from
253,000 to 820,000. This ambitious program aimed to replace obsolete facilities, introduce
modern digital technologies, provide service to all parts of the country, meet 80% of the
expressed demand in 1994, and provide new specialized services, particularly to the business
community.
3.    The project was initiated in 1985 in a monopolistic environment. No broad policy
objectives or statements related to the liberalization of the sector, introduction of competition and
active participation of the private sector in development and operations, were discussed and
agreed with the Government. In this context, the project concept was still in line with the
traditional public utilities approach. All institutional objectives were concentrated on relieving
organizational, management and financial constraints existing within the newly created ONPT.



Implementation Completion Report         2
However, during the implementation period, a constructive dialogue started between the Bank
and the Moroccan sector authorities and led toward a new policy approach to the sector issues
and the definition of sector policy objectives in line with the current worldwide trends.
4.    A comprehensive program of technical assistance to ONPT amounting to 100 staff months
and including training and computer equipment, was integrated into the project with the specific
objectives of: (a) improving the entity's overall management and organization;
(b) streamlining management and organization of the telecommunications department;
(c) introducing a cost accounting system; (d) carrying out a tariff study; (e) introducing
management information systems and preparing a master plan for the computerization of ONPT
activities; (f) reviewing staffing requirements, recruitment, and promotion policies; and
(g) carrying out a comprehensive staff training program. An action plan and time schedule for
implementation of this T.A. was prepared in consultation with the Bank. Furthermore, to restore
ONPT's financial soundness, the Government agreed to settle its arrears due for
telecommunications services in installments over the period 1987- 1992, and provide adequate
budget allocation for future consumption. Financial discipline was to be strengthened through
annual audits as per Bank requirements and hidden cross-subsidies between ONPT's
telecommunications and postal/financial services were to be avoided.
5.    In 1987, Morocco's external financing was still subject to IMF restrictions on the average
length of maturities. Scarcity of foreign exchange was a serious constraint to rapid expansion.
Furthermore, ONPT's projected internal cash generation would not have been sufficient to cover
the large amount of local expenditures required by fast growth, and should have been
supplemented by an amount of local borrowing exceeding, at the time, the capacity of the local
capital market. For these reasons, the objectives of growth were reduced while more emphasis
was put on institutional objectives and the investment program was, consequently, split into two
phases: Phase I starting in 1987 to be completed in 1992 and Phase II starting in 1990 to be
completed in 1994. The First Telecommunications Project in Morocco, subject of this ICR,
covers the investments of Phase 1. This phase included ongoing works for about 100,000 line
units of switching equipment, new works under the project for about 290,000 additional line
units, practically doubling the network capacity under the project, and replacement of 34,000 line
units of obsolete equipment. The current Telecommunications Restructuring Project covers Phase
II. Both projects are considered as a continuous operation, the operational phase of the first
project sustaining the development phase of the following project.
B. Achievement of Objectives.
Sector Policies
6.    When the project was initiated, the worldwide debate on telecommunications policy had
not yet reached Morocco. However, following a Bank initiative, in early 1991, the Government
hired a consultant to assist in the definition of the major sector policy changes that would be
appropriate in the Moroccan context. The consultant contract was financed by the Bank through



Implementation Completion Report         3
the proceeds of the current Loan 2798-MOR. The outcome of the consultant review was the
preparation of a Statement of Sector Policy that became the subject of the dialogue between the
Bank, the Government and ONPT. On this basis, the preparation and appraisal of the ongoing
Telecommunications Restructuring Project was started (Ln 557-MOR). Under the first project, a
first step in the right direction was made toward the full separation within ONPT of
telecommunications and postal services (see para. 8 below).
Institutional Development
7.    Institutional Objectives. In the framework of this project, the institutional objectives were
restricted to the domain of the operating entity; they included changes in ONPT's organization
and improvements in management.
8.    Organization. Supported by previous consultants' studies initiated before starting the
project, ONPT's internal structure had been reorganized, first in creating functional departments
at the headquarters in Rabat and then in decentralizing local services operations through the
creation of seven regional directorates (Casablanca, Fes, Marrakech and Rabat in 1988; Oujda and
Settat in 1990; and finally Agadir in 1992). Regional training centers were also created for low-
level technicians while high-level engineering and management personnel was centrally trained in
the P&T Institute in Rabat. The most important structural change occurred in 1991 with the
separation of telecommunications and postal services, and both activities became functionally and
financially independent from each other. ONPT's Director General ensures appropriate
management linkage between them. This separation should facilitate the future creation of the
Maghreb Telecom Company (Itissalat al Maghrib) under the Telecommunications Sector
Restructuring Project. In this respect, the organizational aspects of the institutional objectives as
designed at project appraisal were satisfactorily reached.
9.    Management. The transition from a Government administration type of management
towards a commercially oriented management type, such as was targeted for ONPT, requires a
completely new approach to doing business, a new corporate culture, and the introduction and
implementation of modern computerized management systems and procedures. These changes
required more time than previously expected. The effective start of this project component was
postponed until 1990. The T.O.Rs for the management consultants were not defined during
project appraisal; preparing, reviewing and discussing them with the Bank, as well as selecting and
contracting the management consulting firm, was very time consuming; and the lack of continuity
in the support of the financial management side of the technical assistance contributed, at least
partially, to the delays in implementing the accounting component.
10.   A single contract awarded to a joint venture of two consulting firms included five
components, namely: (a) procurement, supplies and stores; (b) financial management and
accounting; (c) human resources development; (d) commercialization, tariffs; and (e) a master
plan for the computerization of ONPT's activities. The consultant services have been assessed as
satisfactory by ONPT; their contribution in the form of specific recommendations is supported by



Implementation Completion Report         4
documentation, manuals of procedures, systems software, etc. ONPT created ad-hoc working
groups in charge of progressively implementing the consultants' recommendations; they are still in
the process of completing the introduction of the new methods, procedures and associated
computer systems. Some additional consultant assignments have started in the framework of the
restructuring project that will support and complement the major improvements initiated under
the first project. ONPT expects that the objective of commercialization will be met during the
course of 1995. Regarding the introduction of a cost accounting system, the timeframe for
meeting this objective turned out to be unrealistic. This objective will be met during the
restructuring of ONPT.
Physical Objectives
11.  Implementation schedule. According to the original plan, most of the contracts to be
financed though Loan 2798-MOR should have been completed by the end of 1992. However,
this project being the Bank first in the sector, ONPT was not familiar with ICB procurement rules,
and it took more time than anticipated to get the process started, whereas other project
components not financed by the Bank experienced fewer delays. Thanks to substantial efforts, the
overall physical objectives of the project were generally met by the final closing date.
12.   Growth Objectives of the Network. The primary sector objective of expansion and
modernization of the network as set up by the Government was fully met and even somewhat
exceeded (Annex A, Table 5(a)). At the end of 1992, when the project should have been
completed, ONPT had already connected 657,000 DELs compared to the initial objective of
609,000 DELs. The rate of achievement is then 108% for the period 1988-1992. The project's
original plan had a target of 820,000 connected subscriber lines (DELs) at the end of 1994; the
actual number of DELs already reached 840,000 at the end of 1993 and about one million DELs
are expected at the end of 1994, which give a rate of achievement of 122% for the whole period
1988-1994.
13.   The capacity of the telephone exchanges increased by 824,000 line units of digital
switching equipment, from 293,000 at the end of 1987 to 1,117,000 lines toward the end of 1994;
among which 93,000 new line units were installed replacing obsolete analogue electromechanical
switching equipment. The digitalization rate of the Moroccan telecommunications network
compares with the most advanced industrialized countries: at the end of 1993, it reached 90% for
the telephone exchanges and 88% for the long distance transmission circuits, showing that the
objective of modernization of the network has also been fully reached.
14.   The access to rural areas has also been improved during the project period, as 65% of the
rural communities had access to telephone service at the end of 1993. The number of public
telephones has increased from 476 at the start of the project to 4378 at the end of 1993. The
objectives of connecting additional telex subscribers have not been reached, because, as
everywhere else in the world, telex service is regressing and being replaced by facsimile and



Implementation Completion Report         5
higher speed data transmission. Cellular mobile telephony was introduced by ONPT in 1987 and
the system had 6725 subscribers at the end of 1993.
15.   Objectives of service quality. Before implementing the project, the quality of service
provided by the Moroccan telecommunications network was rather poor in all aspects, and
substantial improvements have been achieved. The technical call completion rate has improved
from 84 to 94% between 1987 and 1994. However, the overall commercial call completion rate,
as measured from the subscriber point of view, remains around 57% for local and 47% for long
distance traffic.' On this point, the original objectives of 80% and 75%, which were based on the
experience of industrialized countries, were too optimistic. These objectives were downgraded
for the second phase of network development. Regarding the maintenance targets of the local
networks, the percentage of faults repaired in 48 hours increased from 50% to 85%, which is
close to the original target of 90%. The reliability of the local networks expressed in number of
subscriber complaints per 100 DELs per year remains well below the objectives. Improvements
have been noted, on average the number of complaints decreased from 115% in 1987 to 67% in
1993, but this ratio is still too high when compared to the target of 30%, and particularly
considering that most of the DELs are now connected through new networks. One fault per DEL
every 18 months on average shows a serious problem of reliability of the local networks, namely
at the distribution and subscriber installation level. Taking into account the large number of new
local cable networks installed towards the end of the project period, we may assume that the great
pressure resulting from the high priority given to connect new subscribers had a negative impact
on the quality. ONPT is aware of the problem and corrective actions have already been planned.
Staff Productivity
16.   The large expansion of the telecommunications systems required a particularly sustained
effort in recruiting and training new staff. The employment market in Morocco would provide a
sufficient number of people willing to join ONPT, but finding qualified personnel and providing
proper training was a serious challenge throughout the project period. ONPT's salaries and
conditions of employment are attractive enough in the Moroccan context for most of the
engineering, technical and operating staff. However, the competition from the private sector is
noticeable for managers, accountants and computer specialists. Total work force employed in
ONPT's telecommunications branch reached 12,632 staff at the end of 1993 compared to 6,467 at
the start of the project. The objective of staff productivity expressed in number of employees per
1,000 DELs was 15.4 at the end of 1993 compared to 25.6 at the beginning of the project; it has
surpassed the original target of 19, which is very satisfactory.
/  The technical rate refers to calls having electronically reached the subscribers' numbers  dialed; the
commercial rate refers to links effectively completed with the called subscribers.



Implementation Completion Report         6
Cost of the Project
17.   At project appraisal, the Bank participated in the financing of the first five-year slice
(1987-1991) of ONPT's investment program. The second slice was scheduled to start in 1990.
Due to lack of cost accounting within ONPT, changes of implementation schedules, delays of
some Phase I components, and early beginnings of Phase II elements, a detailed cost analysis of
each project component would be impossible. However, a comparison of the average cost per
installed line unit between appraisal and implementation gives a sufficient appreciation of the
overall development of the investment costs during the project implementation. At project
appraisal, for a forecasted installation of 324,000 line units and a total investment outlay of
$674.5 million, the average estimated cost per line was $2,081. At the end of 1991, for an actual
installation of 426,000 line units at a total investment cost of $ 921.7 million, the average cost per
line was $2,164, or by 4% slightly above the appraisal estimated cost. Between 1992 and 1994,
for an additional expansion of 419,000 lines, at a cost of $761.6 million, the average cost per line
dropped to $1,551 per line, which shows a decrease of 28% compared to the previous project
period and of 25% compared to the original appraisal estimates. Such substantial cost savings
were the result of worldwide price reductions on telecommunications equipment made possible by
technological developments, combined with competitive procurement on the part of the borrower.
For the overall project period 1988-1994, 917,000 lines were installed at a total cost of $1.683
million (Annex A, Table 8(a)), which gives an average cost per line of $1,836, 12% below
appraisal estimates. In deducting the substantial custom duties paid by ONPT on imported
telecommunications equipment, the average cost per line of $1,224 compares with the worldwide
averages situated between $1,000 and $1,500.
Procurement
18.   At project appraisal, it was estimated that about sixty contracts would cover the entire
procurement of goods and services to be financed through Loan 2798-MOR and that 20 of them
would be awarded locally for civil works associated with the construction and installation of local
cable networks. In fact, 289 contracts were financed by the Bank, 209 of them for civil works.
Such a drastic increase in the number of contracts for civil works was the result of a decision
made by ONPT to reduce the size of these procurements in order to promote the participation of
the local civil works contractors, who would not have the capacity to execute larger contracts.
19.   The process of procurement was slow at the beginning of the project; on one hand, initial
delays were caused by the Bank in reviewing and clearing the first sets of bidding documents, but
on the other hand, delays were also caused by lack of experience within ONPT in preparing
bidding documents suitable for international competitive bidding, and in bid evaluation. Thanks to
excellent cooperation between the Bank and ONPT, the initial difficulties were overcome and
then the review and clearance process went smoothly during most of the project period. To avoid
initial delays and difficulties, ONPT recommends that the Bank organize procurement seminars
with new borrowers. Advance procurement should be encouraged as part of project preparation.



Implementation Completion Report         7
20.   Following a decision jointly made by the Bank and ONPT in August 1988, $9.0 million
was canceled from the initial loan amount of $125.0 million. This cancellation was linked to the
award of a contract to a domestic cable manufacturer, which was not in compliance with Bank's
procurement guidelines.
Disbursements
21.   No particular difficulties and no delays were encountered in the disbursement against
applications for withdrawals made by ONPT in accordance with the Bank's disbursement
handbook. The direct payment procedure was requested for  19 applications for withdrawal and
17 applications requested the issuance of a special commitment to cover a letter of credit. About
30% of the loan was disbursed against invoices below $500,000 through the Special Account
open in a Moroccan local bank (BMCE) in accordance with Schedule 5 of the Loan Agreement.
The Special Account has been replenished 20 times for a total amount of $35.9 million. In
August 1993, the Bank agreed to a proposal from ONPT to reallocate the proceeds of the loan,
including the amount of contingencies, in favor of category three -civil works and ducting-.
However, at project completion, the percentages of the loan actually disbursed against each
category were in line with the original allocation. Cumulative estimated and actual disbursements,
for each Bank fiscal year are shown in Annex A, Table 4. The project was closed on December
31, 1994, as originally scheduled.
Financial Objectives
22.   Annual audit requirements. It was agreed between the Bank and ONPT that, because of
the poor quality of the accounting system, no audit would be carried out during the first years of
the project. It was only when the restructuring project was under preparation that ONPT was
required to have its accounts audited in one sweep, from 1988 through 1991. The auditors wrote
a disclaimer and noted down all the improvements that were needed, which were already included
in the work program set down by the consultants employed to build a reliable accounting system.
The auditors, who had subsequently been hired also to help adjust past accounts, from 1984 on,
wrote a similar disclaimer related to the 1992 accounts. The first actual audit, performed with a
view to certification within a reasonable time, concerns the 1993 accounts.
23.   The 1993 report, issued in July 1994 and discussed at length with ONPT management, is
concerned with a strong reinforcement of the accounting and financial system. The report
contains numerous qualifications and points out to the main hurdles which block certification.
Some of the ancillary accounts, which are the backbone of the accounting system, are not yet
reliably linked to general accounting; they are related to fixed assets (the inventory will be
completed and the assets register computerized, in the first half of 1995), subscribers' accounts
(new software will be secured within the next two years) and a parts and works in progress
inventory (a computerized inventory management will be set up in 1995 and a works in progress
software is a requisite). ONPT's accounts are likely to receive a qualified opinion form the



Implementation Completion Report         8
auditors in 1995. Full certification is expected in 1996 when cost accounting and regional
accounting are in full operation.
24.   Government and private receivables. One of the major difficulties of the project was
getting ministries to pay their telephone bills as soon as they are due. Dirhams 1.32 billion
($155.3 million) of post and telecommunications debt prior to 1987 were repaid in six equal
installments until 1992. However, the Government had accumulated new arrears from 1987 on
and, at Bank's insistence on repayment being a condition of effectiveness of the new 3557-MOR
loan, subsequent arrears up to the end of 1992 were settled in 1993. From 1993 on, the
Government has devised a system of stamps that each ministry buys in advance: it thus opens an
account with the Treasury on which ONPT draws when bills are produced. This system is
effective, because ministries know that, when they are in default because they have no stamps left,
their telephone lines will be suspended.
25.   Private receivables have been better monitored since the commercial department was
organized in 1992. The change from the bi-monthly to monthly billing period has also helped
reduce the amount of receivables. However, after making an allowance for the lag time between
consumption registering and cut-off date, still about 50 days, private receivables are equivalent to
two months of billing, one third of which being prior to 1992. The suspension procedures are
strictly followed, and to avoid endangering the working of the network from a high number of
cut-offs, the lines of late payers are restricted to incoming calls. Moreover, a special effort is
being made to retrieve customers' old debts. The follow-up will be tighter when the new billing
and recovery software is operating, and invoices and payments are paired so that a recovery rate
may be accurately calculated, elements that are expected to be in place towards the end of 1995.
26.   Budget. Budget preparation and execution have vastly improved. For the first time, in
1995, the budget will be operational at the beginning of the fiscal year. However, budget
categories are still too general (seven regions, seven functional telecommunications departments,
postal service and two joint departments), but more detail will be possible once a cost accounting
system is set up (para. 27).
27.   Cost accounting system. The 2798-MOR credit agreement had unrealistically scheduled
the setting up of a cost accounting system in ONPT as early as January 1988, and at this time the
accounting system was still rudimentary. Cost and regionalization accountings are expected to be
in place, with the help of consultants,, around the beginning of 1996. The impact of cost
accounting implementation on the accounting system will be the ability to regionalize the
accounts, analyze the budget in an appropriate number of decision centers, which will extend its
execution scope, and produce reliable project (works in progress) and self-investment accounts.
Cost accounting will also help management make strategic decisions by comparing alternatives in
production, distribution, location of activities, launching new products, tariffs and internal
organization.



Implementation Completion Report         9
28.   Tariffs. The 2798-MOR credit agreement also specified that a tariff study be available in
June 1988. Subscribers' accounting was not ready at that time and the study was only produced
in May 1993, and its recommendations were implemented in 1994. As duration and time-of-the-
day tariffs already existed in the main cities, the geographical districting was reduced to four
zones, but the main innovation of the study was to establish an observatory of 150,000 lines,
made of a representative cross section of consumers, and a panel of 2,000 subscribers, for detailed
analyses and specific studies. Following the commercial department's mastering of these new
tools, consultants will help ONPT, during 1995, make full use of the panel in the analysis of
economic and special facets of telecommunications and eventually make amendments to tariffs.
29.   Financial indicators. Separate accounts for telecommunications and post have been
prepared each year since 1990, and retrospectively since 1984. Financial indicators have been
satisfactory throughout the implementation of the project (Annex A, Table 5(b)): the net internal
cash generation has almost been consistently above the covenanted 45% on a three-year average
(lows of 44% and 43% in 1990 and 1991, but 53%, 62% and 57% from 1992 through 1994), the
debt service coverage ratio has been consistently above 2, the rate of return on investment was
high, 13% in 1991 and 1992, 11% and 17% in 1993 and 1994, the debt equity ratio is around
45%. Operating cost per main connected line has increased from 1987 to 1993, but has decreased
in constant prices, and operating revenue per connected line has decreased because of tariff
stability, which is sound for the economy.
30.   Taxes. ONPT pays monopoly taxes (10% of total revenues), company taxes (40% of
income) and custom duties (1 8% of annual investment). Total taxes received by the Government
from ONPT in 1993 were equivalent to about one third of its revenues for that year.
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project
Factors not generally subject to Government control
31.   One important factor that positively affected the overall cost of the project is the
substantial reduction of international market prices for the high technology digital switching and
transmission equipment, which was noticeable during the project period. In addition to lower
investment costs, the new technology systems provide better and more reliable services and
require less maintenance, which also has a positive impact on staff productivity (Table 5(a)) and
operating costs (para. 30). Although there are parts of the telecommunications infrastructure
such as local distribution cable networks, ducting and associated civil works, which did not
benefit from lower prices, the overall saving on the total investment costs was about 25% below
the initial estimates (para. 17).
32.   The job market in Morocco can easily provide the staff level required in the sector, but,
the qualification and training issue becarne a real constraint for ONPT and the domestic private
sector to sustaining rapid growth. For ONPT, it was particularly acute in the accounting branch
(para. 24). For the private sector which was associated with the construction of civil works and



Implementation Completion Report         10
installation of subscribers' outside plant, the involvement of too many insufficiently trained
supervisors, technicians and workers employed by domestic contractors, resulted in some
substandard works now affecting the reliability of the subscribers' outside plant (para. 18).
Factors generally subject to Government control
33.   From the beginning of the project, a stable and pragmatic Government, with a vision for
modern Morocco has gradually but consistently adopted measures aimed at making the country
more open and less encumbered by central controls. During the project, those measures were
supportive of the commercialization of ONPT, the reorganization of its structure and the
progressive introduction of a business management's culture. To some extent, more time was
required than previously expected to implement the changes and there was some reluctance to
giving the telecommunications entity full administrative and financial autonomy. However, the
implementation of the public enterprise rationalization program supported ONPT's reforms, and
the country's long delayed privatization program was finally launched in 1992. It is now expected
that the Government is more vigorously pursuing a policy of sector liberalization and private
sector participation in the framework of the new Telecommunications Sector Restructuring
Project.
34.   The conditions of recruitment, employment, salaries and benefits of ONPT staff are
defined by a personnel regulation that has applied to ONPT since March 1987. Because of this
regulation, and its consequent limited administrative autonomy, ONPT was not able to compete
successfully with the private sector in recruiting non-technical managers, accountants, computer
specialists, etc. Difficulties in recruiting and training the required specialists posed a real
challenge to the implementation of the management improvement program and were a cause of
delay.
Factors generally subject to ONPT control
35.   Initial delays in procurement and in implementing the entity's institutional and management
improvement program were also partially caused by lack of experience and a legacy of
bureaucratic procedures, which appeared more difficult to eradicate than expected at project
appraisal. However, ONPT successfully managed to overcome the initial difficulties, compensate
for the initial delays and keep overall project implementation under control.
D. Project Sustainability
Project Benefits
36.   The project benefits are significant and higher than expected. They include: (a) a
dramatic increase in both quality and coverage of telecommunications services; (b)
transformation of ONPT from a government agency into a more commercially oriented operating
entity; (c) the organizational split between ONPT's telecommunications and postal activities,



Implementation Completion Report         11
preparing for the creation of the Maghreb Telecommunications Company (Itissalat al Maghrib), a
fully autonomous telecom company ready for possible privatization, and the Postal Entity (Barid
al Maghrib); and (d) a positive fiscal contribution to the State Treasury through significant
payments of corporate taxes, VAT, dividends and custom duties (para 31).
37.   Economic rate of return. The economic rate of return is calculated in constant prices by
taking into consideration, as costs - annual investments for the project and recurrent cash
expenses, and as revenues - those derived from the connections built under project financing. The
scope of the project changed from construction of 324,000 lines from 1988 to 1991 to
construction of 917,000 lines from 1988 to 1994. The resulting rate is 29%, which is satisfactory,
compared with the projected economic rate of 26% calculated at appraisal.
Sustainability
38.   Most of the major physical, institutional and financial indicators have been achieved and
some of them have even been exceeded. ONPT is presently committed, through a performance
contract (Contrat de Programme, 1993-1997) with the Government, to continue the network
expansion, improve the service quality and maintain the financial performance of its operation.
The focus placed on the projected performance indicators for the coming years, as stipulated in
the current performance contract will contribute to both projects long-term institutional and
financial sustainability. These performance indicators were discussed and agreed upon with the
Bank at negotiations.
E. Bank Performance
Prneparation, Appraisal
39.   A reconnaissance mission in March 1981 opened the dialogue between the Bank and the
sector authorities, followed in November 1981 by a sector mission. The initial project brief was
issued in January 1982 and the Telecommunications Sector Memorandum in October 1982. At
the initial stage of project preparation, the telecommunications sector was still operated by a
ministerial department of the Ministry of PTT and subject to government administrative
procedures and tight financial controls of the Ministry of Finance. As a result of a sector study,
the Bank and the Government agreed, during the subsequent sector review/pre-appraisal mission
of January 1983, that institutional reforms would be introduced prior to a Bank project. A law
creating ONPT in the form of an autonomous public establishment, was promulgated in January
1984. After a long period of stagnation in the sector, a comprehensive investment program was
subsequently prepared with the assistance of consultants financed under bilateral arrangements.
Following three short preparation missions in March, June and November 1984, the final project
brief was issued in January 1985 and the project was appraised in April 1985. Government, and,
to some extent ONPT, were rather reluctant to accept Bank conditions. A post-appraisal mission
in January 1986 addressed the various pending issues such as the phasing out of the investment
program, the autonomy of ONPT which was still de-facto non existent, ONPT's financial



Implementation Completion Report         12
performance, settlement of Government arrears, tariff adjustment and technical assistance
arrangements. Negotiations in April 1986 were not completed, some pending issues remaining
unresolved, two further missions were required: one post-negotiation mission in June 1986 and
one pre-Board mission in November 1986, before closing the negotiations and presenting the
project to the Board of Directors in April 1987.
40.   Initially, the Government sector objectives were essentially focused on developing the
telecommunications infrastructure (para. 2) and the Bank spent a great deal of effort in convincing
the Government as well as ONPT of the need to commercialize the telecommunications
operations. It took six Bank staffyears and nine missions to Morocco, totaling 75 days in the field
to put the project on the right track. Considering the final achievements of the project, the Bank
was certainly right in insisting upon the Loan conditions; in this respect, the performance was
standard. However, considering the length of the period which was required to prepare, appraise,
negotiate and finalize the project, the performance was less than satisfactory. Particularly,
considering the time spent on project preparation, the T.O.Rs for the significant technical
assistance under the project should have been finalized at project appraisal or negotiation.
Discussing and clearing the consultants T.O.Rs during the first stage of the supervision period
partially contributed to the delays in implementing the management improvement program (para.
9).
41.   In the absence of a commercial accounting system and a strong legacy of government
administrative procedures within ONPT at appraisal time, it was unrealistic to urge the
introduction of a cost accounting system during the period (para.10). The Bank was right in
insisting upon the splitting of ONPT's original investment program into two implementation
phases. With some necessary adjustments, this contributed to a balanced growth of the network
still within ONPT's implementation capacity. With one exception (para. 15), the physical and
financial performance indicators discussed and approved at negotiations were appropriate. The
amount of the Bank loan was tailored to finance project components less attractive for bilateral
and commercial financing. Although representing only 18.5% of the original financing plan, the
Bank's contribution had a significant catalytic effect on raising the financing of the investment
program. For the whole extended project period, the Bank's contribution represents only 7.5% of
the overall investment outlay (Annex A, Table 8(b).
Supervision
42.   Regular supervision took place once or twice a year depending on the issues to be
resolved. As shown in Annex A, Tables 12 and 13 attached, from the project start-up mission in
April 1987 to the ICR mission in October 1994, eleven missions went to Morocco spending a
total of 132 days in the field. From 1991, these missions were combined with the preparation,
appraisal and supervision missions of the Telecommunications Sector Restructuring Project.
43.   During the whole supervision period, the Bank was very supportive of ONPT's
development effort. A great deal of energy and dedication was required to assist ONPT in



Implementation Completion Report        13
procurement; not only in assisting in the preparation, review and clearance of bidding documents
and evaluation reports for goods and services financed through the Bank loan, but also in advising
on the procurement of other project components. The cooperation between ONPT and the
Bank's project team was excellent and minor issues were resolved without difficulties.
44.   Staff continuity was assured by having the same telecom engineer as task manager and the
same financial analyst during the preparation/appraisal, but the project team changed after Board
approval. During the whole supervision period, project task management shifted twice. The
continuity was maintained by the same telecom engineer, but two different financial analysts and
one economist were involved.
F. Borrower Performance
45.   ONPT was the Borrower and the Government was the Guarantor. With respect to the
achievement of the objectives of expanding the networks and connecting new subscribers, ONPT
performance appears highly satisfactory, particularly considering the original low level of
development and the lack of previous experience in managing a large development project.
ONPT's highly dedicated management team deserves the credit for this achievement. However,
there is a drawback to the high growth rate of the later years, as the low reliability of the outside
plant (paras. 15 and 18) is the direct result of insufficient qualification and training of local
contractor staff and a lack of proper ONPT supervision of final acceptance of works and
installations. The problem has been acknowledged and is being corrected. Besides this exception,
the performance of consultants, suppliers and contractors was satisfactory. Regarding the
implementation of the institutional component (paras. 9 and 10) the performance was less than
satisfactory during the first years, but once ONPT management fully understood the advantages
of commercialization, thanks to the consultant studies, they fully committed themselves to its
achievement.
Compliance with Loan and Guarantee Agreements Covenants
46.   The status of compliance to legal covenants is detailed in Table 10. The reasons for the
partial compliance with the auditing requirements (Section 5.01 (a) and (b)) are explained under
paras 22 to 24 above. Section 5.01 (c) has been satisfactorily complied with: the self financing
rate has almost been consistently above the covenanted 45% on a three-year average (lows of
44% and 43% in 1990 and 1991, but 53%, 62% and 57% from 1992 through 1994).
G. Assessment of Outcome
47.   The Project outcome is satisfactory. The project exceeded some of its physical objectives
and achieved other major objectives. The project is expected to achieve satisfactory development
results with only a few shortcomings regarding the timely completion of the management
improvement component, which is being taken care of under the current Telecommunications
Restructuring Project (Ln 3557-MOR).



Implementation Completion Report         14
H. Future Operation
48.   At the beginning of the preparation of the first project, the telecommunications sector in
Morocco was characterized by a low penetration and rigid sector policy corresponding to Stage
I of the reform process as presented by the IEN Department to the Board. Building upon reforms
initiated during this project, the Telecommunications Sector Restructuring Project (Ln 3557-
MOR) is pursuing the reform process towards Stage 2: telecommunications sector in transition.
The first steps of this transition are: (a) full separation of posts and telecommunications into two
distinct legal entities; (b) setting up of a regulatory structure outside of ONPT; (c) elimination of
ONPT's monopoly on value added services, and later on basic services; and (d) corporatization of
ONPT and opening of its equity to private capital. To support the sector reform, the new project
is providing technical assistance, training, and studies to strengthen the Ministry's institutional
capabilities and prepare the groundwork for sector liberalization.
49.   The operational and financial objectives of the sector during the second project are
presented in Annex A, Tables 6(a) and (b). They have been agreed upon at the negotiations of
Loan 3557-MOR and incorporated into the performance contract between the government and
ONPT. To support the realization of these objectives, the new project is also providing technical
assistance in management systems, accounting and computing to complement the management
improvement program initiated under the first project. Specific contracts are also being awarded
to resolve the problem of the low reliability of the outside plant (paras. 15 and 18).
I. Key Lessons Learned
50.   The key lessons learned are as follows:
(a)   In view of ONPT's institutional capacity, the original objectives were set too high;
splitting the investment program into two phases was, therefore, the correct action.
(b)   Technical assistance alone is not sufficient to achieve all of the originally stated
objectives.
(c)   T.O.Rs for consultants and technical assistance should have been prepared in
advance; advance procurement should have been allowed for.
(d)   Project implementation has been facilitated by the continuity of Bank staff
assigned to this project.
51.   ONPT is a relatively good, traditional telephone company with satisfactory financial
performance. Its telephone exchange capacity increased from about 293,000 lines in 1987 to over
I million in 1994. A key question debated at the time of project completion was whether the
company should continue to operate in its present format or whether its improved efficiency



Implementation Completion Report          15
would presumable lead to the provision of services at lower tariffs. By building confident
relations with the borrower and the Government during project implementation, the Bank was
able to convince them to develop a restructuring strategy which is far more reaching than if it had
tried to discuss it at the beginning of the Bank's involvement with them. It was decided to
separate the postal and telecommunications services and privatize the value added services before
making a decision on the privatization of telecommunications. Further steps are undertaken in the
ongoing project, to open additional services to private sector ownership.
m:Vnynam\icr-vr2 doc



I



Part II
Statistical Tables
Table 1:     Summary of Assessments
Table 2:    Related Bank Loans
Table 3:    Project Timetable
Table 4:    Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5(a):   Operational Targets
Table 6(a):   Forecast of the Operational Targets
Table 6(b):   Forecast of the Financial Targets
Table 7:     Studies Included in Project
Table 8A:    Project Costs
Table 8B:    Project Financing
Table 9:    Internal Economic Rate of Return
Table 10:    Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:    Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:    Bank Resources: Missions






Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A.  Achievement of objectives         Substantial    Partial     Negligible     Not applicablk
(4)          (4)          (4)               (4)
Macroeconomic policies               O            O            a El
Sector policies                      0                          El a 
Financial objectives                    a                                o 
Institutional developments                        El0           0                 0
Physical objectives                               E             E Ol
Poverty reduction                                 El            E l       
Gender concerns                                   El            El
Other social objectives              O            E             0El
Environmental objectives             O            E             El
Public sector management                          El            E                 El
Private sector development           El                         E                 El
Other (specify)                      O            E             E                 E
B.  Project sustainabilitv                                 Unlikely              Uncertain
('4)              ('4)                     ('4)
C.  Bank performance                  satisfactory        Satisfact=rz            Deficient
(4)                (4)                     (4)
Identification                                           E                        El
Preparation assistance                                   E                        El
Appraisal                                                El                       El
Supervision                                              E                        El
Highly
D.  Borrower performance              satisfactory       Satisfaetorv            Deficient
(')                (4)                     (4)
Preparation                                              El                     El
Implementation                      E                    Pr,
Covenant compliance                 O                                           Erl
Operation (if applicable)           IY                   O                      E
HighLb-
E. Assessment of outcome              satisfarv         Satisfactory              Deficient
('4)              ('4) P
M \WORDWfN\BU1TEX\Scoflier jp\ANX-A.P2 DOC(YJ/95]            El E



Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Year of    L amount
Loan Title                Purpose        Approval  ($ millions)       Status
Current Completed Project -                                      125.0     Completed
Loan 2798-MlOR                                                             (Dec 94).
To ONPT was the first Bank
group operation for Public
Telecommunications in
Morocco
Following Operations          To assist in: (a)      1993        100.0     Effective since
1. Loan 3557-MOR to ONPT.  restructuring the                              end Oct 93.
Telecommunications Sector    telecommunications                            After start-up
Restructuring Project         sector; and (b)                              delay, technical
further developing                          assistance and
the telecommuni-                            training
cations infrastruc-                         services are
ture in Morocco.                            underway.
Implementa-
tion of physical
component is
on schedule
(Dec 94).
M :\WORDWMN\BUTTEXI\SCOFFIER:jp\ANX-A-P3 .DOCr219\951



Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle       Date Planned        Date Actual/Latest Estimnate
Identification La                                   04/81, 11/81, 07/82
Sector memorandum and review                        10/82, 01/83
Creation of OPT                                     91/01/84
Preparation                                         03/84, 06/84, 11/84
Appraisal: - initial                                03/18 - 04/05/85
- update Ll2                             01/16-20/86
Negotiations                                        04/21-26/86 (incomplete)
Post-negotiations missions a                        06 & 11/86
Board presentation                                  04/21/87
Signing                                             05/29/87
Effectiveness                                       11/30/87
Credit closing                                      12/31/94
Project completion Id                               12/31/94
La These were combined missions with sector study, review and discussion of its status and
operational/developmental requirements. These activities resulted in the creation of ONPT on
January 1, 1984, and in the identification and preparation of the project.
Lb Pending regulatory and ongoing organizational/operational matters discussed during appraisal
required updating at the end of the first full year of ONPT's operation.
Le To complete negotiations and ascertain the proress on pre-board conditions on some
organizational/managerial aspects concerning ONPT and its relations with government.
Ld Last disbursement was made on February 28, 1995.
M:kWORDWIN\BrISCOFFIER:Jp\ANX-A P4. DOq219/951



Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(USS millions)
FY (ending June 30)      FY88  FY89  FY90  FY91   FY92  FY93  FY94                IFY95
Appraisal estimate       13.9   41.6   72.2   94.4   112.4  119.4  125.0           125.0
Revised La               10.9   30.4   56.2   78.4   102.4  108.4  116.0           116.0
Actual                   0.0    2.3    10.2   28.8    56.4   90.7  104.2           116.0&
Actual as % of revised   0%      8%     18%    37%    55%    83%    90%           100%92
estimate
(Feb 28, 1995)A
Date of final disbursement
La An amount of $9.0 million was canceled from the initial loan amount of $125.0 million in August 1988,
following a joint Bank/ONPT decision on the financing by ONPT (not the loan) of a large contract for
local cables.
Lb Pending some last disbursements for ongoing commitments to be made by February 28, 1995.
M:\WORDWI1N\BUrEX\SCOFFIER:jp\ANX-A-P5.DOC2j3/951



Table 5 (a) Operational Targets (Schedule 6, Section 11 of the Loan Agreement
CATEGORIES                   1987             1988            1989            1990            1 991           1992            1993              1994
Estimat Actual Estimat Actual Estimat Actual Estimat Actual Estimat Actual Estimat Actual Estimat Actual Estimate   Actual
Telephone exchange capacity (lines) 340,000 293,086 400,000 333,994 490,000 415,650 575,000 537,396 660,000 674,892 760,000 837,986 870,000 949,662 1,000,000 1,116,800
of which replacement                       16,348          23,928          46,792          48,616          54,364          63,664          81,564              93,286
Connected lines (DELs)            265,000 266,187 336,000 278(,593 390,000 335,293 452,000 403,310 525,000 498,289 609,000 657,137 706,000 827,521   820,000 1,016,756
of which cellular                                           100             700             900            1,500           3,200           6,725             12,756
Telex exchange capacity (lines)     9,100   8,110  11,700   8,110  14,700  10,470  14,700  11,870  16,100  11,870  17,300  13,241  17,300  14,397    17,300    12,900
Telex lines connected (DELs)        7,100   7,112   7,900   7,319   9,100   7,553  10,500   8,657  12,000   8,941  13,500   8,637  14,000   7,676    15,000     7,100
Maintenance targets             ._____             _      .        _._. _          __                                                    .
i) Faults reported for 100 main tel. linc  130    115    100  104     80     106      70      95      60     101      50      84      40      67        30        55
ii) Percentage of faults =               _                                _I _                                                            _
- cleared in 48 hrs.                50      61      55      61      60      60      66      59      72      60      78      73      86      83        90        85
-cleared in 7 days                  86      91      83      91      90      91      92      91      94      92      96      96      98      99        99       100
Percentage of average call completions                 __                                       _                       _             ___
i) local calls                        54   *          56   +          58   +          60    .         65      43      70      53      76       57       80        57  r
ii) long distance calls               30    .         40   '          45               50    .         55      28      62      38      70      44        75       47  v.
lii) intemational                           _      _          _                                          l          ____
- outgoing                          45              5 50            53      20      55      22      60      22      65      32      70      42        75        44
- incoming                          30   .          36   *          45   **         50 (            55 .            60   *          65      48        70        51
Staff per 1000 DELs                   29      26      27    245       25    23.1      23    20.7      21    20.8       20    17.6      19    15.4        18     13.4
* Data not avaiable
m:\cxccl\Buu.ex\tbl5(a).xls



Table 5 (b): Financial Targets (Schedule 6, Section 11 of the Loan Agreement)
1987          1988         1989           1990         1991          1992          1993           1994
Estim. Actual Estim. Actual Estim. Actual Estim. Actual Estim. Actual Estim. Actual Estim. Actual Estim. Prev.
Net intemal cash generation
as % of construction
i) annual rate                                       55    135    42    93    44        48    43    48       51    33      49    57    52       66     58      58
ii) 3-year moving average                             58   144    46    92    43         59    46    44       48    43      51    53    53    62        55       57
Debt service coverage ratio                              7      I       5     9      4      6       3      5      3     3      2   277       2   216       2      229
Rate of return %                                        24      16    26     33    22      25      1 7    15    16    13    14    13    13    11    13             17
Operating ratio %                                       53    76    44    73        45     66      52    68     52    71       55    68    57    71       59       66
Debt/(Debt + Equity), in %                               19    II    31       17    38     26    43      33    44    42    45        44    45    46       46       45
Current ratio                                           2.1   2.83    2.1   3.47    2.1   2.82   19   2.29    1.7    1.8   1.5  2.44    1.3  2.14    1.4    2.08
Private sector accounts receivable                      33     30    25    32    25        30    25      30    25    28       25    26    25    25    25          22
(% of billing)                                                             I
Govemment accounts receivable                           25    95      25     87    25      82     25     86    25      80    25    47    25         9    25         5
(% of billing to Government)                                  I_              _-
Governmcnt arrears (DH millions) on 31 December       1000  1265   800  1231    600  1095   400   1038   200   1092            0   559       0   252      0      257   e
Operating revenues per DEL                            6400  6282  7300  6736  7665  6688  7520   6601   7840  6226  7633  6587  7540  6244  7380    5702
Operating cost per DEL                                2289  3582  2217  3618  2182  3521   2389  3940  2397  3871  2421  4084  2469  4049  2505    3630
m:excelibuttex\moroccoltb5lb).xis



Table 6 (a) Forecast of the Operational Targets
CATEGORIES                    1995            1996             1997            1998            1999            2000
Estimatc        Estimatc         Estimate        Estimate        Estimate        Estimate
Telephone exchange capacity (lines)       1,360,000       1,560,000        1,770,000       2,000,000       2,230,000       2,500,000
of which replacement                        15.000           10,000           15,000          10,000          18,000          18,000
Connected lines (DELs)                   1,206,000        1,394,000        1,600,000       1,812,000 2,026,000,            2,242,000
of which cellular                         22,000           30,000           40,000          52,000          66,000          82,000
Telex exchange capacity (lines)             13,000           13,000           13,000          13,000          13,000          13,000
Telex lines connected (DELs)                 7,600            7,400            7,200           7,000          6,800            6,600
Maintenance targets
i) Faults reported for 100 main tel. lines     40               30              26               22             18               15
ii) Percentage of faults =
- cleared in 48 hrs.                         90               95              95               95             95               95
- cleared in 7 days                         100              100              100             100            100
Percentage of average call completions
i) local calls                                 64               67               70              73             76               79        rD
ii) long distance calls                         56              60               64              68              72              76
iii) international
- outgoing                                   48               50               52              54             56               58
- incoming                       _               _ ___    ___
Staff per 1000 DEl s                          12.1             I 1.1            10.3             9.5            8.8              8.4
:Xse6=\xDAlbl6(4).J



Table 61b) Forecasts of the financial targets
1995        1996         1997         1998
Estim.      Estim.       Estim.       Estim.
Net intemal cash generation (as % of constnuction)
i) annual rate                                                      44           46          50           53
ii) 3-year moving average                                            48          47           50
Debt service coverage ratio                                           2.1         1.96         1.91         1.96
Rate of retum %                                                        18          16           15           15
Operating ratio %                                                      62          63           64           63              H
Debt/(debt + equity), in %                                             45          44           43           41
Current ratio                                                        1.99         1.91         1.87         1.83
Private sector accounts receivable (% of billing)                      21          21           21           21
Govemment accounts receivable                                           5            5           5            5
(% of billing to Govemment)
Government arrears (DH millions)                                      262         268          274          281
Operating revenues per DEL                                           5698        5562         5439         5466
Operating cost per DEL                                               3340        3312         3250         3188
m:\excel\morocco\buttex\tb6(b) .xis



Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study - Purpose as defined at appraisal          Status                Impact of study
1.  ONPT's Organi7ation and Management La           Completed         The recommended organizational
(1985-1987)      set-up and measures separating P
and T operations were implemented
from 1988 on.
2.  Telecommunications Branch Reornanization and     Completed        The recommended measures and
SteIngthening La                                (1985-89)        program/project planning and
TOR: Operation and Maintenance                                   supervision were implemented
Development planning and implementation                    (project period).
3.  Procurement and Store Management l               Completed        Implemented (1989 on)
(1988)
4.  Data Processing (DP) Master Plan L               Completed        Implemented in phases (1992-94) to
(1990-92)        be continued under second project
5.  Financial Management and Accounfing Lc           Completed        Implemented (see 4. above)
To rationalize/modernize and implement efficient  (1991-92)
commercial accounting and management systems for
all ONPT'S activities.
6.  Human Resources a                                Completed        Implemented (see 4, above)
To develop efficient task/responsibilities in   (1992-93)
organization, operation and personnel management.
To define and plan staffhuman resources and
training requirements.
7.  Tariffs Study                                    Completed        Changes in tariffs and tariffrs
To define tariffs policy to be used in traffic/service   (1993)  structure were made in 1994.
provision strategy and planning in line with ONPT's               Studies are being used in medium
financial objectives.                                            term development and financial
planning.
8.  Demand Study ad                                  Completed        Being used for planning, traffic and
To identify and determine demand type,          (1991-94)         subscriber coMnection forecast and
characteristics and volume for all sources.                       management.
] These studies were undertaken during initial project appraisal, as a follow-up to ONPT'S creation. The TORs
were discussed/agreed upon with the Bank. ONPT/bilateral financing were arranged for.
/b  The study was an offspring of study 2, to implement the development program and manage procurement/stores
activities.
Ic The DP Master Plan covered all managerial, operational, financial, developmental and administrative activities of
the ONPT and its various branches. Studies 5 and 6 were implementation follow-ups of the Plan.
Implementation was gradual and phased under the project thoroughly. Computerization of the management
information system will take place under the second project for sector restructuring.
t The demand study had not been discussed at appraisal. It was made as a complement to the ongoing longer-term
development planning from 1992 on and to the tariff study.
MA.WORDWINBUrEX\SCOFFIER.jp\ANX-A- 10 DOC[2p9/951



Table 8(a) Project Costs
(in Smillion)
PROJECT COMPONENTS            Appraisal Estimates for 324,000 lines (l988-1991) Actual Cost for 426,000 lines (1988-1991)    Actual Cost for 491,000 lines (1992-1994)    Actual Cost for 917,000 lines (1988-1994)
Total Costs  Foreign Costs  Total          Total Costs  Foreign Costs  Total       Total Costs  Foreign Costs  Total       Total Costs  Foreign Costs  Total
Telephone switching equipment        67.8          135.6           203.4       103.88        155.83       259.71        85.84         128.75      214.59       189.72        284.58        474.3
Telex and data transmission           19.1          38.1            57.2         5.68          6.27         11.95        4.69          5.18         9.87        10.37         11.45        21.82
Local networks and outside plant    135.4           32.2           167 6      207.74         111.86        319.6       171.65         92.43       264.08       379.39        204.29      583.67
Long distance transmission           30.2           51.6            81 8       82.26         125.47       207.74        67.97        103.68       171.65       150.24        229.15      379.39
Rural Tclephony                       10.1          12.7            22.8        19.58         21.21         40.78       16.18          17.52        33.7        35.75         38.73        74.48
Buildings                            23.6                           23.6        71.31                       71.31       58.92                      58.92       130.23                     130.23
Training and computer equipment       3.1            7.9              II         1.66          3.86          5.52        1.37           3.19        4.56         3.02          7.06        10.08
Consultant Services                   0.4            1.4             1.8         0.95          1.42          2.37        0.78           1.17         1.95        1.73          2.59        4.32
Miscellaneous                        14.1             5             19.1         1.08          1.61         2.69         0.89           1.33        2.22         1.96          2.95        4.91
Todalns Cost                        303.8          284.5           588.3      494.13         427.54        921.67      408.29        353.26       761.55       902.42         780.8    1,683.21
Contingencies                                                               .                                                               .
- Quantities                         15.2          14.2            29 4
-Costs                              40.6           16.2            56.8
Total Cost                          359.6          314.9           674.5       494.13        427.54        921.67      408.29        353.26       761.55       902.42         780.8    1,683.21
mD
m-\-ced\hiitsex\thlRfa).xls



Table 8(b): Project Financing
(in S million)
Appraisal Estimates for 324,000      Actual Cost for 426,000 lines     Actual Cost for 491,000 lines     Actual Cost for 917,000 lincs (1988
SOURCE                lines (198S-1991)     Percent         (1988-1991)        Percent        (1992-1994)         Percent            1994)              Percent
Foreign                             Foreign                           Foreign                             Foreign
Local Costs  Costs   Total    %      Local Costs  Costs  Total    %    Local Costs  Costs  Total    %     Local Costs  Costs    Total      %
IBRD
1                                  125    125    18,5%                  34      34   3.6%                  82     82  10.8%                   116      116       6.9%
11                                   0       0                           0       0                      10.67  10.67   1.5%                 10.67    10.67       0.6%
Bilateral Financing                  74.5   74.5                       393.54 393.54 42.70%              260.59  260.6 34.20%                 654.13   654.13    38.90%
28.10'o
Othcr Financing Sources              115.4  115.4                        _       _      _
Local Financing                               _                  45.44          45.44 _             51.9           51.9  6.8%         97.34             97.34       5.8%
ONPT                       359.6            359.6   53.4%       448.69         448.69  53.7%      356.39 _        356.4  46.7%       805.08            805.08     47.8%
Total                       359.6   314.9  674. 5    100%       494.13 427.54 92A L6    l00%       408.29 353.26  761.6   100%       902.42    780.8 1,632.21      100%
rD
co
m :_catunedamwo.xis



Table 9: Internal Economic Rate of Return
1.    Incremental revenues assigned to the program are based on the traffic increase brought
about by investment made during the period from 1988 to 1994 (only two thirds of the
investment of 1994, and therefore of the incremental income, were linked to the first project),
and carried out until 2014.
2.    Incremental costs exclude depreciation, interest, deductible value-added tax, income
tax. They include cost of personnel, taxes, material and services necessary for the increase of
revenues.
3.    Custom duties have been excluded from investnent cost.
Number of
connected lines at        Lines connected by the
Years                  year end                     project
1988                   286,593                      20,406
1989                   335,293                      69,106
1990                   403,310                     137,123
1991                   498,289                     232,102
1992                   657,137                     390,950
1993                   827,521                     561,334
1994                  1,016,756                    750,569
1995                  1.183,187                    861,523
in dirhams milllion
1988        689            40         729                     152                  -577
1989       1,500          104        1,604                   491                  -1,113
1990       1,706          236        1,942                    947                  -995
1991       2,549          362        2,911                   1,495                -1,416
1992       1,779          630        2,409                   2,269                  -140
1993       1,293         1,097       2,390                   3,158                  768
1994       1,379         1,195       2,574                   3,872                 1,298
1995                     1,372       1,372                   4,444                 3,073
2006                      1,372      1,372                   4,444                 3,073
2007                      1,372      1,372                   4,444                 3,073
2008                      1,372      1,372                   4,444                 3,073
2009                      1,372      1,372                   4,444                 3,073
2010                      1,372      1,372                   4,444                 3,073
2011                      1,372      1,372                   4,444                 3,073
2012                      1,372      1,372                   4,444                 3,073
2013                      1,372      1,372                   4,444                 3,073
2014                      1.372      1,372                   4,444                 3,073
Internal economic rate of return:       29.2%
MWB'ETEX\SCOFFIER:\jp\ANX-A- 13. DOC[2131951



Table 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
COUNTRY:           MOROCCO
PROJECT CODE:  MAPAS420
PROJECT NAME:  TELECOMMUNICATIONS I
LOAN I.           2798-MOR
pvorull Prdect Rating 2
Covenant            Original         Revised
Type                Fulfillmcim      Fulfillment
Agrcemenl              Seclion                   Stalus   Date             Date          DescriptionofCovenants                               Comments
Cruaantlec 2798        3 03           E          OK                                       Go-rnment will ensure thal acceplablc fcasibility studies
will be unterlaken before making additional public sector
investemcnts in the telecommunications industry
Loan 2798              i 04           E          OK                                       ONPT will consulh with the BANK before introducing
major changes in its investmCnl program involving mote
than IO/0 of its aggregate investment amount during
one year; and insure that no such changes are introduced
without agreenent berween ONPT anid Bank.
4.01          M           OK                                      ONPT will carry out the Action Plan for 1987-1995.
report progress and preset proposed targets br review
with Bank by April 30 of ech year.
Schedule6     F           OK       3/31/89          8/31/92       Introduction  of cost accounting  system  producing  A management improvement study was complete by
Part B                                                            separate financial statements tor main branehes of  August 1993. Presently, sevel ONPT tearms are working
activity by 3/31/8. Pro 6ormna separated financial  on improving accounts, from fixed asset regisitering to
statements for 1986 and 1987 tO be submitted within nine  budgeting.
and six months respectively and end of FY.
Part C                                                            Tariff studies would be completed by June 30. 88    A tariff study was compieted by May 1993
5.01          F           OK       7/01/93          9/01/93       Qualified external auditors acceplabie to bank will audit  Audit reports for the 1991 accounts were given to the
ONPT accounu annually antd ONPT will furnish mdudted   Bank in December 1992. A qualified audit report for the
statements to Bank within 6 months after end ofFY   1993 accounts was submitted to the Bank in October
1994
5.02                      OK                                      Self financing tate of investnein on a 3-year moving
average, on 45%/
D



Table I1l: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
No significant lack of compliance with applicable Bank Operational Manual Statements
(OD or OPIBP) was observed under the project. Provisional unsatisfactory practices, in
paxticular in the procurement process, were adequately adjusted or corrected during
supervision.
Statement number and title                Describe and comment on lack of compliance 
Not Applicable
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of project cycle    Planned/estimated     Revised              Actual La
Weeks      US$       Weeks      US$       Weeks       US$
Through appraisal       40                                       50 L_
Appraisal-Board         40                                       35
Board-effectiveness     10                                       10
Supervision             140        =       _==_170 a 
Completion              20                                      20
Total                   250                                     285
La Data shown are actual at project completion, on February 28, 1995.
Lb Includes some combined resources for sector study and related discussions/works on sector
institutional status and development requirements during project identification and
preparation.
LM Includes extensive work on procurement processing and some combined activities for
preparing the subsequent Telecommunications Sector Restructuring Project.
M :\WORDWlT\BTElX\SCOFFIER: jp\ANX-A-1 S.D0OC2191951



Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating L
Number    Days         Specialized       linplemen-    Develop-
Stage of project cycle              Month/        of        In          staff skills       tation/       ment                   Types of problems
Year      Persons    field       represented La    overall status    impact
Througb appraisal
- Reconnaissance L,                3/81            1         8     Eng.
- Sector mission &                11/81            3         13    Eng., FinA, Eco
- Sector review/identification /r  1/83            2        10    Eng., FinA                                      - ONPT was created in Jan/84.
- Preparation I L                  3/84            1         6     FinA
- Preparation 2                    6/84            1         6     Eng.
- Preparation, pre-appraisal      11/84            2         10    Eng., FinA
Appraisal through Board Approval
- Appraisal                        3/85            2         16    Eng., FinA
- Post-appraisal/update           11/86            3         8     Eng., FinA, Eco
- Negotiations                    4/21-25/86       -         -                                                     - Not completed
- Post-negotiations                6/86            2         5     Eng., FinA                              -       - Procurement procedures (local/ICB),
Government arrears,
Separation of P and T operations
- Pre-Board                       11/86            2         8
Eng., FinA                             -       - Final trenching of Phase I program
Loan amount/cofmancing
- Board approval                  4/21/87          -         -                                                      ONPT organizational arrangements.
Superision/Completion
Supervision I (project start-up)  4/87             3         5     Eng., FinA, Eco
Supervision 2                     11/87            2         6     Eng.. FinA                 2                    - Delayed start-up of studies, technical
assistance and procurement actions/bidding
documents format.
Supervision 3                     5/88             2         8     Eng., FinA                 2                    - Progress in implementation now underway
ONPT to use own funds for purchase of cables
($9 m canceled).                              (D
Supervision 4                     1/89            2         10    Eng., FinA                 2
Supervision 5                     10/89            2         10    Eng., FinA                 2                   -Slow disbursements. Opening of a special
account wfll belp disbursement for local
contracts for civil works.
M4\WORDWIN'tCtrElSCOFFlER,jp\ANX-A-16.DOC2M9S5



Tablel3: Bank Resources: Missions (cont)
Performance Rating Al
Stage of project cycle                       Number    Days           Specialized       Implemen-    Develop-                  Types of problems
Month/       of        in          staff skills       tation/        ment
Year     Persons    field       represented La     overall status    impact
Supervision 6 /d                  1/91           1         5     Mngt                       2                     - Sector policy/overall organization and
separation of P and T activities.
Supervision 7 Ld                  5/91          3         10    Eng., FinA, Eco             2
Supervision 8 ld                  11/91         3         10     Eng., FinA                 2
Supervision 9 l                  6/93          2         12     Eng., FinA                 2
Supervision 10 Le                 4/94          2         12    Eng., FinA                  SLf          S Lf     - Project to be satisfactorily completed by
December 1994, the original closing date.
Supervision I I/Completion-l      10/94         2         10    Eng., FinA                  Sd           S /f
La Abbreviations: - Eng. Engineer; FinA, Financial Analyst; - Econ, Economist; - Mngt/Proct, Management/Procurement Specialist.
Lb  Keys to: - overall performance rating (before FY94) = I problem free; 2 - moderate; 3 - major problems; - implementation/development impact status (from FY94 on)
= HS - highly satisfactory; S - satisfactory; U - unsatisfactory; HU - highly unsatisfactory.
a   These were combined missions for sector review and project identification/preparation.
Ld  These were combined missions for supervision of the first project and preparation of the subsequent Sector Restructuring Project (SRP).
ad  These were combined missions for supervision of the first project and supervision of SRP projea under Loan 3557-MOR.
If  New project performance rating is introduced (revised Form 590, see lk above).
MAWR WOgD\IIUTTEX"ISCOFfMER.jpLANX-A- 1 7 DOCt2/9951W
0



APPENDIX
Borrower Contribution to the ICR






Implementation Completion Report
SUMNARY OF THE
FIRST PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
1.  ENVIRONMENT IN WHICH THE PROJECT WAS IMPLEMENTED
To meet the challenges of a changing, complex environrment, Morocco has been
making various structural adjustments since 1983. They have focussed primarily on:
- Liberalizing the national economy;
- Restructuring and decentralizing the public administration;
- Cutting back on government spending and subsidies.
To effect these changes, various measures have had to be implemented, including the
following:
Social measures
- Increase in the minimum wage and in the coverage of benefits, including family
allowances, retirement benefits, pensions, welfare benefits, and contributions to the National
Social Security Fund;
- Controls on the cost of private medical care and the retail price of school supplies and
equipment;
- Creation of a Youth Job Promotion Fund and a National Council for Youth and the
Future.
Economic, financial, andfiscal measures
- Reform of the tax system to introduce the General Income Tax (IGR), Corporate Tax
(IS), and Value Added Tax (VAT), and to revise customs duties and other import and export
duties and taxes;
- Reform of intermediation on the stock exchange and removal of credit limits;
- Incentives for exports and for investment in agriculture, handicrafts, industry, and
tourism;
- Promotion of private national and foreign investment by encouraging investment
banks;



Implementation Completion Report       2
- Creation of an off-shore financial market in Tangiers open to all kinds of financial
transactions;
- Creation of community securities investment organizations (OPCVMs);
- Reduction of the budget deficit from 13.4% of the Gross Domestic Product in 1980
to 2.3% in 1993;
- Initiation and acceleration of the process of privatizing public enterprises;
- Creation of the Autonomous Institution for Export Control and Coordination;
- Improvement of the balance of payments and trade deficit positions from 13.6% of
GDP in 1984 to 1.8% in 1993;
- Redefinition and distribution of powers and resources as part of an administrative
deconcentration process.
These measures had an impact on the telecommunications sector, primarily in the
following ways:
- Restructuring of the sector, i.e.:
 Creation of the Office National des Postes et Telecommunications (ONPT) in
1984;
* Decentralization of telecommunications operations in 1988 by establishing
regional telecommunications departments, principal commercial and technical operations
centers, and commercial agencies;
* Separation of telecommunications from postal and financial services in 1992;
- Reducing the tax burden by lowering the rate of the corporate tax and recovery of the
value added tax by the ONPT.
During implementation of the project, a program contract was concluded between the
government and the Office National des Postes et Telecommunications to establish the
reciprocal commitments of the two parties.



Implementation Completion Report       3
II.    RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE BANK AND TllE ONPT
A. PROJECTINITIA TIONPHASE
In this area, the Bank's assistance made it possible to:
1) Reduce substantially the time required to draw up specifications and for the Bank to
approve bidding and contract documents;
2) Learn new project appraisal techniques;
3) Apply the World Bank's procurement procedures to other projects;
4) Train ONPT staff in management of World Bank-financed projects.
B. DISBURSEMENTPHASE
All disbursements to suppliers were made in accordance with the procedure prescribed
in the disbursement handbook.
In this regard, there were no delays recorded in processing the 119 withdrawal
applications for direct payments and the 17 applications for special commitments to cover
letters of credit.
Requests for replenishment of the special account opened with the Banque Marocaine
du Commerce Exterieur [Moroccan Foreign Trade Bank] to cover payments below the
$500,000 limit were processed under appropriate conditions.
In this connection, it is suggested that the World Bank raise this limit from $500,000 to
$1,000,000 and that it reduce the period for replenishment of this account from 15 to 7 days.
m. PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
A. FINANCIAL INDICA TORS
As far as structural indicators are concerned, the self-financing rate went from 135% in
1987 to 45% in 1994, and the debt coverage ratio dropped from 11 in 1987 to only 2.12 in
1994.
These changes can be explained both by the large volume of investments and by the
loans contracted by the ONPT to finance its investment program.



Implementation Completion Report       4
Despite this investment effort and recourse to outside financing, the debt equity and
working capital ratios were maintained at extremely satisfactory levels. The debt equity ratio
was 54% at the end of the 1994 fiscal year, and the working capital ratio was 1.20.
Although the tax burden and financial costs weighed heavily on the ONPT's cash
position, performance indicators were kept at reasonable levels thanks to efforts made by
government offices to settle their arrears, a reduction in collection time, and cost controls.
Despite the fact that a large volume of equipment was being put into operation for the
first time and was not immediately profitable, the rate of return on investments was maintained
at a satisfactory level, while transfers from the ONPT to the national government in the form of
taxes were relatively high.
In fact, in addition to the traditional taxes, such as the urban tax, municipal tax, patenMe,
and corporate income tax, the ONPT pays a monopoly fee to the government. Since the
ONPT does not receive the benefits of the investment code, it must pay sizeable customs
duties, even though customs tariffs have gone down slightly in recent years.
All the same, it is important to recognize that the fiscal reform undertaken by the
government since 1986 has had some positive effects on the ONPT, by gradually reducing the
corporate tax and by allowing the institution to deduct the value added tax beginning in 1992.
These improvements were accomplished by adopting new collection procedures, such
as the system of stamps [vignettes] for claims on government clients, the system of automatic
deductions from bank accounts, and the monthly billing periods used for private customers.
B. TECHNICAL INDICATORS
In this area, the capacity of the exchanges was increased by 994,000 new lines,
including 88,000 lines to replace obsolete or worn-out exchanges. The telephone system had a
total of 1,135,000 lines in service by the end of 1994, as compared to 286,000 at the end of
1986, which reflects a project achievement rate of 113%. The digitalization rate went up to
93% at the end of 1994, giving subscribers access to services that were not available before.
The number of main line units in service was 1,007,000 by the end of 1994, as
compared to 252,000 at the end of 1986. This represents an increase of 755,000 lines, and a
project achievement rate of 123%.
The transmission network had a total of 209,132 circuits by the end of 1994, and
42,590 of them were national transmitting circuits. With the digitalization of existing coaxial
cables (42%), the installation of new connections by numerical radio-relay systems (38%) and
fiber optics (8%), and the installation of international submarine fiber optic cables, the
digitalization rate climbed to 96% by the end of 1994, as compared to 1.6% in 1987. In
addition, an ambitious program to use fiber optics on the main trunk lines in an initial phase is
currently in the process of being implemented.



Implementation Completion Report       5
Despite this project, which has brought about a rapid expansion in the systems,
equivalent to an average rate of 19% a year, the number of requests reached 104,000 at the end
of 1994. However, while only 59% of the total demand was met in 1986, this rate jumped to
91% at the end of 1994.
By the end of 1994, 665 rural towns were covered by automatic systems, including 599
since 1987. According to the new system of administrative districts established on September
2, 1992, about 65% of rural communities throughout the country had telephone service.
The telephone density rose from about 1.14 telephones for every 100 inhabitants in
1986 to 3.86 in 1994.
Moreover, the international telephone service had 4,556 direct circuits in 1994 as
compared to 1,660 in 1987, and 228 automatic connections in 1994 as compared to 47 in
1986.  This improvement is attributable to the fiber optic submarine cables in the
Mediterranean Sea linking the country with France and Portugal, the Atlantic submarine cable
providing a connection with Spain, and the underground cable to Algeria.
In addition, the cellular mobile telephone system (NMT450) was opened to the public
in 1987. In addition to this service, in 1994 the first phase of a new GSM digital cellular
telephonic network was completed in April with a capacity of 28,000 subscribers. The total
number of subscribers by the end of 1994 was 13,794. A data transmission network was set up
in 1991 with an access capacity of 1,104, and there were 825 subscribers to the system as of
12/31/94.
Major efforts were also made to improve the communications facilities offered to the
public, by extending and modernizing the network of public telephones, which increased from
476 at the end of 1986 to 5,419 by the end of 1994. Private investors are currently operating
telecommunications terminals from private locations called "teleboutiques" or "telekiosques."
There were 1,075 teleboutiques, 137 telekiosques, and 6,275 terminals in service as of May 31,
1995.
The quality of the service has improved considerably, both in terms of the average
waiting time for a tone and the traffic flow and from the standpoint of rapid clearance of faults
and the signalling rate.
In practice, the signalling rate went from 120% in 1986 to 63.2% in 1994. Eighty-
three percent of the faults are cleared in 48 hours and 99.8% within seven (7) days, as
compared to rates of 600/o and 90%, respectively, in 1986.
Although these indicators fall short of what was targeted for project completion, the
efforts undertaken to rehabilitate the network, improve the quality of the equipment used, and
provide ongoing training for personnel are expected to result in a clear improvement in the
signalling rates in 1995. It should be noted that experience in other countries which have



lplemeatation Completion Report        6
undergone accelerated growth has shown that the quality of the service did not keep pace with
growth patterns.
As regards traffic flows, the overall commercial efficiency is currently at 54%, while
technical efficiency is measured at 95%. The difference is explained primarily by dialing errors
of callers, lines already in use, and failure of the called parties to answer. By informing
subscribers and assisting heavy-traffic users, the traffic lost as a result of the behavior of
subscribers or congestion on their tines can be reduced.
Productivity, measured in terms of the number of operators for 1,000 trunk lines in
service, hasgone from 25.6 in 1986 to 13.3 in 1994, exceeding the estimate of 18.
The total work force in the telecommunications sector was 13,400 at the end of 1994,
as compared to 6,467 in 1986.
1V. STUDIES AND TECINICAL ASSISTANCE
To increase the efficiency of the services on the basis of the development requirements
of the telecommunications network, studies on reorganizing the ONPT's infornation and
management system were conducted. The foliowing steps were taken as a result of these
studies:
- A master plan for computerization of the systemn was developed;
- Procurement operations were improved and stock management was optimized;
- Accountig and financial management procedures and methods were better adapted
to the commercial nature of the ONPT and its status as a public institution, and information on
demand was improved;
- Personnel management procedures and methods were improved;
- A schedule for telecommunications service charges consistent with the ONPT's
marketing strategy was developed.



RESUME DU
RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT DE
L'EXECUTION DU PREMIER PROJET
(RAEP)
I- L'ENVIRONNEMENT DANS LEQUEL A ETE REALISE LE PROJET
Pour faire face a un environnement complexe et mouvant, le Maroc a proc6d6
depuis 1983 a des ajustements structurels dont les principaux axes furent:
- La liberalisation de l'economie nationale;
- La restructuration et la decentralisation de l'administration publique;
- La compression des subventions et des depenses publiques.
La concretisation de ces changements a, toutefois, necessite differentes mesures
dont on peut retenir,
Sur le plan social:
- Revalorisation du salaire minimum et de la couverture sociale notanmnent
les allocations familiales, les allocations de retraites, les pensions civiles, les
indemnites sociales et les cotisations a la Caisse Nationale de Securite
Sociale;
- Reglementation des prix des services medicaux priv6s et des prix de
commercialisation des fournitures scolaires;
- Creation d'un Fond pour la Promotion de lEmploi des Jeunes et du Conseil
National de la Jeunesse et de l'Avenir.
I



Sur leplan economique, financier etfiscal:
- Reforme du systeme fiscal instituant l'Imp6t General sur le Revenu (IGR),
l'Imp8t sur les Societes (I.S.), la Taxe sur la Valeur Ajoutee (T.V.A.) et
revisant les droits de douane et autres droits et taxes dfis a l'importation et a
l'exportation;
- Reforme de l'intermediation de la bourse des valeurs et levee de
l'encadrement du credit;
- Mesures d'encouragement de l'exportation et des investissements dans
l'agriculture, l'artisanat, l'industrie et le tourisme;
- Promotion de l'investissement prive national et etranger par encouragement
des banques d'investissement;
- Creation d'une place financiere "Off shore" a Tanger ouverte pour toutes
les activites financieres;
- Creation des Organismes de Placement Collectif en Valeurs Mobilieres
(O.P.C.V.M.);
- Reduction du deficit budgetaire passant de 13,4% du Produit Interieur Brut
en 1980 a 2,3% en 1993;
- Amorce et acceleration des privatisations des Etablissements Publics;
- Creation de l'Etablissement Autonome de Contr6le et Coordination des
Exportations;
- Amelioration du solde de la balance des paiements et du deficit commercial
ramene de 13,6% du Produit Interieur Brut en 1984 a 1,8% en 1993;
- Redefinition et r6partition des attributions et des moyens de la
deconcentration administrative.
Ces mesures ont eu des repercussions sur le secteur des telecommunications,
dont principalement:
- La restructuration du secteur notamment:
* Creation de l'Office National des Postes et Telecommunications
(ONPT) en 1984;
* Decentralisation de l'activite des telecommunications par creation en
1988 des Directions Regionales des Telecommunications, des Centres
Principaux d'Exploitation Commerciale et Technique et des Agences
Commerciales
* Separation entre l'activite des telecommunications et celle de la Poste
et Services Financiers en 1992;
2



- L'allegement de la charge fiscale due A la baisse du taux de l'imp6t sur les
societes et la recuperation de la Taxe sur la Valeur Ajoutee par l'Office.
La periode du projet a vu egalement la naissance d'un contrat programme entre
lEtat et l'Office National des Postes et Telecommunications fixant les engagements
reciproques des deux parties.
II- RELATION BANQUE - ONPT
A) A U NIVEA U DU LANCEMENT DES PROJETS.
A ce niveau, la contribution de la Banque a permis:
1) de reduire considerablement les delais aussi bien au niveau de la
preparation des cahiers de charges que de l'approbation par la Banque des
dossiers d'adjudication et des marches.
2) d'apprehender de nouvelles techniques d'evaluation des projets.
3) de generaliser les procedures d'achat de la Banque Mondiale a d'autres
projets.
4) de former des cadres de l'ONPT dans la gestion des projets finances par la
Banque Mondiale.
B) A U NIVEA U DES DECAISSEMENTS
Toutes les operations de decaissements au profit des fournisseurs ont ete
executees conformement A la procedure prescrite par le "Manuel de decaissements"
A ce sujet, aucun retard n'a et enregistre pour les 119 demandes de retrait de
fonds relatives aux paiements directs et 17 demandes d'engagement special pour la
confirmation des credits documentaires.
Les demandes d'alimentation du compte special ouvert aupres de la Banque
Marocaine du Commerce Exterieur pour faire face aux reglements inferieurs au seuil de
500.000$ ont ete realisees dans de bonnes conditions.
A ce titre, il est propose A la Banque Mondiale de relever ce seuil de 500.000$ a
1.000.000$ et de reduire les delais d'alimentation du dit compte de 15 jours a 7 jours.
3



III- INDICATEURS DE GESTION
A) INDICATEURS FINANCIERS
Concernant les indicateurs de structure; le taux d'autofinancement est passe de
135% en 1987 A 45% en 1994 le ratio de couverture de la dette, quant A lui, est passe de
11 en 1987 a seulement 2,12 en 1994.
Cette evolution s'explique par l'importance A la fois du volume des
investissements realises et des emprunts mobilises par l'ONPT pour le financement de
son programme d'investissement.
Malgre cet effort d'investissement et de recours au financement externe, les
ratios d'endettement et de liquidite g6nerale se sont maintenus A des niveaux tres
satisfaisants. Le premier se situe a la fin de I'exercice 1994 A 54% et le second A 1,20.
Quant aux indicateurs de gestion, ceux-ci se situent A des niveaux raisonnables
grAce aux efforts d'apurement des arrieres sur les administrations, A la reduction des
delais de recouvrement et A la ma7itrise des couts et ce, malgre le poids de la fiscalite et
des frais financiers qui pesent lourdement sur la tresorerie de l'ONPT.
En depit du volume important des 6quipements nouvellement mis en service,
non rentables dans l'immediat, le taux de rentabilite des investissements a ete maintenu A
un niveau satisfaisant alors que les transferts de l'ONPT a I'Etat en matiere dcimposition
restent relativement eleves.
En effet, outre les impots classiques (Taxe urbaine, Taxe d'edilite, Patente,
Impot sur les societes), l'ONPT verse a I'Etat une redevance de monopole. Sachant que
l'ONPT ne beneficiant pas des avantages du code d'investissement, supporte, en
consequence, les montants des droits de douane importants bien que la tarification
douaniere ait enregistre une legere baisse ces dernieres annees.
Toutefois, il importe de souligner que la r6forme fiscale entreprise par I'Etat
depuis 1986 a eu des retombees positives sur l'Etablissement: d'une part, il y a eu une
baisse progressive de l'imp6t sur les societes et, d'autre part, 1'ONPT a eu droit A la
deduction de la Taxe sur la Valeur Ajout6e a partir de 1992.
4



Ces ameliorations ont et accomplies par l'adoption de nouveaux procedes de
recouvrement a savoir le systeme de vignettes pour les creances sur les clients publics,
le systeme de prelvement automatique sur compte bancaire et la facturation mensuelle
appliquee aux clients prives.
B) INDICATEURS TECHNIQUES
Dans ce cadre, il y a lieu de preciser que la capacite des centraux a et
augmentee de 994.000 lignes nouvelles dont 88.000 lignes destinees au remplacement
des centraux vetustes. Ainsi, le parc des equipements telephoniques compte 1.135.000
lignes a la fin de 1994 contre 286.000 a la fin de 1986, soit une realisation de l'objectif de
113%. Le taux de numerisation a atteint 93% en fin 1994 permettant aux abonnes de
disposer de facilites non disponibles auparavant.
Le nombre de lignes principales raccordees a la fin de 1994 est de 1.007.000
contre 252.000 a la fin de 1986. D'ou un accroissement de 755.000 lignes et un taux de
realisation de l'objectif du projet de 123%.
Le reseau de transmission compte a la fin de 1994, 209.132 circuits dont 42.590
circuits de transmission nationaux . La numerisation des cables coaxiaux existants (42%),
la mise en place de nouvelles liaisons par faisceaux hertziens numeriques (38%) et par
fibre optique (8%), d'une part, et l'installation de cables sous-marins internationaux a
fibre optique d'autre part, ont porte le taux de numerisation a 96% a la fin de 1994
contre 1,6% en 1987. Par ailleurs, un programme ambitieux de mise en place de fibres
optiques sur les principales arteres, dans une premiere phase, est en cours de realisation
actuellement.
Malgre ce projet qui a vu se realiser l'expansion des systemes a une cadence
elevee, en moyenne de 19% par an, le nombre des instances a atteint 104.000 a la fin de
1994. Cependant, le taux de satisfaction de la demande a enregistre un accroissement de
59% de la demande totale exprimee en 1986 a 91% a la fin de 1994.
A la fin de l'annee 1994, 665 localites rurales ont et automatisees dont 599
depuis 1987 et 65% environ des communes rurales selon le nouveau decoupage
administratif du 02/09/1992 disposaient du service telephonique dans l'ensemble du pays.
La densite telephonique est passee d'environ 1,14 telephone pour 100 habitants
en 1986 a 3,86 en 1994.
5



Par ailleurs, le service telephonique international compte 4.556 circuits directs
en 1994 contre 1.660 en 1987 et 228 relations automatiques a la fin de 1994 contre 47
en 1986. Et ce, grace a la realisation de nouveaux cables a fibres optiques sous-marin, en
Mediteranee avec la France et le Portugal, en Atlantique avec l'Espagne et terrestre avec
l'Algerie.
En outre, le service de la radiotelephonie mobile (NMT450) a et ouvert au
public en 1987. Parallelement a ce service, l'annee 1994 a vu la realisation de la premiere
phase en Avril d'un nouveau reseau de radiotelephonie mobile numerique GSM de
capacite 28.000 abonnes. Le nombre d'abonnes total a la fin de 1994 a ete de 13.794. Un
reseau de transmission de donnees a et mis en place en 1991 pour une capacite de 1.104
acces, 825 abonnes sont en service au 31/12/1994.
Des efforts importants, ont ete en outre deployes pour renforcer les moyens de
communication offerts au grand public par 1'extension et la modernisation du parc des
publiphones qui est passe de 476 en fin 1986 a 5.419 en fin 1994. Des investisseurs
prives exploitent actuellement des terminaux de telecommunications a partir de locaux
prives appeles Teleboutiques ou Telekiosques dont 1075 Teleboutiques, 137
Telekiosques et 6275 terminaux sont en service au 31/05/1995.
La qualite de service a enregistre une amelioration notable aussi bien pour le
dalai moyen d'attente de la tonalite et l'ecoulement du trafic que pour la vitesse de releve
des derangements et du taux de signalisation.
En ce qui concerne ce dernier indicateur, il est passe de 120% en 1986 a 63,2%
en 1994. Sur ces derangements 83% sont releves dans les 48 heures et 99,8% dans les
sept (7) jours suivants contre 60% et 90% respectivement en 1986.
Bien que ces indicateurs soient en de,a de ceux estimes pour la fin du projet, il
est a prevoir que les efforts entrepris pour la rehabilitation du reseau, l'amelioration de la
qualite du materiel utilise et la formation continue du personnel laissent augurer a partir
de 1995 une amelioration certaine du taux de signalisation. A signaler que l'experience a
montre dans d'autres pays qui ont connu une croissance acceleree, la qualite de service
n'avait pas suivi le meme rythme de croissance.
6



Concernant l'ecoulement du trafic, I'efficacite commerciale globale enregistr6e
actuellement est de 54% alors que lefficacite technique s'elve a 95%. La difference
s'explique principalement par les fautes de numerotation des demandeurs, l'occupation et
les non reponses des demandes. Une sensibilisation des abonnes et une assistance des
usagers a fort trafic permettront de reduire le trafic perdu du fait du comportement des
abonnes ou de l'encombrement de leurs lignes.
La productivite, mesuree en nombre d'agents pour 1000 lignes principales en
service, est passee de 25,6 en 1986 a 13,3 en 1994 depassant la prevision qui etait de 18.
Les effectifs des telecommunications sont de 13.400 a la fin de 1994 contre
6.467 en 1986.
IV- ETUDE ET ASSISTANCE TECHNIQUE
Dans un souci de rationalisation de la gestion des services en fonction des
exigences du developpement du reseau des telecommunications, des etudes ont et
entreprises pour la reorganisation du systeme d'information et de gestion de l'Office. Ces
etudes ont abouti a :
- la mise au point d'un plan schema directeur informatique.
- I'amnlioration des performances de la fonction achat et l'optimisation de la
gestion des stocks
- I'amelioration de l'adequation des methodes et procedures de la
comptabilite et de la gestion financiere avec le caractere commercial de
l'ONPT et son statut d'etablissement public, et une meilleure connaissance de
la demande.
- I'amelioration des methodes et procedures de gestion du personnel.
- la mise au point d'une tarification des services de telecommunications
compatible avec la strategie commerciale de l'Office.
7









I l A G I HG  (
Repcort I.o:       146 84
Type: ICR.



