Damenut cf
lhe World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4478-MOR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO TUE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US t125 MILLION
TO THE
OFFICE NATIONAL DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FOR A
FIRST TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
March 5, 1987
This document has a restricted distribution and may bc used by recipiens only in the performance
of Lheir officiai duties. Its contents may not otherwise bc disclosed without Worid Bank authorization-



CURREUICY EQUWALENTS
As of January 22, 1987
Currency Unit            Moroccan Dirham (DH)
$1.00      =    DR 9.00
DH 1.00            $0.111
DH 1,000,000       =    $111,100
FISCAL YEAR
Covernment and ONPT:    January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIALTIONS A&ND ACRONYMS
CCP               Comptes Chèques Postaux (postal checking accounts).
CEN               Caisse d'Epargne Nationale (national savings bank).
DEL               Direct exchange line or connected telephone line.
DT                Directorate of Telecommunications (Direction des
Télécommunications, ONPT)-
ICB               International Competitive Bidding (as per Bank guidelines).
INPT              Institut National des Postes et Téléconmmunications (Rabat).
ITU:    International Telecommuinication Union (Geneva).
LCB               Local Competitive Bidding.
LIB               Limited International Bidding.
MATELCA           Société Marocaine de Télécommunications par Cables
Sous-Marins-
MPT          :    Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications (Ministère des
Postes et Télécommunications, Rabat).
ONPT              Office National des Postes et Télécommunications du Maroc.
P & T             Posts and Telecommunications.
RTM               Government Organization for Sound and Television Broadcasting
(Radiodiffusion et Télévision Marocaine).
SNT               National Telecommunications Enterprise (Société Nationale des
Télécommunications, Rabat).
UNDP              LUnited Nations Development Program.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MOROCCO
OFFICE NATIONAL DES POSTES ET TELECOMbMINICATIONS (ONPT)
FIRST TELECOMMUMCATIONS PROJECT
Lan and Project Summary
Borrower:         Office National des  Postes  et Télécommunications  du Maroc.
ONPT (National Posts and Telecommunications Office).
Guarantor:        Kingdom of Morocco
Amount:           US $125 million equivalent.
Terms:            20 years,  including 5 years of grace, at standard variable
interest rate. ONPT will bear the foreign exchange risk and
will pay a 1% guarantee fee to the Government.
Descripion        The project is an integral but self-contained part of ONPT's
investment progran and vill be implemented during 1987-1994.
It aims at expansion, improvement and modernization of the
telecommunications  network.   Major  emphasis  is  placed  on
institutional   development   as   the   principal   means   cf
strengthening    implementation    capacity.        The    project
comprises:   (a) installation of exchange  capacity of about
290,000 lines, together vith the associated external plant
and transmission equipment which includes replacement of worn
out switching equipment (34,000 lines) and rehabilitation of
obsolete  line  distribution  newtworks;  (b)  automation  of
networks  for  about  20.000  subscribers  in  distant  rural
districts, and provision of service  to 89 isolated  areas;
(c) improvement and expansion of specialized services (telex,
data systems, mobile land and maritime radio-comîunications);
(d) strengthening of ONPT's subscriber line connection,
maintenance   and   service   quality   monitoring   capacity;
(e) improvement   of    cormon   service    facilities;    and
(f) training and technical assistance.
Projeet Benefits
and Risks         The  project  vill  benefit  all  sectors  of  the  Moroccan
economy. An adequate telecommunications infrastructure is a
prerequisite to achieving Government's objectives of overall
economic growth and balanced regional development, and allows
more  efficient  utilization  of  transportation,   including
energy  conservation.   The  project  will  also  serve  as  a
catalyst ta mobilize and transfer resources to Government.
The project faces no unusual riska.  Project implementation
vould be adversely affected if the anticipated organizational
and management improvements are not fully attained or are
delayed. This risk is contained by the technical assistance
component and by the monitoring and review procedures
included in the project.
This document has a restuicted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise b. discloscd without World Bank authorization.



- ii. 
Estimated C     '
$ Million Equivalent       -
Bank
Local- a   Foreign       Total      Financing
Switching equipment                 6 .8       135.6         203.4          1.0
Telex and data transmission         19.1        38.1          57.2         18.3
Local networks & outside plant   135.4          32.2         167.6         59.0
Long distance transmission          30.2        51.6          81.8         10.7
Rural automation                    10.1        12.7          22.8         15.2
Buildings                           23.6         -            23.6          --
Training and data
processing equipment                3.1         7.9          11.0          7.9
Consultancy services                 0.4         1.4           1.8          1.4
Miscellaneous                       14.1         5.0          19.1          -
Total Base Cost               308.8       284.5         588.3        113.5
Contingencies
Physical                            15.2        14.2          31.6          5.6
Price                               40.6        16.2         110.9          5.9
TOTAL PROJECT COST           là2e-"    U4.i            674.         125 .0_
Finaneing Pla:
-$  million equivalent
Local      Foreign       Total
IBRD                                 -         125.0         125.0
ONPT                               359.6         -           359.6
Other financing-'                    -         189.9         189.9
TOTAL                         359.       R 2           _4_5
Estimated Disbursements:
$ Million equivalent-
Bank FY         1987    1988   1989    1990    1991    1992   1993   1994
Annual           2.8    23.6   31.9    25.0    22.2    11.1    5.6    2.8
Cumulative       2.8    26.4   58.3    83.3   105.5   116.6  122.2  125.0
Economie Rate of Retunr: 26%
Staff ApDraisl Report:   Report No. 6017-MCR, dated March 3, 1987
a/ Includes $129.2 million in customs duties and taxes.
bJ  Other  fina.icing  to  be  obtained  through  price  and   terms  bidding
($115.4 million) and through tied procurement arrangements ($74.5 million).



INTERNATIONAL BA.NK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AN!D DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTWVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
nI AN AMOUNT EQUALFENT TO US$125 MILLION
TO THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FOR A FIRST TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
1.       I submit the folloving report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Office National des Postes et Télécommunications (ONPT), with the
guarantee of the Kingdom of Morocco for the equivalent of UJS$125.0 million, to
help finAnce a first telecoimnunications project. The loan would have a term
of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard variable rate. ONPT
would bear the interest and exchange risks on the Bank loan and will pay a 1%
guarantee fee to the Government.
PART I - TIE ECONOMY"1
2.       An economic report, entitled "LMorocco: Priorities for Public Sector
Investment (1981-85)" (No. 4156-MOR), vas issued on June 15, 1983.  Another
economic report entitled "Morocco: Industrial Incentives and Export Promotion"
(No. 4893-MOR) was distributed to the Board on January 11, 1984. An economic
mission on financial intermediation vas in Morocco in September 1983 and its
report (No. 4957-MOR) vas issued on December 12, 1984. The folloving section
reflects the findings of an economic updating mission that vent to Morocco in
July 1984 to prepare a paper, entitled "Morocco: Medium-term Adjustment
Policies and Prospects", for presentation to a meeting of the Consultative
Group for Morocco in Paris on January 9-11, 1985. Data and mnalysis have been
updated to reflect the recent mission reviewing progress on policy adjustment
loans, analyzing Public Resource Mobilization (report in preparation), and
analyzing medium-term prospects for a forthcoming CEM. Country data are given
in Annex I.
Intr odu1t;ion
3.       During  nearly  two  decades  after  Independence  in  1956,  Morocco
followed  relatively  conservative  economie  policies.    Cautious  external
borrowings supplemented a weak savings effort to permit only a slow rise in
investment, so that the economy grew only at about 4 percent per annum.
Primary products - principally phosphates - accounted for 90 percent of
merchandise  exports.   During  the  mid-1970s,  after  a  sudden  increase  in
phosphate  prices,  Morocco  launched an ambitious  public  investment program
which boosted GDP growth to 7.5 percent annually during the period 1973-77.
The phosphate boom, however, began subsiding as early as mid-1975. Meanwhile,
the petroleum import bill, which had quadrupled in 1974, continued to place
Il Part I is an updated version of that presented in in the Second Vocational
Training Project (Report No. P-4424-MOR of December 15, 1986). A nev CEM
is expected to be circulated shortly, in preparation for the Consultative
Group on Morocco scheduled to be held in early March 1987.



-2-
considerable pressure on the balance of payments, and the current account
deficit reached 16.5 percent of GDP in 1977.  Domestically,  the large public
investment program and increased defense expenditures in the Western Sahara
caused the treasury deficit to rise to 15.8 percent of GCD  in 1977.  Morocco
resorted to considerable foreign borrowings to finance these deficits.
4.       To  redress  the  rapidly  deteriorating  financial  situation,  the
Moroccan Government introduced a three-year stabilization program in 1978
centered on reductions in public sector outlays and stricter import controls.
These reforms were only partially successful.  They did little to stimulate
exports.   The  exchange  rate was  kept overvalued  and  trade barriers  vere
raised. They did not adequately tackle the excessive budgetary exposure and
made inadequate attempts to increase the efficiency of resource use.   The
agricultural  sector  failed  to  grow,  while  value-added  in  manufacturing
declined.   Meanwhile,  public  investment  vas  not restrained;  a number  of
costly, poorly-targeted social programs vas expanded and investment in
infrastructure was undertaken often vell ahead of need.  Efforts to stabilize
the economy were compromised by severe external shocks - most notably the 1979
oil  price  increase,   the  rise  in  international   interest  rates,   the
international  recession  which  reduced  phosphate  earnings  and  workers'
remittances,  and  the  prolonged  drought.   Continued  in,ernal  pressure  to
provide social services and affordable basic foodstuffs to a rapidly growing
population put considerable strains on a budget already stretched by the need
to finance expenditures in the Sahara. The 1981-85 Development Plan aimed at
an ambitious 6.5 percent per annum growth rate in GDP. Notwithstand-ing the
difficulties confronting the econo.y, Morocco did not appear willing to
introduce a comprehensive program of policy measures vhich could have
confronted  the  economic  crisis.   The  shortcomings   in  the  adjustment
performance caused the IMF to convert a three-year EFF into a one-year Stand
By Arrangement in 1982 and prevented the Bank from proceeding vith a SAL at
that time.
Recent Economie Developments
5.       By 1983 it had become clear that the Government's room to maneuver
was becoming very restricted by debt service payment requirements.   In 1982
external public Log.---term debt (excluding military debt) had risen to about
two-thirds of GDP and 235 percent of exports of goods and services while the
do:bt service  ratio  reached  35  percent.   Morocco  was  confranted  with  the
prospect of a very large external  payments  gap  for  1983.   With  exchange
reserves virtually depleted and debt service rising, the Government imposed
emergency import controls and budgetary cutbacks in early 1983.  In November
1983 the Cavernment entered into an 18-nmonth standby arrangement with the IMF
(SDR 300 million, or 98 percent of quota) supporting a stabilization program
which included fiscal and credit restraints and a flexible exchange rate
policy. Shortly thereafter, official creditors agreed to reschedule external
debt interest and principal payments coming due between September 1, 1983 and
December 1984, as well as arrears as of August  31, 1983.  Connercial bank
creditors agreed in principle to provide comparable relief on amortization.
The total amount of debt relief obtained in 1983-84 under these agreements was



-3 -
estimsated at more than $2 billion (including $575 million of relief on
military debt).   In November 1983, a Donors' meeting sponsored by the IMF,
generated pledges of about $500 million of exceptional balance-of-payments
assistance for 1983-84. To meet its fiscal targets the Governuent restricted
public service recruitment and salary increases, raised the prices of
electricity, water, petroleum products and subsidized foodstuffs (by between
17 percent and 60 percent), and cut capital outlays by one third. At the sane
time, it began a significant adjustment effort supported by the Bank program,
along with the January 1984 ITPA I (No. P-3707-MOR). to improve its balance of
payments situation with a package of measures to restructure its trade
regime.   This  included  a  reduction  in  import  taxation,  an  easing  of
quantitative restrictions, and a reduction in export licensing. Following a
Financial Sector Study conducted by the Bank in 1984  (No.  4957-MOR),  the
Gbvernment extended these reforms to the Financial Sector with the objective
of raising domestie  resources and  improving  resource  allocation.  Greater
flexibility was introduced in setting interest rates, measures were designed
to increase competition among banks, and  taxation  reforms  to benefit  the
financial sector were implemented.
6.       As  a  result  of  the  policies  adopted  since  1983,  macroeconomic
balances improved.  The economy's resource gap shrank from 13 percent of CDP
in 1982 to 7 percent in 1985 (at constant 1980 prices). This vas achieved
through a significant decline in the CDP share of consumption and investment
relative to their high levels earlier in the 1980s. Neanwhile, import growth
has been restrained by appropriate demand management and by the depreciation
of the exchange rate, while the share of exports and gross domestic savings
increased substantially.   The Government budget deficit  was  reduced  from
13 percent of GDF in 1982 to about 9 percent in 1985 (10 percent before taking
lnto account the impact of external debt rescheduling on interest payments).
Although the improvement stemmed chiefly from a sharp reduction in investment
outlays, there was also a significant slowing down in the rate of growth of
current expenditures. As was to be expected, the rate of GDP growth has been
low (a little over 2 percent p.a.), reflecting the impact of stabilization
policies on consutaption and investment demand, along with the effect of
drought on agricultural sector incomes in both 1983 and 1984. A good harvest
bas helped boost the grawth rate to about 4.3 percent in 1985 and an estimated
5.7% in 1986.
7.       The current account of the balance of payments improved considerably,
reflecting both the better resource balance of the economy and the impact of
the debt relief obtained by Morocco from its official creditors on interest
and military debt service payments.  In 1983, the external current account
deficit vas reduced by half, from $1.9 billion and 12.7 percent of GDF in 1982
ta $873 million and 6.6 percent of GDP. The balance subsequently worsened in
1984, particularly in relation to GDP, but still remained under $1 billion.
In both 1983 and 1984, about half of the roughly $1 billion improvement in the
carrent account in relation to 1982 was attributable to debt relief. -"  The
1/ Over $200 million in interest payments were rescheduled in each of the two
years.  In addition, the current account balance benefitted from military
debt relief in the amount of $325 million in 1983 and $250 million in 1984.



- 4 -
net inflow of public medium and long-term capital (including grants) has
declined sharply f rom about $1.5 billion in 1982 to an average of only
$600 million  during  1983-1984.   In  1985,  the  net  inflow  fell  ta  about
$400 million, despite an exceptional $300 million grant from Saudi Arabia.
These inflows had to be supplemented by continued debt relief along the lines
of the 1983-84 debt rescheduling, and demand management policies to keep
import growth under control.
8.       A stand-by arrangement vith the IMF was approved on September 13,
1985. A formal debt rescheduling through the Paris Club covering maturities
from September 1985 to February 1987 were agreed on September 17, 1985.
Ninety-five percent of the total debt due vere rescheduled along lines similar
to those obtained under the 1983-84 debt relief arrangement.   The 1983-84
rescheduling agreement between Morocco and the commercial banks vas signed,
after long delays, on October 21, 1985. As a result of slippages in meeting
performance criteria, however, the IMF stand-by arrangement was declared
inoperative. The Goverument has since recognized that stronger corrective
measures  would  be  needed  to  keep  the  stabilization  program  on  course
including, in particular, restraining current expenditures and reducing
subsidies on foodstuffs and public services. A new standby for December 1986
to February 1988 has been negotiated and is now in effect. The implementation
of a new stabilization program attendant on gains from the Bank-supported
program of sectoral adjustment and favorable external developments should
enable Morocco to achieve a balance on its current accouit by 1987.
Medium Tern  Poieies and Prospects
9.       Since 1983, the Government's objective of achieving viable external
and fiscal positions along with satisfactory growth has been translated inte a
coherent medium-term strategy to restrain domestic absorption and increase the
efficiency  of  resource  allocation  throughout  the economy.   The  principal
elements  of Morocco's  medium-term adjustment  program  involve  a  shift  to
outward-looking trade and exchange rate policies; far-reaching reforms of
price, credit, tax and regulatory policies to remove institutional and other
obstacles to efficient mobilization and use of resources in key productive
sectors of the economy; considerable improvements in the efficiency of
government investment; more cost-effective methods and better targetting of
social programs; and a thorough overhaul of the public enterprise sector.
10.      The  shift  to  an  outward-oriented  development  strategy  is  the
cornerstone   of   Morocco' s   medium-term   adjustment   program.    Continued
adjustments in trade and exchange rate policies will be made to complete the
reform of the overall incentive framework designed to accelerate export growth
and reduce and rationalize import protection.  Key instruments are to be a
flexible exchange rate, the reduction and gradual elimination of the special
import tax; a general reform of the tariff level and structure, with the
objective of reducing the overall level of protection to 25 percent through
decreasiog maximum duty rates and evening out the spread in  tariff  rates
vithin and between sectors; and finally, a phasing out of quantitative
restrictions on imports. Domestic price controls, which were already removed



- 5 -
in 1983-84 on many manufactured products, are planned to be fully eliminated,
in  parallel  with  progress  in  import  liberalization.   Remaining  export
licensing requirements vill be abolished, with exporters to be entitled to
import all inputs on a duty-free basis.
il.      At  the  same  time,  appropriate  sector  strategies  for  the  key
productive sectors, particularly agriculture and industry, will be promoted.
In industry, although the development of Morocco's potential for export of
phosphate fertilizers vill continue to be an important objective, the
contribution of this highly capital-intensive sector to employment and to the
establishment of a broader industrial base through forward and backward
linkages vill  remain  limited.   Moreover,  a high degree of  dependence  on
phosphate and phosphate fertilizer exports has made Morocco extremely
vulnerable to cyclical fluctuations in the volatile world phosphate market.
For this reason, the industrial strategy must be based on the diversification
of  manufactured  exports,  including  processed  foods  and  nontraditional
manufactures where Morocco may have a comparative advantage on world markets.
In agriculture, Morocco needs to continue developing an appropriate package of
policies designed to overcome existing constraints to rational land use
patterns, to ensure that farmers have adequate incentives to improve farming
techniques and use modern inputs, and to provide the support services needed
to bring about these changes.   A first Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
(No. P-4032-MOR) supporting such policy direction vas extended by the Bank in
June 1985.
12.      The low productivity of investment bas been one of the major factors
in the poor performance of the Moroccan economy in the past ten years.  The
allocation of capital and the efficiency of investment ueed to be improved
considerably both in the public and in the private sector.  ln the private
sector, the reform of the protection framework described above should go a
long way towards removing distortions in investment patterns.   However,  it
vill also be necessary to review the bias in favor of capital-intensive
activities inherent in the current investment incentive systen, including tax
exemptions and interest rate subsidies which artificially depress the c0at of
capital. In the public sector, increasing the efficiency of investment vill
require a considerable improvement of existing planning and budgeting
mechanisms, including better procedures for setting investment priorities,
strengthening of project preparation and monitoring capability, and placing
more emphasis on the economic evaluation of projects before they receive
Government  sanction.   Policy actions to improve the public investment and
enterprise framework as vell as continuing reform of trade policy and a
comprehensive approach to financial sector reform are supported by the Bank's
second Industrial and Trade Policy Adjustment loan approved in July 1985.
After some delays, the Government completed the agreed reforms, and the second
tranche of this loan vas released on October 29, 1986.
13.      An exceptionally stre-g savings effort will be essential  for  the
success  of Morocco's adjustment process.  In the private sector financial
savings have been repressed in the past due to inadequate financial policies
and negative real interest rates. Savings are nov being encouraged through



- 6 -
increases in deposit rates and a program of f inancial sector reforme to
improve f inancial intermediation and develop the dorestit money and capital
markets.  But the *ost intense savings efforts in the next few years vill have
to take place in the public sector, which continues to be a major source of
dissaving, particularly through the Government budget.  In the medium term,
sustained improvement in the mobilization and utilization of resources by the
public sector will require fundamental reforms in a number of key areas,
including social expenditure policies, taxation, and cost recovery and
efficiency in the public enterprise sector.   In the social sectors, where
coverage of the population is still inadequatu, Government activities need to
be restructured so that basic services (particularly education and health) can
be  delivered  morp  effectively  but  at  substantially  lower  cost.   More
cost-effective methods and better targeting vill be prerequisites to a further
broadening  of access  to these services  in  the  future.   Food  and  other
subsidies also need ta be targeted te the groups most in need rather than
directed to the general population.
14.      Macroeconomic projections based on the Government's reform programs
indicate that it may take the better part of the next ten years for Morocco to
complete its adjustment process. The growth of the economy is likely to be
severely constrained in the early years of the adjustment process.  However,
as the restructuring measures designed to promote exports, improve resource
use and increase domestic savings begin to vork their effects through the
economy, the external imbalance should lessen, and restraints on douestic
demand could gradually be relaxed. Moreover, the growth of external demand
expected to result from the trade liberalization and export promotion
policies, and the switch in the composition of domestic demand from imported
to domestic goods, fostered by the adjustment of relative prices, should help
mitigate the temporary negative impact of slower public expenditure growth on
incomes and employment.
15.      The projections suggest that GDP grawth is likely not to exce 1 4.3Z
p.a. until 1990, gradually rising accelerating thereafter. Domestic demand is
expected  to  grow  very  slowly  until  1990,  reflecting  the  impact  of
stabilization policies on both investment and consumption.  Investment, which
has been declining since 1978, should stabilize in real terms and in relation
to GDP until about 1991, then recover strongly thereafter.  Assuming that
central government investment expenditures would remain constant in real terms
in the medium  term,  the adjustments  would occur pri-marily in the public
enterpises and private sectors. Goverament consumption, which had grown very
rapidly until recently, is projected to decline marginally in real terms and
to drop by 3 percentage points in relation to GDP between 1985 and 1990. The
growth of private consumption, which already slowed significantly in the early
1980s, would remain just above that of GDP in 1985-90, and decline only
slightly  in  the  1990s.   Restructuring  policies  should  bring  about  an
acceleration in the growth of exports of goods and nonfactor services.  The
acceleration of export growth would help sustain a modest recovery of imports,
the overall trend of which has been downward since 1978.  Imports, however,
should rise much more slowly than exports between 1985 and 1990, as a result
of the demand restraint and expenditure switching policies.



16.      As a result of the drap in the GDP share of both investment and
consumption, there should be a steady decline in the economy's resource gap.
Grose domestic savings are expected to rise much faster than GDP throughout
the period, initially as a result of improved savings mobilization by the
public sector, and later reflecting continued substantial improvements in
private savings as well. The marginal savings rate with respect to GNP vill
need ta be relatively high (about 33 percent) in 1985-90, as a necessary
concomitant to reducing the external deficit; it should slacken slightly
thereafter. Eigh domestic savings should enable the economy to finance the
recovery of investment vithout recourse to external savings in the early
i990s.  This vill be essential, since, throughout the remainder of the 1980s,
the balance of payments will remain under considerable pressure because of
continuing high debt service payments. By the end of the decade, reforms of
the overall economic incentive framework and increased efficiency of public
investment should have raised the productivity of new investment considerably,
and the ICOR should drop substantially from the high levels prevailing in the
early 1980s.
17.      It  is  important  to  recognize  that  the  implementation  of  the
stabilization policies and measures for structural adjustment envisaged in
this scenario vill entail some transitional social costs. With population
growth at about 2.5 percent p.a., GNP and consumption per capita, which have
been essentially stagnant since 1980, are not likely to show much improvement
in real ternms until the end of the present decade. Stabilization policies and
measures to increase efficiency vill initially be reflected to some extent in
depressed domestic dendnti, increased unemployment, and same decline in real
incomes,  particularly  the  real  income  of  urban  populations,  Governmnent
employees, and workers in less competitive industries. On the other hand, the
reai income of farmers, who constitute by far the poorest segment of the
population, should rise as a result of increases in agricultural producer
prices and inprovements in support services and marketing institutions and
infrastructure. This will be particularly true of farmers in rainfed areas.
The political and social implications of these velfare shifts are likely to be
significant,  and to keep them manageable will be a major  concern  of  the
Governnent in the next few years.  While the cost of not undertaking the
required economic adjustments would in any case be greater in the long run, it
will be important to minimize the negative short-term impact of these
adjustments on the poorest groups.  After 1990, as a result of the reforms
undertaken in the 1980s, the economy could return gradually te a higher growth
path vithout endangering external equilibrium.  Per capita levels of income
and consumption could begin to rise again, and the restoration of economic
dynamism would greatly improve Morocco's ability to deal with its serious
unemployment problem.
18.      A steady improvement in Morocco's external payments position should
result  from  the acceleration of export  growth  relative  to  import  growth
anticipated  in  1986-90.   The  economy's  negative  resource  balance,  which
averaged more than $2 billion in 1980-82, and dropped to $1.2-1.3 billion in
1983-84, is projected to decline steadily until 1990 and increase slowly
thereafter. Assuming that the growth of workers' remittances can be sustained
at a modest pace, the current account should improve roughly in parallel with



- 8 -
the overall resource balance and could reach equilibrium around 1987.
However, the overall balance of payments can be expected to continue ta show
large deficits because of the heavy principal repayments coming due on the
external  debt,  including  substantial  repayments  to  the  IMF.   Because  of
mounting debt service obligations, gross public long-term capital requirements
are projected to average close to US$2.3 billion annually during the period
1986-90.
19.      It is clear, under these circumstances, that Morocco will continue to
require debt relief for several  more  years.   The  projections  include  the
eftects of the recently concluded 1985-87 debt rescheduling agreement through
tle Paris Club, and assume debt relief from private creditors during 1985-87,
essentially along the lines of the debt reschedulings obtained in 1983-84. In
addition, the model assumes additional rescheduling in 1988 but only on
civilian  debt.'   Normal  public  long-term capital  inflows  could be barely
sufficient to cover the remaining financing requirements in 1986-88 (about
US$1.1 billion annually),  assuming  that new loan commitments from Morocco's
official lenders can be maintained at their current rate (about US$800 million
a year).  Recourse to commercial bank financing, autside of these guaranteed
programs, is likel; to remain constrained and gross private capital flows are
expected ta average about US$100-150 million per annum, probably strongly
conditioned on, if not directly tied to, specific adjustment  programs.   In
1987, a financing gap of approximately US$500 million corresponding to
short-term arrears (which is expected to be reduced to about $400 million at
the end of the year) will be met through rescheduling.
20.      In view of the continuing large capital inflows required in the next
few  years,  the  long-term  external  debt  outstanding  and  disbursed  would
continue to rise until 1992, but would begin to stabilize thereafter.  The
ratio of debt outstanding and disbursed to exports of goods and services,
which had risen to 268 percent in 1984, would start to decline, progressively
dropping to 173 percent by 1990 and 79 percent by 1995.  In the absence of
debt rescheduling, the long-term debt service ratio would bave risen to 57 and
74 percent of exports of goods and services in 1985 and 1986, respectively.
With debt relief obtained for the period 1985-87, on the other hand, the debt
service ratio could be kept at about 40 percent.  Assuming no further debt
relief, it would rise sharply in 1989, with repayments on tbh 1983-84
rescheduled maturities (including military debt) falling due, but would then
start declining gradually in the 1990s.
21.      Given  this  difficult  debt  situation,  Morocco's  commitment  to  an
aggressive program of structural adjustment is essential for the country ta be
considered creditworthy for continued Bank lending. Bank exposure amounted to
11% of total debt outstanding in 1985, and approximately 12% in 1986, and
would inerease to about 2D% in 1990.
1/ About US$206 million and US$174 million of military debt service payments
coming due in 1986 and 1987, respectively, are assumed to be rescheduled
along the same lines as other obligations.



- 9 -
PART 11 - OTHER BANK GROIJP OPERATIONS N MOROCCO
22.      Bank Group  lending  to Morocco, in  support  of  70  projects,  has
totalled US$3013.4 million (net of cancellations) of which US$25 million vere
from a third vindow loan.  US$2,534.3 millior are currently outstanding, of
which US$1,433.5 million are disbursed. These figures include IDA credits,
totalling US$45.2 million, which vere made available for five projects until
1975.   Total  IFC  investments  amount to US$94.5 million  in  12 operations
(US$90.4 million after cancellations, terminations, repayments and sales).
Arsex II contains a summary statement of Bank Group operations as of
September 30, 1986.
23.      In recent years, project implementation experience has been mixed.
While technical and management constraints vithin many project entities have
been  overcome, shortages  of budget  funds  since  1983,  have  hampered  the
performance of those entities which rely on the Government budget for part of
their  project  financial  requirements.   Insufficient  budgetary  provisions
pertain both to investment and current Government expenditures. Combined vith
rigidities  in  pricing  policy,   these  shortfalls  have  contributed   to
disappointing financial performance of project entities through a build-up of
arrears  to  private  contractors  and  to  public  enterprises.   Disbursement
results have largely reflected the above conditions, as well as the fact that
for much of the period 1984-86, appreciation of the dollar vis-à-vis the
Dirhba reduced project costs and therefore reimbursable expenditures in dollar
terms. To alleviate budgetary constraints and improve project implementation,
Special Action Program (SAP) provisivns were applied ta 15 Morocco loans
during this period.   This  contributed  to  improving  the  ratio  of  actual
disbursements to appraisal estimates from an average of about 43% in 1984, to
54.3% in March, 1986      close to EMENA legion averages.  In FY86, total Bank
disbursements  to Morocco  were US$375.0 million,  while  repayments vere the
equivalent of US$103.0 million.
24.      The  Government's  constrained  resource  position  has  led  to  the
postponement of preparation of a new Development Plan.  Budget constraints
have limited investzuent expenditures esentially to the completion of ongoing
investments.   In these circumstances,  the Goverament's development strategy
has been modified to concentrate on policy reforms in major economic sectors
aimed at the transformation of the economy into a more efficient producer of
goods and services and with greater participation in international trade and
more reliance on the private sector. Reforms have been introduced in the
Financial, Industrial and Trade regimes seo as to improve resource use, change
incentives to realize the potential for export development and to promote
private and  public  savings.  The Agricultural sector is being modernized
through a restructuring of the investment program and a re-orientation of
prices and incentives:  support and delivery systems are being strengthened
and  the  capacity  for  sector  planning,  policy  analysis  and  execution
reinforced. The Education systea is being re-oriented to improve its balance,
quality and equity of access through the promotion of primary education and
vocational training; sectoral efficiency will be enhanced through measures te



- 10 -
reduce unit costs and curb the growth of budgetary outlays.  In the recogni-
tion that the dependence of Public Enterprises on the Government budget needs
to decreise, the Covernment has decided to change the nature and scope of its
interventions in the public enterprise sector through the promotion of
financial, managerial and administrative autonomy of public enterprises as
well as a rationalization of the State's role in the economy.
25.      The overall objectives of the Government's medium-term strategy are
ta restore sustainable growth rates and reduce the debt burden to manageable
levels.   The  Bank's  assistance strategy is to support Government prograns
which contain  concrete measures  to:   (i) mobilize  resources,  particularly
increase  public  savings;   (ii)   improve  mechanisms  for  the  efficient
allocation, monitoring and use of public resources; (iii) promote exports and
efficient import substitution;  (iv)  enhance equity in the distribution of
economic  gains.   Such  support  implies  promoting  flexible  institutional
structures and enhancing the decentralization of decision-making and creating
an environment which stimulates private sector investment and production. The
Bank's economic  and sector work program ha. been designed to provide  the
analytical basis for the structural reform programs in each of  the major
sectors mentioned in paragraph 24 above, and for subsequent Bank lending in
each.   In addition to addressing key sectoral policy issues, economic and
sector work contains periodic reviews of the public investuent programs to
help the Government allocate its scarce resources to high priority projects.
The  results  of the Bank's general macro-economic work,  to be shared vith
members of the Consultative Croup for Morocco early in 1987, will be
supplemented by special studies on resource mobilization, on the employment
situation and the impact of the overall structural adjustment program on
economic activity and on the poor. Together vith the IM1F, the Bank intende to
evolve a medium-term framework for fiscal policies aimed at a broadening of
the  tax base and a  rationalization of  public expenditures.   A  recurrent
element of the macro-economic dialogue is the evolution of a progrAm to
streamline and integrate investnent planning and budgeting, with emphasis on
appropriate resource allocation and project selection.  Sectoral studies in
the Energy, Urban, Population, Realth and Nutrition sectors are expected to
provide the basis for future operations in these areas.
26.      The Bank's lending strategy for Morocco  is to support  Govern ent
progrnms  which  promote  stabilization  and  structural  adjustment  in  major
economic sectors, as outlined in paragraph 25 above. Thus, sectoral policy
operations will form a large part of the Bank's assistance program. Given the
resource constraints imposed by fiscal stabilization, investment proposals
relying on the Goveroment budget need to be carefully scrutinized. There is,
however, scope for (i) formulating investments which redress imbalances  in
income distribution and in the access of the population ta public services,
and (ii) financing the resource needs of private sector enterprises and export
industries which are being restructured so to operate efficiently within the
new trade regime. Viable operations financing essential maintenance required
to sustain essential service levels are also included in the strategy.
Project lending will thus continue, albeit at similar constrainted levels ta
those characterizing the past three years of the program.  Specific sectoral
objectives of Bank operations tan be sununarized as follows:



- il -
27.      Agriculture   To  permit  the  agricultural  sector  to  realize  its
productive potential and contribute to Morocco's adjustment effort, the
Governnent's investment strategy and sectoral policies are being revised to
promote production patterns which reflects the sector's comparative advantage
and reduce  ineffective government  intervention.   Policy  reforms are being
supported by the Bank through phased sector adjustment loans which re-orient
the prices and incentives framework, restructure the trade and marketing
regimes, and rationalize public expenditures in agriculture. An optimal rale
for the public sector is being defined and the nature of Goverument
interventions altered to permit an increased emphasis on policy planning and
analysis. Project design aims to make maximum use of non-budgetary financing,
increase cost recavery, and enhance institutional capability to deliver basic
and  commercial  agricultural  services.   Thus,  parallel  to policy  reforms,
investments in research and extension, agricultural credit, and complementary
operations aimed at rehabilitating the irrigation infrastructure are an
integral part of the sectoral assistance strategy.
28.      Industry, Trade and the Financial Sector.  The manufacturing sectar
will play a pre-eminent role in the transformation of the Koroccan economy
from its orientation to domestic markets and reliance on import-substituting
industrial activity to an outward orientation more encouraging of exports.
Policy reforms in tariff protection and for export promotion have been
supported  by  two  sectoral  adjustment  operations,  which  also  instituted
financial sector reforms aimed at restructuring investment incentives,
encouraging savings and improving financial intermediation.   Further policy
reforms will be directed at balanced reductions in quantitative restrictions
and  tariffs, and liberalization of interest rates and bank commissions.  Apart
trom support for policy reform, Bank lending would be directed at enterprises
which respond to the country's objectives of export promotion and efficient
import-substitution  in  efficient  markets.   This  vill  entail  support  to
financial intermediaries which provide technical and financial support to
enterprises adjusting to the new trade regime.
29.      Energy and Mining.    Per capita deuand for electricity is low in
Mbrocco and will need to grow to support economic expansion.  Bank assistance
is directed at support of at least-cost investment program to meet future
needs, improve subsector planning and execution capabilities, and establish an
electricity  code  to  govern  intra-sectoral  activities.   Co-ordination  of
generation and distribution activities vill be improved following studies to
determine specific organizational  restructuring needs.   Reforms  to  reduce
divergences   between  tariffs  and  marginal  cost  structures  are  being
implemented. These policy and institutional changes will be introduced both
through individual operations and via the forthcoming Public Enterprise
Rationalization Loan (PERL). For the mining sector, a diagnostic study is
expected to lead to the rehabilitation, liquidation or restructuring of the
publicly-owned mining holding company and its affiliates, based on a clearly
defined role of the state in the mining sector.
30.      The Bank's assistance strategy for infrastructure and utilities calls
for combined institution-building of agencies responsible for handling
transport infarstructure, water supply and sewerage, housing finance and



- 12 -
comuunity  infrastructure.   The  provision  of  essential  services  will  be
expanded through the implementation of selected projects. The overall policy
environuent in which the public enterprises operate in each sector will be
rationalized through PERL reforms. Key elements of the reform vill include
progressive moves to promote financial autonomy through tariff measures,
revised enterprise borrowing strategies, and increased reliance on private and
non-budgetary sources of finance.
31.      Social  Services:   Education,  Health  and  Urban  Development.   The
Government's overall approach to the provision of social services is to
promote and expand access by low-income groups, especially in rural areas. In
times of fiscal restraint, this requires recognition that the budgetary and
unit costs of such services need to be reduced.  Hence, in the Education and
the Health and Nutrition sectors, emphasis would shift from capital-intensive
and essentially urban-based investments which benefit a relatively limited
clientele, to the development and dissemination to rural areas of more
cost-effective delivery systems for essential services. With respect to urban
development, the principal focus of the sectoral strategy will be to raise the
share of institutional and private savings directed towards municipal and
housing finance.
PART ]H - T1E TELECOMMJUMCATIONS SECTOR
Te*eeommuniations am Ec
32.      Compared with alternative means of communication, telecommunications
are more efficient in terms of capital, energy consumption and user time.  In
terms of the specific constraints on Morocco's economic and social develop-
ment, telecommmications can play a significant role in:  (a) increasing the
efficiency of transport, resulting in energy savings and greater efficiency of
productive interactions; (b) improving the working of the market mechanisn by
expediting and extending access to information; (c) providing essential
domestic and international communications for tourism and export activities,
important sources of foreign exchange; (d) facilitating communication between
Casablanca and Rabat and provincial centers, as required for effective
coordination and management of development; (e) facilitating the extension of
social services, public works and Governument administration to rural areas;
and (f) increasing domestic savings by transferring part of the incremental
net income from telecommunications operations to government.
Acces to Service
33.      Telephone density in Morocco as of end 1986 vas about 1.0 DEL per 100
ponulation. This is about half that of neighboring Mediterranean countries,
e.g., Algeria (2.0) and Tunisia (2.0). Existing telecommunications services
are concentrated in urban areas: almost 80% of the DELs in service are located
in nine large cities and provincial centers, with 42% of the population.
Despite this urban concentration, some form of telecommunications service is
available in most provinces and rural areas, and only 4% of rural commiunities
are vithout service.



- 13 -
34.      Subscriber trunk dialing permits automatic long distance dialing for
90% of all subscribers. About 85% of subscribers in large urban and some
provincial  areas  have direct  dialing access  to  22 countries.   All  telex
subscribers have automatie access to 80 countries, and manual access to about
70 other countries.
Usage of Serviee
35.      As of the end of 1986, 17% of DELs installed were for Covernment and
public agencier, 35% for business and professionals, and 48% for residential
premises.   Given  the  large unsatisfied demand  (para.  38) some residential
telephones are  also  used  for commercial  activities.   Telex and  telegraph
facilities are also principally used for business. Average telephone usage in
1986 was about 7,500 metered pulses per DEL; this number is far higher than
the worldwide average (about 5,000) and is another indicator of large
unsatisfied demand. The level of congestion implied by these figures actually
reduces system efficiency (para. 36).
Quality of Service and Existing Facilities
36.      Existing facilities are reasonably well equipped and operated, but
the quality of service is unsatisfactory. With installed capacity of 285,000
exchange lines and 253,000 DELs in service, telephone exchange fill is very
high at 89%.  In the commercial districts of downtown Casablanca and Rabat,
the exchange fill is as high as 92%.  This results in poor traffie flow and
congestion.  Peak hour local call completion rates are below 60% in Rabat and
50% in Casablanca. Only 20% ta 30% of peak hour interurban and international
calls are completed.  Faults average 0.9 per line in service per annum; an
acceptable level would be 0.5.
Telecoxamunicationsnstry
37.      Morocco  has  a  smnall  telecommunications  manufacturing,  assembly,
installation and construction industry.   It comprises  one gavern ent-owned
company, Société Nationale des Télécommunications (SNT) and four small private
companies.  SNT participates in the installation and construction of ONPT's
local and urban networks, installs and maintains private telecommunications
equipment, and has equity participation in the four private firms.  The four
private companies are local subsidiaries of foreign suppliers. Three of them
assemble or produce minor switching, radio, teleprinter, and power equipment
components; the fourth factory produces cables and meets a substantial part of
ONPT's needs for cables and accessary equipment. Value added in this type of
manufacturing is limited. This is not expected to change during the project
period due te the relatively small size of the domestie market and rapid
changes in technology.  Government and ONPT intend to strengthen the local
manufacturing industry,  where  justified by market  size and benefits  from
import  substitution  and  to  encourage  participation  of  local  private
entrepreneurs in the installation of cable networks and subscriber plants.
However, opportunities to establish economical manufacturing plants are
limited and need to be carefully selected. During negotiations, assurances



- 14 -
were obtained from Government that acceptable feasibility studies will be
undertaken  before  making  additional  public  sector  investments  in  the
telecommunications manufacturing industry, and that copies of those studies
and the recommendations based thereon will be furnished to the Bank.
Demand for Service
38.      As of end 1986, there were about 253,000 telephone DELs in service
and a waiting list of 169,000 registered applicants; only 60% of expressed
demand was satisfied and the waiting time for obtaining a telephone connection
was  seven  years.   There is significant suppressed demand, since potential
subscribers are discouraged from registering by these extremely long waiting
times.  Demand for telephone service is estimated to grow at about 12% per
year aver the 1987-94 period. Under the proposed project, connected DELs are
forecast to increase by 16% per annum, compared to 7% at present.  Even at
that rate, only about 80% of expressed demand would be met by 1994.   The
current waiting time for a telex connection is two years.  Under the proposed
project, demand for telex and specialized services would be fully met by 1994.
Sector Organization
39.      Until the end of 1983, postal/financial and telecommunications (PiT)
services vere operated by the Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications (MPT).
Following the recomnendations of a Bank sector study (1982), the Office
National des Postes et Telecommuaications (ONPT) was created in January, 1984
and responsibility for P&T services vas transferred from MPT to ONPT.  The
entity operates on a commercial basis and has legal and financial autonomy.
Its Board is chaired by the Prime Minister of Morocco; the other Board members
are the ministers of P&T, Finance, Interior, Defense, Planning, Economic
Affairs, Industry and Equipment and Transport.  The Minister of P&T is serving
as acting Director General which, during the current transition period, vill
benefit ONPT's management and enhance the likelihood of rapid execution of its
investment program.  A permanent Director Ceneral is expected to be appointed
by 1988.   The general  issue  of  the composition  of  the boards  of  public
enterprises in Morocca is being reviewed by the Bank in the context of a
proposed Public Enterprise Rationalization Loan appraised in January/February
1986; the aim is to make these boards more professional and effective by
including ln their membership people with techuical and managerial experience.
40.      ONPT's  current  headquarters  organization  consists  of  a  General
Secretariat  and  six  Departments:  Telecommunications,  Posts and  Financial
Services, Finance, General Administration (personnel, social affairs and
legal),  Coanon  Services  (buildings and  transport),  and  Procurement.   The
organization is highly centralized and hence allows only for limited autonomy
at the operational level. A new organizational structure was recently recom-
mended by consultants. The consultants proposals, as modified by ONPT after
consultation vith the Bank, will be implemented in phases starting in March,
1987.    :t provides for adequate autonomy of ONPT's principal branches of
activity (telecommunications, posts, and financial services), vhile increasing
responsibility and accountability at all levels.  Regional delegations will



- 15 -
have   increased   operational   responsibilities,  while   policy   control  at
headquarters will be strengthened.   To achieve this, the number of regional
delegations  will be reduced from the current 41  to 4.  As a condition of
effectiveness ONPT shiould have furnished to the Bank a program satisfactory to
the Bank (including action plans and time schedule), to improve its overall
organization, management and operations.
Sector Constraints
41.      Institutional.  The principal constraint on efficient implementation
of the proposed investment program is ONPT's organization and management. The
organization does not allow for integrated decision-making by principal branch
of  activity.   Managerial   responsibility  and  the  information  base  are
fragmented.  Thus, improvements in organization and management, both overall
and with specific regard  to implementation of  the investment  program,  are
imperative to the successful realization of ONPT's goals.   Specific measures
were decided upon during project preparation and will be implemented under the
proposed project, starting in 1987.
42.      Financial.  The scarcity of foreign exchange is another constraint to
rapid sector development, reflecting Morocco's adverse balance of payments
situation.  External financing must be in compliance with constraints on the
average length of maturities (12 years minimum).  ONPT is seeking cofinancing
for the project through tied procurement and price and terms bidding, whereby
commercial loans would be blended vith concessionary financing to obtain the
required average maturities. This strategy appears sound and feasible in view
of intense werldwide competition between telecommunications manufacturers, and
bas  been  followed  successfully  by  some  other  countries.   The  local  cost
financing constrainL is substantially alleviated by ONPT's ligh level of net
internal cash generation.
Sector Goals
43.      Under ONPT's  investment  program for 1987-1994  (paras. 47 and  48),
installed exchange capacity would increase from 285,000 (end 1986) to about
one million in 1994, i.e., an average growth rate of 17% per year.  Over the
same period, the number of connected subscribers would increase from 253,000
te 820,000, or 16% per year.   In addition to this primary goal of system
expansion, emphasis is being placed on improvement of existing facilities and
service  and  on  diversification  of  services  offered.    Expenditures  on
telecommunications would increase from about 0.09% of GNP per year on average
during the period 1980-1984 to about 1.0% of CNP during 1987-1994.  Additional
program objectives are improved organization and management and a high degree
of financial self-sufficieacy.
44.      In addition  te meeting  these  quantitative  targets,  ONPT has  set
itself  the following broad program objectives:   (a) improved management and
organization, notably in the areas of planning and implementation, subscriber
connection, and financial management; (b) replacement of obsolete and worn
equipment; (c) provision of access to service to all areas currently without



- 16 -
it and meeting 80% of expressed demand by 1992; (d) improvement of traffic
flow, service, operation and maintenance, using new electronic technologies;
(e) provision of specialized and new services; and (f) development of
efficient network construction and equipment manufacturing indi.-ties.
The Bank's Role
45.      The Bank has had no previous telecommunications lending operation in
Morocco. A Bank sector study (1982) recommended sector restructuring as a
prerequisite for rapid sector expansion.  As a result, ONPT was established in
January 1984. The Bank's strategy in the sector is to help ONPT identify and
alleviate   the   institutional   and   financial  constraints   facing  sector
expansion.   The  proposed  project  underscores  the  need  for  organizational
restructuring and upgrading of management and management systems to ensure
optimum use of human, financial and material resources (para 50).  This will
have maximum impact on ONPT's program implementation capacity and financial
performance.  To this end, the project will coordinate  technical  assistance
being provided to ONPT and supplement this where necessary, to ensure that all
areas that have a critical impact on program implementation and financial
performance and management are adequateLy reinforced.   The proposed project
addresses the external financing constraint by funding a sizeable part of the
foreign cost of the first phase of the investment program and by assisting
ONPT  in organizing  a  financing  package  that  meets  IMF  conditionality  on
maturities of external financing, while obtaining the best possible prices for
equipment to be procured internationally.
PART IV - THE PROGRAM AND THE PROJECT
Background
46.      The project was appraised in March, 1985.  Negotiations were held in
Washington,  D-C.  in April,  1986.   The  Moroccan  delegation  was  headed  by
Mr- Hamzaoui (Director, Public Entreprises Department, Ministry oE Finance),
and  included  Messrs.  Essaghir  (Deputy  Director  of  Budget,  Ministry  of
Finance), Siraj (Special Assistant to the Prime Minister), Talbi (FinanciaL
Controller, ONPT), Guedira (Chief, Planning Division, ONPT) and Raouf (Embassy
of Morocco).  A summary of the proposed project is provided ar the beginning
of this report.  Annex III contains supplementary project data.  This is the
f irst  Bank-supported   project   in  Morocco   for  telecommunications.    The
Government requested Bank assistance for, and accorded high priority te, the
development of a sound telecommunications infrastructure.  Board presentation
and the updating of this project after the formal negotiation sessions in
April, 1986, were delayed primarily due to a major change in ONPT's senior
management.
The Program
47.      ONPT's  1987-1994  telecommunications  investment  program  comprises:
(a) ongoing works (2%); (b) new works, including the proposed project (88%);
and (c) preinvestments(future works) for the next investment program (10%).



- 17 -
Total program expenditures are estimated at DH 16.9 billion ($1.71 billion),
with   an   estimated   foreign   exchange   component   of   DR   7.4   billion
($757 million).   Under  the  program,  telephone  system  capacity  would  be
increased  from  285,000  (end  1986)  to  1,060,000  lines  (end  1994).   Telex
capacity would be increased from 7,500 lines te 17,500 lines. Specialized new
services would be provided and existing systems would be modernized.
48.      The program is divided into two phases, with the most urgent works
being implemented first.  The first phase (43% of the program cost, achieving
about 47% of the physical objectives) includes ongoing works and the proposed
Bank project,  and would be implemented over  1987-92.   During this  period,
400,000 lines of exchange capacity would be added te the system, including
replacement of about 34,000 lines. The second phase (57% of the program cost)
would partly overlap with the first phase and would be implemented over
1989-94.   During  the  first  phase,  ONPT  would  focus  on  improvements  in
organization and management, building up its impiementation capacity and
strengthening maintenance and operation.   The decision to proceed with the
second phase should be taken only after implementation of the first phase is
well underway- During negotiations, assurances were obtained that ONPT will:
(a) consult with the Bank before undertaking major changes in the investment
program involving more than 10% of the aggregate amount of investments during
any une year; and (b) ensure that ne such changes will be introduced unless
ONPT and the Bank have agreed that these changes are justified.
Proeet Description
49.      The project is a self-contained part of ONPT's 1987-94 program and
would be implemented as part of the first phase, to be essentially completed
in 1992.  It will add about 290,000 new lines of exchange capacity and local
cable distribution networks for 300,000 subscriber connections, including
rehabilitation of obsolete local line systems.  Long distance systems will be
modernized and expanded, thus reducing congestion and improving the overall
efficiency of the networks.  By end 1994, telephone density would be 3 DELs
per 100 population and approximately 78% of expressed demand would be
satisfied.
50.      In accordance with sector objectives, the project comprises:
(a)   providing   and  installing:    (i) about  290,000  lines  of  local
switching and subscriber equipment in 160 exchanges, and related
switching equipment for domestic and international trunk exchanges;
(ii) associated local networks and subscriber outside plant for
connection of about 300,000 new subscriber lines; (iii) long
distance transmission systems; (iv) equipment to expand domestic and
international   telex   service  by  about   7,000  exchange  lines;
(v) equipment to upgrade and automate services in 89 distant rural
districts and isolated areas; (vi) technical support equipment and
vehicles for upgrading  and  strengthening  of  the  organization  of
network    operation,      maintenance    and    construction;        and
(vii) specialized  transport,  tools,  data  processing,  office  and
training equipment;



- 18 -
(b)   replacing  about  34,000  lines of worn out exchange equipment and
rehabilitating local distribution networks; and
(c)   improving  ONPT's  organization  and  management   systems   through
development and implementation of a program to improve overall
organization, management and operations, introduction of a cost
accounting system and development of a data processing master plan,
studies of telecommunications tariffs, remuneration, and local bond
issuance by ONPT, and staff training, including 200 staffmonths of
training fellowships.
Project Costs
51.       The   total   project   cost   is   estimated   at  DE 6,072   million
($674.5 million) with a foreign exchange component of DU 2,835 million
($314.9 million)-  Project base cost estimates reflect end L986 prices.   The
local   cost   component  of  DH 3,420  million   ($359.6  million)   includes
DH 1,888 million ($129.2 million)  for  taxes and customs duties,  the  latter
averaging about 44% of the c.i.f. import cost of telecommunications
equipment.  Taxes on local works and services average about 8%.
Projeet Financing
52.       The  project  financing  plan  is  as  follows:    Local  costs  of
*359.6 million will be financed by ONPT.  Foreign costs will be financed by
the Bank ($125 million) and bilateral sources ($189.9 million).  The expansion
of existing switching and transmission facilities requires the use of
proprietary and compatible equipment.  About $74.5 million of such equipment
will be tinanced through mixed credit arrangements currently being negotiated
by ONPT under bilateral agreements. The remaining $115.4 million vould be met
by contracts awarded under international competitive price and terms bidding
and   limited   international   bidding   (LIB).    These   arrangements   are
satisfactory.   The decision to award most of these contracts was  recently
taken. Contract signature is expected shortly-
Procurement
53-       The procurement of goods and services under the project would be as
described in Table I.
54.       A preference limited to 15% of the c.i-f- price of imported goods or
the  customs  duty,  whichever  is  lower,  would  be  extRnded  to  domestic
manufacturers  in  evaluating  bids  under  ICB.   Selection  of  Bank-financed
consultants  ($1.4 million)  would  be  in  accordance  with  Bank  guidelines.
Limited international bidding would be used to procure $2.2 million of tools,
measuring instruments and spares for local line construction and maintenance
centers, workshops and the training institute to be financed by the loan, as
the amounts involved for these packages are small or there are only a limited
number of suppliers-  Prior Bank review of procurement documentation would be
required for those contracts estimated to be larger than $1 million for goods



- 19 -
Table 
Pronased Pracuremnrn Procedures
(Sullllan)   At
Figures In parentheses are amounts tu be financed by the proposed loin
ICB          teg '           LCBC"            L180             Othert'            Total
Switching equipn'ent          1.1   <1.11   64.4    -          -4.                               -              150.0  (1.1)
Telex. telegraph. data       21.2  <21.21    2.2    -                                 15.0                       39.4 (21.2)
Local Networks:
.Cable and line equipment  25I3  (35.3        -      -        -                        -         -              35.3 <35.3>
.Civil warks                 16.2  (10.6)    -       -       28.0  (18.5)          -        -           -        44.2 (29.1)
Long distance transmission 11.7  (11.7)             --         -                       -       41.8    -         57.1 <11.7)
Rural automation             16.7  (16.7)    -       -         -      -                          -      -        16.7 <16.7>
Buildings                                            -        26.1                               -               26.1
Comuon/support facilities   3.0   (3.0)    0.8   (0.81         2.0   (1.0)      3.9   <2.5)      5 1             14.8  (8.3)
Consultancy and training    1.2   (1.23'   -         -         -                -      -         0.4   <0.4>G    1.6  (1.6)
TOTAL                       106.4 '100.81   ZL.R   Ie.LU     S&d1  L19.S        L2   L1.51   141J "            285.2  LlSil
Percent of total             27.6:           18.72            14.6%             1.0            3B.1             100.0
Percent of Bank loan                80.65            0.61            16.0%             2.8X                           100.0
A/ Includes contingencies.
1V Negotiated contracts.
fi  Local  corpetitive  bidding  for civil warks and local network construction
materiel.
Q/ Limited International Bidding.
E1 Others include equipment to be procured through International price and
terms bidding.
Fi Iorld Bank guidellnes for selectlan of consultants.
£/ Training fellowships to be deterulned ln consultation wlth the Bank.
il/ Total dots net include taxes, duties and works nade by ONPT.



- 20 -
and $1.2 million for civil works.  About  30 contracts,  (about 40% of ali
contracts) equivalent to about $100 million (80%) of the proposed Bank loan
would be reviewed.  Other Bank-financed contracts will be subject to random
post-award review.  As a condition of effectiveness, ONPT should have issued
invitations ta bid on a list of goods and works agreed with the Bank.
55.       ONPT  is  currently  constructing  civil  works  for small  local  and
regional networks by force account.  To minimize implementation delays in the
construction of larger local networks, with planned expansion of more than
6,000 new subscriber lines each, ONPT will contract out the associated civil
works.    The  foreign  exchange  component  of  these  works  (estimated  at
US$29.1 million) is proposed for Bank financing. The use of subcontractors is
expected ta promote more efficient construction methods and to develop private
sector  capacity  in  Morocco,  which  are  necessary  to  meet  the  future
requirements  of  ONFT.   The  size  and  dispersal  of  the  works  for  these
relatively small subprojects is unlik ly to attract foreign bidders.
Consequently, contracts for civil works for local network construction, not to
exceed $1.0 million each and $22.0 million in total, would be procured under
local competitive bidding (LCB), which is open to participation by locally
represented foreign tirms.  However, contracts for construction materials for
these works, not to exceed $300,000 each and $6.0 million in total, would be
financed under the loan and would be procured under LCB.  The project has been
advertised  internationally.   All  interested  foreign firms have established
local  representation.   LCB  procurement  procedures  were  reviewed  during
appraisal and are satisfactory. Civil works contracts exceeding *1.0 million
each and aggregating about $16.2 million equivalent including construction
materials would be procured through I(- in accordance vith Bank's guidelines.
56.       Negotiated  contracts  would  be  used  to  finance  $74.5  million of
equipment   not   financed   under   the   loan.    The   remaining   equipment
($115.4 million) not financed under the loan will be procur2d by international
competitive time bidding requesting price and terms.
Disbursements
57.       The proposed Bank loan of $125.0 million would be disbursed on the
basis of:  (a) 100% of foreign expenditures for goods and related services,
100% of local expenditures (ex-factory) for locally manufactured items, or 80%
of local expenditures for other items locally procured; (b) 100% of total
expenditures for consultancy services and overseas training; and (c) 60% of
local expenditures for civil works reflecting indirect foreign exchange.
Disbursement above $20,000 would be made against fully documented withdrawal
applications.   Statements  of expenditure would be used  to disburse against
contracts of less than $20,000 (expected to total less than $2 million).  To
minimize disbursement delays, a Special Account of $7.0 million equivalent
would be established, to be maintained by a bank acceptable to the Bank. This
amount represents about four months of estimated disbursements. Applications
for replenishment will be submitted on a bi-monthly basis. The estimated Bank
loan disbursement schedule is based on Bank standard disbursement profiles for
telecommunications projects worldwide.  The loan will be closed on December
31, 1994 (para. 58).



- 21 -
hnplementatio and Performance Monitorin,r
58.       ONPT will  implement the project.   During the  previous  five  year
plan, about 120,000 lines were installed and 50,000 lines and associated
facilities were replaced.  New switching and transmission  technologies were
introduced during this period.   Furthermore, the entity vas able to meet its
1985 target of connecting about 27,000 new subscribers, almost twice the 1984
level. ONPT's implementation capacity will be substantially reinforced during
the proposed project. Major Bank-financed components, including transmission
links and radio equipment, are expected to be completed by end 1992.
Remaining expenditures comprise continued delivery of cables and materials for
local networks and do not involve sophisticated installations. Therefore, the
project is expected to be substantially completed by December 31, 1992.
59.       ONPT's overall performance during the project implementation period
will be monitored by means of an Action Plan.  This Plan contains targets
relating  to subscriber connection,  technical and financial performance  and
staffing,  and  monitors  introduction  of  measures  to  obtain  institutional
improvements and overall project implementation.  Continuous monitoring will
assist  ONPT  in  improving  its management and  uill allow timely corrective
action to be  taken where necessary.   During negotiations,  assurances vere
obtained from ONPT that it will carry out the Action Plan for 1987-1994;
present proposed targets for joint review with the Bank by October 31 of each
year; and report progress against the Action Plan by April 30 of each year.
Orgeuization and Management
60.       As  a  former  Government  department,  ONPT  has  a  legacy  of
administrative organization and procedures which are still predominant.  The
managerial framework, financial and manpower policies and the information base
are  fragmented.   Investment  planning,  procurement  strategies  and  project
implementation are not sufficiently integrated. Performance is measured by
budgetary yardsticks; formulation of corrective action and utilization of data
processing capabilities are inadequate. In view of the ambitious targets set
under ONPT's investment program, these deficiencies must be addressed
systematically. ONPT recognizes that overall institutional reform is crucial
to efficient project implementation and has taken initiatives in this
respect.   Broad areas where improvement  is needed are:  (a) ONPT's overall
organization and management, to ensure that its principal branches of activity
have a measure of autonomy and direct responsibility without impairing overall
control and coordination; (b) streamlining of the telecommunications branch's
organization and management, and measures to reinforce subscriber connection
and  project  implementation  capacity;   (c) management  information  systems,
including data processing and accounting; (d) staffing requirements and
recruitment and promotion policies; and (e) training.
61.       In order to expedite institutional reform and to take advantage of
available concessionary financing, preparation of the organization and
management improvement programs was started in June 1985 with the aid of
consultants, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.  The management



- 22 -
consulting firm SEMA-METRA prepared proposals for ONPT's overall organization
and management, accounting systeu and accounting staff training requirements.
The telecommunications consulting firm SOFRECON prepared a proposal for the
reorganization and strengthening of the Departient of Telecommunications. The
final proposals, as modified by ONPT, will be implemented during the year
1987. Implementation will be monitored through the Action Plan. ONPT has an
eight-member Board of Directors.  The Board is chaired by the Prime Minister;
other Board members are the Ministers of Finance, Interior, Defense, Planning,
Economic Affairs, Industry and Equipment, and Transport. The general issue of
the composition o! the boards of public enterprises in Morocco is being
reviewed by the Bank in the context of a proposed Public Enterprise
Restructuring Loan; the aim is to make these boards more professional and
effective  by  including  in  their  membership  people  with  technical  and
managerial experience.   The Minister of P&T ie serving as acting Director
General  of  ONPT.   During  the  current  transition  period  and  until  new
organizational and management systems are in place, this is a satisfactory
arrangement. A permanent Director General is expected to be appointed by 1988.
Staff and TrininK
62.       As  of  December  31,  1986,  ONPT's  total  staff  was  about  14,000.
Telecommunications staff totalled about 7,400, equivalent to 29 employees per
1,000  DELs  in  service.   This  is  still  high  but  compares  favorably  to
neighboring countries,  e.g., Algeria  (36).   Telecommunications  staff would
total about 14,800 by end 1994, equivalent to 18 per 1,000 DELs, this would
represent a substantial improvenent in productivity. This staff ratio is one
of the principal Action Plan indicators to be monitored during project
implementation.   A new personnel  statute,  meeting  the  requirements  of  a
commercially oriented autonomous public enterprise, was recently adopted. It
allows ONPT to attract staff of the necessary caliber by offering adequate
salaries. and introduces adequate flexibility in personnel policy.
63.       Current  training  facilities  are  generally  satisfactory.   ONPT
ensures technical staff training through the Institut National des Postes et
Téléconmmnications (INPT) in Rabat and four small regional training centers
for field training of lower level staff.  Present capacity is 800 students,
under staff-trainee contracte with ONPT.   Each year the Institut graduates
about  200  engineers,  senior  technicians  and  operational/administrative
supervisors and about 360 lower level staff. The Institut uses a significant
number of foreigu teachers for specialized courses under an agreement with the
French PTT.   ONPT vill have to train an estimated  7,400 additional staff
through 1994. To this end, ONPT intends to increase current student capacity
by  about  60%,  adapt  existing  programs  and  create new ones,  notably  in
accounting and finance, and improve laboratory and workshop facilities.  ONFT
vill also increase the training capacity of the regional centers, which would
handle most lower level training in the provinces. An amount of $3.9 million
has been allocated within the loan for the purchase of training equipment.



- 23 -
Technical Assistance
64.       An amount of $1.4 million has been allocated within the toan for
consultancy  se,vices  plus  some  fellowships.   With  the  exception  of  the
consultancy Fervices required for preparation of the data processing master
plan and for the tariff study, they are not earmarked for specific purposes.
Rather, these consultancy services can be called upon by ONPT to meet
additional technicai' assistance requirements, not presently foreseen, as the
need arises. Terms of reference for such experts as ONPT may need to recruit
would be agreed to during project supervision.
BIUiR aid Collection
65.       ONPT introduced a computerized bi-monthly billing cycle in  1980.
For most customers, except central government, service is cut off if payment
is not received within six weeks after billing.  Telecommunications accounts
receivable as of end 1986 are estimated at DR 1.6 billion, or 15 months of
billing.  Government's share is DR 1,187 million, or 5 years of billing to
Government.   Covernnent has  systematically budgeted insufficient funds for
telecommunications usage; the 1986 budget contained a provision of DH
80 million for this purpose, compared to actual billing of DE 240 million.
However, with the assistance of ONPT, Covernment implemented in 1986 a program
to reduce excessive and unauthorized long distance calling. These measures
are expected ta reduce the rate of growth of future usage and stabilize
expenditures  ia  the next few years.  At the same  time,  the 1987 budget
allocation has been increased to DR 240 million, which is expected to be
adequate to cover Covernment's telecomminnications usage in that year. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained  from Goverament  that:   (a)  arrears
outstanding as of December 31, 1986 will be settled in equal annual
installments over the period 1987-1992; (b) it will provide adequate annual
budget   allocations   for   teleconminications   usage;   and   (c)   future
telecommunications bills will be paid vithin three months of billing.
Aecountng and Audi
66.       ONPT's account:ig system is on an accrual basis.  The entity does
not yet have a cost accounting system producing separate f inancial statements
for its principal branches of activity. Rowever, consultants have presented a
proposal te introduce a detailed cost accounting system, combined with
adequate staff training and software support. During negotiations, assurances
were obtained that ONPT will introduce a cost accounting system producing
separate finaucial statements for its main branches of activity by January 1,
1988. Pro forma separated financial statements for 1986 and 1987 will be
submitted to the Bank within nine and six months respectively after the end ef
each fiscal year. The accounting division is still not fully staffed, but
recruitment of qualified staff is in progress, in particular for the
analytical accounting unit; this unit vill be responsible for separation of
accouants between ONPT's principal branches of activity.   In addition,  the
qualifications of existing accounting staff need upgrading. During project



- 24 -
preparation, consultants determined the staffing and training requirements of
the various accounting services and assisted ONET in the design of an
appropriate accounting staff training program.  Implementation of an in-house
training program started in mid-1986; training responsibilities will be
transferred to INPT by 1988.
67.       As a "public enterprise", ONPT is subject to annual review of its
accounts by the Inspection Générale des Finances of the Ministry of Finance.
Rowever, in view of ONPT's commercial character and the need to introduce a
relatively sophisticated accounting system and ensure its proper functioning,
full-scale annual external audits will be performed by qualified  external
auditors.  During negotiations, assurances were obtained that ONPT will (a)
have annual audits of its accounts performed by qualified external auditors
acceptable to the Bank; and (b) furnish audited financial statements to the
Bank within six months after the end of each fiscal year.
FEianeia. Aspects
68.       Prior to the creation of ONPT,  the financial performance of the
Kinistry of P&T (MPT) was measured by the implementation of its budget.
During preparation of the proposed telecommaunications project, income and
funds flow statements werr reconstructed for 1980-1983 and a preliminary
opening balance sheet was prepared reflecting the situation as of December 31,
1983.   During  1980-1983, MPT's  financial  performance  was  adequate.   Net
internal cash generation financed 100% of applications;  this was feasible
because investments were limited. External borrowings vere contracted for MPT
by the Ministry of Finance and on-lent on concessionary terms, similar to
those obtained by other Government entities in Morocco.
69.       Since the creation of ONPT in the beginning of 1984, the financial
performance of the  telecommunications branch has  been  satisfactory.   The
aperating ratio averaged below 60%, while net internal cash generation
financed on average 148% of construction requirements during 1984-1986. The
current  debt/equity  ratio  of  12/88  reflects  the  heavy  reliance  on
self-financing in the past and the fact that investments in 1985 and 1986 did
not  proceed  as  rapidly  as  anticipated.   The  current  ratio  of  2.0  is
satiseactory, in particular ONPT's strong cash position; other current assets
consist almost entirely of accounts receivable, 75% of which is owed by
Government (para. 65).
70.       Since 1980, telecommunications tariffs vere increased by 12% each in
1982 and  1985,  respectively.   ONPT  introduced  a further  20% increase  in
tariffs effective January 1, 1987.  ONPT intends to increase the base call
charge annually during the project implementation period from the current
level of DH 0.60 ta DE 0.80 in 1991. Revenue increases or decreases brought
about by tariff restructuring would result in smaller or larger increases in
the base call charge. Performance monitoring through the Action Plan will
ensure that these tariff increases are justified and not a result of
inefficiency or waste.



- 25 -
71.       During  the  project  implementation  period  (1987-1994),  ONPT  is
expected to finance 49% of construction requirements from net internal cash
generation. This is a very good performance, necessitated by the size of its
investment program and the need to keep local borrowings ta a minimum. It is
all the more remarkable given the very large net transfers expected to be made
to Government (para 76).  External borrowings would consist of a mixture of
concessionary  loans  and  suppliers'   credits  for  items  financed  under
international competitive price and terms bidding procedures or under tied
procurement.   It  is assumed  that  the average  terms of  financing offered
through 1989 will be in compliance with current IMF restrictions on the length
of maturities (12 year minimum).
72.       ONPT will be able to finance, on average, most local costs relating
to its investment program, but some local borrowings will be necessary in
individual years for an estimated aggregate amount of DH 700 million over
1988-91.  ONPT has obtained permission in principle from Government to borrow
up to DH 300 million per annum locally. However, such large amounts are not
expected to be necessary, given ONPT's expected financial performance.
73.       During negotiations, assurances were obtained that ONPT will achieve
a net internal cash generation ratio of at least 45% in any one year, based on
a  moving  three year  average.   Alse  during  negotiations,  assurances  were
obtained that ONPT will present to the Bank, before September 30 of each year,
the corresponding financial statements for the telecommunications branch. The
postal/financial branch of ONPT is expected to break even or show small annual
profits during the project implementation period, as various measures to
improve operating margins are implemented and tariffs are occasionally
adjusted to offset rising costs.  However, additional funds will be needed to
finance  its  investment program.  It is expected that these funds vill be
obtained primarily through local borrowings or Government subsidies.  During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that ONPT will not transfer funds from
the telecommunications branch to the postal/financial branch unless and until
the financial requirements of the former for the current and next fiscal year
are met.
Benefits
74.       Teleconmr.nications  services  benefit  all  sectors  of  Morocco's
economy.  Compared with alternative means of communication, telecommunications
are more efficient in terms of capital and energy consumption and user time.
With  adequate  telecommunications  facilities,  the  level  and  variety  of
productive communication can be increased considerably, and activities which
would otherwise not be feasible can be realized.  In terms of the specific
constraints on Morocco's economic and social development,  telecommunications
can play a significant role in connection with:  (a) reducing the cost of
locating production outside the main industrial centers, notably Casablanca
and its environs, thereby helping decentralize economic activity and
encouraging balanced regional development;   (b) facilitating  development  of
the economic infrastructure in new areas being opened up; (c) promoting more



- 26 -
efficient labor related migration between and among rural and urban areas;
(d) improving the working of the market mechanism by expediting and extending
access   to  information  as  needed;    (e) increasing  the  efficiency  of
transportatiorn through coordination of vehicle use and substitution of
travel;   (f) facilitating  the  extension  of  health,  education,  government
administration  and  expert  services  to  rural  areas;  and   (g) mobilizing
domestic savings by transferring part of ONPT's net income te Government.
Least Cost Solution
75.       As is the case in any country vith an existing telecommuni-
cations network, the configuration of ONPT's network limits the number of
viable alternative solutions that can be considered to achieve the targets
proposed for extending and improving service. The timing and dimensioning
of the various items are designed to introduce, where possible, electronie
digital switching and transmission techniques at least cost.  This vill
also permit the most efficient continued usage of existing network
facilities. Given existing technology, the program as a whole represents
a least cost solution to provide the quantities and types of equipment
which comply with ONPT's plan targets.
FifflelImpat
76.       The fiscal impact of the project vill be considerable.  Firstly,
ONPT collects since 1984 a 12% surcharge on billings. Secondly, ONPT will
pay miscellaneous taxes, plus customs duties on imported operating
equipment  items.   Thirdly,  ONPT  will  pay  a 48%  tax on net income.
Finally, duties on imported investment equipment items are equivalent te
about 44% of their foreign exchange cest.  Thus, total funds transferred
from the telecommunications sector to Covernment are expected to be in the
order of DR 12.8 billion ($1.4 billion) during the project period.
Tarims
77.       Current tariff policy aims primarily at generating an adequate
cash flow to finance a substantial part of investments and to transfer
part of it to Government.  However, examination of the tariff structure
indicates that it needs to be reviewed. The connection fee (DR 330) is
toe  low to ration some of the large excess demand.  The service charge
(DR 22.50/menth), while not including telephone maintenance, is still
lo. Call units are charged at DE 0.50 and local calls are not metered.
There is no peakl/off peak pricing. Numerous miscellaneous charges are too
small to have any meaningful effect on user behavior (e.g., a DR 25
reconnection  penalty)  and  generate  more  administrative  costs  than
revenues. Such a tariff policy sends the wrong signals to subscribers,
which may result in sub-optimal utilization of an already inadequate
network.  Therefore, ONPT will carry out, as part of the project, a study
of its telephone tariffs focusing on cost of service, the cbaracteristics
of business  and  residential  demand, and  forecast  supply.   Efficient



- 27 -
resource allocation, equity, regional development, and other objectives of
government policy would also be taken inta account.  The proposed project
vill finance technical assistance to belp ONPT carry out this study under
terms  of  reference  acceptable  to  the  Bank.   During  negotiations,
assurances were obtained that ONPT will complete a tariff study by June
30,  1988,  review  it  vith  the  Bank,  and  implement  the  ensuing
recommendations by January 1, 1989.
Retura on Investnent
78.       The  internal  financial  rate  of  return  on  the  1987-1994
investment program, defined as the discount rate which equalizes the
stream of expected revenues attributable to the program with the stream of
capital and operating costs (at constant 1987 price levels) is 11%.
Excluding duties and taxes and assuming that new subscribers added over
the period will be willing  to pay the same tariffs in real tern  as
existing subscribers, the estimated economic rate of return of the program
would be at least 26%. This estimate understates total program benefits,
since it does not fully include the consumer surplus which callers or
subscribers receive, and does not account for all external benefits
associated    with    transport    substitution,    business    opportunity,
administrative efficiency, etc.
79.       There are no unusual risks associated with the program.  One
source of risk is that institutional improvements may come about more
slowly than anticipated.  This vould impair ONPT's capacity to proceed
with its investment program as scheduled snd would possibly result in
assets remaining idle for a period of time. Such inefficiency would result
in higher than expected tariff increases. However, with the management
improvement program and continuous performance monitoring under the Action
Plan, this risk is adequately contained. Another risk may arise out of
delayed physical implementation due to delays in the execution of civil
works, receipt of material or equipment, and installation of equipment and
plant. However, telecommunications projects frequently comprise a number
of independent works. A delay in the implementation of some vorks does
not necessarily prevent partial or full use of other assets, unlesa it
creates a severe imbalance in the network, which is unlikely. When such
delays do occur, costs and revenues tend to be deferred by roughly the
same degree, so that the overall impact on the return on investment is
usually not  significant.   A  sensitivity  test  on  the  rate  of  return
indicates that a 20% increase in capital expenditures and operating
expenses combined with a 20% decrease in operating revenues, which is
extremely unlikely, would reduce the estimated economic rate of returr
from 261 to 16%. A two-year delay in all benefits, without postponement
of costs, would reduce the economic rate of return te 17%.



- 28 -
Enviroimental and Health Aspeets
80.       The project is expected to have no  adverse environcental or
health impacts. On the contrary, more efficient use of the transportation
system, due to increased use of teleconmmmications services, would reduce
enviroamental pollution, promote energy conservation and reduce traffic
congestion.  In addition, good  telecoumunications  services  improve  the
delivery system for health services for both routine and emergency care.
PART V - CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
81.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles  of Agreement  of  the  Bank  and  recommend  that  the  Executive
Directors approve the proposed loan.
B. B. Conable
President
March 5, 1987
Washington, DC



- 29 -
PopulatIon      21.4 million  195>S
oe  Par caita: US$ aiD c19u5                                                                                                    Page lo   3
MNeoe - FOIfEmrif MfhATf8
toont
lblliten U5$ at                               -1  Grt Rata  It
current pricu>                          Letal                                      Pro1ted
Indiratp?                    .J181............      128      211   1251   12h    185 W lui9               2V lm    il     22   lm
NaTInAL AoeIDis
Grass dueustic product ài        11891                 -1.3    6.8    2.Z    2.1       4.3           5.7    3.a    4.4    3.9    4.3
Agriculture                    21U                 -22.9   19.9   -1.7    -.3    12.1            15.0   10.0    0.0    3.5    3.8
Industry                       1776                 -8.1    2.2    2.9   -1.1       2.3           8.3    4.3    6.2    S.5    5.9
services                       5929                 5.8    5.1    3.7    4.6    3.3               1.5    1.5    2.0    3.0    3.5
Cnnsmtlon                        10497                  2.0    6.0    0.1    2.7    3.1              4.3    3.3    4.3    3.8    4.0
GrDss Investnent                  2883                -11.2    6.8  -13.0      1.4    2.8            5.7    8.0    4.5    3.6    4.4
exparts or GaFS                   3184                  8.z    4.9    8.2    2.8    4.8              7.4    6.9    5.7    5.7    5.8
Tauerts or OIFS                   4373                  1.9    3.1  -11.3    4.3   -0.3              2.1    4.1    5.3    4.0    5.0
Gross national satinos            133C                -31.1    4.0   24.7   -4.3    10.4            37.7    7.4    7.5    2.1   10.4
W=ES                              lm      lm5    12! m   151 m 8l    lm I       201
GD deflator <1980 = 180>      100.0  l10.a  121.   125.1  135.7   1A.6  163.1
Exchangoe rate (US$ per OUI<    .254   .193   .166   .141   .114   .099    .106
Shure or GUP at Hariet Prices (t)                            verace Animal Incraase oX)
1Sf currant orleas 1 et               Ct einmtant 19l9 prien )nt enintant 1980 nrreas)
lm     lmE  lm         nuS95                            19711-75   IIZ-      q 7 t118-5    32L%ss       1390-qS
Grass custe  prouet                                                                 4.9        5.5           5.0         4.3         4.8
Agriculture           19.9   17.9   14.1   15.7   18.5   18.S                   -1.4        4.4            1.0        7.7         4.8
Industry              Z7.    35.2   32.3   29.9   32.3   34.1                    7.4        4.2            1.1        5.9         6.0
Services W            53.1   46.i   49.6   54.4   49.2   47.3                    5.6        6.4           4.7         2.3         4.0
Consàmtimon              as.5   8S.S   88.s   88.3   86.2   83.2                    5.0        6.1           2.7         3.8         4.0
Gross tnvestnnt          18.5   23.4   22.6   16.9   16.8   19.9                   13.0      -1.1           -3.1         4.2         8.4
(xports BIFS             17.1   22.S   18.4   19.6   21.5   22.1                    0.0        4.9           4.5         6.2         5.4
Iorts aGFs               21.6   33.4   29.4   24.9   24.5   25.1                    8.3        1.7          -1.2         4.2         5.4
Gross national savlugs    14.8   19.3   14.6   11.3   16.4   Z0.7                  15.3      -4.4           -2.3        12.4         9.8
As Z of tP
1970    l97       12lm      lm2       lm       lm          52
PUBLTC FIMIMCE
Current revenues                             16.1      23.3     21.6      22.7      22.3      22.4      22.4
Carrent expendltures                         14.5     20.2      22.8      22.9      23.2      22.4     23.1
Current Surplus <+> or deficit C-> di         1.6       3.1     -0.4      -0.2      -0.9       0.0     -0.7
Cagital exPendlture                           5.7      12.2     11.2      13.1       8.0       6.4       4.2
Foreign financing                             1.3      3.7       4.8       7.2       4.7       4.8      Z 9
1l7l-7s  1975fI 8D   1       15190  12-992
M11ER !NDICATBRS
GNP *rowth rate (X)                           6.0      4.9       2.8       4.3       5.1
CDP per cagita laroeth rate tX)               3.1       1.8      0.3       1.8       2.6
Energy cnsuttion growth rate (SI             6.7       5.6       3.3       4.7       4.8
lCOR                                         3.0       4.1       6.9       3.9       3.8
Maroinal savinos rate                         3.08     -8.15     0.09      o.S       0.35
Laprt elasticity                              1.04     0.13    -0.39       0.98      1.12
a/ At nerket priaes.
W  huart taxes included ln servlces.
c  Proectet years at contant 1990 pr1es.
IV Cash basis.
R2/ Preliueinary.
harrb 6. 1987
Di9A CPalO
ID 39398 Dl



- 30 -
Pfpalatino    : 21.4 million <19853                                                                                   AIIEX  I
OWF PFr Capita:  US$ 610 (1I9S8                                                                                   Page 2 or 3
uMauCCO - EXTERAut TRADE
neunt
Indicater                (<fllIen US5 at                            rowth Rates                   IS ies)
current pretes)                    Actual                              Prolected
1iAs        lm      14A2   jjg    uns     uns   C/  Juil  liEZ   3205   t      1221
EXTERMAL TRADE
Herchanadse exports <FOR)           2145           2.9    0-8   11.0    4.3   -0.7    54    5.8    5.4    5.4    5.5
Priary products                  lZ3          -3.7  -11.5    6.3    3.4   -0.6       3.9    3.0    3.9    4.0    4.0
Phosphate rock                  475          -5.6  -10.1    5.4    2.3    1.4      2.0    0.5    3.0    3.0    3.0
Others                          768          -2.3  -12.4    6.9    4.2   -0. 1     5.3    4.6    4.5    4.6    4.6
Internndlate & manufactures       902          21.9   29,0   18.5    5.7    2.6      7.4    9.6    7.1    7.2    7-3
Nerchandise Imprts <CIF>            3861           2.8    5.3   -8.0    7.9   -0.6       1.4    3.7    5.4    4.0    S.0
Foet                              510          22.7  -18.6   -4.9   27.1  -19.9    -7.3    0.7    1.4    0.8    0.8
Fuels                            1079          10.7  -1.9    1.1    S.2   13.9        1.7    2.0    4.8    3.1    3.8
Machlnery and equipent            652          -7.7   29.4  -26.2    9.0  -12.     4.0    5.0    7.4    4.3    5.1
Others                           1620          -S.0   12.2   -5.0    1.6    4.4       6.4   54    6.4    5.4    7.0
PEUCES (1980 = 100l
Export prise Index                               120.7  124.B  135.5  166.7  187.7   187.9  192.9  205. 1 214.0  223.9
Import price Index                   -           130.1  142.9  153.4  190.5  21.S4   157.7  197.0  207.1  212.9  218.6
Terms of trade Index                              92.8   87.3   88.4   87.5   87.1   100.1   97.9   99.1  100.5  102.4
Coupaosltion of Nerchandise TreeS                         Avergeatinnual Inrrease
_ftat current aricesL         < _ Constant 1969 qrricesl  (tonstant îqO ariees)
9n    miO    uni        un                19s70-7 a   Lunn-U     na_-n       un9ia-a    19nn-95
Exports                                                                -1.3        7.0         4.4         5.5        5.5
Pr1iary products         86.9   74.4   51.0      52.6    49.5       -2.8        5.4        -1.1        3.7         4.3
Intermmdiates &
maufactures          13.1   2S.6   42.0      47.4    50.S        7.9       12.7        15.8        7.8         6.9
tmports                                                                 9.0        0.7         1.2        4.1         5.5
Food                     25.0   16.9   15.3      12.1    9.8        14.0        2.9        -0.8        -0.3        1.0
Petroleun                10.8   23.6   29.0      29.9    26.5        9.6        5.2         4.4        3.2         4.3
lachlnery S equlpmcat   24.0   18.9   14.9       14.6    17.7       12.8       -7.3        -3.0        7.1         9.7
Others                  40.2   40.6   41.1       45.4    46.0        5.3        2.8         1.6        6.0         S.7
Share od Trade wlth            Share or Trade with                Share or Trade wtth
Industrial Cauntrles (XI       DevelonIno Cauntrles tSI      Capital Surplus Dil Exoarters (tM
lm6       lmn        lmt       lm        lma        lm         ni             n
DIRECTiM OF TRADF
Experts              72.3       73.7       76t5      27.7      25.4       21.6                     0.9            1.9
Imports              76.7       74.9      72.9       23.3     25.1         8.3                                   18.8
ai Prelilmnary
October Il. 1986
EPENA CPII8. 39398



Population        21.4 Milion  i11s5>                                    -  31  -                                                             a
air Pur Caplta: US* 61  <1915)                                                                                                            Pus 3e 
<million USsat carxrt prices>
ind I cator                                            e                                                     P      tu
SLAMcÉ Or pArvEms
Experts or eoods and services         4364    4131    3843    3920    3926       4161               5014    5513    sne    6475    7733
nuhdich: Hrchandise f.o.b.    2414    2253    2043    2086    2151           2145               2392    2715    3196    Sm95    4253
Isports aF osds and services          8912    6095    5912    488       su0      5140               5225   5S60      60      6659    776
OF wh1rh: Merchnuidse f.o.b. Il 3776    3840    3815        3301    3569      3513               3652    3974    4404    4701    6132
Mlet currunt transnfrs                 121     102      169      94       a4      114                170      106     216     253       96
Current accouat balance              -1120   -1861   -1899    473    -N7         -059                -41      97      103      -2    -150
Met Dlrect Foresin Investfnt           109      73      102      47       S1       20                  Sa      75      82      91        -
Official Brants                         97     313      124     142       16      30e                 16        -       -        -       -
ILT loans Cnet)                       1036    111    1339      251      790      127                259       71     1U2   -16    -un
OFficîal                            722    1041      724     322      333      222                311     243      258     258    456
Private                             314      77     615    --n       46U       -95               -122    -172    -106    -444    -432
Other capital <net) Z/                  22     321      410     276      145      46a               -Z26      -99    -150     175    10a3
Cltn ie nreSuerves                     156      36      -76     157      -13      -56                -76    -144    -217      -78    -136
Interatienml reserves                  514     510      540     376      266      345                421     565      782     06         -
OF  hiech:  Gold                    415     210      322     269      217      230                230     230      230     230      20
Ruserves as manths iuperts             .       .45      .44     .26      .12      .27                .97     .72    1.09    1.14    1-2
EflfiL CAPITAL AMt DEIT
Gross disbursents                     1711    2053    2211    1522    1060        971
Officiai Grants                      97     313      124     142       16      30e
Cmncessional linas                  761     859      522     203      108      178
oIC                              0e0     12C      9C       49      s        159
OPEC                            U84      746     401    lS        90         6
Ina                               1        1       1        1       z         1
Other                            76       16      30       37       O        13
Man-concessional loans              854      51    1564      677     856       493
Officiai expert credits           13      55    11        35       4        il
IBRU                             64       99     134      171     275       307
Other mltllaterul                 13     123      70       23      33        52
Prlwate                         764      57S    1241      444     545       123
SuPpliers credits              B       28      51       8       17       1I
F nanca1a  credits £ boads   75C      547    1190     436      528      IID
External Debt
Debt outstanding ard dlsbursed   7ll5    7951    8962   101s5   10556    11230
Official                       3510    43B6    4958    6528    6569        7179
Private                        3600    3565    4004    3625    3986       4051
Undisbursed debt                  215    3157    2552    3535    3206         3760
oebt servie.
Total service payfnts UV           1193    1256    1326    1170      761      1134
Interest                        614      633     579      540     515      490
Pmyunts a x exparte Of G.S IV  27.3    30.4    34.5    29.0    19.4           24.8
Average lnterest rate on no  loass <t)  8.2       8.4    10.1      7.2      7.6      8.5
Official                               3.8     3.7      6.9     5.4      6.6      7.1
Private                               13.4    113.7    11.5    15.5    10.9      10.5
Average oaturlty of ne loans tyeats   13.7        9.4    11.0    17.3    17-2       14.8
Official                              18.6    11.5    19.7    22.6    20.6       19.8
Private                                7.9     7.1      6.3     7.6     6.5       6.8
As t of Dnt fiul-titridonu nt Fndf of Hat Recent Vear rli RS i
Haturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturlttes due within S years                                  52.9
Maturities due within 10 years                                 74.5
hnterest structure oF debt outstandine
Interest due vithun f1rst yur                                   5.6
Et Prelllnary.
iJ Prajected figures are CIF.
V  Includes finaneing  ap.
YI Resees  anus gold/iforts 0f mods ana services.
Y  After reschedulina; excludes DIF service payments.                                                                               October Il. 196
/ Services Incluse wouerse   rmittance.                                                                                                EIA  CP fI-B
ID 39393p2



araseu                                        - 32 -                              MUai
57*711 CF MEIPSfhf
A. STAT_ONT SF SM LOiNs            A    0
<As od SoptaSbr 30, l9 K61
Loen or                                                ffAunt (lasu concmllattons>
Crodit                                                              U5t i111in
uslor    nr                              nar  Iuaak  lgBU taira
Thirty six Loins fully dlsbursed                         1100.45
Five Credits fully dlsbursed                                        4S 16
1416    1977   Klngdo. of Morocco    Agrtculture           38.0                  3.25
1602    1178    Kingdo. or Morocco    Agriculture          50.0                 29.45
1681    1979   Kingdou of Norocco    Education             18.0                 35.01
1695    1179   Kingdos of Morocco    Power                 37.0                  4.43
1724   lin    KtngUom of Morocco    Water Supply          49.0                  7.83
17S7    1910    Klngida  of Morocco    Agr1culturm         44.0                  7.64
1848    1900   tingdor of Morocco    Agr1culture           24.0                 15.11
1943    1981    CIHi                   Tourism            10.0                 21.36
1944    190l   Ktngdoa of Moracco    Urban Oevelopwent  25.0                    17.40
2006    1902   Krngdoe  or Marocco   UMter Suppiy          87.0                 56.69
2037    1102    SUIE                    FC                 70.0                 30.22
2038    1982    Kingdoe  or MHrocca    DFC (SSI)           40.0                 35.22
2082    1982    Kingda. of Morocco    Agriculture          24.0                 20.35
2109   19S2    Kingdur of Morocco    Mintng                 9.5                  6.23
2110    1902    ktngdo  of Morocco    Forestry             20.5                 16.27
2114    1982   OIAIEP                  Cil Shale            8.2                  0.87
2149    1982   Kingdou of Morocco    Educatton             38.0                 21.07
2217    1903   Kingdma of Morocco    Agriculture           30.0                 27.58
224S    190J    CIN                    Housing Oevt.       60.0                 S5.45
2253    1903   Kiagdo  Of Morocco    Agrtculture           42.0                 40.23
2254    190    Kingd  of Horocco    Highways               76.6                 62.76
2271    1903    CIIAREP                 il Exploration    75.2                  26.88
2272    1903   Kingd   otf Nrocco    Village lotrastr.  16.0                    12.78
2367    19J4   CUCA                    igrtc. Cred1t      115.4                  4.80
2479    1905    Kingda  or Morocco    Voc.Trainlng         27.1                 19.07
2487    19s    Klngdo  or Nerocco    Elec.  Mhc.Iod.    25.1                    21.71
2508    l91s    Kingdam of Horocco    Jerad  Coal Min.   27.1                   24.33
2572    l90s    Klngdoe of Horocco    kealth*              28.4                 28.40
2590    1906   KIngdo   of Morocco    AgrSec.AdJ.         100.0                 50.00
2604    1906    Klngda. of  aorocco    2nd Ind.&Trade    200.0                  50.00
2656    1906    Ktngdo. of Norocco    Agrtculturel         46.0
2657    1906    Port Authority         Port OT Casa.'      22.0
2664    1906   Kingdoa  of Morocco    Éducation           1SO.0                130.4S
'ni    196    CUCA                     Agrlc. Credit'    120.0
Total                                               3013.35    45.16
of Suich has been repald                         .21L,4      2.82
Total nw outstanding                                2491.95    42.34
Amunt Sold                        20.11
of Suich has been repaid        20.11                0.0      0.0
Total now held by Bank and IDA                      2471.84    42.34
Total undtsbursed                                                         91284
B. STATEMENT OF IFC TNVÉSTMENTS
(As of September 30. 19861
USS Mtillion
Flscal rear                                                  Lam      Emutt    Totul
1985            Frurt               Food &   Food Processing   6.9                6.9
1963/1978/1984  BNCE                Develp.ont Bank          52.0       1.5      53.5
1976            Marrakech Cernent   Cament Factory             -        1.2       1.2
1977/1980       Temara Cement      Conent Factary             2.0       3.4       5.4
1980            SOMIFER             Copper Hining             5.2       2.3       7.5
1981/1983       Casablanca Cernt  Caent Factory              IL2        LA       15,1
Total coeitrnents now held by IFC                           10.0     10.4      90.4
Total Ufl,dskursed                                                              6.9
mot yet effective.
I0.04798 pZ
11/12/06



- 33 -
Annex III
Page l of 2
MOROCCO
OFFICE NATIONAL DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS (ONPT)
FIRST TELECOMMUICATIONS PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section 1: Timetable of Key Events
(a)   Time taken to prepare the project:  30 months
(b)   Agency which prepared the project:  ONPT
(c)   First presentation to the Bank:  September 1984
(d)   Departure of Appraisal Mission:  March 1985
(e)   Departure of re-appraisal mission:  Noveuber, 1986
(f)   Completion of Negotiations:  January, 1987
(g)   Planned Date of Loan Effectiveness:  June, 1987
Section Il: Special Implementation Action
No special IBRD implementation action is required.
Section III: Special Conditio«ns
i.   During negotiations, assurances vere obtained that:
(a)   Covernnent vill ensure that acceptable feasibility studies will be
undertaken before making additional public sector investments in
the teleconmmnications manufacturing industry,and furnish copies of
those studies and the reconendations based thereon to the Bank
(para.37);
(b)   ONPT vill consult with the Bank before undertaking major changes in
its investmnut program, involving more than 10% of the aggregate
amount of investnents during any one year and ensure that ne such
changes vill be introduced unless ONPT and the Bank have agreed
that these changes are justified (para. 48);



- 34 -
Annex III
Page 2 of 2
(c) ONPT will carry out the Action Plan for 1987-1994; present proposed
targets for joint review vith the Bank by October 31 of each year;
and report progress against the Action Plan by April 30 of each
year (para. 59);
(d) Covernment will: (i) settle arrears outstanding as of December 31,
1986 in equal annual installments over the period 1987-1992; (ii)
provide adequate annual budget allocations for telecomununications
usage; and (iii) pay future telecommunications bills vithin three
months of billing (para. 65);
(e) ONPT vill have annual audits of its accounts performed by qualified
external  auditors  acceptable  to  the  Bank  and  furnish  audited
financial statements to the Bank within six months after the end of
each fiscal year (para. 67); and
(f) ONPT will (i) achieve a net internal cash generation ratio of at
least 45% in any one year, based on a moving three year average;
(ii) present to the Bank, before September 30 of each year, the
corresponding  financial  statements  for  the  telecommunications
branch; (iii) not transfer funds from the telecommunications branch
to the postal/financial branch unless and until the financial
requirements of the former for the current and next fiscal year are
met (para. 73); and
<g) ONPT will complete a tariff study by June 30, 1988, review it vith
the Bank, and implement the ensuing recommendations by January 1,
1989 (para. 77).
2.   The folloving are conditions of effectiveness:
(a)   ONPT should have furnished to the Bank a program satisfactory to
the Bank (including action plans and time schedule), to lmprove its
overall organization, manAgement and operations (para.40); and
(b) ONPT should have issued invitations to bid on a list of goods and
works agreed with the Bank (para. 54).



