Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12671-IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
FIFTH KABUPATEN ROADS PROJECT
APRIL 19, 1994
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department III
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of April 1994)
Currency Unit     =Rupiah (Rp)
Rp 1 million      =US$475
US$1.00           =Rp 2105
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
UNITS OF MEASURES
1 meter (m)             =  39.37 inches
1 kilometer (km)        =  0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)          =  2.47 acres
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADB                -  Asian Development Bank
AADT or ADT        -  Average Annual Daily Traffic
AMDAL              -  Analysis of Environment Impacts
Bappeda I and II    -  Provincial and Kabupaten Development Planning Agency
Bappenas           -  National Development Planning Agency
BPJD II            -  Bantuan Peningatan Jalan Daerah II (earmarked grants for
kabupaten roads betterment and maintenance)
CTC                -  Central Technical Consultants
DGH                -  Directorate General of Highways (MPW)
DGLC               -  Directorate General of Land Communications (MOC)
DGRD               -  Directorate General of Regional Development (MHA)
Diklat             -  Training Division, DGH
DPUK               -  Kabupaten Office of Public Works
DPUP               -  Provincial Office of Public Works
EA                 -  Environmental Analysis
ETG                -  Environmental Task Group
FCI                -  Field Consultants for Implementation
GOI                -  Government of Indonesia
Inpres             -  Instruksi President (in project context, a central government
grant program to local governments)
IPJK               -  Inpres Peningkatan Jalan Kabupaten (central governrnent
grants for betterment of kabupaten roads)
IRI                -  International (road) roughness index
KR3                -  Third Kabupaten Roads Development Project
KREI               -  Eastern Indonesia Kabupaten Roads Project
KR5                -  Flfth Kabupaten Roads Project
KRUA               -  Kabupaten Roads Quality Assurance Program
P.T. Jasa Marga    -  Indonesia Toll Road Corporation



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MHA                -  Ministry of Home Affairs
MOC                -  Ministry of Communications
MOF                -  Ministry of Finance
MPW                -  Ministry of Public Works
OECF               -  Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan
PBPJK              -  Proyek  Bantuan  Penanganan  Jalan  Kabupaten  (special
provincial road units for assistance to local governments)
PCR                -  Project Completion Report
PPAR               -  Project Performance Audit Report
REPELITA           -  Indonesia National Five Year Development Plan
REPPPROT           -  Regional Physical Planning Program for Transmigration
RR2                -  Second Rural Roads Project
RUT                -  Road User Tax
SOE                -  Statement of Expenditure
USAID              -  U.S. Agency for International Development
VOC                -  Vehicle operating cost
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I



FIFH KABUPATEN ROADS PROJECT
LOAN AND PRoJEcr SUMMARY
Borrower:        Republic of Indonesia
Amount:          US$101.5 million equivalent
Lending Terms:  Twenty years repayment, including five years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Project Objectives
and Description:  The principal objectives of the project are to improve access to the
main economic centers for the agriculture dependent rural
population in project kabupatens located in Central, East and South
Kalimantan, Maluku, and Riau, and to consolidate the current
efforts to strengthen all agencies in the country dealing with
kabupaten roads.  The project includes the following main
components:  (a) a road network improvement component,
subdivided into three subcomponents:  (i) road works and
supervision for the maintenance of an increasing share of the
maintainable part of the kabupaten road network as well as
rehabilitation of selected roads in project kabupatens over three
fiscal years starting in 1994/95; (ii) workshops and laboratories
upgrading and equipping; (iii) provision of equipment, spare parts
and supplies; and (b) technical assistance and studies for
strengthening systems and procedures for planning, environmental
analysis, qualaity assurance, and for helping GOI agencies in the
implementation and monitoring of the project.
Project Benefits
and Risks:       Rehabilitation and better maintenance of roads will lead to
significant reduction of vehicle operating costs in the kabupatens.
In addition, the project will increase GOI's capability to plan and
implement kabupaten road works programs efficiently in the entire
country thereby reducing the costs of road provision. Over time,
lower road transport costs will translate into lower agricultural
costs and higher rural incomes. The main risks are related to
implementation of the planning procedures, the funding of
maintenance and the quality of works. To reduce the risks, GOI's
National Development Planning Agency, Bappenas, has already
agreed to the use of Inpres funds for maintenance and will continue
to play a strong coordinating role in project planning and
implementation. Also, the maintenance targets have been carefully
designed and adequacy of maintenance will be for each kabupaten
a condition of participation in the project's subsequent annual
rehabilitation/improvement programs. The risk of poor quality
works is reduced by the extensive technical assistance for
implementation support provided under the project.



- ii -
Estimated Costs: L&                      Local     Foreign    Total
----------- US$ million ----------
A. Road network improvement
1. Road works                      94.9     54.2       149.2
2. Workshops, laboratories          0.7       1.8        2.5
3. Equipment                        1.6     15.8        17.4
Subtotal                         97.2     71.8       169.0
B. Institutional and                   3.2       3.9        7.0
Technical Development
Total Baseline Costs              100.3     75.7       176.0
Physical Contingencies            10.0      7.6       17.6
Price Contingencies                9.6      3.5       13.1
Total Project Costs               120.0     86.8 
Financing Plan:
GOI                              105.3      0.0      105.3
IBRD                              14.7     86.8      101.5
Total Financing                   120.0       S         06.8
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY                  FY95    FY96  FY97   FY98  FY99
-------------------- US$ million ------------------
Annual                    12.0     22.0   32.5    27.0    8.0
Cumulative                12.0     34.0   66.5    93.5  101.5
Economic Rate
of Return:            29%
Poverty Category:     N.A.
Map:                  IBRD No. 25538
Lg Inclusive of taxes and duties amounting to US$18.8 million equivalent.
Note: Due to rounding, totals may not add.



- iii -
INDONESIA
FIFTH KABlPATEN ROADS PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
1   THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ................... .                   1
A. Background and Economic Setting  ....       ...........    1
B. The Transport System  ........1........ 
C. Objectives and Strategy .........         .......    2
2   THE ROAD SUBSECTOR .......                 .........    2
A. Introduction ................    2
B. Kabupaten Roads ......            ...........    3
C. Administrative Structure  ...........         .....    3
D. Road Transport ...........................    4
E. Financing ...................                             5
F. Planning and Budgeting .............    6
G. Expenditures.                                             7
H. Technical Aspects  .........       ................   7
I.  Construction Industry  ........     ...............    8
J.  Environmental Aspects  .......      ...............    8
3 PAST BANK INVOLVEMENT IN THE ROAD SUBSECTOR
AND LESSONS LEARNED .............9 
A. Past Bank Involvement .......        ...............   9
B. Main Lessons Learned .......................   9
4   THE PROJECT ...........                 ..........   10
A. Objectives ........             .............   10
B. Rationale for Bank Involvement .................   11
C. Project Description ................... ..   11
D. Road Network Improvement and Maintenance .... ....  11
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Indonesia in
October 1993 comprising Messrs. Emmanuel James (Task Manager), Jacques Tollie
(Senior Highway Engineer) and Mr. W. Hardi (Operations Officer). Peer Reviewers
were Messrs. Parthasarathi (economic aspects), Gaviria (institutional aspects) and
Sigfusson (technical aspects). Ms. Haug, Director, EA3, and Mr. Khanna, Division
Chief, EA3IN, have endorsed the project.



- iv -
E. Technical Assistance for Institutional
and Technical Development ......... .  .  .. .  .  .    .   15
F. Cost Estimates  ........................  .   .    15
G. Financing ..............................  16
H. Implementation and Monitoring .................  17
I.  Procurement .............................  18
J. Disbursements .21
K. Accounts and Audits .22
L. Retroactive Financing .22
M. Environmental Impact .22
N. Social Impact .23.
0. Sustainability .25
5 ECONOMIC EVALUATION  . .25
A. Subprojects Selection .25
B. Benefits and Beneficiaries .26
C. Economic Returns and Sensitivity Tests .26
D. Risks .27
6 AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION   28
ANNEXES
1.   Technical Assistance
2.   Project Implementation Schedule
3.   Reporting Requirements
4.   Bank Supervision Plan
5.   Documents and Data Available in the Project File
TABLES
1.1 Statistical Overview
1.2 GRDP per Capita
1.3 Population and Land Area
1.4 Land Use by Region
1.5 Summary of Land Use
1.6 Forest Function Areas
2.1 Road Network Length
2.2 Road Pavement Classifications
2.3 Road Network by Category
2.4 Road Network Condition
2.5 Kabupaten Roads Condition
2.6 Project Kabupatens' Road Networks
2.7 Registered Motor Vehicles
2.8 Registered Motor Vehicles by Region
2.9 Kabupatens Road Budgets



4.1 Design Standards for Kabupaten Roads
4.2 Equipment Required
4.3 Project Cost Estimates
4.4 Estimated Disbursements
5.1 Vehicle Operating Costs
5.2 ERR and Sensitivity Analysis
5.3 Rehabilitation Program
5.4 Maintenance Program
CHARTS
1.  Organizational Structure of Central and Local Government
2.   Directorate General of Highways
3.   Directorate General of Regional Development
4.   Provincial Public Works Offices
5.   Kabupaten Public Works Offices
MAP IBRD No. 25538



I



CHAPTER I
THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. BACKGROUND AND ECONOMIC SmING
1.1        Indonesia has a land area of 1.9 million km2 and a population of about 180
million. Its economy has grown consistently at about 6 percent per annum during the past
decade; this is expected to continue during the 1990s. The impetus for growth has come
from the non-oil sector. Agriculture remains a key sector in the Indonesian economy; it
accounts for about 20 percent of non-oil exports (including timber) and provides
employment to more than 50 percent of the population.
1.2         The five provinces comprising this Fifth Kabupaten Roads (KR5)
project-namely Central, East and South Kalimantan, Maluku, and Riau-have about
29 percent of the country's land area. They include about 6 percent (8.9 million) of the
total population and have relatively low average densities of 40 persons/km2. About
36 percent of the nation's forest cover is located in these provinces, with most of it being
in the more remote parts of Central and East Kalimantan that are typically not in the
project area. About 39 percent of the total land area is potentially cultivable but only
about 3 percent is cultivated currently.
1.3         Although there is extensive oil and gas production in Riau and E.
Kalimantan, the project area has a predominantly agricultural economy. The average
GRDP per capita of the project provinces is more than twice the national average solely
because of the oil producing provinces. The provinces of Maluku, Central and South
Kalimantan are considerably poorer with per capita GRDP about 19 percent below the
national average. Further details are in tables 1.1-1.6.
B. THE TRANSPORT SYSrEM
1.4        In general, the transport system has coped well with the rapidly growing
demands of a fast expanding and diversifying economy. Because of the vast size of the
country and the uneven distribution of population, natural resources and economic activity,
transport is of special importance to the Indonesian economy and an extensive transport
system has been developed over time. All transport modes - road, rail, shipping, civil
aviation, inland waterways, and pipelines - are represented in this system but road is the
dominant mode accounting for an estimated 53 percent of medium- and long-distance
freight transport and 88 percent of passenger traffic. The modes tend to complement one
another; only in Java and in a few corridors in other regions is there intermodal
competition.
1.5         There is scope for improvement in the performance of the Indonesian
transportation sector. In the near future this, together with a minimum of improvements



- 2 -
to access, will be the sector's main challenges if it is to satisfy the rapidly growing and
diversifying demands of the Indonesian economy.
C. OBJECrIVES AND STRATEGY
1.6         For the 1990s, the key elements of GOI's development strategy are
(i) maintaining growth and macroeconomic stability; (ii) improving public sector
management; (iii) enhancing private sector development; (iv) reducing poverty and
enhancing human resource development; and (v) improving environmental management.
Investment in transport is a part of the GOI strategy to help foster the attainment of its
objectives by providing adequate infrastructure. In its successive 5-year development plans
(Repelita), the GOI has devoted significant resources to improving transport infrastructure.
Public sector transport spending during the last five years has averaged about 2.3 percent
of GDP. Outlays for maintenance were also increased in order to sustain the quality and
productivity of the transport system.
CHAPTER II
THE ROAD SUBSECTOR
A. INTRODUCTION
2.1         In recent years, GOI has consistently placed importance on the transportation
sector as a key means of promoting economic growth and regional development.
Emphasis within the sector has in turn been placed on road transport. Illustrative of this
is the fact that in Repelita IV, 1984/85 - 1988/89, some 60 percent of the total transport
sector investment budget of Rp 7.1 trillion was directed to road and bridge programs.
This has led to major improvements in the quality of the road network and in road
transport services, albeit with some significant problems. A fuller account of the overall
road subsector performance is detailed in Staff Appraisal Reports No. 10551-IND of May
1992 for the Third Kabupaten Roads (KR3) project, Loan 3490-IND and also in No.
11385-IND of March 1993 for the Eastern Indonesia Kabupaten Roads (KREI) Project,
Loan 3579-IND. This report focuses on the extension of the kabupaten roads program
described in the KR3 and KREI SARs to the 27 kabupatens comprising the KR5 project.
2.2         In view of the assignment of sector management responsibilities in
Indonesia, Bank strategy in the road sector makes a distinction in the focus of lending
operations for the primary network (national and provincial roads) and those for the
kabupaten roads. Projects that support development of the primary network attempt to
improve road transport incentives and regulations as well as address the more complex
technical issues. The focus under kabupaten roads projects is more on institutional
development, maintenance, and resource allocation at the local levels.



B. KAB3UPATEN ROADS
2.3         Indonesia has a total of 243 kabupatens or rural districts. They vary greatly
in size and resource endowment, but the average kabupaten has a population of 0.7 million
and a land area of 4,000 km2. These kabupatens are served by a road network that has
three main administrative classifications-national, provincial, and kabupaten. Kabupaten
roads, at a total of 181,000 km, represent the largest segment of the overall 260,000 km
road network. Although there is a wide degree of variation, on average the kabupaten
roads are of poorer quality than the national and provincial roads with only 46 percent in
stable (good and fair) condition as opposed to 60 percent for the latter road classes.
2.4         Specifically, in the project area, only 37 percent of the kabupaten roads are
in good and fair condition, a figure somewhat below the national average. The reasons
for the majority of the kabupaten network having deteriorated are poor maintenance
practices, weak institutional capabilities, and limited budgets. Tables 2.1-2.6 have further
details on the lengths and condition of the overall road network and on the kabupaten roads
in the project area.
C. ADmINISTRATIVE STRUCTURE
2.5         Indonesia has a three-tier regional administrative system. The first level,
referred to as Daerah Tingat I, consists of 24 provinces and three special districts (Jakarta,
Yogyakarta, and Aceh), each headed by a Governor. Each province is subdivided at the
second level, or Daerah Tingat II, into Kabupatens (rural districts) that are headed by a
Bupati, and into Kotamadyas (municipalities) that are similarly headed by a Walikota.
These second level units in theory have autonomous budgets and taxation powers but in
practice function as extensions of the central or provincial governments. Further
administrative subdivision continues along the two streams, urban and rural.  The
kabupatens are subdivided into kecamatans, or district administrative units, headed by a
Carnat. The kecamatans are in turn further divided into Desas, which are basically villages
and form the third administrative level, headed by a Kepala Desa.
2.6         Most central government ministries have branch offices at the provincial
level (Kantor Wilayah Propinsi, KANWIL). The KANWILs are staffed by central
government officers and their operations are financed by the central government budget.
There is also the Proyek Bantuan Penanganan Jalan Kabupaten (PBPJK) in most provinces,
which is a special unit for providing assistance to local governments on roads. Chart 1
illustrates this relationship.
2.7         The Directorate General of Highways (DGH) of the Ministry of Public
Works (MPW) is the road agency at the central level (Chart 2), while agencies at lower
levels are the Provincial Public Works Office (DPUP - Chart 4) and the Kabupaten Public
Works Office (DPUK - Chart 5). In principle, DGH, DPUPs and DPUKs are responsible
for national, provincial, and kabupaten roads, respectively. However, the planning and
implementation of maintenance of national roads is now delegated to the DPUPs. DGH
retains responsibility for setting policies, procedures and guidelines concerning the



-4 -
planning and implementation of all road programs and assisting and supervising provincial
and local agencies in their use.
2.8         The Directorate General of Regional Development (DGRD - Chart 3) and
the Directorate General of General Administration and Regional Autonomy (PUOD) of the
Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) also play a substantial role in the road sector. With
their corresponding agencies at provincial and kabupaten levels, DGRD and PUOD are,
in particular, responsible for regulating and monitoring the nontechnical aspects of central
government's grant programs (Inpres) to lower level governments.  They are also
responsible for regulating staffing and salaries, and for the appointment and supervision
of provincial and local governments' senior officials.
2.9         Staffing. DGH has about 5,000 permanent and temporary staff, about
1,200 of whom are engineers. Traditionally, many have been seconded to DPUPs. There
is no reliable estimate of the number of staff working at DPUP and DPUK level on road
works programs, but it is likely to be well above 15,000.
2.10        Training. Technical training of roads staff is mainly the responsibility of
MPW's specialized roads training section, Diklat DGH, that has a close technical
relationship with DGH and from which it receives part of its budget. Implementation of
a five-year Kabupaten Road Master Training Plan (KRMTP) under the KR3 Project has
started recently; this plan will help to address some of Diklat's key manpower needs.
D. STATUS OF ROAD TRANSPORT AND ISSUES
2.11        Vehicle Fleet. There were about 8.5 million motor vehicles registered by
the end of 1990 and about 32 percent (2.8 million) were four-wheel vehicles. Commercial
vehicles-buses and trucks-accounted for 53 percent of four-wheel motor vehicles with
cars and pickups making up the remainder. The fleet has grown rapidly in the last 15
years, averaging around 11 percent growth between 1980 and 1990, however at 14.5 four-
wheel vehicles per 1,000 population, it is still in the low range. There were also some 5.7
million motorcycles, as well as a large number of three-wheel vehicles. The use of
motorcycles is widespread at about 32 per 1,000 population. Further details are in Tables
2.7 and 2.8.
2.12        Traffic. During 1980-90, road traffic, excluding motorcycles, on national
and provincial roads grew by an average of six to seven percent per annum. Growth rates
were lowest in Java and Bali (6.5 percent) with higher rates in Sumatra (11 percent) and
in parts of the outer islands. Traffic levels on most national roads are between 3,000 and
10,000 vehicles per day (vpd) while the majority of provincial roads carry less than 3,000
vpd. Available data on traffic on kabupaten roads suggest great variability in the eastern
region, with averages ranging by province from 50 to 200 vpd. In addition, the share of
motorcycle and non-motorized traffic is higher than in other regions.
2.13        Trucking. Road transport consists of public carrier 'for hire' services
(30 percent) and own-account operations by private sector firms (45 percent) and
Government corporations (25 percent). Trucks dominate freight transport in the project



areas. The ease of entry into the trucking market, the relatively flexible enforcement of
regulations, and the relaxation of tariff restrictions a few years ago have generated
conditions (in particular competition) such that the service to users is perceived as good
and responsive.
2.14        Bus Services. Interurban bus services are mainly operated by the private
sector and are reasonably efficient. On the trunk routes, services are frequent and as fast
as road conditions permit. There is justified concern, however, over safety standards.
Tariffs are regulated but this has generally not been a major problem and companies
compete on quality of service. Bus services on kabupaten roads are provided by privately
owned minibuses.
2.15        Traffic Safety. Road traffic accidents are a serious socioeconomic problem
in Indonesia. The limited data available indicate about 11,000 fatalities annually and
nearly 50,000 people seriously injured.  Although fatality rates seem to have been
declining recently, they are still much higher than in most industrialized countries and
within the high range for developing countries. Studies financed under previous Bank
highway projects have identified the major causes as: inadequacies in laws and regulations
regarding vehicle standards and traffic, and deficiencies in the standards and condition of
roads. These problems are recognized and GOI will continue to address the most critical
road safety issues under the Second Highway Sector Project.
2.16        Subsector Issues. Indonesia has made considerable progress in recent years
in the development and management of its road system but some technical and institutional
weaknesses remain. The main issues concerning the kabupaten roads program as a whole
can be summarized as (a) inadequate road maintenance and insufficient funding;
(b) inefficient practices in preparation and implementation that lead to a product of poor
quality and short economic life; (c) shortages of skilled technical staff and inadequate
training programs; (d) insufficient use of modern road technologies and weak institutions,
especially at kabupaten and province levels; and (e) inadequate attention being paid to
environmental impacts of projects in the planning and implementation of road works. The
Project is designed to address these issues.
E. FINANCING
2.17        The improvement of kabupaten roads, including rehabilitation and betterment
works, is financed mostly from the Central Government grants earmarked for road
rehabilitation (BPJD II). Currently BPJD II, which is allocated by the Deputy V Office
(Regional Development) of Bappenas, is the only development fund that can be provided
(a) in adequate amounts and (b) with the year-to-year stability that kabupatens can depend
on. Part of the consideration in allocating the funds is to give a higher amount to the outer
island kabupatens to compensate to some extent for their low entitlement from their per
capita block grants (Inpres Dati II).
2.18        The funding of maintenance requirements, especially for routine maintenance
of kabupaten roads, is supposed to be met entirely from local government's own resources
(mostly Inpres Dati II). Starting in FY1994/95, Inpres Dati II will also include funds



- 6 -
earmarked for road betterment (BPJD II) and for four other sectors (schools, reforestation,
municipal markets, and spatial planning). However, the traditional portion of Inpres
Dati 1I will remain an entitlement grant (set now at Rp 5,000 per capita) that can in theory
be allocated by kabupaten governments to any item in their budget. Typically, about
70 percent of Inpres Dati II is allocated to the road sector for maintenance and for
betterment projects.  However, maintenance funding tends to be inadequate; this is
probably due to the fact that allocations for it seem to be more often based on historic
trends rather than on the needs of a rapidly growing network.
2.19        GOI has recognized this issue and has taken initiatives that are intended to
increase the funding, and improve the implementation of road maintenance. Currently
Bappenas has permitted the use of BPJD 1I for periodic maintenance. During project
preparation it was found that most kabupatens needed to use about nine percent of BPJD lI
funds to meet their maintenance targets in 1994/95. This is a sustainable level of BPJD II
usage for maintenance.
F. PLANNIG AND BuDGETING
2.20        The main characteristic of the planning, programming and budgeting process
in Indonesia is its consensus building approach. The budgeting process consists of a set
of bottom-up and top-down, inter/intra government conferences (RAKORBAN,
RAKORNAS, and RATEK). Annual road works programs and budgets are prepared
through a series of meetings from about June to November each year at village, kabupaten,
provincial, and national levels to review budget proposals. On this basis, the road
components of the national development budget are prepared and budget envelopes are
announced early January for each of the main funding programs and subsequently for each
province and kabupaten. Coordination meetings are then held to firm up lists of approved
road works.
2.21        On kabupaten roads, systematic programming methods are in place only for
rehabilitation works. DGH, with Bank's assistance, has developed a rural road planning-
programming-budgeting system to accommodate the current GOI annual planning and
budgeting cycle. Road links are evaluated by local kabupaten planning teams in accordance
to standard guidelines and methodologies issued by DGH. This system was designed for
use by kabupaten staff and has sufficient analytical rigor to ensure that projects selected
are justified economically. It was first applied (starting 1988) to the 75 kabupatens
included under the Bank-assisted Second Rural Roads Development Project and was
subsequently applied (in 1990) to the entire country.
2.22        Until recently, methods used for preparing maintenance programns on
kabupaten roads were incomplete and, in any case, often not applied systematically. Partly
for this reason, the funding of maintenance has generally been inadequate. These methods
have been improved under Rural Roads II (Loan 2881-IND) and their application showed
that improvements in both the planning and implementation of maintenance can be
realized.  Under the project, refinements will be introduced to evaluate life-cycle
maintenance strategies and to select the best alternatives.



G. EXPENDrrURES
2.23        The expenditure program for the road subsector is about 20 percent of the
total national development budget. Starting from about Rp 827 billion I/ in 1984/85,
expenditures rose to about Rp 4,400 billion in 1992/93, an increase of about 20 percent
per annum over the period in nominal terms. Expenditures on national and provincial
roads have mainly been for rehabilitation and improvement of the existing network and for
maintenance. Table 2.9 has further details on budgets and expenditures.
2.24         During this period, the expenditures on kabupaten roads have increased
from about Rp 267 billion in 1984/85 to about Rp 1.5 trillion in 1992/93, making up about
one-third of the total road expenditure. For kabupaten roads, most of the expenditures
have been for improvement of the network, including upgrading village roads and roads
built under area development schemes (such as transmigration projects) into the kabupaten
road network. The expenditure program for kabupaten roads is driven by the stated
objective of Bappenas to have 60 percent of the network in stable condition (defined as km
of roads in good and fair condition) by the end of Repelita VI. However, the country-
wide average is now 46 percent and hence substantial achievements will be required if the
stated objective is to be attained.
2.25        Kabupatens are now  beginning to appreciate the economic role of
maintenance and under the ongoing projects, are increasing their provisions for it. By
following this maintenance first approach, the growth in the length of the stable road
network should be much greater than in the past. This is because leakages from the
system, in terms of the rapid deterioration of newly rehabilitated roads, would be reduced
significantly.
H. TECIINICAL ASPECTS
2.26        In some kabupatens, certain aspects of road works implementation have
serious weaknesses that too often result in a product of poor quality and short economic
life. Tender packaging is not efficient: contracts are often for very small works (with a
cost below US$250,000) and of a short duration (three to nine months in most cases).
Also contractors are still too dependent on poor quality equipment supplied by the public
sector.  Finally, supervision is inadequate and contract specifications are often not
adequately enforced.
2.27        These problems are now being recognized, especially since DGH and the
DPUPs have begun to play a more substantial role in the preparation and implementation
of kabupaten road works programs. As a result, improvements in human resources and
organization at kabupaten level are beginning to be a priority, and the need for assistance
and supervision by DPUPs and DGH is now acknowledged. Better procedures for
contracting road works (including better contractor prequalification procedures, use of
standard bidding documents, and more systematic involvement of supervision consultants
1/ Excluding expenditures on toll roads.



at the bid evaluation and works certification stage) have also been formulated. One of the
main objectives of the project is to introduce these improvements in the project kabupatens.
I. CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY
2.28         Although local capability has developed significantly in recent years, the
industry is on the whole weak at the kabupaten level. GOI has long recognized the need
to improve the capabilities of domestic contractors. Several studies carried out in recent
years have highlighted the sector's main weaknesses and GOI has taken actions to address
some of these problems such as setting up and delivering some training programs for the
personnel of contractors and supervision consultants, providing technical assistance to
contractors under several foreign funded projects, including road projects, and improving
the system for licensing contractors. A more comprehensive approach is needed, however,
and this has been the subject of a regular dialogue between GOI and the Bank, to which
the associations of contractors have also contributed. In the short to medium term, step-
by-step improvements should be sought in the context of specific sectors. The proposed
project includes such improvements (para. 4.22).
J. ENV1RONMENTAL ASPECTS
2.29         Indonesia has established a significant body of laws and regulations for the
protection of the environment which provides a framework for specific guidelines and
institutional development measures now being implemented by sector ministries. Of
particular importance for the infrastructure sectors are the regulations on the analysis of
environmental impacts (AMDAL). In recent years, MPW has much developed its
capability to implement AMDAL regulations with substantial assistance from the Asian
Development Bank (ADB) in particular. In 1989 and 1990, a series of guidelines and
directives on the environmental evaluation and control of all types of public works projects
were developed in MPW. In 1991, detailed draft manuals for implementing these
guidelines, covering all phases of the project cycle, were prepared for the road subsector.
In addition, substantial training of staff has been provided to MPW and DGH. As a result,
a sound basis is now available to MPW and DGH for assessing and controlling the
environmental impacts of road works. Technical assistance will be provided under the
project to help DGH strengthen further its section for managing environrmental
assessments.  Paras. 4.31-4.39 have further details on the environmental assessment
process followed in this project.



- 9 -
CHAPTER III
PAST BANK INVOLVEMENT IN THE
ROAD SUBSECTOR AND LESSONS LEARNED
A. PAST BANK INVOLVEMENT
3.1         The Bank has had a substantial involvement in the transport sector of
Indonesia over the past two decades. It has financed four maritime transport projects (two
shipping and two ports projects), two railway projects, two fertilizer distribution projects,
and thirteen road projects. Bank involvement has been particularly important in the road
subsector, with a total lending of about US$2,000 million since 1969, corresponding, in
particular, to disbursements of about US$1,260 million since the early 1980s or about
12 percent of all GOI expenditures (from local and foreign sources) on the road network.
Nine of the road projects have been completed. The Highway Sector Project (FY90) and
the Second Rural Roads Development Project (FY88) are nearing completion, while the
most recent projects, KR3 and KREI, are underway. PPARs have been issued for the
Second and Third Highway Projects in 1980 and for the Fifth Highway Project in 1989.
PCRs have also been issued for the Fourth Highway Project in 1985 and for the First
Rural Roads Development, Highway Betterment, Jakarta-Cikampek, and Highway
Maintenance and Betterment Projects between 1989 and 1991.
3.2         All road projects have had broadly similar objectives. They aimed at:
(i) improving the quality of the network through road construction, improvement,
rehabilitation, and maintenance, with the emphasis during the past ten years being to a
very large extent on the last two; (ii) developing the capability of road agencies through
technical support and training of staff as well as through improvements in planning and
programming systems, in technologies, and in procedures and guidelines for preparing,
implementing and monitoring road works; and (iii) improving the incentives and
regulations for road transport and their enforcement. The experience under the road
projects is briefly reviewed in the following paragraphs.
B. MAiN LESSONS LEARNED
3.3         Civil Works. In general, civil works programs have been implemented
satisfactorily in terms of timeliness but with uneven results in terms of quality of
construction. An obvious lesson has been that projects with road works well prepared and
with implementation initiated by the time of loan approval have gone ahead about on
schedule. On the whole, for kabupaten roads the major reason for implementation delays
has been the weak planning/programming and engineering capability at the local level.
3.4         Through civil works programs as well as loan conditions for the projects that
it supports, the Bank has also tried to steer GOI towards a greater funding and better
execution of maintenance. Experience has shown that conditionality by itself cannot work



- 10 -
mainly because of entrenched habits, especially among provincial and local governments.
The Second Rural Roads Development Project has shown that procedures for preparing
and supervising maintenance programs adequately also need to be in place and maintenance
must be a priority of supervisory and kabupaten staff. The proposed project takes account
of this experience.
3.5         Institutional and Technical Developments. Though progress has been
slower than expected, most sector agencies are much more capable today than they were
in the early 1980s. The main lesson of experience has been that major improvements of
an institutional or technical nature require (a) considerable staff resources over a long
period of time (from GOI and their consultants as well as Bank staff), (b) the preparation
of detailed implementation arrangements, (c) continuous attention by decision makers, and
(d) a flexible approach so that improvements take account of and are well integrated into
GOI's normal systems and procedures. Only a limited number of objectives can and
should therefore be pursued at any time and the Bank should select very carefully the few
institutional objectives under any single project. The design of the proposed project as
well as that of the recent KREI and KR3 projects was therefore kept simple and the main
focus was on planning and programming.
3.6         Improvements in the Efficiency of Road Transport. There are many
parties and interests involved in and concerned with the required improvement measures.
Progress is probably in part being slowed by the need for extensive consensus building.
In view of this, there is a clear need for (a) one agency, probably the Ministry of
Communications, to take a lead role in preparing for and advocating change, in
coordination and consultation with other GOI agencies; (b) continued and focussed
attention on the subject from the Bank's side; and (c) clear understandings between the
Bank and GOI as to the long term objectives in this area and as to indicators of progress
in attaining these objectives.  The Bank intends to focus on these issues during the
implementation of the Second Highway Sector Investment Project which include specific
measures to enable the Ministry of Communications to play such a role.
CHAPTER IV
THE PROJECT
A. OBJECTIVES
4.1         The principal objectives of the project are to improve the access to the main
economic centers for the agriculture dependent rural population in project kabupatens and
to consolidate the current efforts to strengthen agencies in the country dealing with
kabupaten roads.  More specifically, the project would improve the quality of the



- 11 -
kabupaten networks by: (a) improving systems and procedures for road maintenance and
ensuring that the maintainable network of all project-assisted kabupatens (about 6,000 km)
is satisfactorily maintained; (b) rehabilitating/improving some of the existing roads (about
1,620 km); (c) improving the capability of staff involved in the subsector at all levels; and
(d) strengthening institutional arrangements and improving the technical environment for
planning and implementing kabupaten road works programs. The list of 27 project-
assisted kabupatens is in Table 2.6, with some basic data on their road network.
B. RATIONALE FOR BANK INVOLVEMENT
4.2         Continued Bank support to the kabupaten road subsector is needed for the
following reasons: (a) good access is a requisite for most development activities in rural
areas and is important to reduce rural poverty; and (b) a sizable part of GOI's development
budget is now aimed at improving kabupaten roads and it is important that these funds be
used as efficiently as possible and that the environmental impacts be addressed
systematically. These objectives are fully consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance
Strategy for Indonesia which was discussed by the Executive Directors on April 12, 1994.
In addition (a) the Bank would provide key assistance to GOI in the formulation and
implementation of institutional and technical improvements at subsector level, especially
in view of GOI's shortage of expertise; and (b) Bank involvement would help GOI give
high priority to road maintenance and more emphasis to meeting the physical targets set
in REPELITA VI for sustainable improvement of the kabupaten road network.
C. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
4.3         The project will have the following main components:
(a)   a road network improvement and maintenance component, comprising:
(i) routine and periodic maintenance of the kabupaten road network as well
as rehabilitation/improvement of selected roads in the 27 project-assisted
kabupatens over three GOI fiscal years starting in 1994/95; (ii) construction
of, and equipment for, workshops and laboratories; (iii) provision of
equipment, spare parts, and supplies; and (iv) supervision of works;
(b)   technical assistance and studies for strengthening further the systems and
procedures nationwide regarding planning, environmental analysis, and
implementation of kabupaten road works, and for helping GOI central
agencies in monitoring project execution.
D. ROAD NETWORK  MpRovEMENT AND MAINTENANCE
4.4         Maintenance.  Road maintenance in most of the project kabupatens is
inadequate due to insufficient planning and implementation capacity at local level, and the
poor overall technical framework. It has been assessed during appraisal that the current
level of effort is only about 20-25 percent of what would ideally be necessary to maintain
the network adequately. Therefore, the project's civil works program gives priority to



- 12 -
maintenance in order to: (i) ensure that the better procedures and guidelines which have
been developed under the RR2, KR3 and KREI Projects, are used early on a large scale
and are well monitored; (ii) encourage kabupatens to increase funding of maintenance; and
(iii) concentrate the attention and support of the project's GOI staff and supervision
consultants on maintenance. This priority can be measured in terms of the significant
increase in the level of effort required from GOI for maintenance activities (paras. 4.5 and
4.28). In order to meet these targets, road maintenance expenditures are expected to
increase from 5 percent (compared to 11 percent nationwide) of road expenditures in
1991/92 to 20-25 percent at the end of the project.
4.5         The road maintenance component will comprise the entire annual kabupaten
road maintenance programs in the 27 kabupatens over the years 1994/95 to 1996/97. It
will be carried out in accordance with the road maintenance strategy developed under RR2
(para. 2.21), which calls for intervention on the "good" and "fair" portion of the network,
termed as maintainable. The target to be reached by the third year of the project is that
90 percent of the maintainable network, i.e., about 6,000 km, should be maintained. This
target will be met gradually, by 50 percent for the first year and 70 percent for the second
year. However, for three kabupatens (Tanah Laut and Tabalong in KALSEL, and Berau
in KALTIM), meeting these targets would mean using more than 30 percent of both their
Inpres Dati II and BPJD II funds for road maintenance. For these kabupatens, lower
targets have been agreed (respectively 35, 50, and 65 percent of total needs). Draft first
year maintenance programs for each project kabupaten were reviewed at appraisal; they
are now further developed on the basis of the methodology presented in Chapter V and
with reference to the above targets. At negotiations, agreement was reached with GOI that
it would cause each project kabupaten to (a) prepare its annual road maintenance program
for the fiscal years 1995/96 and 1996/97 in accordance with a methodology and criteria
agreed to by the Bank (Chapter V), (b) submit this program for the Bank's review and
comments before December 31, 1994, and December 31, 1995, respectively, and
(c) finalize and implement this program taking into account the comments, if any, by the
Bank. Agreement was also reached that GOI would select subprojects for the maintenance
component of the project in accordance with criteria and procedures satisfactory to the
Bank. In particular, subprojects to be included in a kabupaten's road maintenance program
would be prepared and designed in accordance with DGH's technical guidelines. In
addition, in order to give a strong incentive to project kabupatens to meet the above
maintenance targets, satisfactory preparation and implementation of annual maintenance
programs will be a condition of each kabupaten's eligibility for disbursements under the
project's rehabilitation/improvement component (para. 4.7).  Implementation of the
maintenance programs would be monitored through periodic reports on the basis of
progress certification issued by the supervision consultants (para. 4.8).
4.6         Road Rehabilitation/Improvement.  This component is limited to the
rehabilitation/improvement of about 1,620 km of roads in poor or bad condition. This
amounts to about 20 km of major works per year per kabupaten, representing about one-
third of their rehabilitation program. The roads will be brought up to minimum standards
based on projected traffic volumes and topography (Table 4.1); existing alignments will
be retained to the extent possible. Works will be designed for a ten year lifetime and will
include, as required, rehabilitation of pavement layers, shoulders, side and cross drainage



- 13 -
and bridges. Draft first year rehabilitation/improvement programs for each kabupaten,
prepared on the basis of the methodology presented in Chapter V were reviewed at
appraisal. About 20 percent of works in the first year are expected to be rehabilitation of
sealed roads. The balance are existing gravel, stone or earth roads requiring betterment/
upgrading to seal or gravel standards. A sealed surface is proposed for about 60 percent
of the program, the rest are mainly earth/gravel roads with estimated traffic potential of
less than 100 ADT recommended for graveling. Less than 5 percent of the program would
be built to pavement widths of 4.5 m or more representing usually widening projects for
roads with more than 500 ADT. Pavement width of 3.0 or 3.5 m are proposed for other
projects based on minimum standards for roads with projected traffic below 500 ADT.
Implementation is expected to start in June 1994 (Annex 2).
4.7         At negotiations, agreement was reached with GOI that it would cause each
project kabupaten to (a) prepare its annual rehabilitation and improvement works program
in respect of the project for the fiscal years 1995/96 and 1996/97 in accordance with a
methodology and criteria agreed to by the Bank, (b) submit this program for the Bank's
review and comments before December 31, 1994, and December 31, 1995, respectively,
and (c) finalize and implement this program taking into account thle comments, if any, by
the Bank.  Agreement was also reached that GOI would select subprojects for the
rehabilitation/improvement component of the project in accordance with criteria and
procedures (including environmental assessment and procedures for consulting with project
beneficiaries and indigenous peoples - para. 4.37) satisfactory to the Bank. The following
requirements would apply: (a) the kabupaten in which the subproject is located needs to
have submitted an acceptable annual maintenance program for the corresponding fiscal
year, and implemented satisfactorily its maintenance program in the previous fiscal year;
(b) the subproject is included in an annual road rehabilitation/improvement program
prepared as agreed, and has been designed in accordance with DGH's technical guidelines;
(c) the subproject economic rate of return is at least 10 percent; and (d) the subproject has
been submitted to an environmental screening, assessment and review process, including
consultation with the affected peoples for relevant subprojects, satisfactory to GOI and the
Bank.
4.8         Road Works Programs Supervision.  Technical quality of work
implementation remains a serious concern. The project will provide full support to the
decentralized units (27 DPUKs and 5 DPUP/PBPJKs) for the implementation of the annual
programs of maintenance and rehabilitation of kabupaten roads, including engineering
preparation, contractor prequalification and tender evaluation, quality control and
monitoring, and on-the-job training of DPUK/DPUP staff in these fields. GOI will employ
foreign and local consultants for this purpose, some of whom will be stationed in the
provincial centers and others in the kabupaten centers to work with DPUP and DPUK
counterpart staff on a daily basis. To facilitate administration and coordination, the
services will be divided into Field Consultants for Implementation (FCI) teams for the
Riau, the Kalimantan, and the Maluku parts, which will act as the "engineer" fully
empowered to supervise the contracts, including certification of works. The schedule of
consultants services is based on (i) detailed estimates of annual workload (on average 500
contracts per year based on a length of 6 km per periodic maintenance or betterment
contract, and 10 km per routine maintenance contract), and (ii) staffing requirements by



- 14 -
type of works, including site inspection, travel time and office work. Based on the above,
the services would include about 240 staff-months of foreign and 6,600 staff-months of
local consultants (of which 55 percent for site inspectors), and their costs would be about
10 percent of the total civil works cost. These consultants should mobilize no later than
at the time of signing of the first civil works contracts. Therefore, the terms of reference
were agreed during project preparation so that contracts could be awarded and started in
June 1994 (Annex 2).
4.9          Workshops and Laboratories.  New  guidelines for workshop and
equipment management call for major repair, servicing and preventive maintenance to be
carried out in kabupaten workshops facilities. Such facilities, including laboratories for
basic testing of soils and materials, already exist in most of the project kabupatens, but
they need to be repaired and/or upgraded by the kabupatens. Only then will they receive
additional equipment and tools under the project. In addition, 4 new workshops (in
Maluku) and 5 new laboratories (1 in Riau, 4 in Maluku) will be provided in kabupatens
where no such facilities exist, and they will be fully equipped as summarized in Table 4.2.
4.10         Road Construction and Maintenance Equipment. Kabupaten equipment
fleets are used partly to carry out road works by force account and partly to lease out to
contractors who lack certain essential equipment. Performance of these fleets has been
unsatisfactory, mainly due to weak management. A set of guidelines for workshop and
equipment management was prepared under the Second Rural Roads Development Project,
providing a practical framework for more efficient management, including measures to
ensure that rental rates of kabupaten equipment fully reflect ownership and maintenance
costs. DGRD is now fully committed to implement these guidelines in all kabupatens and
ensure that kabupatens provide sufficient funding for the operation and maintenance of
their equipment.
4.11        As an alternative to continue providing equipment to the kabupatens, the
Project attempts to create the conditions for a larger involvement of the private sector,
e.g., larger contract packages, multi-year contracts, improved procedures for
prequalification and for enforcement of contract obligations, etc. However, this will not
be possible or sufficient in all the kabupatens, and some equipment is still needed for
carrying out expected works (in particular routine maintenance). Table 4.2 shows the
priority equipment and spare parts required for some kabupatens, which will be procured
under the project. This list was confirmed at negotiations. However, renewing financial
assistance at a substantial scale for procuring equipment, without ensuring improvement
in workshop management and fleet operation and maintenance, would be inefficient.
Therefore concrete actions to enforce the DPUK Equipment Management Guidelines and
related recommendations already disseminated under KR3 would be taken by GOI, so that
the improved conditions would be fully operational for FY95/96. The first action already
taken was the recent transfer of ownership of equipment to the DPUKs. The other specific
actions are (a) the preparation of a detailed action plan for establishing the workshops as
autonomous plant-hire units, (b) the provision of more adequate funding for O&M, and
(c) the charging of economic hire rates in accordance with a formula agreed to by the
Bank. At negotiations assurances were obtained that the GOI will implement action (a)
by September 15, 1994 and actions (b) and (c) by January 15, 1995. GOI also assured



- 15 -
the Bank that the ownership of equipment to be purchased under the project will be
transferred to the DPUKs.
E. TECBNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR INSTITUTIONAL AND
TECBNiCAL DEVELOPMENT
4.12        Concerned GOI central agencies need support to continue improving the
institutional and technical framework for preparation and implementation of kabupaten road
works programs as well as to guide and monitor project execution. Accordingly, the
project would include: (a) technical support and liaison for engineering aspects, including
evaluation of implementation of technical guidelines and specifications, and for technical
audits; (b) general assistance in planning, including further development of the planning
methodologies, carrying out special studies of road works needs in underdeveloped areas,
analyzing the current situation and issues regarding village roads, assessing the size of the
road network that kabupatens can economically and financially maintain and rehabilitate,
and assessing the long-term indirect impact of road rehabilitation/improvement on the
environment (for example, through land development and deforestation); (c) assistance in
the monitoring and coordination of project activities, including the coordination of the
separate teams of FCI and training consultants, the monitoring of project environmental
impact, and the preparation of project implementation reports; (d) support in the
preparation of annual road works programs including, inter alia, the environmental
screening of proposed subprojects, the carrying out of site-specific environmental
assessments when required, the systematic review of subprojects' economic viability, and
the extension of planning methodologies to non-project kabupatens.
4.13        For the above purpose, GOI has appointed foreign and local consultants
under a Central Technical Consultants (CTC) team, and assigned counterpart staff (as
described in the Terms of Reference) as an essential component of staffing to enable
achievement of project objectives. The services, covering simultaneously RR2, KR3,
KREI, and KR5, would be financed under the following scheme: 92/94 program under
KR3, 95/96 program under KREI and finally 96/97 program under KR5. The KR5
portion would start about December 1995 and would require about 90 staff-month of
foreign and 300 staff-month of local consultants. The CTC services were awarded under
KR3 to the consortium formed by Hoff & Overgaard A/S (Denmark) and the Indonesian
firms PT Multi Phi Beta, PT Amythas, PT Delta Marga Kreasi, PT Sigma Penta, and PT
Yodya Karya. In addition the project will include technical assistance for continuing the
environmental institutional strengthening begun under Ln. 3579, in DGH and Biro KLH
and at the provincial Bappedas (para. 4.38).
F. COST ESTIMATES
4.14        The total project cost is estimated at US$206.8 million, including taxes and
duties of US$18.8 million equivalent. It includes: (a) physical contingencies of 10 percent
on the base cost of all expenditure accounts; and (b) price contingencies of 2.5 percent on
the foreign component and of 5.5 percent on the local component each year throughout
project implementation. The foreign exchange component is estimated at US$86.8 million



- 16 -
or 42 percent of total costs. The project costs by component are summarized in the table
below.
Project Cost Summary
%      % Total
Rupiah (million)           US$ (million)       Foreign     base
Local   Foreign    Total    Local  Foreign  Total   exchange    costS
Road network improvement
Road Works                   199,794  114,181   313,975   94.9    54.2   149.1     36         85
Workshops, laboratories       1,420    3,808    5,228    0.7       1.8    2.5      73          1
Equipment program             3,322   33,217    36,539    1.6    15.8    17.4      91         10
Subtotal                  204,535  151,206   355.742    97.2    71.8   169.0     43         96
Institutional and technical
development                   6,660    8,140    14,800    3.2      3.9     7.0     55          4
Total BASELINE COSI'S        211.195  159,346   370.542   100.3    75.7   176.0     43        100
Physical contingencies       21,120   15,935    37,054    10.0     7.6    17 6     43         10
Price contingencies          20,284    7,389    27,673    9.6      3.5    13.1     27         7
Total PROJECTS COSTS          252,599  182,670   435.269   120.0    86.8   206.8     42       117
4.15            The base costs including taxes are estimated as of January 1994. In the case
of civil works, estimates are based on updated and adjusted recent unit prices for similar
works. Rehabilitation/improvement works are estimated to cost about US$57,000 per km.
Routine maintenance is estimated to cost about US$1,200 per km. Periodic maintenance
is estimated to cost US$15,200 per km for sealed roads and US$6,200 for gravel roads.
A new workshop is estimated to cost US$150,000, and a new laboratory US$18,000. The
costs of equipment for construction and maintenance operations for workshops, for
vehicles, and for laboratories is based on recent bids. The cost of consultant services is
based on recent contracts. Further details on expenditures by component are in Table 4.3.
G. FINANCING
4.16            The  proposed  Bank  loan  of US$101.5  million  would  finance  about
49 percent of total project cost, or about 54 percent net of taxes and duties, representing
100 percent of foreign cost and  19.5 percent of local cost.  GOI would  finance the
remaining US$105.3 million equivalent, or about 51 percent of the total estimated project
cost, mainly through annual budgetary allocations from the central government grant
programs, BPJD II and Inpres Dati II. The financing of the proposed project is shown in
the table overleaf.



- 17 -
PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million)
Source of Finance      Local    Foreign  Taxes   Total
GOI                    86.5      0.0     18.8  105.3
Bank                   14.7     86.8        -  101.5
Total              101.2      86.8    18.8  206.8
H. IMPLEMENTATION AND MoNrroRING
4.17         The project's civil works will be implemented by the DPUKs in the 27
project kabupatens, assisted by DPUP technical staff and technical assistance consultants.
The other project components (provision of equipment, supervision of works, and technical
assistance) will be implemented by DGH. The project is expected to become effective in
July 1994. Execution would be completed by December 31, 1998, about 4.5 years after
start-up. The loan closing date is scheduled for June 30, 1999. The implementation
schedule, as shown in Annex 2, was confirmed by GOI during negotiations.
4.18        In addition to the direct implementation responsibilities mentioned above,
the main agencies involved in the project are MPW for technical aspects, MHA for
administrative aspects, Bappenas for development planning aspects, and MOF for financial
aspects.  The detailed responsibilities of these agencies and corresponding offices at
kabupaten, provincial, and central levels have been defined (paras. 2.5 - 2.8). The
agencies would be coordinated by a committee at Director General level chaired by
Bappenas. This committee would be assisted by a Project Secretariat in coordinating the
preparation of actions to be taken by the agencies as part of project implementation and
in monitoring the execution of these actions. The Project Secretariat would include
Director level representatives of Bappenas, MPW, MHA, and MOF. At negotiations, GOI
agreed to maintain the secretariat for the duration of the project.
4.19         A Project Implementation Unit (PIU), located in DGH and supported by
MHA (DGRD) for administrative and institutional aspects, would also be needed to assist,
and monitor progress, in project implementation, including preparation of annual
programs, procurement, physical achievements, and expenditures. Monthly reports
provided by the DPUKs through the FCI teams and the CTC's and training consultants'
monthly reports will provide the basis for monitoring. Progress on the project will be
communicated to the Bank by means of periodic progress reports, the first one to be due
by October 1994. These reports will include both consolidated information for the total
project and individual reports for each province, to meet the reporting requirements.
Annex 3 has further details on reporting. At negotiations GOI agreed to maintain the PIU
for the duration of the project. The PIU will prepare a detailed project completion report



- 18 -
and submit it to the Bank not later than six months after the loan closing date. Supervision
plans showing Bank staff inputs as well as GOI contributions are summarized in Annex
4. These plans were agreed at negotiations. Also effective supervision of the civil works
is essential to improving implementation quality. Therefore, at negotiations agreement was
reached with GOI that initial disbursements for betterment subprojects will be subject to
the provision of (a) evidence that the FCI have been engaged, and (b) adequate vehicles
(Table 4.2) for use by kabupaten staff.
4.20         Quality Assurance. This project, like its predecessors KR3 and KREI,
features comprehensive steps to ensure that inputs (budgeting, road link selection, contract
packaging, contractor selection, supervision, administration, technical assistance, etc.) will
be timely and appropriate. However, this may not always be enough to ensure that
implementation quality will be acceptable. Hence GOI has prepared terms of reference
for a program to help assure the quality (KRQA) of works as well as the institutional and
technical development of the kabupatens. The program includes technical audits focussing
on the quality and cost of the completed works be carried out.  The findings and
recommendation of the quality assurance program will be shared periodically with the
Bank. It was agreed at negotiations that the CTC will assist DGH with this quality
assurance program as they are arguably in a good position to identify problems promptly.
1. PROCUREMENT
4.21        The project civil works are scattered over vast areas and although works will
be packaged as explained below, the size of contracts is expected to be too small (about
US$300,000 on average for rehabilitation/improvement works, which are the most
important) to attract foreign contractors. Civil works will therefore be carried out by
contracts awarded under local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures acceptable to the
Bank and open for participation by foreign contractors. All contractors will be subjected
to prequalification under procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Standard bidding documents
for civil works acceptable to the Bank will be used.
4.22        One of the means to improve quality of works is to increase the efficiency
of the contracting process. At negotiations it was agreed that civil works contracts would
be packaged in accordance with criteria satisfactory to the Bank. Arrangements described
here below would be used in order to (i) attract a maximum of Class A and Class Bi
contractors, and (ii) give contractors an incentive to invest in new equipment through the
award of contracts of a longer duration (para. 4.11):
(a)   for rehabilitation/improvement works, a minimum number of all contracts
would be of a size of Rp 500 million (about US$250,000) or more (so that
they can be carried out by Class A contractors); a minimum would also be
of contracts with a construction period over one fiscal year. Specifics are
shown in the table above which defines the minimum proportion of the
value of all contracts each year in a kabupaten to be made of larger and of
longer contracts. All other rehabilitation/improvement contracts will be
carried out by Class B1 contractors.



- 19 -
CONTRACT PACKAGING FOR REHABILITATION/IMPROVEMENT WORCS
Minimum Proportion of Contracts
(expressed as a percentage of
the value of all contracts)
Year 1    Year 2     Year 3
All Kabupatens   (i)  Contracts above          30%        50%        50%
Rp 500 million
All Kabupatens   (ii) Contracts with            0%        50%        50%
construction over
one fiscal year
Note: Categories (i) and (ii) above are not exclusive.
(b)   for periodic maintenance works, packages will be valued above Rp 200
million (about US$100,000), so that they are carried out by class B1
contractors; tendering would be open province-wide; and
(c)   a maximum of 50 percent of all routine maintenance will be carried out
by force account, up to a maximum aggregate amount of US$8.2 million.
The balance will be done by small private contractors, using simplified LCB
documents that were agreed upon at negotiations. Payments will be made
against output of routine maintenance works, whether carried out by force
account or by contractor.
4.23        Equipment will be procured on the basis of ICB (using the Bank's Standard
Bidding Documents), except for minor items or groups of items estimated to cost less than
US$200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount for all contracts not to exceed
US$800,000, which may be procured on the basis of LCB acceptable to the Bank. Items
estimated to cost less than US$50,000 per contract may be procured on the basis of
international and local shopping by obtaining at least three quotations from foreign and/or
local suppliers, up to an aggregated value of US$200,000. Contracts for spare parts, up
to an aggregate amount of US$200,000, may be awarded after direct negotiations with
suppliers. Items should be grouped to the extent possible. In bid comparison and
evaluation under ICB, domestic manufacturers may be granted a margin of preference of
15 percent or the prevailing import duty, whichever is lower.  Consultants will be
appointed in accordance with the Bank's 'Guidelines for the Use of Consultants" of
August 1981, and on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. For complex, time-
based assignments, the Bank's standard form of contract would be used.
4.24        Bank prior review will apply to the following contracts: (i) civil works
above US$1.5 million, (ii) equipment above US$200,000, and (iii) all contracts for



- 20 -
consultants' services above US$100,000 for a firm or US$50,000 for individuals. Other
contracts will be submitted to post-review. This will result in a prior review of about 25
percent of all contracts in value or 43 percent of the amounts financed by the Bank. To
compensate for this relatively low level of prior review, project preparation has put
emphasis on improving the quality of the prequalification procedures and standard bidding
documents to be used for civil works. A systematic post-review of civil works will also
be carried out on a random basis during supervision. In addition, terms of reference for
Field Consultants for Implementation (para. 4.8) include certification of tender documents
and technical advice to the Kabupaten Tender Evaluation Committees.
4.25         Procurement administration will mainly be the responsibility of the DPUKs
for civil works, and DGH for equipment and consultancy services. Final decisions on
awards will rest with the authority designated in the procurement regulations which define
different levels depending on the contract value. DPUKs have shown under the Second
Rural Roads Development Project their capability to carry out satisfactorily the
procurement of works. They will also be assisted by the FCI and the procurement process
will be monitored by DGH and DGRD. During negotiations, GOI's agreement was
obtained on all of the above procurement arrangements.  The table below gives a
breakdown of procurement methods under the project.
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ million)
Procurement method /a           Total
Project element                  ICB          LCB        Other          cost
Betterment                        -          108.4         -          108.4
(40.1)                   (40.1)
Maintenance                       -          43.0          8.2/b       51.2
(15.9)       (3.0)       (19.0)
Workshops and laboratories        -            0.8         -            0.8
(0.3)                    (0.3)
Equipment                        20.8          0.8        0.4          22.0
(18.9)        (0.7)       (0.4)/c     (20.0)
Consultancy services:/d
Capacity building                             -          8.3           8.3
(7.6)        (7.6)
Implementation support           -            -         16.0          16.0
(14.5)       (14.5)
Total                        20.8        153.0        32.9         206.8
(TO)        _(57.1)     (B)-         (Tf )
/a Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank loan and include
contingencies.
/b Force account.
/c International and local shopping and, for spare parts, direct contracting.
ad In accordance with Bank's Guidelines for use of Consultants.
Note: Due to rounding, totals may not add.



- 21 -
J. DISBURSEMEs
4.26         Loan funds will be disbursed on the following basis:
(a)   Civil Works: 37 percent of expenditures;
(b)   Vehides, Equipment, Spare Parts, Supplies, and Inland Transportation:
100 percent of foreign expenditures for directly imported items; or
100 percent of local expenditures (ex-factory) of locally manufactured
items, or 65 percent of total expenditures for other locally procured items;
or 65 percent of other local expenditures;
(c)   Consultancy Services: 100 percent of expenditures.
Disbursements under the project will be made against full documentation of expenditure
except for the following items, for which disbursements would be on the basis of
Statements of Expenditures (SOEs): (i) civil works contracts under US$1.5 million,
(ii) equipment, spare parts, and supplies under US$200,000, and (iii) consultants contracts,
estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent, for firms and less than US$50,000
equivalent for individuals. SOE records would be made available to Bank staff as required
for inspection during supervision. The schedule of estimated disbursements is shown in
Table 4.4. Although the project has been designed for implementation in 3-4 years, the
standard disbursement profile for the country sector (Indonesia/Transportation) indicates
that the loan can be expected to be fully disbursed in 6 1/2 years. Based on the projected
work program, the disbursements are proposed to be completed in 5 years. The proposed
profile does not follow exactly the standard profile of Indonesia transportation sector but
has been slightly modified by assuming a proportionately accelerated period for
disbursements. Considering the project will cover three consecutive annual programs of
road works in the project kabupatens without any complex issues of environment,
resettlement or land acquisition, the proposed disbursement schedule is considered realistic.
4.27         Bank disbursements for road maintenance expenditures would be at a
constant percentage (37 percent) rather than on a declining basis, mainly for administrative
simplicity in a decentralized environment. However, because of the increasing annual
targets for maintenance (para. 4.5), GOI's required funding of maintenance will more than
double from about 20 percent of total needs in the project's first year to 55 percent in its
last. Because of the project's short duration, and the current neglect of maintenance on
these kabupaten roads, it would not be realistic to aim at higher percentages. The Bank's
disbursement share has in fact been set at the minimum value expected to give an incentive
to the kabupatens to increase considerably their own allocation of funds for maintenance
as well as adopt better planning, programming and implementation methods, thereby
creating the conditions for a sustainable effort.
4.28         In order to expedite and facilitate disbursements, a Special Account with an
initial deposit of $5 million would be established in Bank Indonesia. This account should
be maintained by the Director General of Budget (DG Budget) in the Ministry of Finance.
The Special Account would be used for all eligible foreign and local expenditures.
Replenishments to the Special Account would be made on a monthly basis or when
20 percent of the initial deposit has been used, whichever occurs first.



- 22 -
K. AccouNTs AND AuDIs
4.29         The PIU will have overall responsibility for establishing and monitoring the
use of a uniform project accounting system. Financial records and accounts by subprojects
will be retained by the DPUKs based on copies of financial and supporting documents
obtained from project managers and relevant agencies concerned with project funding,
payment and reimbursement. The PIU will maintain accounts for equipment procured on
behalf of the project and for training and technical assistance. The DPUKs through the
Field Consultants for Implementation will transmit up-to-date project accounts to the PIU
on a regular basis. The PIU comptroller will consolidate all accounts from the 27
kabupatens into a single project account on a quarterly basis for monitoring purposes, and
annually for audit purposes. During negotiations, agreement was reached with GOI that:
(a) the project's records and accounts, including for the SOEs and the Special Account,
will be audited annually in a timely fashion by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank; and (b) it will submit to the Bank certified copies of the consolidated audit reports
starting December 31, 1995 for fiscal year 1994/95, and subsequently no later than six
months after the end of each fiscal year. In the case of SOEs, the audit report will contain
a separate opinion as to whether the SOEs submitted during each fiscal year, together with
the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
support the related withdrawals.
L. RETROACTIVE FINANCING
4.30         Retroactive financing for essential consulting services and some civil works,
not to exceed US$5 million, would be provided under the project for expenditures incurred
after January 1, 1994, and before the date of the loan agreement.  This advance
procurement is considered necessary for the completion of the first year program.
M. ENVERONMENTAL IMPACT
4.31        Background. The GOI has an environmental impact assessment procedure
known as the AMDAL process that is embodied in Presidential Regulation No. 51 of
1993. This law mandates that an environmental assessment information report is required
for all new projects that would have an impact on the environment. The initial stage of
this procedure includes a screening process that places projects into two categories.
Category 1 projects, e.g. toll expressways, or new roads, require a full assessment; this
is known as an Andal.  Category 2 is intended for projects that have little or no
environmental impact and require mainly the adherence to environmentally acceptable
procedures during implementation. Road and bridge maintenance works are exempt from
the process. The screening procedures also try to cater for indirect impacts, but given that
road sections to be improved under the project are in general less than ten kilometers long,
the areas where indirect impacts may be felt are limited.
4.32         The large number of similar projects and their very small scale should be
borne in mind when considering the nature of potential environmental impacts. For KR5,
a large number of subprojects fall into category 2. The typical subproject proposal is
small, averaging about 6 km, and is primarily for qualitative improvements to existing
pavements and will be of short duration.



- 23 -
4.33        Impact Assessment. The procedure followed was similar to that of the
KR3 and KREI projects (see annex 11 of SAR #1 1385-IND). Due to the number of road
sections involved, GOI decided to prepare a sectoral environmental impact assessment
(EA) for the project. This approach to screening and assessment was considered the most
efficient way to (i) concentrate project assessment resources on the most environmentally
sensitive, or fragile, project areas; and (ii) help develop sector wide procedures and
criteria to be adhered to for EA purposes. The EA included a review of the principles for
environmental assessment in Indonesia and also an analysis of the major impacts to be
expected from project works. It was concluded that the area and extent of impacts will
be limited and that on balance, the overall effect on the environment for projects not
affecting "fragile areas" would be of minor significance. Fragile areas are defined on the
basis of the REPPPROT maps, which are maps prepared between 1982 and 1988, for the
planning of transmigration projects. These maps cover all of Indonesia and are widely
recognized as one of the best data sources on the natural environment of Indonesia.
Fragile areas include in particular conservation areas, forest reserves, wetlands, coastal
zones, and any area with potential erosion problems.
4.34        For any specific element of the environmental assessment in which some
potential for an impact was identified (< 15 percent of projects), management and or
monitoring measures were included in the project design and specification documents. For
those works, the EA recommends that site specific environmental assessments be prepared
in accordance with GOI's environmental regulations. This would help to ensure the use
of sound environmental practices at design and works implementation stages.
N. SOCIAL IMPACT
4.35        The project does not involve any resettlement or the building of new
development roads. The local governments would, in keeping with MHA guidelines, be
responsible for compensating people for the minor bits of land that may be acquired if the
need arises; based on the first year program these instances will be rare. However, as part
of the preparation of the EA, GOI has carried out a program of public consultations with
the people likely to be affected by the project. The consultation process involved the
design and implementation of a series of public meetings in project kabupatens. The
format of each meeting involved an outline of the project scope and objectives, using an
appropriate link included in the project as an example in most cases. The meetings were
arranged through the kabupatens and chaired by their senior staff. NGOs and local town
and village peoples were invited to all meetings and attendance and participation in the
meetings was good; minutes of the meeting were made and a record of attendance was
kept. The responses at the meetings were documented and are set out in the EA report.
The consultations were well received by the local people and their questions were
concerned mostly with direct benefits under the project, such as employment and the
potential for improving the marketing of surplus agriculture production. There was strong
support expressed for the project as people felt that it would be beneficial to them.
4.36        In addition, the Bank funded a study which reviewed the consultation
exercises carried out by DGH.  The study concurred with DGH's conclusions and
recommended that an additional consultation meeting be held during project preparation.
The study recommended also that a film, that would help to foster good consultation



- 24 -
practices, be made for distribution to the kabupatens. The GOI's provisions for land
acquisition and resettlement were found in general to be consistent with ODs 4.20 and 4.30
in the context of kabupaten roads projects. DGH is considering these recommendations.
Also, it was decided during project preparation that there was no need for an action plan
for "indigenous peoples" who in the Indonesian context can be defined as isolated and
potentially disadvantaged peoples. However, it was still considered opportune to include
funds under this project for the conduct of socio-economic studies and the subsequent
preparation of two such pilot plans that could serve as models, if and when they might be
required in the future. At negotiations, the GOI gave assurances that, consistent with the
spirit of OD 4.20, it will continue protect the rights of indigenous peoples affected by the
project. GOI also agreed at negotiations to expand the scope of the independent team to
be financed under Ln. 3579 and under this project, that will monitor the effects of the
project on the indigenous people, to all Bank-financed kabupatens.
4.37         As for resettlement, since there is none under the project and given DGH's
agreement to a framework under the Second Highway Sector Investment project, no
further action is warranted now. However, during negotiations, agreement was reached
that the Bank would (a) be kept informed continuously on the social aspects of the project
as part of the normal reporting on subproject preparation (paras. 4.5 and 4.7) and
(b) review and comment periodically on the designs and results of public consultation
meetings to be held in project kabupatens. The objective will be to monitor the social
impacts of the project and make recommendations for improvement.
4.38         Emphasis was placed under the KREI project on strengthening the
procedures for EA, including consultation and the development of Action Plans, both in
DGH and in the provincial Bappedas. The recent reorganization of DGH, including the
establishment of an environmental section, has increased the importance of the
implementation of this program of strengthening. The conduct of environmental screening
has not been affected because DGH used consultants as well as its own staff members to
complete the annual program. The project however includes additional funds for extending
this KREI-funded program to all Bank-financed kabupatens.
4.39         Finally, under the KR3 and KREI projects, agreement was reached on
several environmental actions that were repeated and consolidated under this project at
negotiations. These include agreement that the criteria and procedures on the basis of
which rehabilitation subprojects would be selected would include the following: (a) road
works in the draft program submitted annually to the Bank will be screened so as to
identify those on road sections not previously open to four-wheel traffic and providing
access to fragile areas; (b) such road works will be submitted to a site specific
environmental assessment in accordance with GOI's environmental procedures; (c) only
road works whose EAs have been found acceptable by both GOI and the Bank will be
eligible for financing; (d) any road works financed by the Bank will be designed and
implemented in accordance with agreed environmental codes of practice and this will be
regularly monitored; (e) no road works will be eligible for Bank financing if they provide
access to conservation or forest reserve areas 2/ in any project-assisted kabupaten, or to
2/ As defined by the REPPPROT maps.



- 25 -
protected forest areas in the 4 kabupatens where induced development may have significant
indirect impacts; such road works will be screened out as part of the annual program
preparation procedures.
0. SUSTAINABLrry
4.40        The project represents an attempt to utilize the resources available to
kabupatens more efficiently and effectively.  It pursues difficult objectives such as
developing the planning and institutional capability in kabupatens so as to enable them to
maintain viable road networks. It will also try to encourage the use of more appropriate
road rehabilitation and maintenance technologies, and improve the quality of road works.
Taken together, this is a sustainable package as over time it will increasingly be the more
economically justified investments that are completed, and the appropriate conditions for
adequate maintenance of the network fostered.  Implementation of this project will
therefore lead to more kabupatens practicing better road maintenance and management
techniques.
CHAPTER V
ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. SUBPROJECTS SELECTION
5.1         The KR5 project kabupatens completed planning studies of about 350 road
links, totalling 2,500 km, that comprise the 1994/95 program. The methodologies and
procedures used in selecting subprojects are the same as those used for KR3 and KREI.
In accordance with these established methodologies and procedures, roadworks programs
will be prepared annually by kabupaten governments and coincident with GOI's budget
preparation process.
5.2          These selection methodologies and procedures are sound. The procedures
are laid out well enough for satisfactory and consistent application by kabupaten staff but
retain analytical rigor in ensuring that selected projects are economically justified. Most
kabupatens have been able to follow the procedures and complete physical surveys on a
substantial part of their networks and prepare annual investment programs to a generally
acceptable standard, though they have been supplemented by Consultants mainly to monitor
the process and audit the data.



- 26 -
B. BENEFr   AND BENEFICIARIES
5.3         The main sources of benefit from improvement of roads are savings in
vehicle operating costs (VOC). VOC estimates used for KR5 kabupatens are summarized
in Table 5.1.
5.4          Road roughness is assessed by a combination of visual road surveys, photo
interpretation and speed surveys. Project roads are expected to attain after betterment, and
with planned maintenance, an average lifetime roughness of IRI 8 for seal and 10 for
gravel. VOC reductions assumed from improvements of poor gravel/earth or stone roads
would typically be in the range of 40-60 percent.  Passenger time savings represent
typically about 15 percent of benefits for motorized traffic. Values are based on unskilled
wage rates reported by DPUK.
5.5         The project would also continue to support GOI's decentralization efforts
by strengthening the in-house planning and implementation capacities of the kabupatens,
and of central and provincial agencies to assist and supervise kabupatens. The project
will, in particular, (a) reinforce the planning-programming-budgeting system that has been
installed after RR2; (b) introduce measures to improve construction quality; and
(c) institute road maintenance on a sustainable basis.
C. ECONOMIC RETURNS AND SENSITIV   TESTS
5.6          The Major Works Component. The overall ERR for the project pool for
1994/95 implementation is 20 percent with an average NPV/km of Rp 63 million. About
a third of the projects by length have an ERR above 20 percent; a further quarter have
ERRs between 15 percent and 20 percent.
5.7         Sensitivity analysis illustrates the effect of raising costs or reducing benefits
by 20 percent or of excluding from the analysis specified benefit components.  The
projects are fairly robust as even under the extreme scenario the ERRs remain around
10 percent. The results are summarized in Tables 5.2 - 5.3.
5.8          The Maintenance Component.  An analysis of the KR5 maintenance
program has been undertaken, identifying the cost and benefit streams starting with IBRD-
funded works in the three project years and assuming continuation of improved
maintenance practices of the same roads throughout a ten-year analysis period (Table 5.4).
Target kilometers and expenditures are as proposed for the project, with a progressive
buildup of maintenance coverage from 50 percent of needs in the first year to 90 percent
in the third.  The entire project network is assumed to continue to receive routine
maintenance. Periodic overlays and regraveling are assumed to be undertaken annually
on a fifth and a third of the project network, respectively, in accordance with current needs
assumptions. The cost stream includes equipment and supervision costs apportioned
between maintenance and betterment in accordance with the civil works value. The traffic
growth rate is expected to remain at 7.5 percent per annum.



- 27 -
5.9         The maintenance program is assumed to keep the project network in good
to fair condition throughout the analysis period. Without the program, it is assumed that
maintenance expenditures would remain at their present low level representing only about
25 percent of needs and channeled mainly to periodic rehabilitation works. In this
situation roads would tend to deteriorate rapidly to a poor average state of IRI 15 for seal
and IRI 20 for gravel. This would imply average VOC reductions of about 30 percent
attributable to the maintenance program.
5.10        Traffic levels on the maintainable part of the network are generally higher
than those existing or predicted for betterment projects. They are estimated on the basis
of the existing planning study evidence to average almost 200 ADT for sealed roads and
100 ADT for gravel roads. The resulting maintenance program ERR is 49 percent. The
ERR would fall to 24 percent with a reduction in benefits of 25 percent, resulting, for
example, from lower traffic levels or a more limited change in road state and associated
VOC savings.
D. RISKS
5.11        The main project risks are related to the implementation of the planning
procedures, the funding of maintenance and construction quality. Based on experience
from the ongoing projects, the conversion of kabupatens to a maintenance first approach
is a gradual process. Also, due to limited institutional capacity, the implementation of the
planning procedures is inconsistent in some kabupatens and road investments are not
properly prioritized. To reduce the risk, Bappenas would continue to play a strong
coordinating role and project implementation reviews would be held at regular intervals.
As for maintenance, some project kabupatens may be reluctant to increase their allocations
of funds for maintenance as much as needed to fulfil project targets. In response to this,
Bappenas has agreed to the use of Inpres funds (BPJD II) for road maintenance if needed
to meet a kabupaten's target. Also, project maintenance targets have been carefully
designed and annual eligibility conditions established for individual kabupatens. The
increased supervision under the project is expected to lead to better quality works by
contractors.



- 28 -
CHAPTER VI
AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1         Agreement was reached with the Borrower during negotiations that it will:
(a)   cause each project kabupaten to (i) prepare its annual road maintenance
program for the fiscal years 1995/96 and 1996/97 in accordance with
methodology and criteria agreed to by the Bank; (ii) submit this program for
the Bank's review and comments by December 31, 1994 and December 31,
1995, respectively; and (iii) finalize and implement this program taking into
account the comments, if any, by the Bank (para. 4.5);
(b)   cause each project kabupaten to (i) prepare its annual rehabilitation and
improvement works program in respect of the project for the fiscal years
1995/96 and 1996/97 in accordance with methodology and criteria agreed
to by the Bank; (ii) submit this program for the Bank's review and
comments by December 31, 1994 and December 31, 1995, respectively;
and (iii) finalize and implement this program taking into account the
comments, if any, by the Bank (para. 4.7);
(c)   select subprojects for the maintenance and rehabilitation/ improvement
components of the project in accordance with criteria and procedures
(including those for the environmental assessment and public consultation)
satisfactory to the Bank (paras. 4.5, 4.6, 4.7 and 4.37);
(d)   prepare action plans for workshops by September 15, 1994, and also
provide adequate O&M funding and charge economic hire rates by January
15, 1995; (para. 4.11);
(e)   maintain the project secretariat, established in Bappenas for the duration of
the project; (para. 4.18);
(f)   maintain the Project Implementation Unit, established in DGH, to assist,
and monitor progress in project implementation including preparation of
annual programs, procurement, physical achievements, and expenditures
(para. 4.19);



- 29 -
(g)    carry out a program of quality assurance, including technical audits of the
civil works implementation and costs, and inform the Bank periodically of
the results (para. 4.20);
(h)   package civil works contracts in accordance with criteria satisfactory to the
Bank (para. 4.25);
(i)    protect the rights of indigenous peoples, and extend the scope of the
independent monitoring team (para. 4.36);
6.2          Prior to the initial disbursement for works completed under the projects
rehabilitation  component, GOI will provide (a) evidence that the consultants for
construction supervision (FCI) have been engaged, and (b) adequate vehicles have been
provided for kabupaten staff supervising the project (para 4.19).  In addition, the
satisfactory preparation and implementation of maintenance programs will be a condition
of each kabupaten's eligibility for reimbursements under the project's rehabilitation
component (para. 4.5).
6.3          Based on the above agreements, the project is suitable for a Bank loan of
US$101.5 million equivalent to the Republic of Indonesia for 20 years, including 5 years
of grace, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.






INDONESIA
FIFTH KABUPATEN ROADS PROJECT
TECINICAL ASSISTANCE
Status                                 Stndard Contract      Responsibility
List of TA                                        Implement-4             Estated Cost            of TOR (Date)       Short List (Date)      Prepard            for Supervision
Contc/Activity                  Purpose/Objective      Agencis         Total /s    Person/Month   Prepared    Expected  Prepared   Expected      (Y/N)            RSI        HQ
(Uss'oOw)
A. Lnplantntion Suppost
1. Field Consubts for           Assitance for design    Kabupatens,                      240F
inmpnptao (2 team)           and supervision        Bins Marga        12,400        6,600L       12/93                           12/93           Y                X        X
B. I titutional Capme ty Building
1. Centl Technical Cons/b .     Incttutional, envir-   Bins Mama,                        120F
mtntl technical       Bangda             3,350          340L       10/92                                            Y                        X
development, and
quality assuance
2. Environmental Consulbant /c   Continue insitutio-   Bins Marga,                        50F
nal strengthening     Kabupten            1,400        i1OL        10/93                           08/94            N               X        X
3. Environmental Consulant       Continue ocio-econ.   Universities,
(Socisl Aspects) /c          monitoring.            Bina Mrga.                         40F
Strengthen conaua-    Bangda              1,600         240L       10/93                           05/94            N               X        X
tion techniques
Totals            12.850         76810
F = Foreign Profesinal
L = Local Profesional
/a Edet_ are ant of oont _aies.
/b Comanlao dd or to be awred  under KREi. Esthzmted cost resrntb KRS contribution.
/b FCosedeos   undor to XREI  dedR5 projerK.  EAinlmed  cost Kv          R5 co_tribon.



ANNEX 2
FIFMI KABUPAITEN ROADS PROJECT
Project Inplementation Schedule
93 _ 1994    199        199       19 97  |        8    1999  | 2000
ID    Name                                                              Start                           19
1    FIFTH KABUPATEN ROADS PROJECT                                       8/15/93
2        Bank Project Processing                                        10/11/93
3            Appraisal                                                  1/19
4            Negotiations                                                4/11/94
5            Board5179
6            Loan Signing6179
7        Loan Effectivea                                                 7/1/94
8        GOI Project Steart-Up Activities                                 119        p
9           Approval of Standard Bidding Document                         1/1/94
o10          Appoint Project Coordinator                                  3/1/94
11           Project Launch Workshop                                     5/15/94
12       Project Implementation8159   P
13           Component A. Road Network Improvement                       8/15193
14               (a) Road Works                                          8/15/93
15                   Selection of Consultants                            1120/94
34                   Identification of Sub-project (94/95)               8/15193
40                   Design and tendering document preparation( 94/951   11/8/93    IF:
45                   Release of SPABP Budget(94/95)                       6/1/94
46                   Tendering for works (94/95)                          211/94
55                   Construction of Works (94/951                       6/28/94
60                   Supervision of 194/95) by Consultants                /28/94
64                   Review of 194/951 Maintenance Works                  4/1195
P'rojm Fifth Kabupaten Roads Projwc             Crilical                    Progress                     Summary 
Date: 4/13194                               |Noncritical   _        _       Milestone *Rolled UpO 
Page:                                                                                    X
Ir3



ANNEX 2
FIFTH KABUPATEN ROADS PROJECT
Project Implementation Schcdule
93     1994     1995     1996      1997     1998      1999     2000 
ID    Name                                                                Start
68                   Identification of Sub-project 195196)                  7118194
74                    Design and tendering document preparationl 96/961    10/10/94            I
79                    Release of SPABP Budget (95/96)                        5/1/95
80                    Tendating for works 195/96)                            1/7/95
89                    ConstructIon of Work. 195/96)                         5/27/95
94                    Supervision of (95/96) by Consultants                 5/27/95
98                    Review of 95/96 Maintenance Works                      3/1/96
102                   Identification of Sub-project (96/97)                 6/15/95
108                   Design and tendeting document preparationl 96197)     9/10/95
113                   Release of SPABP Budget (96/97)                       4/15/96
114                   Tendering for works 196/971                           12/1/95
123                   Construcdon ot Works 196/97)                          4/26/96
128                   Supervision of 196/971 by Consultants                 4/26196
132               (b)Workahops and Labs                                      211/94
133                   Repairs and/or upgrade to existing workshops & Labs    3/1/94
138                   Construcdon of 4 new workshops                         31I94
148                   Construction of 5 Now Laboratories                     311194
158                   Equipment for Workshop & Labs.                         211194
159                       Tender Process                                     21194
167                       Delivery of Goods                                 8/30/94
168               lc1Equlpment for Road Construction and Maintenance         41194
169                   Improving Workshop Management & fleet operatlon        411/94
Ptoje: FdifthKabupaten Road Prjea| Critical                        _         Pagre:                          Sumnu2y
Date:U413194                  |NontWitc l                                      Miletotic  Rolled UpO-t
*            h~~~~Pge: 2X



ANNEX 2
11FIH KABUPATEN ROADS PROJECr
Project Implementation Schedule
93    1994    1995       1996    1997    1998    1999    2000
ID   Name                                                               Start              _
170                      Transfer of ownership to DPUK                     4/1/94
171                      Provision of adequate funding for O/M             4/1/94
172                      Charging Economic Hire Rates                      4/1/94
173                      Action Plan for autonomous Plant -hire unit.      4/1/94
174                  Identification of Equipment                           7/1/94
179                  Tender Process                                       8/20/94
187                  Delivery of Goods                                     1/9/95
188           Component B. Institutional & Technical Development           4/1/94 _      _  _   U _  _  _    _ .
189              (leTech./Institutional Capecity Building                 9/20/96
190                  On-going CTC contract terrminatese1l9
191                  Prepare TOR for Addenda to the ongoing CTC services  9/20/95
192                  Confirmation of DGH                                  1014195
193                  Bank review and Approval                            10118
194                  On going CTC services continues                      1111/95
195               (blEnvironment Inctitutional Capacity BuDiding           4/1/94 _ _
196                  Selection of Consultants                              4/11/94
215                   TA Services                                           309
216       Supervision and Reporting                                        61/94
217           Disbursements                                                6/l/94                                   V        V/11 1  W l
218           Reporting on 3-year Program, Budget, Action Plan            6/15/94
219           Annual Review                                              12/15194
223           Mid term Review                                             6/15/95
Projett Flflh labupaten Roads Projed  |        Crilic-al         ~9Pfogress                               Summary 
Do=t 4/113/94                                  Noncritical                  Milestone          *-Rolled Up   O 
Page: 3X



ANNEX 2
FWIl KABUPATEN ROADS PROJECT
Project ImplemetaUtion Schedule
93N   1994  _ 1996   _ 1996    1997    1998    1999    2000
224           Supervsion                                                  6115194                "       '
239           Project Completion                                         12/31/98
240           Project Closure                                             6/30/99
241           Project Completion Reporting                                9/30/99
w
La
Pnojea: FifthKabupaten Roads Ptje| Critical                      _-P'rogg                                Suaag  4
Dat U4/13194                                    Nonk                         Miye 4n                      Rolled UpO| 



- 36 -                              ANNEX 3
INDONESIA
FIFTH KABUPATEN ROADS PROJECT
REPORTING REQunREMENTS
1.          Various types of reports will be generated under the project to meet GOI's reporting
requirements and feed into its monitoring system:
-  monthly reports produced by the Field Consultants for Implementation (FCIs), and the
Central Technical Consultants (CTC), providing details on the project, the contracts,
implementation progress, and payments.
-  quarterly reports prepared by the same consultants and giving, in addition to a progress
summary, an evaluation of problems encountered and proposed solutions.
2.          The Bank's reporting requirements will be a subset of the above information, in the form
of a quarterly package to be assembled by the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) and including: (i)
the CTC quarterly report prepared in accordance with the sub-paras below, and (ii) the other quarterly
reports as annexes to the CTC's one. This package should be sent to the Bank by the last day of the
month following the concerned quarter. The specific requirements are as follows:
(a)   Each report should not only record progress in project implementation, but also identify
emerging problems and suggest solutions to achieve project objectives. Special attention
should be devoted to the aspects of construction quality.
(b)   The CTC report should cover all aspects of project components. It should consolidate
and summarize the FCIs and Training reports, and elaborate more on the other aspects:
engineering, planning, environmnent, and special studies. The information should be
given in such detail as to permit an assessment of the performance of each kabupaten.
(c)   The basic data for the project, contracts, implementation progress and payments details
are the same as the ones used for reporting on on-going projects.
(d)   The consolidation of the FCIs reports will be done easily if all consultants are using the
same formats. It is proposed that the formats defined under KR3 and KREI become the
norm. This will facilitate the timely release of the periodic reports.
3.          In addition to the above reporting requirements, a set of performance indicators has been
defined as follows:
-  amount budgeted for roadworks annually broken down into (i) construc-tion/improvement
and (ii) maintenance, per kabupaten and per province;



- 37 -                             ANNEX 3
- amount budgeted annually for operation and maintenance of kabupaten equipment and
workshops;
- date of release of annual budget allocations for maintenance;
- number of training packages developed;
- annual number of trainees, training sessions, and trainee days under the training program.
These indicators, together with the physical achievements compared to the targets, will be monitored
throughout project supervision to allow for a periodic assessment of project performance.



- 38 -                               ANNEX 4
INDONESIA
IFlTH KABUPATEN ROADS PROJECT
SUPERVISION PLAN
1.          Bank Supervision Input into Key Activities
(a)   The staff input indicated in the table below is in addition to regular supervision needs
for the review of progress reports, procurement actions, correspondence, etc. (estimated
for this project to require four staff weeks per year).
(b)   Each of the seven provinces should be visited at least once during project supervision
and two or three selected provinces should be visited twice. Given the geographic
dispersion of the provinces, supervision missions should focus in each field visit on only
a few kabupatens which would be deemed typical because of their geographical
characteristics and their performance, as shown by the progress reports.
(c)   Staff from the Resident Mission will be involved to a large extent in the supervision of
this project, in particular (i) in the EA reviews and (ii) in the random ex-post review
of the large amount of LCB-procured civil works contracts and SOE documentation.
(d)   Most of GOI's work for improving systems and procedures will be carried out in
Jakarta, and will therefore be supervised there by Bank missions. Close coordination
with KR3 supervision activities is warranted, in view of the numerous common
objectives of both projects.
2.          Borrower's Contribution to Supervision
(a)   A Project Launch Workshop is to be organized by GOI. In relation with the advance
contracting authorized under this project, this Workshop should be held early enough
to coincide with detailed preparation of the first year program, i.e. around March 1993.
(b)   Project coordination will be the responsibility of the Project Secretariat (PS). In
particular the PS will be responsible for coordinating arrangements for Bank supervision
missions. The Project Implementation Unit will be responsible for providing information
required by missions.
(c)   Review meetings with the participation of the various project agencies will be held
normally in February of each year, to discuss the previous year's performance and the
current year program. A mid-term Project Implementation Review would be held in
September/October 1994.
(d)   Progress reports are to be submitted quarterly, and their content should meet the
requirements set forth in Annex 8.



- 39 -                                  ANNEX 4
BANK SUPERVISION INPUT INTO KEY ACTIVITIES
Dates                                                      Skill             Staff Input
(month/year)   Activity                                     Needs             (staff-weeks)
06-07/93  Supervision Mission
(to review initial project arrangements,           HE, TE                  3
first year works contracts, and
briefing of consultants)
09-10/93  Supervision mission                               HE, TE                   4
(to review start-up of civil works                 ENV
and consultancy services, organizational
arrangements, progress in planning
and environmental studies for 1994/95
program)
11-12/93  Assist in preparation of 1994/95                  HE, TE)                 2
program on the basis of experience                 ENV, TR)
of 1993/94 program.
01-02/94  Supervision Mission                               HE, TE)                  8
(to discuss 1994/95 program proposals,             ENV, TR)
evaluation of performance of kabupatens
in carrying out maintenance, environ-
mental screening and EIAs)
05-06/94  Supervision Mission                               HE, TE                   4
(to review, inter alia, second year
works contracts and progress in program
of studies)
09-10/94  Supervision Mission                               HE, TE)                  8
(mid-term PIR to review all aspects of             ENV, TR)
the project, especially performance
under loan conditions, adequacy of project
organizational arrangements, quality of
consultancy services and impact of the
project on the performance of road agencies)
11-12/94  Assist in preparation of 1995/96                  id.                     2
program
1995     Three Supervision Missions                         id.                    16
1996     Three Supervision Missions                         id.                    12
1997     Two Supervision Missions                           id.                     8
1998     One Supervision Mission                            HE, TE                  5
(preparation of PCR)
HE=Highway Engineering, TE=Transport Economics, ENV=Environment, TR=Training



-40-                                  ANNEX S
INDONESIA
FIFTH KABUPATEN ROADS PROJECT
DOCUMENTs AND DATA IN THE PROJEcT FILE
1.          General Reports and Studies
Key Issues, Current Practices and Guidelines for Community Participation, PT
Intersys, October 1993.
2.          Project related documents
(a)   First year civil works program:
-Draft Maintenace Program (P1)
-Major works longlist (P2)
-Major works shortlist (p3.1).
(b)   Environmental Assessment Report, Vols. 1 - 4, Feburary 1993.
(c)   Kabupaten Roads Program: environmental and social aspects, January 1994.
(d)   Estimated Requirements for Roadworks Equipment, Workshops and Laboratories,
PMU, October 1993.
(e)   Note on Revised Assessment of Maintenance Needs and Proposed Targets, PMU,
October 31, 1993.
(f)    Review of civil works unit costs in 1993 and KR5 cost levels (November 1993).
(g)   Notes on the economic analysis of the project.
(h)   Technical guidelines for the preparation and implementation of kabupaten road works
and for the management of equipment, GOI, 1991 and 1992.
(i)    Detailed project implementation schedule (January 1994).
3.          Terms of Reference
(a)   Central Technical Consultants, July, 1992.
(b)   Field Consultants for Implementation, January 1994.
(c)   Kabupaten Roads Quality Assurance, February 1994.
(d)   Social and Economic Studies of Indigenous Peoples, February 1994.



- 41 -                                      Table 1.1
INDONESIA
FIFrH KABUPATEN ROADS PROJECT
STATISTICAL OVERVIEW
Kabusaten Roads (1991)      Popu-                            1990       93194
Kabu-  4-wheel            Good & Fair  Surface type  lation         Land             GRDP/cap Rds.Budget
patens  vehicles   Length  condition 1   Sealed Gravel (1990)  Aea      LULvable am    index     Rp bn.
(No.)   (1990)     km    km      %    km      km    '000   1,000 km2   %   Pop/km2
KR5
Riau              5    41,845    5,780   1,608  28    827   1,399    2,776   98.6    53         53       367        50
C. Kalimantan     5      8,129    2,889     447  15    310    254    1,283  153.6    44         19        90        35
E Kalimantan      4    43,464    2,400   1,101  46    373   1,214    1,124  197.2    31         18       527        41
S. Kalimantan     9    36,187    3,897   1,622  42    917   1,255    2,116   37.5    72         78        82        35
Maluku            4      9,393    2,390   1,622  68    922    968    1,575   78.0    14        144        73        28
Total KRS        27    139,018   17,356   6,400  37  3,349   5,090    8,874  564.9    39        40       242       189
KREI
Subwesi          26    135,229   22,888   9,743  43  5,993   6,461    9,076  174.2    29       180        55       171
Nuss Tenggara    16    37,966    10,513   3,774  36  2,104   3,592    5,898   58.2    30       338        34        88
Irbanlaya         9     15,978    3,071     772  25    603    361    1,629  414.8    23         17       114        77
Totl KREI        51    189,173   36,472  14,289  39  8,700  10,414   16,603  647.2    26        95 53              336
KR3
Sumatra
(excl. Riau)    47   491,149   49,003  20,918  43  15,148  13,436  27,199  376.7    51        142       99       383
W. Java          20   340,778   15,180   9,402  62  9,097   4,436   32,676   46.5    76        925        81       183
W. Kalimantan     6    22,049    6,924   1,167  17    748       594    2,838  147.5    44       44        77        59
Total KR3        73   853,976   71,107  31,487  44 24,993  18,466   62,713  570.7    S3        207        91       625
ADB
Central Java     29   268,403    15,315  10,885  71  9,810   3,792   26,070   34.1    90       849        69       151
East ava         29   408,431    17,042  11,844  69  10,461   4,204   28,352   48.2    81      727        81       177
Yogyakarta        4    37,713    3,178   1,916  60  1,424    833    2,501    3.1    90         884        59        20
Bali              8    57,514    3,475   2,416  70  2,432    452    2,777    5.6    72         685        99        23
Total ADB        70   772,061   39,010  27,061  69 24,127   9,281   59,700   91.1    84        780        89      371
USAID
S. Sulawesi       7         /b    3,340   1,848  55  1,182   1,399    1,951   11.9    29       566        /b        /b
Nusa Tenggara     2         /b    1,592    300  19       84    397      739    7.7    30       319        lb b
Total USAID       9          -    4,932   2,149  44  1,266   1,795   2,690   19.6    29        473         -         -
Other
East Timor       13      6,977    2,328     539  23    419    246       748   14.9    21       239        33        28
Kotamadyas:
KR5                       /b    1,619     840  52    868      101    2,126     b      lb      k         k 
KREI                      /b    1,429   1,009  71    933      106    1,484     k      k       k                   &b
)R3                       /b    4,938   3,464  70  3,563      636    9,039     k      h       k         hb        k
ADB                         lb    2,075   1,684  81  1,851       68    6,994    /b    /b                  lb        &
Jakarta                844,851        -       -   -       -       -   8,223    0.7       -       -       253        33
Total Indoesia  243  2,806,056  181,266  88,922  49 70,068  46,203  179,193  1,909      41     231       100     1,583
/a As reported in Bins Marga inventory, excluding earth roads.
lb Included in provincial data.



- 42 -                          Table 1.2
INDONESIA
FIFTH KABUPATEN ROADS PROJECT
GROSS REGIONAL DOMESTIC PRoDucT PER CAPITA 1990
(Rp 000, current prices)
Region/Province           Oil       Non-oil         Total        Index
(Ind=100)
Riau                     3,238         819          4,058          367
C. Kalimantan                0         998            998           90
E. Kalimantan            3,438       2,383          5,821          527
S. Kalimantan               16         887            902           82
Maluku                       6         795            802           73
Subtotal KR5           1,556       1,119          2,675          242
N. Sulawesi                  0         611            611           55
C. Sulawesi                  0         580            580           52
S. Sulawesi                  0         610            610           55
S.E. Sulawesi                0         616            616           56
NTB                          0         385            385           35
NTT                          0         361            361           33
Irian Jaya                 278         983          1,261          114
Subtotal KREI             22         562            584           53
East Timor                   0         364            364           33
Sumatra (excl.Riau)        234         864          1,098           99
Jakarta                      0       2,791          2,791          253
Java/Bali (excl.Jkt)        55         803            858           78
W. Kalimantan                0         854            854           77
INDONESIA                  168         937          1,105          100
Source: BPS.



- 43 -                              Table 1.3
INDONESIA
FIFTH KABUPATEN ROADS PROJECT
POPULATION, LAND AREA, AND INDICATORS OF POPULATION DENSITy
Population            Population
Estimated   density on  Estimated   density on
Population            Population  % of area  land under  % of area   cultivable
1990    Land area    density  under 40%   40% slope  cultivable    area
Region             (No. '000)  (sq khn)   (no/sq km)  slope La   (no/sq km)    lb      (no/sq hin)
Riau                  3,281      98,597       33         89           37       53          63
C. Kalimantan         1,395     153,604        9         76           12       44          20
E. Kalimantan         1,875     197,210       10         49           19       31           30
S. Kalimantan         2,596      37,490       69         72           96       72          97
Maluku                1,851      78,019       24         43           55       14          173
Subtotal KR5      10,999    564,920        19         64          30       39           50
N. Sulawesi           2,478      26,555       93         22          424       34         273
C. Sulawesi           1,703      60,329       28         18          157       17          165
S. Sulawesi           6,980      62,451      112         33          339       39         289
S.E. Sulawesi         1,349      36,810       37         36          102       31          120
NTB                   3,368      19,537      172         41          421       34         507
NTT                   3,268      46,325       71         55          128       28         253
Irian Jaya            1,629     414,800        4         57            7       23           17
KREI Provinces       20,776     666,807       31         48           65       26          121
Subtotal E. Indonesia   23,375  759,804       31         48           64       24          126
East Timor              747      14,978       50         56           89       21         235
Sumatra (excl. Riau)    33,139  376,712       88         63          140       50          174
Jakarta               8,222        656    12,534        100       12,534     n.a.         n.a.
Java/Bali           102,073     137,539      742         83          894       81/         890
W. Kalimantan         3,235     147,530       22         68           32       53          41
INDONESIA           179,194   1,909,142       94         60          157       41         231
/a  RePPProT data in Dick J., Forest Land Use Zonation and Deforestation, Indonesia, 1991.
/b Based on RePPProT recommendations for TGHK' forest function areas for convertible forest and unclssified
land (includes existing uncultivated areas).
/c  Existing cultivated areas from BPS and estimate of cultivable area not in use from National Urban
Development Strategy (NUDS).
Source: BPS, RePPProT, NUDS.



- 44 -                              Table 1.4
INDONESIA
FIFTH KABUPATEN ROADS PROJECT
LAND USE BY REGION
(square kilometers)
Bush/scrub   Shifting   Culti-  Tree  Settle- Misc/no
Region/Province      Forest  grassland      cult.  vated La  crops L  ment  data IS  Total
Riau                  59,365    14,922     4,905     4,561   5,566    1,494   7,784    98,597
C. Kalimantan        116,144     7,759    24,860     2,270     418       17  2,136   153,604
E. Kaimantan         178,751     6,740     6,520     1,346      522     363   2,968   197,210
S. Kalimantan         17,959    11,111     2,369     4,255      876     608    311    37,489
Maluku                63,480     7,076     2,164       666      183      21   4,429    78,019
Subtotal KRS       435,699    47,608    40,818    13,098   7,565   2,503  17,628   564,919
N. Sulawesi           15,536     2,972       352     2,149   3,054      535   1,957    26,555
C. Sulawesi           43,591     6,616     1,569     2,489   1,677      431   3,956    60,329
S. Sulawesi           28,792    15,712     2,161     9,389   2,889    1,462   2,046    62,451
S.E. Sulawesi         24,775     7,628     1,187      1,862     198     628    532    36,810
NTB                    9,326     4,231       636     3,621      328     930    455    19,527
NTr                    9,794    25,147     3,235     3,823      349     724   3,256    46,328
Irian Jaya           349,583    34,911    12,873       782      145     794  14,712   414,800
Subtotal KREI
provinces         481,397    98,217    22,013    24,115   8,640   5,504 26,914   666,800
Sumatra (excl. Riau)    173,870    89,421    29,381    34,070  29,938  12,098   7,939   376,717
Java/Bali             13,459    16,976     2,943    56,734  26,106   17,974   4,012   138,204
W. Kalimantan         87,006    31,861    20,847     1,464   4,374      300   1,683   147,535
Subtotal           274,335   138,258    59,171    92,268  60,418  30,372  13,634  C62,456
East Timor             5,574     7,419       986       398      259      36    206    14,878
NDONESIA           1,197,005   291,502   116,988   129,879  76,882  38,415 58,382 1,909,053
La Wetland and dryland crops excluding tree crops.
Lb Including agro-forestry and reforestation.
/c Including unvegotated land, water and fishponds.
Source: RePPProT Reports based mainly on 1982/83 aerial photography.



- 45 -                             Table 1.5
INDONESIA
FIFTH KABUPATEN ROADS PROJECT
SUMMARY OF BROAD LAND USE BY REGION
(% of total area)
Cultivated/      Other
Forest             Settled La      Uses Lb       Total
Sumatra                          49                   18             32          100
Java/Bali                         10                  73             17          100
Kalimantan                       75                    3             22          100
Sulawesi                         61                   14             25          100
Nusa Tenggara                    29                   15             56          100
Irian Jaya                       84                    1             15          100
Maluku/East Timor                74                    2             24          100
Eastern Indonesia                72                    5             22          100
Indonesia                        63                   13             24          100
/a Includes wetland and dryland crops, tree crops and settlement areas.
Ib Includes bush, grassland, shifting cultivation and miscellaneous uses.
Source: RePPProT Reports.



- 46 -                               Table 1.6
INDONESIA
FWFTH KABUPATEN ROADS PROJECT
SUMMARY OF PRESENT FoREsT FuNcUXoN AREAS
(sq km)
Pro-       Ltd.      Normal        Con-
Nature    tection      Prod.      Prod.       version     Unclass-
Province/       Reserve     Forest      Forest     Forest       Forest      ifed L      Total
Region        (PPA/HSA)   (HL)         (HPT)   (HPBIHP)        (HPK)
Sumatra           41,414    64,121     66,576       69,319       86,760    146,929    475,119
Java/Bali           n.a.      n.a.        n.a.        n.a.         n.a.       n.a.        n.a.
Kalimantan        36,386    65,471    118,266      132,246      115,316     68,591    537,276
Sulawesi          14,126    43,202     45,877       15,222       16,241     52,177    185,845
Nusa Tenggara lb   3,499    16,372      7,913        5,527       17,144     30,315     80,770
Irian Jaya        73,700   105,000     46,300       80,300      97,600      11,900    414,800
Krei Provinces lb  91,325   164,574    100,090     100,049      130,986     94,392    681,415
Maluku             4,534    13,309     16,426        8,524       34,638        504     77,935
Eastern Idonesia   95,859   177,883    116,516     108,573      165,623     24,896    759,350
Indonesia        173,659   307,475    301,358      310,123     367,699    310,416  1,770,745
/a Includes 5,617 sq km state free forest (HNB) in Sumatra.
/b Includes Timor Timur.
Note: Includes some designated forest function areas not actually under forest.
Source: RePPProT Reports.



- 47 -                                            Table 2.1
INDONESIA
FIFTH KABUPATEN ROADS PROJECT
ROAD NETWORK LENGTH BY ROAD CLASS AND PROVINCE GROUP
(kilometers)
Eastern   Total for
Road Class                Sumatra   Java/  Kalbar Riau  Kalteng  Kalsel Kaltim  Maluku  Total  Indonesia  Indonesia
(ex. Riau)   Bali                                                KR5  (ex Maluku)
National:   Arterial       4,528    3,094    615   373    250        567    498      35   1,723      4,467    14,427
Collector       1,047      223       0   477    140         0      0    358    975       1,046      3,291
Local               0        0       0     0       0        0      0       0      0          0          0
Subtotal                 5,575    3,317    615   850    390        567    498    393  2,698        5,513    17,718
Provincial: Arterial         120        11      0      0     15        0       0     22      37       367        535
Provincial      8,970    7,083   1,655  1,253    786     540    773   1,073  4,425       9,534    31,667
Local            511       445       0     0       0       0    100    181    281          626      1,863
Subtotal                 9,601    7,539  1,655 1,253    801        540    873   1,276  4,743    10,527    34,065
Toll Roads                    35      339       0      0      0        0       0      0       0          0       374
KabupatenRoads /a         52,984   57,019  7,126 6,408  3,103   4,323  2,619  2,522  18,975    45,162   181,265
Urbanroads                 4,826   14,001    423   511    302        346    431    579  2,169        4,012    25,431
Total                     73,021   82,215  9,819 9,022  4,596   5,776  4,421  4,770 28,585    65,214   258,853
/a Including kotamadya roads.
Source: DGH: 1991/92, excluding transmigration roads.



- 48 -                                              Table 2.2
INDONESIA
FIFTH KABUPATEN ROADS PROJECT
ROAD PAVEMENT BY ROAD CLASS AND PROVINCE GROUP
(kilometers)
Sumatra   Java/                                                   Total   Eastern   Total for
Road Class                (ex. Riau)   Bali  Kalbar Riau  Kalteng  Kalsel Kaltim  Maluku  RR5    Indonesia  Indonesia
National:  sealed           5,353     3,318    579   594    231        567    419    189  2,000         4,731     15,981
unsealed          222         0      36   256    159         0      79    204    698          785      1,741
Total                     5,575    3,318    615   850    390         567    498    393  2,698         5,516    17,722
Provincial: sealed          8,123     7,461    776   699    351        406    299    824  2,579         6,571     25,510
unsealed        1,479        77    878   554    450         135    574    451   2,164       3,955      8,552
Total                     9,602    7,538   1,654  1,253    801       541    873   1,275  4,743    10,526    34,062
Kabupaten: sealed          17,901   35,692    940  1,109    451    1,100    509   1,630  4,800         11,188    70,067
unsealed       34,993   21,327  6,186 5,299  2,652   3,223   2,111         892  14,175    33,974    111,199
Total                    52,894   57,019  7,126 6,408  3,103   4,323  2,619  2,522 18,975    45,162   181,266
Total      sealed          31,377   46,471  2,295  2,402   1,033   2,073   1,227  2,643   9,379    22,490   111,558
unsealed       36,694   21,404  7,100  6,109  3,261    3,358  2,764   1,547  17,037    38,714   121,492
Total                    68,071   67,875  9,395 8,511   4,294   5,431  3,990  4,190 26,416    61,204   233,050
Source: DGH: 1991/92.
Table 2.3
INDONESIA
FIFTH KABUPATEN ROADS PROJECT
ROAD PAVEMENT BY ROAD CLASS AND PROVINCE GROUP
(% of the network in each category)
Sumnatra   Java/                                                  Total    Eastern   Total for
Road Class               (ex. Riau)   Bali  Kalbar Riau  Kalteng  Kalsel Kaltim  Maluku  RR5    Indonesia  Indonesia
National:  sealed              96       100     94    70       59      100      84      48      74         86         90
unsealed            4         0       6    30      41        0      16      52      26         14         10
Provincial: sealed             85       97      47    56       44       75      34      65      54        62         75
unsealed           15         3      53    44      56       25      66      35      46         38         25
Kabupaten: sealed              34        64     13    17       15       25      19      65      25         25         39
unsealed           66        36      87    83      85       75      81      35      75         75         61
Total:     sealed              46        68      24    28      24       38      31      63      36         37         48
unsealed           54        32      76    72      76       62      69      37      64         86         52
Source: DGH 1991/92.



- 49 -                              Table 2.4
INDONESIA
FIFTH KABUPATEN ROADS PROJECT
CONDITION OF THE NATIONAL, PROVINCIAL AND KABUPATEN ROAD NETWORKS (1990)
Island Group:      Percentage of the Road Network in Indicated Condition
National and Provincial Roads
Good        Fair        Poor         Bad
IRI         IRI          IRI         IRI
<6          6-8         8-12        > 12
Sumatra                                 50           10          22           18
Java/Bali                               65           19          14            2
Kalimantan                              32            8          16           44
Other Islands (E. Indonesia)            32           14          28           26
Indonesia                             45           13          22           20
Kabupaten Roads
Good        Fair        Poor         Bad
Indonesia                             27           19          33           21
Source: DGH, 1990 kabupaten roads inventory (adjusted on basis of planning surveys). 1991
national and provincial roads condition survey.



-50 -                               Table 2.5
INDONESIA
FIFTH KABUPATEN ROADS PROJECT
1991 NATIONWIDE KABUPATEN ROAD INVENTORY
SUM OF ROAD LENGTHS (KM) BY SURFACE TYPE
FOR IBRD PROJECT KABUPATEN GROUPS
Project     Kab      Sealed     S%      Gravel      G%    Earth      E%      Total
KR3           73     24,993      35      18,466     26    27,648    39    71,107
KREI          51       8,700     24      10,414     28    17,358    48    36,472
KR5           27      3,349      19       5,091     29     8,916    51    17,356
Total        151     37,042      30     33,971       7    53.922    43   124.935
1991 NATIONWIDE KABUPATEN ROAD INVENTORY
SUM OF ROAD LENGTHS (KM) BY SURFACE CONDITION
FOR IBRD PROJECT KABUPATEN GROUPS
Project     Kab      Good/Fair  %       Poor/Bad   %       Earth      %      Total
KR3           73     31,487      44      11,972     17    27,648    39    71,107
KREI          51      14,289     39      4,825      13    17,358    48    36,472
KR5           27      6,400      37      2,040      12     8,916    51    17,356
Total        151     524176       2     18837       15     3,22    43   124.935
Source: DGH 1991, excluding kotamadyas.



- 51 -                               Table 2.6
INDONESIA
FIFTH KABUPATEN ROADS PROJECT
PRoJECT KABUPATENS AND THEIR ROAD NETWORKS
Length of Roads According to Condition        % of total
(kilometers)                        roads in
SEAL   SEAL    GRAVEL GRAVEL                              good/fair
Good/   Poor/    Good/    Poor/   EARTH                   condition
Kabupaten              fair     bad       fair      bad      Total   TOTAL   seal   gravel
Riau:
Indragiri Hulu         162       31       242       177       723     1,335      12     18
Indragiri Hilir          17      23         3         5       313       361      5       1
Kepuluauan Riau        298       29        31        61     1,017     1,435     21       2
Kampar                  125      47       617       238       814     1,841      7      34
Bengkalis               92        4        22         4       687       810      11      3
Total                693      134       915       484    3,553    5,780       12      16
Kalteng:
Kotawaringan Barat     130        5        53         7       474       669      19      8
Kotawaringan Timur       11       0        20         0       490       521      2       4
Kapuas                  46         1       21        68       879     1,014      5       2
Barito Selatan          65        9        14         5       296       379      17      4
Barito Utara            42         1       46        22       197       306      14     15
Total                294       16       153       101    2,325    2,889       10       5
Kalsel:
Tanah Laut              95        9        47        40       285       475     20      10
Kota Baru               63        7        51         5       278       403      16     13
Banjar                  119      16        43         17      222       417     29      10
Barito Kuala            88        0        23         14      296       420     21       5
Tapin                  134        9        60         5       142       350     38      17
Hulu Sei Selatan        95       21       105       135       108       464     20      23
Hulu Sei Tengah         63       41       172        95        47       414      15     42
Hulu Sei Utara          72        8        70        96       182       428      17     16
Tabalung                73        4       251        28       171       527     14      48
Total                801      116       821       434    1,726    3,897       21      21
Kaltim:
Pasir                   71        6       179       130       158       543     13      33
Kutai                   135      53       179       255        71       694     20      26
Berau                   27        4       291        21        85       427      6      68
Bulongan                72        7       147         12      500       737      10     20
Total                304       69       797       417       814    2,400      13      33
Maluku:
M. Tenggara            163       37        60        38       183       481     34      12
M. Tengah              264       95       479        60       102    1,000      26      48
Halmahera Tengah        128       7       157          1       76       369     35      42
M. Utara               211       17       161        13       139       539     39      30
Total                766      156       856       112       499    2,390      32      36
Total KR5 (27)       2,858      491    3,542       1,549    8,916   17,356      16      20



- 52 -                          Table 2.7
INDONESIA
FIFTH KABUPATEN ROADS PROJECT
REGISTERED MOrOR VEHICLES (1980-1990)
Cars &
Year          Pickups            Buses            Trucks              Total
(number of vehicles)
1980           639,464           86,284           473,832          1,199,579
1981           710,937          110,103           575,426          1,396,466
1982           791,019          134,430           657,104          1,582,553
1983           865,940          160,260           713,873          1,740;073
1984           927,148          191,654           790,881          1,909,683
1985           989,158          227,304           845,338          2,061,800
1986          1,063,958         256,574           882,331          2,202,863
1987          1,170,103         303,378           953,694          2,427,175
1988          1,073,106         385,731           892,581          2,351,418
1989          1,182,253         434,903           952,461          2,569,617
1990          1,313,210         468,550          1,024,296         2,806,056
1991                 -                -
Growth Rate (%)
1980/81           11.2             27.6              21.4               16.4
1981/82           11.3             22.1              14.2               13.3
1982/83            9.5             19.2               8.6                9.9
1983/84            7.1             19.6              10.8                9.7
1984/85            6.7             18.6               6.9                8.0
1985/86            7.6             12.9               4.4                6.8
1986/87           10.0             18.2               8.1               10.2
1987/88           -8.3             27.1              -6.4               -3.1
1988/89           10.2             12.7               6.7                9.2
1989/90           11.1              7.7               7.5                9.2
1990/91              -                -
Source:
Biro Pusat Statistics--Figures are based on new vehicle registration (without
adequate allowance for scrappings).



- 53 -                         Table 2.8
INDONESIA
FIFTH KABUPATEN ROADS PROJECT
NUMBER OF REGISTERED MOTOR VEHICLES 1990 BY REGION
Cars &                           Total         Motor
Region/Province        Pick-ups    Buses     Trucks      (4-whl)       cycles
KR5
Riau                     17,854     4,354     19,637     41,845       130,361
C. Kalimantan            2,762        85      5,282       8,129        27,314
E. Kalimantan            17,413     6,452     19,599     43,464        96,943
S. Kalimantan           22,217      1,098     12,872     36,187       118,133
Maluku                   3,006      1,110     5,277       9,393        16,808
Subtotal KR5          63,252    13,099     62,667     139,018      389,559
KREI
N. Sulawesi              18,191     8,702     16,705     43,598        41,649
C. Sulawesi              3,946      1,701     7,847      13,494        43,074
S. Sulawesi             23,473     10,114    38,928      72,515       232,605
S.E. Sulawesi            1,428       701      3,493       5,622        19,819
NTB                      8,266      1,329     11,206     20,801        56,146
NTT                      8,106      3,436     5,623      17,165        32,246
Irian Jaya               7,122      4,127     4,729      15,978        29,226
Subtotal KREI         70,532    30,110     88,531     189,173      454,765
KR3
Sumatra (excl. Riau)    182,601    80,887    227,661    491,149     1,186,949
W. Java                 170,873    49,295    120,610    340,778       405,322
W. Kalimantan           10,209      2,310     9,530      22,049        97,564
Subtotal KR3         363,683    132,492    357,801   853,976      1,790,835
ADB
Central Java            127,330    17,908    123,165    268,403       900,203
East Java               149,940    100,062    158,429   408,431      1,30,182
Yogyakarta              21,529      2,227     13,957     37,713       189,048
Bali                    26,800      2,449    28,265      57,514       232,359
Subtotal ADB         325,599    122,646    323,816   772,061      2,624,792
East Timor               4,300      1,176      1,501      6,977        18,829
Jakarta                485,844    169,027    189,980    844,851       804,186
INDONESIA             1,313,210    468,550  1,024,296   2,806,056   6,082,966
Source: State Police of Indonesia.



- 54 -                          Table 2.9
INDONESIA
FIFTH KABUPATEN ROADS PROJECT
KABUrATEN ROADS BuDGErs, 1993/94
Inpres                   Total expenditure
Province/Region      IPJK     Dati II    Total    per capita     per km /b
Rp bn   Rp bnLa    Rp bn      Rupiah         Rp mn
Riau                   38         11        50      15,137        7.8
C. Kalimantan          30         5         35      25,225       12.3
E. Kalimantan          32         9         41      15,807        9.5
S. Kalimantan          29         7         35      18,715       13.4
Maluku                 23         6         28      17,410       11.2
Subtotal KR5        152        38        189      17,571       10.1
Sulut                  27         9         36      14,429        7.0
Sulteng                23         6         28      16,722        7.2
Sulsel                 55        24         79      11,342        6.2
Sultra                 23         5         28      20,615        5.2
NTB                    22         12        34      10,093       11.7
NTr                    42         11        54      16,379        5.7
Irian Jaya             71         6         77      47,044       32.5
Subtotal KREI       263         73        335      16,142        8.0
Sumatra (excl. Riau)    267      116       383      11,558        7.5
Java/Bali             197        357       555       5,435       10.0
W. Kalimantan          47         11        59      18,109        8.2
Jakarta                 5        28         33       4,013       n.a.
INDONESIA             957       626      1,583       8,841        9.0
La Assumes, for illustrative purposes that Rp 3,500/cap (equivalent to about 70% of total
93/94 allocation) is assigned to roads.
Lb Kabupaten roads including kotamadya roads, as in DGH inventory.



DESIGN STANDARDS FOR KABUPATEN ROADS AND BRIDGES
Road Classification            Class III A             Class III B 1           Class III B2             Class III C
Surface Type               Asphalt Surface          Asphalt Seal               Gravel              Gravel/AWCAS
Traffic Volume: ADT
(rraffic Design Class)           >500                   500-201                  200-50                   < 50
(4)                     (3)                     (2)                     (1)
Flat to        Mount- Flat to          Mount- Flat to           Mount- Flat to          Mount-
Terrain            Rolling  Hilly  ainous  Rolling  Hilly  ainous  Rolling  Hilly  ainous  Rolling  Hilly  ainous
Traffic Lanes           2       2       2      1+      1+      1+      1+      1+       1+       1      1        1
Design    k l/h    Desirable    80      60      40      60       40      30      60      40      30      50      30      25
Speed    (km/hr)  Minimum       50      40      30      40       30     30      40       30      30      30      50      20
Gradient            Maximum      6        8      10       8      10      12       8      10      12       9      12      14
(Limiting)    M     Design       3       6       8       6        8      10       6       8      10       7      10      12
Pavement            Desimable   5.5   5.5    5.5      5.0     5.0    5.0      4.5     4.5     4.5      4.5    4.5      4.5                     i
Width               Minimum    4.5    4.5    4.5      3.5      3.5    3.5     3.5      3.5     3.5     3.0    3.0      3.0
Shoulder            Desirable   2.0    1.5    1.5      1.5    1.25     1.0     1.5     1.0     1.0     1.0     1.0   0.75           0
Width        (M)  Minimum    1.5   1.25    1.25    1.25        1.0    1.0      1.0     1.0     1.0   0.75    0.75    0.75           j
Road Bed            Desirable   9.5   8.5    8.5      8.0     7.0    7.0    7.5       6.5     6.5     6.5     6.5      6.0
Width        (M)  Minimum    7.5      7.0    7.0      6.0     6.0    5.5      5.5     5.5     5.5      4.5    4.5      4.5
Right   (FLOW)  Desirable                 18M                     16M                     16M                     16M               O
of Way              Minimum               16M                     12M                     12M                     12M
Road      *         Pavenent              3 %                     3 %                   4%-6%                   4%-6%
C ~amaximum)   Shoulder                 4%-5%                   5%-6%                   6%-7%                   6%-7%
BR     30M  Target Standard Overall Width  7.OM                  7.OM                    7.OM                    5.5M
ID   < 30M       Without Side Walk (min)  6.OM                   6.OM                    6.OM                    4.5M
GE
ST   > 30M  Target Standard Overall Width  7.OM                  7.OM                    7.OM                    5.5M
AN               VWithout side walk (min)  6.OM                  6.OM                    6.OM                    4.5M
DA   Temporary Bridge (Minimum)          3.OM                    3.0M                    3.OM                    3.OM
RDS  Bridge Design Loading Minimum)     70%BM                   70%BM                   70%BM           70%BM (50% Temporary)
Source: DGH - Technical Guidelines for Engineering Survey and Design of Kabupaten Roads, December 1991.



- 56 -                             Table 4.2
INDONESIA
Ffili KABUPATEN ROADS PROJECT
EQUIPMENT REQuIMENS
Basic Price                  Total
Unit Price    Quantity       Cost
(US$)                      (US$)
(a)   Roadwork Equipment
Bulldozer + Ripper        110 HP       120,000          17      2,040,000
Motor Grader + Sarifier   110HP         85,000         26       2,210,000
Wheel Loader              1.2 m3        65,000         16       1,040,000
3 Wheel Roller            10 Ton        42,000         38       1,596,000
Pedestrian Roller         250 Kg        11,500         16         184,000
Stone Crusher             30 TPH       150,000          18      2,700,000
Dump Trucks               3.5 Ton       22,000         68       1,496,000
Generator                 30 KVA        15,000         26        390,000
Air Compressor            125 CFM       12,000         22        264,000
Radio SSB Equipment       1 set          9,200          6         55,200
Subtotal                                                     11,975,200
Spare parts (15%)                                             1,795,880
Total Roadwork Equipment                                     13.771.080
(b)   Workshop Equipment
Kalteng                                123,500
Kalsel                                 221,985
Kaltim                                  97,900
Riau                                   123,926
Maluku                                 171,476
Total Workshop Equipment & Tools                               738.837
(c)   Laboratory Equipment
Kalteng                                171,420
Kalsel                                 313,596
Kaltim                                 133,826
Riau                                   140,507
Maluku                                 144,401
Total Labaoratory Equipment                                    903.75
(d)   Vehicles
Pick Up 4x2               I Ton         11,000         10         110,000
Motor Cycle               125 CC         1,700         54         91,800
Service Pick Up 4x4       1 Ton         19,000         27        513,000
Total Vehicles (including spare parts)                          822.000
(e)   Distribution Costs (est.)                                      1,114,333
Grand Total                                                  17,350,



INDONESIA
FIFTH KABUPATEN ROADS PROJECT
EXPENDITURE ACCOUNTS BY COMPONENTS
(Rupiah million)
Road Network Improvement               Institutional
Road     Workshops    Equipment          and technical                Physical Contingencies
Works      & Labs       Program           Development    Total          %            Amount
Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
Road Betterment         194,400           -            -                   -      194,400     10.0           19,440
Periodic Maint. Sealed   45,760           -            -                   -      45,760      10.0            4,576
Periodic Maint. Gravel   16,055           -            -                   -       16,055     10.0            1,606
Routine Maintenance      29,160           -            -                   -      29,160      10.0            2,916
Workshops Constsruction       -       1,248            -                   -        1,248     10.0              125
Laboratories Construction     -         185                                -         185      10.0              19
Subtotal                285,375       1,433            -                   -     286,808      10.0           28,681
B. Equipment                      -       3,795       34,501                  0       38,296      10.0            3,830
C. Consulting Services
Capacity Building             -           -            -              14,800       14,800     10.0            1,480
Supervision Tech. Ass.   28,600           -                                -      28,600      10.0            2,860
Subtotal                 28,600           -            -              14,800      43,400      10.0            4,340
D. Vehicles                       -          -         2,038                  -        2,038      10.0             204
Total Baseline Costs        313,975       5,228       36,539              14,800     370,542      10.0           37,054
Physical Contingencies   31,398        523         3,654               1,480       37,054        -
Pnce Contingencies       24,308        270         1,844               1,251       27,673      9.1            2,516
Total Project Costs         369.680        0242036                       17.531      435.269      91             2.516
Taxes                    33,604        547         3,821               1,594       39,566      9.1            3,597
Foreign Exchange        130,692       4,347       38,215               9,415      182,670      9.1           16,606



- 58 -                               Table 4.4
INDONESIA
FIFTH KABUPATEN ROADS PROJECT
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE /a
(US$ million)
IBRD fiscal year                                       Cumulative           Cumulative
and semester                   Disbursements          disbursements         percentage
1995
December 31, 1994                    2                       2                  2
June 30, 1995                       10                      12                 12
1996
December 31, 1995                   10                      22                 22
June 30, 1996                       12                      34                 34
1997
December 31, 1996                   16                      50                 49
June 30, 1997                     16.5                    66.5                 66
1998
December 31, 1997                   15                    81.5                 80
June 30, 1998                       12                    93.5                 92
1999
December 31, 1998                    6                    99.5                 98
June 30, 1999                        2                   101.5                100
/a Assumes loan effectiveness in July 1994.



-59-                                        Table 5.1
INDONESIA
FIFHI KABUPATEN ROADS PROJECT
(a) VEHIcLE OPERATING COSrS
(Excluding Passenger Time Costs)
(Rp/km)
Road Condition              Good                 Fair                 Poor                 Bad
IRI                 3      4      6      8      10    12    15    18    21    25    30    35
Speed (kph)           60    55    50    45    40    35    30    25    20            15    12.5  10
Motorcycle          28.4  30.1  33.7  36.3  41.3  46.4  49.9  57.5  67.7  75.0  80.9  91.1
Pick-up (pass)     174.7  185.4  206.7  220.6  248.9  282.6  309.4  357.1  521.9  485.1  532.5  619.3
Pick-up (freight)  154.8  163.6  181.9  193.4  217.7  246.2  268.5  308.2  362.6  414.0  451.1  527.3
Bus                214.7  233.1  263.1  281.7  320.9  362.9  401.0  454.4  543.9  636.0  693.8  863.5
Light truck        225.3  245.1  278.1  297.9  340.7  388.0  427.6  487.2  582.3  671.5  729.0  886.7
Medium truck       308.2  338.2  389.1  415.9  478.1  545.3  599.0  681.9  811.0  919.3  999.9 1,175.9
Heavy truck        422.4  466.2  536.8  573.3  660.2  750.9  822.6  934.0 1,108.6 1,249.8 1,357.4 1,581.5
Car/jeep           203.0  220.5  252.6  272.0  311.9  361.5  394.8  461.5  545.1  608.7  672.7  721.6
(b) VEHICLE OPERATING COSTS
(Including Passenger Time costs)
(Rp/km)
Motorcycle          33.7  35.8  40.0  43.3  49.2  55.4  60.4  70.1   83.4  96.0  106.1  122.6
Pick-up (pass)     199.2  212.1  236.1  253.2  285.6  324.6  358.4  415.9  495.4  583.1  650.1  766.3
Pick-up (freight)  165.3  175.0  194.5  207.4  233.4  264.2  289.5  333.4  394.1  456.0  501.5  590.3
Bus                279.5  303.7  340.8  368.0  418.1  473.9  530.5  609.8  738.2  895.0 1,004.6 1,252.0
Lighttruck         235.8  256.5  290.7  311.9  356.5  406.0  448.6  512.4  613.8  713.5  779.4  949.7
Medium truck       318.7  349.6  401.7  429.9  493.9  563.3  620.0  707.1  842.5  961.3 1,050.3 1,238.9
Heavy truck        432.9  477.7  549.4  587.3  675.9  768.9  843.6  959.2 1,140.1 1,291.8 1,407.8 1,644.5
Car/jeep           215.3  233.9  267.3  288.4  330.3  382.5  419.3  490.9  581.8  657.7  731.5  795.1



- 60 -                            Table 5.2
INDONESIA
FIFTH KABUPATEN ROADS PROJECT
CHARAcTERISTICS AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF SAMPLE PROJECTS
Province:                      Kalsel  Kalsel  Kalsel   Riau   Kalsel   Kaltim
Kabupaten:                      HSU   T.Laut Banjar  Inhul   Tapin    Kutai
Link No.:                       118      26      12      60       60       111
IRR                            23.5%   15.8%  41.7%   20.8%   45.0%    38.1%
NPV/km  Rp mn                   +58    +23   +134    +64    +230    +133
Surface type/condition
Existing (Poor/Bad)           P.Earth  B.Seal P.Stone P.Gravel P.Earth   P.Seal
Proposed (good)               G.Gravel G.Seal G.Seal  G.Seal  G.Seal   G.Seal
Access constraint               None   None   None   None   None    None
Traffic range
Existing ADT 4-whl vehicle       26       42     74      106      145      333
motorcycles        249     176   538        76      249      314
Population
Length    km                     2.2    12.6   3.2      14.2    11.3      13.0
Costs/km   Rp mn                 71       83     66      104      105       80
Main Sources of Benefits
VOC/pass time savings
- 4-wheel                     20%     33%   37%       74%      55%      72%
- m/cycle                     32%     23%   37%         6%     14%       10%
- non-motorized               19%     15%   17%         9%     13%        1%
Generated                      15%      15%   20%       19%     21%       11%
Sensitivity IRR
Base-case                    23.6%   15.8%  41.7%    20.8%   45.0%    38.1%
Costs  +20%                   19.1%   11.7%  34.7%    16.5%   37.5%    31.3%
Normal VOC - 20%              19.6%   12.0%  33.8%    15.9%   37.4%    31.4%
Exclude time                   7.8%    7.4%  26.2%    17.4%   32.7%    34.0%
Exclude non-motorized         17.0%   11.0%  32.9%    17.9%   37.6%    37.6%
Exclude generated             19.3%   11.0%  33.3%    15.6%   35.3%    33.9%



- 61 -                            Table 5.3
INDONESIA
FIFrH KABUPATEN ROADS PROJECT
ERR SUMMARY
(Rehabilitation Program)
Number of          Length        Average        NPV/km
projects        km       %       ERR           (Rp mn)
Total                       344        2,394      100         20            63
Paved                      239        1,540       64        23            86
Gravel                     111          854       36        14            21
Base ERR Distribution
10-12%                 81          597       25        11             5
13-15%                 60          459       19        14            17
16-20%                 82          577       24        18            45
21-30%                 67          441       18        25            101
31-40%                 28          196        8        35           168
41-50%                 14           69        3        45           208
> 50%                  12           54        2        68           399
Traffic Design Class
(projected 4-wheel veh. ADT)
>500                    5           29        1        29           118
200-500 (heavy)        13           96        4        32            134
200-500 (light)        72          490       20        28            159
50-200 (heavy)         29          224        9        16            24
50-200 (light)        195        1,434       60        16             34
<50                    30          120        5        16            22
Proposed change in surface type
seal      - seal           35          211        9        24            64
gravel    - seal           84          556       23        20            45
stone     - seal           14           70        3        31           120
earth     - seal           80          601       25        25           120
gravel    - gravel         23          110        5        15            19
stone     - gravel         21           94        4        20            30
earth     - gravel         67          649       27        14            20
other                      20          103        4        24           128



INDONESIA
FIFTH KABUPATEN ROADS PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF THE MAINTENANCE PROGRAM
Length of Roads Maintained         Maintenance             Cost      Net            Program Benefits
Routine         Periodic           Program Cost           without   Program  Net VOC Saving
Years   Seal   Gravel   Seal    Gravel Routine  Periodic  Total       Program   Cost   Seal    Gravel  Total   Net
km      km      km       km    Rp mn   Rp mn  Rp mn          Rp mn   Rp mn  Rp mn  Rp mn  Rp mn Rp mn
94/95   1,686    885      340     295     9,773    20,732   30,505    5,415   25,090  14,122   5,860   9,991 -15,099
95/96   2,360  1,240      476     413    12,550    26,619   39,169    7,581    31,588  21,254   8,819  25,027  -6,580
96/97   3,035  1,594      612     531    13,375    28,358   41,734    9,747   31,986  29,376  12,189  35,819   3,833
97/98       -      -        -       -   12,497    26,492   38,990     9,747   29,242  31,579  13,104  43,124  13,882
98/99       -      -        -       -   12,497    26,492   38,990     9,747   29,242  33,947  14,086  46,358  17,116
99/00       -      -        -       -   12,497    26,492   38,990     9,747   29,242  36,493  15,143  49,835  20,593
00/01       -      -        -       -   12,497    26,492   38,990     9,747   29,242  39,230  16,278  53,572  24,330
01/02       -      -        -       -   12,497    26,492   38,990     9,747   29,242  42,173  17,499  57,590  28,348
02/03       -      -        -       -   12,497    26,492   38,990     9,747   29,242  45,336  18,812  61,910  32,668
03/04       -      -        -       -   12,497    26,492   38,990     9,747   29,242  48,736  20,223  66,553  37,311
Notes:
1. Length maintained = (90% of 93/94 needs)                                                 NPV      ERR
2. Equipment/FC1 supervisiom cost assigned to maintenance                                Rp mn
in proportion to civil works value                                        Base-case    69,414    47%
3. Cost without program assumes maintenance covers                          Costs +25%  24,438    20%
only 25% of estimated needs                                               Benefits -25 %   7,084    14%
4. Traffic growth rate: 7.5% per annum
5. VOC savings are lagged by 6 months relative to costs                                                                       cs



-63-                                                   Chart 1
INDONESIA
FIFTH KABUPATEN ROADS
ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE OF CENTRAL AND LOCAL GOVERNMENT
NATIONAL
Lvel 1
PRESIDENT
.Funiuni         l R.St   t PltningeP Ministrt  of                             stot            oPblrryk
Sturu turald (Be pplaatHns.. Af. *ir
| Othor State Board    oc   Ca    Lis                        Nina t try
I                  I 1     
PROVINC IAL                                       CVRO
LoWve                                                                             S  D
| Sp:cial |  | Inspectorge6. |ot       b e ve opsent  Technical   echbn cal
Boarda        |  | SucratFryl   Pl nnn  FBoard       Offices     Depurtznts 
BAPPDA          (DIMAS)        XAMIWL) 
DISrRICT                                           BUPATI                   
Level  I                                                        .. . . . . i .     .... .... ...
I    I        I        I ---~~~~--------i---l-------------- 
|D;velopment |                                      Technic:1         Brnc              SC Tcba
I   lnig    l                       District             Office I    (Cabang          D*rtoic 
|   Bord            npetrt| Scaar                  (DINAS)   h      IDINASJ h            =EP 
( <BAPPEDA )                 j                                       1~  I     
SUBDISTRICT                                     SUBDISTRICT
Level i                                         HEAD (CAH1AT} 
|VILLAGE HEAD|
(It.p.l. Des&) 
.....   unctional Relstionship                                               I Minismoyof Public Works
2: Public Wrke
Structural Relationship                                                3.DPUP
4: Biz& Marta Braneb tDBI{)
5 DPUR
6 Not Applicable in Public Works Deprtimn



INDONESIA
FIFTH KABUPATEN ROADS PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF THE
DIRECTORATE GENERAL OF HIGHWAYS (DGH)
r CETRL GOVERIfT
INllISTER OF PUBLIC
(lalitbang) ~ ~    (Pengaran            (Bn Kaga   G    evslo e
l~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ea Seto                            Adiitain Amnsrto                     rgesCnrl             Amnsrto
WIECORKOSIETO   PDRETRO
Directorte        S                        Rrl  Ditretor  Directr       Director General
of le earch                 Go nr.l of            General of      of Houln  *nd
Pr l  ning            VRd Rte rcRa Highgys                     URoeis en                                                                          t Roaln
(B litb-ug)               *Pngairan)            (Bim   x^          Dovt!toM t
Director |
G ur asl 
E    Gieri al         Per ngnee    Progriingt                  Fin
A        tra e tion  | |   nS*trationl   PrS58Cnrl    Admiint tr tion
Regi=|Kond  2 Region I ||  Region IS          Region ISet  Reogn          Sc Region IS ectt Region           Rad  for
Plaing   |andudgeting  |Eg Aneri  r99g                                               Egineri4g |Erginooritg
X    Ev lu tlon |        |Rgion I   |- -i Rtlon III |  Region II        F|-  -| l  lion   II i| g|   i .io II  |- -Re|     111 tI||$$  @iol   a   o
Sources DGB, A,pril 1994



INDONESIA
FIFTI KABUPATEN ROADS PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF TIHE
DIRECTORArE GENERAI Oi REGIONAL DEVELOPMENr (DGRD)
CENrRAL GoVERNMENT
MINISTER OF PUBLIC
HOME AFFAIRS
Secretary                                     Inspector
General       _     --_   _                   General
D-rctr  enra  Director General      D          General           Director General           Director General of General Admrinistration
of Social &              of Lands             ofVllgDe                     Reo     Devel                       and RegIonal Autonomy (PUOD)
PolItical AffaIrs                        _                                                             L         an
Secretarynofl
Director GeOeral
Docu- ..t       1 tFinae               FGeneral          AdministratIon             Planning
B Repair                              A,fflrs
Director of                                        Director of                                   Director of                              Director of Environment
Regioll l Development                             Regional Development                             Urban Development                                  & Development
Planning   Progra-ming                                      Affairs                                      Affaitr                                       Admi i6tration
Secretariate             Regioa                     Secretariate                              Secretarlate                                       c rtart
r    Econott   | Soci.l E   | Development      |      ack,ard    1                                                  Environiental 
Developracnt    _         Cultural             Corporation          -            &         I         UranUrban.,                              AnalysIs 1               Man Made
P nI ...Ing            Dev't lulni.g                                                                                                          id n |    ~i CrItical AreasJ  PlannIng  PotentIal  Identication  Environent
IEconoic              |Infrastructure              Analyis *                  Remote I                 Urban                Urban                Natural                Development
' D      en                 Planning     |    |Identification                   Bo     Ar            Environment         Infrastructure         Environment             Administration
Sourcer  Minister of Home Affairs' Decree No. 22 of 1986.



INDONESIA
FIFTH KABUPATEN ROADS PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF THE
PROVINCIAL PUBLIC WORKS AGENCIES (DPUP)
HEAD O1 ^ DPUP                                        P
~~~L   L 
IRRIGATION  ~ ~ ~   ~    ~     ~ ~ PRSOADIRIATO
PROGRAMME  IRRIGATION            CONSTRUCTION~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ REGIONTRAL n  EQIIN
L-~~                          E
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
l        1       l        l       l        l                              1   1~~~r  EQUIPMENT
PLANNING                  IRRGTO                       RO<ADS         _       BUILDINGS |          UPISC
SUPPLIES
IRRIGATION                                                 ROA         |IRRIGATION
PROGRAMME                IRIATOQCNTUCIPMf EGINTL&SPLE
ROADS                       RIVERS                  BRIDGE              BUILDINGS                ROADS
__ PROGRAMME                    &                  CONSTRUCTION                &                 EQUIPMENT
SWAMPS                                       HOUSING               & SUPPLIES
BUILDINGS                   OPERATIONS                  ROAD
PROGRAMME                       & NANCEMAINTENANCE                         SANITATION             WORKSHOPS
i       1      |    [ ~~~MAINTENANCE                                i
DESIGN
DESIGN                   & ROAD
INVENTORY
Source:  Minister of Home Affairs Instruction
No. 14 of 1986, Dated 20 October 1986



INDONESIA
FIFTH KABUPATEN ROADS PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF THE
KABUPATEN PUBLIC WORKS AGENCY (DPUK)
HiEAD OF DPUK
ADMINISTRATION
LEGAL          r PERSONNEL     | FINANCE        GENERAL
| PLANNING   [   t            I  I           I  L AFFAIRS
BUILDING                                   F    TOWN AND         r  EQUIFMENT  1
ROADS                    REGULATIONS               SANITATION        1  REGIONAL            I AND SUPPLIES
PLANNING
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Ii
CONSTRUCTION                  BUILDINGS              WATER SUPPLY           TOWN PLANNING          EQUIPMENT
*         RESIDENTIAL             REGIONAL
S | MAINTENANCE   |        |   HOUSING                ENVIRONMENT             PLANNING        '     WORESHOP
_  DESIGN AND                                                                                          SUPPLIES
INVENTORY
Source: Minister of Home Affairs Instruction
No. 14 of 1986. Dated 20 October 1986






IBRD 25538
Tk-MLANO                                                                                                                                                                                     'Ae
IW
Q0 E
S.W. A-l"47
f'!                                                                                                                                                                                          p I Em    `4b'PROJECT
SOUTH
MALAYSIA                                                                                                                                                                                  N THE EASTERN INDONESIA
_jnKa!U3179-IND)
V
IN THE THIRD,
A
IL'     ASINGAPOKE
NrA N
CEAN
4:4
1. DIC
2. JAWA=        ,                                            BEUMNG                                                                                                                                                                      J A T A
L JAWA
DI YOGYAKAUA
>
7.
6-  L  SUMNTERA SELAIM
32. s,                                                              'J q,  A-, -
2%
14. KMIMAWM IAAAT -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         >
S. KUWAMM TENGAH                                                          3                                                           Z
2CSULAV0"SELAlAN--_,,
INDIAN
21.                          0-   (hi. W d.  ii.,JI,                                                                                                                                                                     KLO
2. 11r.
-                           .v h4r=
4" 5
JUARY 1191



