Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20538-IND
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-37320; SCL-3732A; SCPD-3732S)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$101.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FORA
FIFTH KABUPATEN ROADS PROJECT
June 29, 2000
Transport Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
I official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective As of April 1994)
Currency Unit = Rupiah (Rp)
Rp 1 million = US$ 475
US$ 1.00 = Rp2,105
FISCAL YEAR
April 1- March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
Bappenas                     National Development Planning Agency
Bangda                        Provincial, Kabupaten Regional Development Agency
CTC                           Central Technical Consultants
Dati II                       Block Grant on Per Capita Basis
DGH                           Directorate General of Highways
DGRID                         Directorate General of Regional Infrastructure Development
DPUK                          Kabupaten Office of Public Works
FCI                           Field Consultants for Implementation
ICR                          Implementation Completion Reporting
GOI                           Government of Indonesia
EM                           Environmental Assessement
EMS                           Equipment Management System
ERR                           Economic Rate of Retun
Inpres                        Central Government Grant to Local Governments
ISEM                          Institutional Strengthening in Environmental Management
KEWMI                         Kabupaten Equipment and Workshop Management Improvement
KRMTP                         Kabupaten Roads Master Training Plan
KR3,
KREI, KR5                     Bank-fnanced Kabupatern Roads Development Projects
LIWP                          Labor Intensive Works Program
MEIIP                         Monitoring and Evaluating Impacts of Kabupaten Roads on Isolated People
REPELITA                      Indonesian Five Year Development Plan
SAR                           Staff Appraisal Report
SPEMPC                        Strengthening Provincial Environmental and Management and Planning
Capability
Vice President:   Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
Country Manager/Director:    Mark Baird, EACID
Sector Manager/Director:    Jitendra N. Bajpai, EASTR
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Hatim M. Hajj, EASTR



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                        1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       2
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                 5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 12
6. Sustainability                                                                     13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                      15
8. Lessons Learned                                                                    16
9. Partner Comments                                                                   19
10. Additional Information                                                            19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  22
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  31
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  34
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  36
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                     37
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 3 8
Annex 8.Borrower's Contribution                                                       40
This document has a restricted distribution  and may be used by recipients only  in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P004020                                        Project Name: KABUPATEN ROADS V
Team Leader: Hatim M. Hajj                                 TL Unit. EASTR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                         Report Date: July 5, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: KABUPATEN ROADS V                               L/C/TF Number: CPL-37320;
SCL-3732A;
SCPD-3732S
Country/Department: INDONESIA                                             Region: East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/subsector: TR - Rural Roads
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD.  04/01/93                                 Effective.  08/29/94           08/01/94
Appraisal:  07/29/93                                   MTR: 04/01/96               04/19/96
Approval:  05/17/94                                 Closing: 06/30/99             12/31/99
Borrower/Implementing Agency:  Kabupaten Office of Public Works (DPUK), Provincial Office of Public Works
(DPUP), Directorate General of Highways (DGH), Ministry of Public Works
(MPW), Ministry of Home Affairs (MNHA), Ministry of Finance (MOF), National
Development Planning Agency (BAPPENAS)/MIMSTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS -
DIRECTORATE GENERAL OF HIGHWAYS
Other Partners:  International Labor Organization (ILO), USAID
STAFF                 Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jemal-ud-din Kassum                         Gautam Kaji
Country Manager:      Mark Baird                                 Marianne Haug
Sector Manager:       Jitendra N. Bajpai                         Anupam Khanna
Team Leader at ICR:   Hatim M. Hajj                              Emmanuel Jarnes
ICR Primary Author.   Ephrem Asebe; Hatim M. Hajj
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                         S
Project at Risk at Any Time. No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
3.1.1. The main objectives of the project as stated in the SAR (Report No. 12671-IND, April 19,
1994) were to: (a) improve access and particularly quality of road to the main economic centers
for the agriculture-dependent rural population in the 27 project Kabupatens, located in Riau,
Maluku, and Central, East and South Kalimantan; and (b) enhance the capability of GOI agencies
that manage the development of Kabupaten roads.
3.1.2. The project was the fifth in a series of rural road projects the Bank financed in Indonesia
starting in the early 1980s. The project objectives were clear and realistic, initially dealing with
only 27 Kabupatens compared to 73 Kabupatens for the Third and to 51 Kabupatens for Eastern
Indonesia (Fourth) Kabupaten Roads Project. The two main project objectives were also
mutually reinforcing. To improve the quality of the civil work on a sustainable basis, the project
enhanced staff capability, institutional arrangements and capacity for planning and implementation
of the Kabupaten road programs. To minimize the risks related to the implementation of the
planning procedures, timely funding of road maintenance, and the quality of works, project
implementation responsibility was assigned to the Kabupatens whereas the coordination role was
retained by the central agencies. Accordingly, the project was somewhat complex and demanding
for the implementing agencies, involving the coordination of a wide range of institutions,
stakeholders, policies, and loan covenants for implementation arrangements in these Kabupatens.
The project objectives were important to the country's regional development strategy, which
aimed at promoting economic and social integration of the outlying regions as outlined in the
Government's five-year development plan (REPELITA VI). The project objectives were also in
line with the Bank's objective of poverty alleviation as specified in the country CAS (April 1994).
The CAS supported development in the sub-sector with focus on reducing poverty through
improved access; more efficient use of GOI's budget allocated to Kabupaten roads and
strengthened technical and institutional capacity particularly where subsector was lacking local
capacity.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The main objectives of the project are: (i) to improve the quality and capacity of the road
networks in selected Kabupatens on a sustainable basis; (ii) to enhance the capabilities of GOI
agencies that manage the development of Kabupaten roads, and (iii) help reduce poverty through
implementation of labor intensive works for routine and periodic maintenance of roads.
Implementation of the project would provide improved rural access to the main economic centers
in the 27 Kabupatens located in Riau, Maluku, and Central, East and South Kalimantan Provinces.
3.3 Original Components:
3.3.1. As stated in the SAR, the two major components were: (a) a road network improvement
component comprising: (i) routine and periodic maintenance of the Kabupaten road network as
well as rehabilitation/improvement of selected roads in the 27 project-assisted Kabupatens over
three GOI fiscal years starting in 1994/1995; (ii) construction of, and equipment for, workshops
and laboratories; (iii) provision of equipment, spare parts, and supplies; and (iv) supervision of
works; and (b) technical assistance and studies for strengthening systems and procedures for
- 2 -



planning, environmental analysis, implementation of Kabupaten road works, and helping GOI
central agencies in monitoring project execution.
3.3.2. The Project is the last in the series of Bank financed rural roads projects. What is
interesting about the design of the Kabupaten roads program series with respect to the
institutional aspect is that the issues raised in each project do not overlap but compliment the
nationwide Kabupaten road sub-sector program. For example, the Fifth Kabupaten Roads Project
(KR5) focused on: Kabupaten Equipment and Workshop Management Improvement (KEWMI)
and Strengthening Provincial Environmental Management and Planning Capability (SPEMPC).
On the other hand, the East Indonesia (Fourth) Kabupaten Roads Project (KREI) focused on
Institutional Strengthening of Environmental Management (ISEM) and Monitoring, Evaluating
Impacts of Kabupaten Roads on Isolated People (MEIPP) and in the use of improved technology
such as bitumen emulsion, natural asphalt and soil stabilization. The Third Kabupaten Roads
Project (KR3) and the previous two Rural Roads Projects, undertook systematic technical studies
in planning, survey, evaluation, prioritization, design, technical audit and monitoring; and use of
new technologies such as bitumen emulsions, and development of Kabupaten Master Training
Plan. Loan covenants were designed to reinforce quality assurance and resource allocation
aspects where lessons of experience had shown these two to be major areas of concern for
sustainability of Indonesian Kabupaten road networks. Building administrative and financial
capacities were given particular attention in the projects as successful implementation required the
coordination of several agencies at central, provincial, and Kabupaten levels of government.
3.4 Revised Components:
The major change in project components was the use of savings under the Project for Labor
Intensive Works Program (LIWP). The loan was amended after considerable delays on February
23, 1999 to fund about 3,000 km of routine maintenance and the rehabilitation of about 1,500 km
of roads using labor intensive methods. The aggregate amount allocated to routine maintenance
was equivalent to US$8,200,000. The change in the method of construction was to increase the
labor content of civil works while striving to maintain as far as possible the quality of the works
and improving access to the main economic centers for the agriculture dependent rural population
in the project Kabupatens.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
3.5.1. Quality Assurance Group (QAG) review was not available at the time of preparation of
this project. The ICR assesses quality at entry as satisfactory. The project objectives were
consistent with the overall Bank goal of poverty reduction. The CAS (April 24, 1994) supported
institutional capacity building and efficient use of resources in the sub-sector, while giving high
priority to road maintenance and sustainable improvement. The Project objective was also
consistent with the GOI's REPELITA VI, which gave special attention to regional development.
The quality of the project design was sound. The risk assessment, short of foreseeing the financial
crisis, was realistic. The main anticipated risks were related to implementation of the planning
procedures, the funding of the maintenance and the quality of works. To mitigate the risks due to
inadequate funds, agreements were reached with Bappenas to play a strong coordinating role and
to the use of Inpres funds. Maintenance targets were carefully designed starting with 50% of the
- 3 -



maintainable roads in the first year of effectiveness, 70% in the second year and 90% in the third
year of the program. Lower targets of 35%, 50% and 65% were set for Kabupatens that had to
spend more than 30% of their Inpres Dati II and BPJD II funds for road maintenance. Also,
adequacy of maintenance by each Kabupaten was made a condition of its participation in the
Project's subsequent annual rehabilitation/ improvement programs. The risks related to quality of
works was to be reduced by extensive technical assistance for implementation support provided
under the project.
3.5.2. The original project design focussed on inputs and processes as the main risks in achieving
project objectives and consequently the selected performance indicators were related to:
implementation of the planning procedures, the funding of the maintenance and the quality of
works. Starting, in October 1998, a retrofitting exercise was carried out and the new
performance indicators were aligned more closely with the project objectives in a way that
facilitates evaluation of final project outcome and impact. The project risk assessment was right
on target. It saw the risks to be related to implementation of the planning procedures and the
funding of maintenance. Expectation of the traffic growth during the period of implementation
was realistic until the situation radically changed due to the economic crisis.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
4.1.1. Overall Assessment. The project outcome/achievement/ is assessed as satisfactory. The
project has substantially achieved both development objectives within budget and with an
extension of only six months. The six month extension was primarily due to undertaking Labor
Intensive Works Program (LIWP) financed from project savings. The LIWP had positive impacts
through employment generation and support to local contractors, thereby, mitigating the impact
of the economic crisis on the working poor. Substantial economic benefits have been achieved
under the project from the investment in civil works. Travel time and other traffic costs have
significantly decreased. The expected economic benefit of the investment in road betterment in
terms of net present value is positive (Annex 3), even at the lower traffic growth rate of 4% which
is significantly lower than the appraisal estimate of 7.5% per annum. On the institutional front,
Kabupaten planning guidelines are now being used in projects not funded by the Bank. Although,
staff retention is poor due to weak incentives, staff had formal extensive on-the-job training and
exposure to quality works. Equipment management system have been introduced. In the case of
workshops for equipment maintenance Unit Swadana (self-management unit) and economic hire
rates have been pilot tested. Environmental guidelines have been further developed. The project,
is therefore, likely to achieve substantial development results, provided, the economy continues to
recover from the impact of the economic crisis and the Government allocates adequate funds for
road maintenance and undertakes follow-on activities on the institutional front.
4.2 Outputs by components:
A.   Physical Component
4.2.1. Overall Assessment. Overall achievement of outputs of the physical components is
assessed as satisfactory, as evidenced in Table 1.
- 4-



4.2.2. Road Improvement. (Table 1). Although the quality of construction has remained
problematic, achievement of improved access to main economic centers, measured in terms of
meeting physical targets, was highly satisfactory. 1,810 km of roads were rehabilitated in the 27
Kabupatens between 1994 and 1999. The physical output exceeded the appraisal target of 1620
km. The above also include 108 km road rehabilitated in ex-USAID Kabupatens. Further,
another 720 km of betterment works were undertaken in Kabupatens in West and Central Java
Provinces. However, the target for LIWP betterment works was less than targeted.
4.2.3. Maintenance (Table 1). With respect to routine and periodic maintenance, the targets for
the first, second and third year were 50%, 70% and 90% of maintainable road network
respectively. As evidenced from Table 1, in the first two years achievements were below targets
and substantially on target in subsequent years. Also, the "maintenance first policy" of Kabupaten
road program was substantially enforced during implementation. Moreover, under LIWP an
additional 3,232 km of Kabupaten roads received maintenance in Central and West Java
provinces in line with the maintenance policy. The maintenance result was 8% above the target.
4.2.4. Road Network Improvement (Tables 1 and 2, and Annex 1: Table 1). As a result of the
physical achievements noted above, the overall condition of the road network has significantly
changed in absolute terms. The road in good and fair condition has increased from 237 km per
Kabupaten in 1991 to 290 km per Kabupaten by 1999, an increase of 22% or 2.5% per annum.
The average road length per Kabupaten increased from 643 km in 1991 to 1,071 km in 1999, an
overall increase of 67% or annual average rate of growth of 6.6%. This indicates that the overall
road network improvement under the project was significantly small compared to the total
addition to the KR5 roads network.
Table 1: Road Network Improvement and Maintenance Targets & Achievement
Year                        Maintenance                     Rehabilitation/
Betterment
SAR Target            Achievement      SAR   Achieveme
Target nt (km)
s (km!i
% of     Equivalent Total Periodic Routin
Maintainable   to km    (km)   (km)  e (km)
Network 6,400
km
1994/95        50            3,200  3.101    794  2.307                510
1995/96        70            4,480  4,172     866  3,306               572
1996/97        90            5.760  8.037   1.580* 6.457*             705*
1997/98                             2,227    463  1,764                221
1998/99                             1.535    .535     0                  0
1994/99**                                                 1 620_ _    1.810
LIWP                         3,000  3,232       -  3,232  1,500        720
(98/99)
*Includes woks in ex-USAID Kabupatens in NTr and South Sulawesi  **Total achieved between 1994 and 1999
Sources: Final Report April 22,1999, DHV Consultants BV. and GOI.
- 5 -



4.2.5. Labor Intensive Works Program. (Table 2). The extensive LIWP is the element that
distinguishes KREI and KR5 from previous rural roads projects financed by the Bank. Under
KR5, the Kabupaten roads benefited from the government policies and actions which supported
works with a high labor content. The works provided employment opportunities in areas that
were hit hard by the economic crisis. The guidelines for utilization of the savings from the project
for financing LIWP were: (a) a minimum labor content of 70% for routine maintenance and 30%
for periodic maintenance, and (b) a program comprising at least 3 km under routine maintenance
for every 1 km under rehabilitation/betterTnent. These targets clearly were over optimistic,
particularly, given the significant depreciation of the Rupiah which tended to reduce the relative
share of the domestic input costs to the total construction cost.
Table 2: Labor Intensive Program Achievement
Province                      Contracts (Rp. Million)
(No. of
kabupatens        Rout neMainterance      Better entIrehabi itation
participating   Cost    Labor    Km       Cost   Labor    Km
road                   share %                   share %
maintenance)
West Java (20)   12,653   29.6%    2.138  13.436   28.4%.  269.5
Central Java (29)    10,786   22.1%  1,094  19,840   20.1%    464.1
Total            23.439   26.1%    3.232  33,276   23.5%    733.6
4.2.6. Overall, LIWP performance in terms of the physical targets was highly satisfactory.
About 4.4 km of roads were maintained for every 1 km of road rehabilitated which exceeds the
set minimum of 3.0. However, in terms of the labor content, estimated as percentage of labor
cost to the total contract price, achievement was below expectation. The average labor share for
routine maintenance was 26.1%. In none of the 49 Kabupatens did labor share of total subproject
construction cost exceeded 70% and in only 5 Kabupatens labor cost share was over 40%. For
rehabilitation subprojects, one Kabupaten attained a labor content of over 70%. The average was
23.5% and only 4 Kabupatens attained an average labor content of over 40% of the total contract
pnce.
4.2.7. Under LIWP, the cost of routine maintenance averaged about Rp 7.3 million per km while
rehabilitation averaged Rp 46.2 million per km. This average unit cost of routine maintenance is
almost constant in US Dollar terms but is about 33% higher in real terms (with inflation of about
120%) than before the crisis (Rp. 3 million/kin) - under LIWP. This was due to the higher
content of expensive tasks such as masonry work and pavement patching which tended to be
neglected under previous works. The average cost of gravel road rehabilitation was almost
constant in real terms but decreased by about 40% in US Dollar terms. Such cost reductions
resulted from some reductions in construction standards and materials but these are not
recommended for general Kabupaten use. Under LIWP, kabupatens chose a minimum cover of
gravel which usually consisted of local river gravel (sirtu) that remained at the same nominal cost
between 1997 and 1999. The non-LIWP works generally involved use of two layers of crushed
aggregate basecourse which is more expensive than sirtu but has superior performance.
- 6 -



B.   Institutional Component
4.2.8. Overall Assessment. (Annex 1 :Table 1). The institutional components were directed
primarily towards improving the quality of the road networks; and achievements of outputs of
institutional component are assessed as substantial as measured by the performance indicators
noted below.
4.2.9. Kabupaten Roads Programs Planning. The outputs were measured in terms of a
retrofitted composite performance indicator. The final version of this indicator consisted of five
factors - continuity ofplanning staff, analytical capability, utilization of data in program,
planning study coverage, and use of the planning area concept. Retrofitted performance
measures of GOI agencies, showed that significant progress has been made - from a base of 50%
(1994) to 52% (1997) and 80% (1999). Kabupaten roads program planning, engineering,
maintenance and environmental guidelines for Kabupaten roads developed under the Kabupaten
program to improve the technical environment for planning and implementation are now being
extended to cover roads funded from other sources than IBRD. The frequent staff rotation due to
low salaries of the civil servants has impeded the expected improvement in the capability of the
staff which in tun adversely affected the expected improvement in the quality of the road
network. Nevertheless, as objectively reflected by the increase in the composite performance
indicator noted above, the institutional component had made positive impact on the quality of the
road network as a whole.
4.2.10. Kabupaten Roads Economic Evaluation Model (KREEM). Under KR5 the presentational
aspect of KREEM has been further developed. Extensive new data has been gathered on
pavement deterioration. The roads cost data and benefits data have been updated for preparation
of the 1997/98 planning look-up tables for use throughout the country. Also, the model was used
to re-evaluate the economic benefits for this ICR, using the traffic count done in 1996.
Training
4.2.11. Training. Some progress in building the capability of the staff involved in the Kabupaten
roads sub-sector at all levels has been achieved through training consultants, field
implementation consultants and the central technical consultants on institutional development.
Advance training was provided on Standard Planning Guidelines and Procedures (SK77/90)
through formal courses starting in 1991 and through field planning advisors beginning in 1995 by
way of on-the-job training of Kabupaten planning teams. Also, training was provided under the
Kabupaten Roads Master Training Plan (KRMTP) covering construction, maintenance,
management and equipment. The KRMTP addressed training for stakeholders, trainers, project
management and supervision staff. In addition, seminars and courses were provided under the
Rural Roads Maintenance System (RRMS) by the Provincial Regional Development Agency
(bangda) in South Sulawesi, DPUK (centrally run) Provincial Training Program implemented
nationwide, and ILO Training Program in West Java. On-the-job training was available for both
central and Kabupaten government staff. Opportunities also existed for government staff to gain
experience, participation in technical studies and supervisions. However, such opportunities were
-7 -



not fully utilized, partly due to the heavy executive and administrative burden placed on many
government staff.
Improved Technical Environment for Kabupaten Roads program
4.2.12. Quality of Construction and Maintenance. Overall there is no conclusive evidence
regarding improvement in the quality of construction and maintenance, as measured in terms of
the implementation performance index as a percentage of works completed by 31 December of
the previous year. Quality of road construction and maintenance showed significant improvement
for some Kabupatens, no improvement for others and even reversal for still others. Such
outcomes are attributed primarily to the lack of timely availability of budget, late contract
administration, lack of urgency on the need for much better efficiency in the face of the shrinking
budget situation and low staff salaries.
4.2.13. Throughout project implementation, quality of construction of Kabupaten roads was a
serious problem. A technical audit of road quality undertaken in 1997 based on five sub-projects
of KR5 confirmed that quality was indeed a serious problem. Deficiencies were found in
thickness, quality of pavement materials, and also in bitumen content. However, while it is
evident that progress has been slow in achieving quality in accordance with designs and
specifications, the impact of poor construction quality on pavement life has not been conclusive.
It is not clear whether the significant improvement gained in the stable road network under the
project can be attributed to the project requirement for more mechanized construction through the
use of class A contractors and/or to not permitting the use of force account construction except
for routine maintenance or the lower-standard LIW betterment works. However, it is known that
Class A contractors, which normally deploy significant equipment, invariably produced better
quality works in certain activities than class C contractors which do not deploy significant
equipment. For example, hot mixed asphalt surfacing provided higher quality than penetration
macadam pavement produced mainly by manual methods.
4.2.14. Quality of civil works is likely to be a central problem in Kabupaten roads. Under
Keppres 16/94, the government allowed class C, small contractors, to carry out much of the
Kabupaten works until then reserved under the Kabupaten road program Class A contractors.
Also, for various reasons, Kabupatens prefer class C contractors. Small contractors are assumed
to enhance the planning and implementation capacity of GOI agencies in charge of Kabupaten
roads. The use of small contractor is likely to grow particularly with the decentralization of and
development of regional autonomy at Kabupaten level. Also, small contractors are preferred for
their impact on poverty due to the potential increase in the labor content of construction works.
It is also argued that class C contractors actually end-up doing most of the Kabupaten road works
because class A contractors often end-up subcontracting to class C contractors. Both classes of
contractors should be able to produce the required quality of works for which they are qualified if
the works are well supervised. Class C contractors generally lack equipment for asphalt works
and should not be used on such works. Class A contractors should be capable to do the work for
which Class C contractors are qualified. But the opposite may not be true. However, where both
classes of contractors are qualified and have the resources (including access to equipment) to
carry out the works, technical audits can be carried out to compare the quality of outputs at a
- 8 -



given point in time and at various points in time. It should be pointed out that in the Indonesia
context, labor content is more a function of the type of work than class of contractor, being
generally higher for routine maintenance and lower for asphalt concrete works.
4.2.15. Overall, progress in this area has not been established conclusively. Post-construction
monitoring (PCM) methodology was used to compare the long-term trends in Kabupaten road
surface condition with and without the improved technologies, and to develop an indicator of
performance from the trends. The evaluation was done by re-surveying links which had been
constructed in the early years of the Project, and comparing their condition with links from the
PCM series which had been constructed with traditional technologies. Under the project such
surveys were conducted during 1993-1997, but dropped off since the partial demobilization of the
Field Implementation Consultants in 1998. Analysis of the records of maintenance and
construction works during the intervening period showed that the observations were not sufficient
to enable definitive conclusions to be drawn as to whether the improved technologies were
effective. Since the survey is of a simple engineering nature, it can be carried out by provincial
staff following the standard guideline provided. It is therefore recommended that the surveys be
repeated in 2000, 2001, and 2002 (full impact year) to reach a definitive conclusion.
Equipment
4.2.16. Workshops and Laboratories. Investment in workshop and laboratory equipment were
effectively made centrally by the Director General of Highways (DGH); and equipment were
transferred to the Kabupatens as per loan covenant for KR3. The process of transfer of
ownership of road equipment from the Bina Marga to the provinces and finally to the Kabupatens
was completed in 1998, following a Joint Decree issued by the Ministry of Public Works and the
Ministry of Home Affairs, authorized by the Ministry of Finance. The project provided
mechanical engineering services in the field to train and mitigate the shortage of experienced
mechanics and operators in the Kabupatens. In addition to the transfer of ownership and technical
assistance, initiatives (as noted in para.4.2.17 and 4.2.18) were taken to assure the long-term
sustainability of the equipment which was managed by DGH/Directorate General of Regional
Development (DGRD) funded from the project.
4.2.17. Kabupaten Equipment and Workshops Management Improvement (KEWMI). This was a
two-phased pilot study designed to assure long-terTn sustainability of workshop management. In
Phase one an improved institutional framework for managing equipment and workshops was
developed. This included: (a) a simplified and an improved equipment management system
(EMS) manual; (b) a management information system especially for the Kabupaten equipment
sector; and (c) the selection and preparation of viable plant hire units (Unit Swadana workshops).
Phase II focused on maximum utilization of existing KEW by way of upgrading the management
system in the regions through (a) EMS evaluation and upgrading by direct application in
workshops; and (b) recommendations on how to maximize the effective utilization of Kabupaten
equipment and workshops' assets through appropriate forms of organization (regional technical
implementation units; Unit Swadana; and cooperation with the private sector) and the
introduction of economic hire rates.
-9-



4.2.18. Unit Swadana. Unit swadana is a form of self-management unit of government owned
assets short of privatization. Unit swadana was applied to Kabupaten equipment and workshops.
Although the underlying concept of unit swadana was logically acceptable, it had not received
wide support. Progress in establishing unit swadana had been slow. A total of 18 Kabupatens
participated in the experiment of which 10 opted to establish unit swadana. By June 1999, there
were only two Kabupatens which established unit swadana. The introduction of equipment hire
rates did not find much support by Kabupatens for various reasons including anticipated increase
of equipment hire rates on 'economically weak local contractors'. As a result, the expected
revenue from equipment hire remained inadequate to cover equipment maintenance. At project
closing, the issue of efficient and effective management of Kabupaten equipment and workshops
has not been fully addressed. But the issue has assumed even greater importance in light of the
new responsibilities and powers given to Kabupatens under the Regional Autonomy Act 22/1999,
and the general shortage of GOI funds for acquisition or replacements of aged equipment.
Environment
4.2.19. Environmental Aspects. Adequate attention was paid to environmental impacts in the
implementation of kabupaten roads works. All roads in KR5 areas were first level screened and
the road inventory database updated accordingly. Under the project, earlier guidelines were
fuirther developed and re-issued with recommendation for future updating once every five years.
Roads selected for IBRD assistance were second level screened with field visits where necessary.
The planning and engineering guidelines provided systematic guidelines for environmental
screening and protection respectively. Both SPEMPC and ISEM, the later funded under KREI,
provided further guidance particularly for strengthening of management and environmental
procedures.
4.2.20. Strengthening Provincial Environmental Management and Planning Capability/SPEMPC.
The focus of SPEMPC was to provide an environmentally oriented management system through
coordination and participation. Specifically, the sub-project produced draft guidelines to
strengthen and empower the provincial institutions, organizations and government human
resources and the communities in the management of the Kabupaten roads, river basin, regional
and spatial development projects. Due to time constraints, the draft guidelines developed under
SPEMPC were not tested in the pilot provinces. Seminars held in Aceh, South East Sulawesi
(Kendari) and West Java not only stimulated interest in environmental management but also raised
enthusiasm for implementation of SPEMPC outputs. The importance of SPEMPC is enhanced by
the new government proclamation which transfers tasks and duties including managing public
works, health, education and culture, agriculture, communications, industry and trade, capital
investment, environment, land use, cooperatives and manpower development, from the sectoral
ministries to the districts/municipal technical agencies, most of which have not been well prepared
to carry out the new responsibilities.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
4.3.1. Overall, the economic benefit of the project is positive (Annex 3). The weighted
aggregate net present value, at 10% discount rate, was estimated to be Rp 353.3 million per km.
The economic rate of return for the civil works is estimated to average 30%. The result was
based on a sample of 27 rehabilitated roads using the Kabupaten Roads Economic Evaluation
- 10-



Model (KREEM). On link by link basis, the evaluation results indicate that road links in 16
Kabupatens have positive net present values, while the remaining 11 Kabupatens have negative
NPV/km. In re-estimating the benefits, the 7.5% annual rate of growth of traffic assumed at
appraisal was considered unattainable because of the impact of the economic crisis. Instead an
annual traffic growth rate of 4% was assumed as reasonable. No systematic annual traffic data
has been collected since 1996. The re-estimated NPV/km figures also include the benefits due to
motorcycle traffic on the road links. The road roughness was assumed to have improved from
IRI=30 without to IRI=10 with the project.
4.3.2. The KREEM model at its present stage of development has some significant limitation.
It does not allow changes in the traffic growth rate except at ten year interval. This makes
sensitivity analysis difficult for traffic growth rates at smaller interval than ten-year. Sensitivity
analysis would have required extensive revision of the model. It is safe to conclude however, that
as the economy recovers, traffic is likely to show growth and the expected benefits would be
much higher than indicated above.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable
4.5 Institutional development impact:
4.5.1. As documented above, the project has positively impacted institutional development.
Through the carefully monitored supervision of civil works by field consultants for
implementation, projected related staff and contractors had the opportunity to experience
instances of quality works. Formal and on-the-job training have been provided under the Project
although not adequately. The labor intensive works helped sustain the existing infrastructure
during the economic crisis while supporting poverty alleviation. More Kabupaten staff have been
exposed to planning and engineering guidelines and procedures than before. Private sector
participation in the provision of infrastructure services has started taking roots in rural Indonesia.
The principle of operating Kabupaten owned equipment on hire basis has been demonstrated in
the unit swadana. Foundations are laid under KEWMI pilot programn for duplication in each
Kabupaten workshop. However, much effort would be needed to sell the idea of the new
equipment management system to the district heads (Bupatis). The study for Strengthening
Provincial Environmental Management and Planning Capabilities has been prepared and received
wide acceptance. It is recommended that SPEMPC be further extended and applied through
follow-on regional projects.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
5.1.1. The Economic Crisis. The economic crisis of East Asia was the major factor affecting
project implementation. In the last two years of project implementation (1998 andl999), the
crisis led to agreements between the Bank and GOI to utilize the project savings for financing
labor intensive works program (LIWP) to enhance sustainability of the roads and generate
employment as well as preserve small and medium contractors.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
5.2.1. Timing of Release of Funds. The government was not generally able to submit annual
- 1 1 -



work programs to the Bank for approval by December 31 of the preceding Fiscal Year. Often,
the annual programs and budgets were not finalized until June/July, when the budgets were fully
approved by Kabupaten authorities. This made impossible the early start of civil works.
Attempts to establish multi-year contracts or to relax the cutoff of funds at the end of the fiscal
year, by say 3 months, were sought but no systemic progress was achieved in these areas, either.
The lack of progress here has adversely affected the quality of the civil works done during the
rainy season.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
5.3.1 Poor Management of Equipment. Over the years each Kabupaten had constructed its own
workshops and also procured the necessary heavy equipment for road works, usually through
foreign aid and loans. KEWMI was launched, but the goal of establishing viable EMS and
especially, plant hire units within Unit Swadana has not progressed as anticipated. The principal
factor was that the necessary support from most kabupatens chiefs had not been forthcoming.
Meanwhile, poor management of the equipment and workshops contributed to delays in
implementation of the civil works program and to non-sustainable use of existing equipment.
5.3.2. Mobility of Trained Staff. Transfer of key staff within the government has deprived some
Kabupatens of their critical personnel. This has adversely affected the Kabupatens which lost
such trained and experienced staff.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
5.4.1. Cost and Financing. (Annex 2: Tables 2a.1 to 6). In terms of US dollar, the project was
completed within the baseline cost, that is excluding the contingency costs. The total
actual/estimated/project cost is US$176.7 million compared to appraisal estimate of US$206.8
million. In terms of Rupiah, the actual cost of the project was Rp 597,330 million (equivalent to
US$176.7 million) compared to the appraisal estimate of Rp 435,269 million (equivalent to
US$206.8 million). This is mainly due to the depreciation in the value of the Indonesian Rupiah
relative to the US dollar. Between project effectiveness in August 1994 and March 1997, the end
of FY 1996/97, the Rupiah has steadily depreciated relative to the US dollar by a total of about
15%. This was followed by a sharp depreciation during the financial and economic crises. Other
contributing factors to the significant variations between appraisal and actual costs include
increased productivity and lower costs in the construction industry because of increased
competitive bidding and the lower than market hire rates for Kabupaten owned equipment used by
contractors in the construction and maintenance of roads.
5.4.2. Disbursement. The Bank's contribution was to be $101.5 million but only 93% or
US$94.2 million was disbursed. The remaining amount (about US$7.3 million) of the loan was
cancelled. On the other hand the government contributed US$82.6 million or 78% of the
appraisal estimate of US$105.3 million. However, in terms of current prices of Rupiah, the
government contribution was significantly higher (26%) than estimated at appraisal.
- 12 -



6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
6.1.1. The sustainability of the project must be viewed from two aspects, first in the context of
the stable political and economic environment that prevailed during most of the period of
implementation, and second in the context of the future in the vastly different environment
following the financial crisis, democratization and pending decentralization. First, in the stable
environment pertaining during the Project, the sustainability of the outcomes and outputs is
assessed, on balance, as likely. The maintenance strategy was clearly established in the central
process of resource allocation and the ownership of it by the Kabupatens was generally high,
though uneven. Likewise, the planning procedures, monitoring of assets and environmental
screening of investments were applied effectively during the Project, but the performance of up to
a half of Kabupatens had begun to decline over the latter years of the Project when these were not
directly facilitated and enforced. The provincial-level units intended to provide longer-term
support on these matters were not formalized. Within a national framework designed to support
the 1997 plans for decentralization, an appropriate monitoring system was being introduced by
DGH which was intended to assure sustainability of the strategy and procedures - however, this
did not include the incentives which had proved effective. Under that regime, this was certainly
likely to achieve some sustainability, at least in a majority of Kabupatens and significantly superior
compared with prior to the 5-Kabupaten Roads Project Program, but it would have required overt
commitment by the agencies involved. In regard to quality of implementation, the level of
achievement was modest. The labor-intensive approach piloted under KREI proved a timely basis
for the LIWP when the crisis struck, but had not been embraced by DGH earlier and was
implemented only in a very modified form. The overall level of resource allocation had not been
raised commensurately to make substantial progress in improving the condition of the network as
it was steadily expanded through reclassification of lower roads, but the tools for balancing the
sector needs with regional development needs had been accepted by the end of the Project and
now form the basis for on-going dialogue which is helping shape the next 5-year plan. Ultimately,
a more self-sustaining mechanism for funding the sector needs to be established to reduce the
reliance on central transfers.
6.1.2. The sustainability in the future under the still evolving decentralization and restructuring of
the economy must be assessed as uncertain since much is unknown. The division and
empowerment of Kabupatens in smaller units (from 243 to about 450) and the removal of
constraints on the block grant transfers may, in the short-term, affect staff performance, further
reduce efficiencies of scale, and imply greater local responsibilities for planning, resource use and
technology. The severe real reductions of 20-40% in the national budget since the crisis are likely
to prevail for a few years and, in this scenario, the road assets are likely to deteriorate even when
maintenance is given priority. Gol have already demonstrated priority for maintenance in the
FY2000 budget. Sustainability of the benefit from the institutional component would depend on
the implementation of appropriate civil service reform and related incentives and their impact on
retention of trained and experienced staff. The equipment management system introduced under
KEWMI has yet to take roots. In the medium-term, however, the procedures and systems
established under the Project and the Fifth Kabupaten Roads Project Program will form a basis
which can be adapted and applied to whatever new structure evolves. Under this external shock,
- 13 -



therefore, the sustainability can only be partial because many parts will need to be adapted to the
new context. This second context is thus not an appropriate basis for assessing sustainability.
The Project rating is therefore based on the medium- to long-term context, and assessed as
"Likely".
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
6.2.1. The loan period was extended by six months to generate employment and sustain the
small-and-medium-sized contractors through the labor-intensive program, which also served to
enhance sustainability of the road network and spread use of a moderately labor-intensive
approach (See Table 2). The integration of road infrastructure and regional development within
one department under the new government is supportive of the approach and procedures
developed by the Project. It is expected that this integrated focus will also be reflected in the
technical and administrative arrangements to be made for the Kabupatens under decentralization.
Attention to the technical support (equivalent to the PBPJK unit) and incentives for keeping
survey information current and following the planning and programming procedures will be
crucial to making this transition effective.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
7.1.1. The identification, preparation and appraisal phases of the project are assessed as
satisfactory. In fact, the Project SAR was cited by management for concise and good articulation
of the issues. The Project was modeled after the Third Kabupaten Roads Project. Most of the
methodological issues were resolved during that period. The main differences between KR3 and
the present Kabupaten project were geographic coverage and the related institutional issues they
address. The Bank's assistance focused on assuring that conditions for successful implementation
are incorporated in the project design. Like the preceding Kabupaten roads projects, the design
of KR5 focused on the main risks facing project implementation: implementation ofplanning
procedures, the funding of maintenance and the quality of the works. To reduce these risks,
agreement was reached with Bappenas, GOI's National Development Planning Agency, to
commit itself to play a stronger coordinating role in project planning and implementation and to
use the Inpres funds for maintenance. Also, adequacy of maintenance for each Kabupaten was
made a condition of participation in the project's subsequent annual rehabilitation/improvement
programs. The risks due to poor quality works were to be reduced by extensive technical
assistance for implementation support.
7.2 Supervision:
7.2.1. The project was declared effective on August 1, 1994. During supervision, detailed
performance of Kabupatens related to project activities were reviewed by Bank staff and
appropriate feedback was provided to the government and the implementing agencies. In addition
to regular Bank staff, the supervision team included specialists in the areas of particular concern
such as equipment management and environmental specialists. During the mid-term review in
1996, a thorough review of the Kabupaten performance was undertaken focusing on the quality of
the civil works and establishing sustainable institutional and technical environment. Bank
supervision provided the government and the implementing agencies timely feedback on the
enforcement of planning guidelines. Bank missions were relentless in highlighting the impact of
- 14-



delays in the preparation of the annual work program and timely release of the program and
budget on the quality of the works. During the economic crisis, supervision staff was at the
forefront in identifying the impact of the crisis on sustainability of Kabupaten road network and
devising appropriate measures in terms of LIWP. Bank supervision was highly satisfactory.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, Bank perforrance is assessed as satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
7.4.1. GOI performance in preparation was satisfactory as evidenced by the documentation
prepared for the project. Many government agencies played their respective roles in the
preparation phase. At Kabupaten level, the DPUK together with representatives of Bangda and
Bappeda worked with the Bupati. The government representatives were supported in their
activities by consultants at the center. Project preparation consisted of a large variety of
activities-planning studies i.e. economic feasibility, inventory of road conditions, surveys and
engineering designs for both road rehabilitation and new construction works.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
7.5.1. Overall, Government implementation performance was satisfactory. A key matter related
to the quality of the civil works was the timely release of program and budget to Kabupatens so
that substantial works could be done before the rainy season. On this matter the government has
not been able to make substantial progress. On the other hand in terms of enhancing the
sustainability of the Kabupaten programs the government was responsive to the project
supervision and project implementation unit action plans aimed at tackling the range of strategic
issues which had hindered efficient program management; DGH had initiated the sustainability
action plan for smooth taking over critical tasks of the core team consultants.
7.6 ImplementingAgency:
7.6.1. Several implementing agencies were involved; most played supporting roles. The
performance of the Kabupatens was key to successful project outcome. Most have performed
well. Some will need further coaching.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
7.7.1. Overall Borrower performance is assessed as satisfactory. The adoption of LIWP to
mitigate the impact of the economic crisis on maintenance budget was a positive stance.
8. Lessons Learned
8.1.  The main questions are whether the project has met its stated objectives and are the
project outcomes sustainable. As discussed in the previous sections of this report the objective to
improve access to the main economic centers for the agriculture-dependent rural population in the
project Kabapatens was largely met. Despite significant improvements in some Kabapatens the
quality of civil works has been uneven. The economic re-evaluation of the project suggests that
the ERR for road betterment and maintenance is about 30%. The returns could have been higher
if the predicted traffic level and quality had been attained. The economic crisis had hampered
traffic levels and the road maintenance budget, thus affecting the sustainability in the next 2-3
years of the improvements to the road network made under the project.
- 15 -



8.2   The project improved the capacity of GOI agencies that are responsible for Kabapaten
roads. But, the sustainability of these efforts will depend on the progress to be made in the civil
service reforms and in retaining the project trained staff.
8.3   A number of relevant lessons from review of the implementation experience under the
Fifth Kabupaten Road Project warrant special attention:
8.4   Strengthening Local Capacity. Technical assistance alone has limited impact on local
capacity building unless it is accompanied with proper civil service reforms. Without adequate
incentives, losses were seen in productivity and output of officials, field consultants and
contractors. Further, the project did not provide enough resources to practical training. Future
Bank-financed highway projects should consider allocating adequate resources for
hands-on-training. Moreover, the efforts to provide provincial level support were not fully
realized and were frequently resisted by local officials. Local Governments have to be more
committed to the project and associated training and technical support. The role of monitoring
and the linkage between diligent performance and access to central allocations of resources are
crucial to establishing the importance of strong local capacity.
8.5   Sustainability. On the whole the policy of maintenance first is taking root. However,
some Kabupatens gave priority to network expansion over betterment/rehabilitation and to the
latter over routine maintenance. If such practices persist and road maintenance remains
underfunded in the near future, there is a clear danger that Indonesians and particularly the rural
poor may lose the benefits of improved Kabupaten road networks. The need for establishing a
sustainable maintenance funding has become the top sector priority in Indonesia. Moreover, a
more efficient and equitable basis for allocation of funding to the Kabupatens needs to be formally
established using the allocation tools developed (KREEM and the Strategic Expenditure Planning
Module - SEPM) and sharing central and local responsibility. Further, the need for a timely
allocation and disbursement of funds for the planned works warrants special attention.
8.6   Labor Intensive Works. This component was added to the project during the economic
crisis to create employment opportunities for the rural poor and the small and medium sized local
contractors. Though overall LIWP performance in terms of physical targets was highly
satisfactory, it did not create as many jobs as expected. The targets set for labor as a percent of
the total cost of the sub-project were high (70% for routine maintenance and 30% for periodic
maintenance).
8.7   Construction Quality. This has a great effect on the lifetime of the works and
consequently on their ERR. Some of the sub-projects suffered from poor quality of construction
due to poor quality control and related institutional arrangements. The implementation agencies
were not accountable to the executing agencies and the field consultants did not have the
authority to enforce contracts. Procurement of qualified and experienced contractors and
supervision engineers is a major determinant of quality of construction. Again, the incentives
provided to staff directly affect these issues.
- 16 -



8.8   Equipment Management. Past initiatives to encourage equipment ownership by
contractors were not successful, since the banks did not provide lending for this purpose. Efforts
were made to enhance the use of Kabupaten-owned equipment by improving the availability of
these equipment (through improvement of workshops) and applying economic equipment hire
rates. In this regard, the swadana model (para 4.2.18) was envisioned as an interim step towards
ultimate privatization of equipment workshops. But it was not attractive enough to the
Kabupatens, as only 4 Kabupatens (by the end of 1999) have taken concrete steps to introduce it
(unit swadana). Currently, all income has to be returned to Kabupaten revenue, with the result
that unit swadana may not guarantee adequate equipment funding. Also, the Kabupatens and the
contractors have not accepted the use of rational equipment rental rates, which include
depreciation of equipment. But piloting of the program for Kabupaten Equipment and Workshop
Management Improvement (KEWMI) was slow and had to be cut short due to the late start on
this component compared to the closing date of the loan. Consequently, there was not enough
time to fully test in practice the effectiveness of the recommendations of the program. Therefore,
there is a need to extend this work under future highway projects. This is important in view of
the ongoing decentralization of many activities to Kabupatens under Act 22/1999 and the
projected shortage of government funds for replacement of aged equipment. However, the
long-term solution to this problem lies in encouraging banks to lend to contractors for equipment
purchases and privatizing the equipment workshops. Meanwhile, other practical options should
be developed through discussions with concerned government agencies at various levels.
8.9   Summary. The Kabupaten Roads Program (including KR5) was designed to strengthen
the planning and implementation of road management under the complex devolved institutional
structure which then existed, in which the allocation of resources was largely centralized, and the
implementation was technically deconcentrated within Public Works but administratively
decentralized to the Kabupaten government. Some of the lessons have been applied in the new
program of region-based road projects (Sumatra Region Road Project, Ln. 4307-IND), e.g. in
regard to coordinating the planning process between jurisdictions, networks and sectors, and to
improving technical standards. For the fully decentralized structure currently being legislated, the
experience of the Project suggests that Kabupatens are likely to be capable of sustaining sound
road management only if the supporting environment includes four key elements:
(a)   An adequate technical support system, including on-going practical training, technical
advisory services (which could be province-based and delivered by government or a professional
group), and further improved asset management tools;
(b)   Performnance monitoring, which provides an independent tracking of asset condition,
quality of implementation, and the efficiency and effectiveness of the use of resources;
(c)   An incentive-based resource allocation system, which would link any central or provincial
monetary transfers to performance and needs; and
(d)   A sustainable financing mechanism providing adequate and timely funds for preservation
of the road assets (in the future, preferably derived on a fee-for-service basis from road users).
Since these key elements extend beyond a regional context, they will need to be developed for use
nationwide.
- 17-



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The borrower's assessment of the Project is given in Annex 8. Following review of the draft ICR,
the Borrower responded on June 20, 2000 that, given its continued commitment to giving priority
to maintenance in its Kabupaten roads sector management policy and its demonstrated increase in
its FY 2000 budget allocations for Kabupaten road maintenance, the project sustainability should
be rated as Likely. The Bank having gotten this assurance, agreed to upgrade its sustainability
rating to Likely from Unlikely in the final ICR. This has been reflected in this ICR. The Bank
recognizes that the Government still faces significant challenges to provide adequate resources to
assure sustainability of Kabupaten roads due to significant macro-economic constraints during the
period of economic recovery.
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
None.
- 18 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
A. Improve access to main economic
centers for the rural population of 27
Kabupatens in 5 provinces.
1.Average length of roads per Kabupaten            1228 km (2002)                         1071 km (1999)
2. Length of roads in good or fair condition        321 km (2002)                          290 km (1999)
per Kabupaten
3. Length of paved/all-weather roads per            500 km (2002)                          475 km (1999)
Kabupaten
B. Enhance the capability of GOI agencies            80% (2002)                           79.9% (1999)
that manage Kabupaten roads.
1. Improve planning performance                      40% (2002)                            43.4% (1999)
2. Construction progress (% of each year's            63% (2002)                           43.4% (1999)
work completed by December 31)
3. Maintenance progress, (% of each year's
work completed by 31 December
Output Indicators:
A. Length of road improved (km):
1. Rehabilitation/betterment                      1,620                                 1,810
2. Maintenance                                    5,760                                 8,037
3. Labor-intensive rehabilitation                 1,500                                   720
4. Labor-intensive maintenance                    3,000                                 3,232
D. Improve asset performance:
1. Construction monitoring sites                   14                                     15
surveyed per year.
End of project
-19 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Proect Cost by Com onent (in US$ million e uivalent)
A. Road Network Improvement
1. Road Works                                             149.20            141.20              95
2. Workshops, Laboratories                                  2.50              0.40              16
3. Equipment                                               17.40             13.90              80
B. Institutional and Technical Development                  7.00             21.30             310
Total Baseline Cost                                       176.10            176.80
Physical Contingencies                                    17.60
Price Contingencies                                       13.10
Total Project Costs                 206.80            176.80
Total Financing Required                  206.80            176.80
Table 2b: Project Cost by Component
(million Rupiah)
Project Cost by Component             Appraisal        Actual/latest    Percentage of
Estimate        Estimates        Appraisal
A. Civil Works                             286.808.0        478,631.4           167
Road Betterment                           194,400.0       254,897.1           131
Periodic Maintenance                       61,815.0        172.007.5          278
Routine Maintenance                        29,160.0        50,249.0           172
Workshop & Laboratory Construction          1,433.0          1,477.7          103
B. Equipment                                38.296.0         46,854.5           122
C. Construction Services                    42,500.0         71,844.1           169
Total Baseline Costs               367,604.0        597,330.0           162
Physical Contingencies                     34,889.6
Price contingencies                        29,758.8
Total Project Costs                432,252.3        597,330.0           138
-20 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement  Uethod
ExpndituV Cat9ory           IfE           N_  F.                                    Total Cost
1. Works                        0.00          151.40         8.20          0.00          159.60
(0.00)        (56.00)        (3.00)        (0.00)         (59.00)
2. Goods                       20.80           1.60          0.40           0.00          22.80
(18.90)        (1.00)        (0.40)         (0.00)        (20.30)
3. Services                     0.00           0.00          8.30           0.00           8.30
(0.00)        (0.00)         (7.60)        (0.00)         (7.60)
4. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.00          16.00          0.00          16.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (14.50)        (0.00)         (14.50)
5. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                        20.80         153.00         32.90          0.00          206.70
(18.90)       (57.00)        (25.50)        (0.00)        (101.40)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Prou rmnt Mtor                 N.B.F.       Totat Cost
1. Works                        0.00          141.60         0.00           0.00         141.60
(0.00)        (60.38)        (0.00)        (0.00)         (60.38)
2. Goods                       13.90           0.00          0.00           0.00          13.90
(13.15)        (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (13.15)
3. Services                     0.00           0.00          21.30          0.00          21.30
(0.00)        (0.00)        (20.71)        (0.00)         (20.71)
4. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                        13.90         141.60         21.30          0.00          176.80
(13.15)       (60.38)        (20.71)        (0.00)        (94.24)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2' Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local govermnent units.
-21 -



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
~~~~~ :<
1. Road network          93.80     104.60               73.50      82.00              78.4   78.4    00
improvement and
maintenance component
2. Technical assistance and    7.70  0.70               20.70      0.60               268.8  85.7   0.0
studies & etc.
Total                    101.50    105.30               94.20      82.60              92.8   78.4   0.0
- 22 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Analysis and Results
A sample of sub-projects constructed in 1994 under KRS were re-evaluated in 1999 using
Kabupaten Roads Economic Evaluation Model (KREEM) based on traffic counts made in 1996.
The analysis was based on "with" and "without" project case. The sample in the current analysis
includes the same subprojects used in similar analysis in the 1997. However, the estimated costs
and benefits are expressed in 1999 prices. Exchange rate adopted was Rp. 6,700 per US dollar
which prevailed during the last quarter of 1999 and early 2000. It was considered to be
representative for the near future. The traffic growth rate was reduced from 7.5% per annum (in
the SAR) to 4% per annum. Both four-wheeled and motorcycle traffic are used in the analysis.
The KREEM was adapted to undertake the analysis of specific individual links in
November 1999 using 1999 costs and benefits based on government statistics, current vehicle
costs and Kabupaten construction costs. KREEM models individual preset situations in relation
to road condition, traffic level and Kabupaten costs as defined in the 'analysis set'. A 'new
analysis set' was defined to present the sampled sub-project links. A separate 'traffic set' was
also defined to obtain the required traffic levels associated with each link. Basic information on
vehicle operating costs was derived from vehicle and fuel costs using an HDM type model and
this was input into KREEM. The KREEM program uses this data to determine estimated VOC
for normal and generated traffic flows on any road link having the estimated road roughness for"
with" and "without" betterment project. Road construction costs were also revised in the
November version taking account of the 1999 road construction cost data obtained from the
Kabupatens. Periodic maintenance every six year and annual routine maintenance costs were
included in the analysis. Expected life of the Project was 15 years with no residual value.
Details of the assumptions used in KREEM models are in the project files.
Results of the Analysis
Table 1 summarizes the individual net present value per kilometer for each of the 27 links
that were analyzed. The result shows a wide range in NPV/km between links. The VOC of
motorcycles is generally about one-tenth of the average VOC for 4 wheel vehicles. As a result for
links with large motor cycle traffic significant amount of benefits could result. The weighted net
present value per km at 10% discount rate for the 27 sample Kabupaten links was Rp 353.3
million per km in 1999 compared to Rp 23.0 million in 1997, both in terms of 1999 prices.
- 23 -



Table 1: Economic Re-evaluation Results of Sample Subprojects
1997                            1999
Link No.    Length      NPV/km          Length             NPV/km
(km)    (RD. Million)       (km)            (RI. Million)
20       10.5         496              10.5                2255.5
6       19.1         -40              19.1                -260.1
5        4.0          -7              4.0                 -275.7
I       37.5          68             37.5                   -3.0
5       74.9          104            74.9                  283.5
3       51.2         281              51.2                1830.6
19        7.8         116              7.8                 1584.1
12       14.0         -14             14.0                  -99.8
20       13.6         -131             13.6                -218.7
13        6.4         -26              6.4                  107.8
29        6.6           -9              6.6                 180.0
74        3.1          91              3.1                  637.6
32       10.1         -83              10.1                 -60.9
30       16.7           62             16.7                 194.9
51        4.1         -40              4.1                  -61.0
82        4.1         -19              4.1                  -65.2
37        9.6          -73              9.6                 165.6
98        3.0          151             3.0                  385.8
16       14.0         -27              14.0                 -18.6
602 (108        3.4          -3              3.4                   52.9
51       34.7          -60            34.7                  513.6
26        3.6         -107              3.6                -180.3
901         36          -62              36                   49.4
8       44.6        -215             44.6                  -79.0
12       42.2         -55             42.2                   76.4
Total      474.8          23            474.8                  353.3
- 24 -



Table 2: Comparison of viability between 1997 and 1999 Analysis
Range:             No. of cases in 1997       No of cases in 1999
NPV/km Rp. Millions            analysis                   analysis
@10%
-<=100                     3                          5
-100 to -50                  5                          5
-50toO                     9                          1
Oto50                      0                          1
50 to 100                   4                          2
100 to 200                  3                          4
200 to 500                   3                         2
>500                      0                          7
Total                     27                         27
Table 2 classifies the results shown in Table lby range of NPV/km values. In the sample
of 27 links 16 had positive NPV in 1999 compared to 10 in 1997.
Conclusion
Overall, the economic benefit of the project is positive. The weighted NPV/km including
the motorcycle traffic is estimated at Rp 353.3 million per km in the 1999 evaluation. This
corresponds to an average economic rate of return of about 30%. The KREEM model at its
present stage of development has some significant limitation. It does not allow changes in the
traffic growth rate except at ten year interval. This makes sensitivity analysis difficult for traffic
growth rates at smaller interval than ten-year. Sensitivity analysis would have required extensive
revision of the model. It is safe to conclude however, that as the economy recovers, traffic is
likely to show growth and the expected benefits would be much higher than indicated above.
- 25 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage ofj Cet i          i         No. of Persons and Specialty            P roranceatin
(   2 hL .Econmists, MEI E S,% etc.)                  0 Im etation    (0Developmenit
Mont:::e r    Countdi     Specialty                       Progress          Objective
Identification/Preparation
05/1993                       5   Economist (2), Highway              S                 S
Engineer, Operation Officer,
Environmental Specialist
Appraisal/Negotiation
10/1993                      3   Economist, Highway                   S                 S
Engineer, Operation Officer
Supervision
11/1993                       3  Financial Analyst,                   S                 S
Highway Engineer
Operations Officer
02/1994                       3  Financial Analyst,                   S                 S
Highway Engineer
Operations Officer
06/1994                       5  Financial Analyst,                   S                 S
Highway Engineer
Operations Officer
11/1994                       4  Highway Engineer (2),                S                 S
Economist, Operation Officer
02/1994                       5  Highway Engineer (2),                S                 S
Operation Officer, Social
Scientist Training Specialist
11/1995                       3  Highway Engineer (2),                S                 S
Operation Officer, Social
Scientist
02/1996                       6  Highway Engineer (2),                S                 S
Operation Officer, Social
Scientist
04/1996                       3  Highway Engineer (2),                S                 S
Operation Officer
07/1996                       3  Highway Engineer (2),                S                 S
Operation Officer
10/1996                       3  Highway Engineer, Operation          S                 S
Officer, Equipment Management
Specialist
03/1997                       2  Highway Engineer, Operation          S                 S
Officer,
Economist
07/1997                       3  Highway Engineer, Operation          S                 S
Officer,
Economist
- 26 -



03/1998                        4  Highway Engineer (2),                  S                  S
Operation Officer, Training
Specialist
07/1998                        3  Highway Engineer, Economist,           S                  S
Operation Officer
10/1998                        5  Highway Engineer (3),                  S                 S
Economist,
03/1999                        5  Highway Engineer (2), Transport        S                  S
Specialist, Operation Officer,
Transport Economist
07/1999                        4  Highway Engineer (2),                  S                  S
Procurement Specialist,
Transport Specialist
11/1999                        5  Highway Engineer (2),                  S                 S
Procurement Specialist,
Transport Engineer
Transport Specialist
ICR
11/99                          3   Economist, Highway                    S                 S
Engineer, Transport
Specialist
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actualatest Estimate
..._==_._...._._.._...._...         No. Staff weeks               USS  (.000)
Identification/Preparation                39.9                        100.7
Appraisal/Negotiation                     28.1                         84.5
Supervision                               91.7                        256.8
ICR                                       10.6                         31.4
Total                                    170.3                        473.4
- 27 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Z Macro policies                         O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
I Sector Policies                        O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
M Physical                               * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Z Financial                              O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Z Institutional Development              0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
3 Environmental                          O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
Social
F Poverty Reduction                O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Z Gender                           O H OSUOM O N * NA
Z Other (Please specify)           O H  *SUOM  ON  O NA
 Private sector development             O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
 Public sector management               0 H  O SU *M  0 N  0 NA
 Other (Please specify)                 O H  *SUOM  ON  O NA
- 28 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(I-IS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
 Lending                                            OHS OS OU OHU
O Supervision                                        * HS OS   OU  OHU
O Overall                                            OHS OS O U O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                             Rating
O Preparation                                        OHS Os   OU  OHU
O Government implementation performance              O HS O S  O  U  0 HU
E Implementation agency performance                  O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
El Overall                                           OHS OS   OU  OHU
- 29 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
KR5 Project
World Bank, Staff Appraisal Report, Fifth Kabupaten Roads Project, April 10, 1994.
World Bank, Loan Agreement: Fifth Kabupaten Roads Project, June 6, 1994.
World Bank, Bank Mission Supervision Report, (various, see for list of mission).
Agribusiness International Pty Ltd, Strengthening Provincial Environmental Management & Planning
Capability, Activity Progress Report, February-March 1999.
Agribusiness International Pty Ltd. Strengthening Provincial Environmental Management & Planning
Capability, December 1999.
CTS for Kabupaten Roads, KR5 Project, Materialfor Mid-term Review, April, 1996.
CTC, KR5 Projects-Materialsfor Mid-term Review, April, 1996.
CTC, Re-evaluation of Sample Projects under KR5 project, March 13, 2000.
CTC, Summary of Civil works Program, Contracts, Works Done and Disbursement, April 4, 2000.
Hoff & Overgaard and als, Final Report on Bridging Services for Planning and Monitoring of Kabupaten
Road Projects, March, 1997.
Hoff & Overgaard, Performance Indicators for KR5, November 1999.
DHV Consultants BN, FINAL Report, Consultancy Services for Implementation, KR5, Volume: I, III,
Annex 1-6 to Vol. I, April 22, 1999.
DHV Consultants BV, KR5, Project Completion Report North Sumatra Province, (not dated).
DHV Consultants BV, and Grabowsky & Poort BV, Various monthly Implementation Reports.
Lyon Associates, Inc, Kabupaten Equipment and Workshop Management Improvement II Project Phase
II, Final Report & Summary Final Report, June 1999.
Renardet S.A, Consultant Services for Kabupaten Roads for Labor Intensive Core Team, Oct. 1999.
Renardet S.A. in Association with Pt. Arteri Cipta Rencana, Final Report: Consulting Services for
Kabupaten Roads for Labor Intensive Works, Volumes: 1 & 2. February 21, 2000.
Social Monitoring & Early Response Unit, ASEM Social and Economic Development Recovery Fund
Labor Intensive Works (LIW) Programs, World Bank Kabupaten Roads, Technical Assistance for
Implementation Study and Strengthening, Oct. 1999.
- 30 -



Other Related Documents
World Bank, Project Appraisal Document, Sumatra Regional Project, January 20, 1998.
Republic of Indonesia, Act of the Republic of Indonesia, Number 22 of 1999, RE: Regional
Administration, May 7, 1999.
Republic of Indonesia, Act of the Republic of Indonesia, No. 25 of 1999: Financial Proportion between
the Central Government and the Regional Administration, May 19, 1999.
- 31 -






Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution
ICR-KR5 May 4, 2000
FIFTH KABUPATEN ROADS PROJECT
(Loan 3732-IND)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1. BACKGROUND
This paper has been prepared as part of the Borrower's contribution to the Implementation Completion Report
(ICR) for the Fifth Kabupaten Roads Project (KR5) in line with the standard requirements of World Bank
loans. The report has been prepared on behalf of the Directorate General of Highways (DGH) of the Ministry
of Public Works as the Government's Project Executing Agency.
2.  PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND COVENANTS
2.1     Objectives and Description
The Project had two general objectives:
1.     To improve access to the main economic centres for the rural population in 27 Kabupaten (districts) in
5 provinces.
2.     To enhance the planning and implementation capacity of GOI agencies in charge of Kabupaten roads.
The specific objectives were to (a) improve systems and procedures for road maintenance and ensure that the
maintainable network of the 27 Kabupaten (about 6,000 km) is satisfactorily maintained; (b)
rehabilitating/improving about 1,620 km of existing roads; (c) improving the capability of staff involved in the
sub-sector nation-wide at all levels and (d) strengthening institutional arrangements and improving the
technical environment for planning and implementing Kabupaten roadwork programmes, including the
adaptation and dissemination of more appropriate road technologies (Staff Appraisal Report = SAR, April
1994, par. 4.1).
The objectives were intended to be achieved through (A) Road Network Improvement and Maintenance; and
(B) Technical Assistance and Training (refer Project Description, Schedule 2 of Loan Agreement).
The physical objectives (a) and (b) were undertaken in parallel with the institutional objectives (c) and (d),
although it was evident that institutional factors would determine the physical outcome. This situation meant
that the expectations of the Bank for good performance under (a) and (b) were often tempered by the
implementing agencies' progress under (c) and (d); in fact previous Completion Reports show that both the
Bank and the Government had difficulty at the start in determining institutional arrangements for the Project,
how to improve Kabupaten staff capability, and how to disseminate and enforce technical standards. See PCR
for RRI (June 1989), ICR for RR2 (December 1994), KR3 (December 1997). This difficulty was mainly
- 32 -



because the sub-sector was already highly decentralised, with Kabupaten already fully responsible for planning
and implementing their own roadwork since the 1980's. The lack of direct control by central and provincial
level agencies created considerable tension between the Bank and the Government over the pace of
achievement of objectives.
The Government feels that its own objective of strengthening decentralisation, to make Kabupaten more
responsible while at the same time helping provincial and central government to play a more effective role, was
not expressed clearly enough in the Loan documents, which focused on the central and provincial roles.
2.2    Loan Covenants
The KR5 loan covenants (refer SAR chapter 6, as well as Schedule 5 of the Loan Agreement), included (a)
maintenance of the Project Secretariat (PS) established under KR3 to assist the Co-ordinating Committee of the
Project; (b) maintenance of the Project Implementation Unit in Directorate General of Highways (DGH)
established under KR3 to monitor progress in Project implementation; (c) preparation of annual road
maintenance and rehabilitation! improvement programmes in accordance with agreed criteria including time
schedule and methodology including environmental assessments and "baseline data of the social structure and
income sources of the concerned Indigenous Peoples, if any". Other loan covenants included (e) taking into
account the interests of Indigenous Peoples in planning sub-projects and prepare a team of professionals to
monitor adverse impacts of the Project on these People, submitting an annual report on such monitoring each
year beginning in 1994, (f) allocate funds for procurement of vehicles; (g) transfer ownership of workshops to
the kabupatens with an action plan for establishment of the workshops as autonomous plant-hire units by
September 1994, and provide for operation and maintenance costs and charge hire-out rates by January 1995;
and (h) carry out technical audits of completed works. Almost as a footnote in par. 6.2 of the SAR, funding
eligibility of improvement programmes in any one Kabupaten were to be contingent on its maintenance
performance.
Discussions on the loan covenants tended to dominate communications between the Bank and the Government
throughout the early years of the Project, to the point that the original purpose of the covenants was obscured.
The covenants tended to appear as substitutes for the Project objectives. When the Project was explained to
lower level officials, it was often the restricting elements in the loan covenants that were emphasised.
Short-term objectives expressed in loan covenants and programmes should not be over-emphasised and thus
obscure long term objectives.
The Government considers that the timing aspects of the maintenance covenant were deficient, and the PS/PIU
covenant led to misunderstandings about control of the programme, as discussed below under sections 3.2 and
3.4 of Project Achievements. The covenants relating to the impact of the Project on Indigenous Peoples were
not very relevant to the majority of roadworks constructed under the Project.
3.  PROJECT ACHIEVEMENTS
3.1    Physical Targets
Compared with the physical target of 1,620 km of rehabilitation/improvement, 1,665 km was constructed in the
27 Kabupaten in three years. The scope of the Project was enlarged in 1996/97 to include civil works in 9
Kabupaten in 2 provinces (NTT and South Sulawesi). Another 108 km of rehabilitation/improvement was
constructed in 5 of these Kabupaten in 1996/97.
There was slight confusion over the maintenance target under KR5. While Schedule 2 of the Loan Agreement
called for "maintenance of approximately 6,000 km of roads in 27 Kabupaten" and the SAR (par. 4.1)
mentioned "ensuring the maintainable network of about 6,000 km is satisfactorily maintained", however in par.
4.5: "The target to be reached by the third year of the project is that 90% of the maintainable network, i.e.,
about 6,000 km, should be maintained. This target will be met gradually, by 50 percent for the first year and
70 percent for the second year." Tables 2.5 and 2.6 in the SAR showed a maintainable network (good and fair,
sealed and gravel) in 27 Kabupaten was 6,400 km in 1991. These physical targets were essentially achieved in
- 33 -



the planned three years, as can be seen in the following table:
Maintenance Targets and Achievements
SAR Targets                                        Achievement
Year              % of Maintainable    Equivalent to Km     Total     Periodic     Routine
Network 6.400 Km
I = 1994/95                 50                 3,200          3.100        794        2,307
2= 1995/96                  70                 4.480           4.172       866         3,306
3 = 1996/97                 90                 5,760           5.727       1,013       4,714
Network Achievements
In network terms, the road conditions in the 27 Kabupaten have apparently worsened during the Project period,
judging from the Percentage in Good or Fair condition, as seen in the following table:
Road Type & Condition          1991                 1996            Percentage Increase
Good & Fair Sealed           2,858                4,846                 + 70 %
Good & Fair Gravel           3 542                 1,542                - 57 %
Subtotal Good & Fair         6,400                 6,388                 -0%
Other Paved               2,040                3,172                + 55 %
Earth, of which            8,916                15 442                + 73 %
Impassable Earth        Not available            7,670                  n.a.
Total Network             17,356               25,002                + 44%
% Good & Fair              37 %                  26 %                 - 11%
The increase in the length of good/fair sealed roads represents a significant improvement in the quality of those roads, due primarily to
the KR5 Project. However the national target of 60% good or fair roads (SAR par. 2.24) has receded further into the future. The
Government recognises the need to sharpen the definition of Kabupaten roads and to focus on the most important links, however the
Kabupaten are not yet convinced of this priority. In future the Executing Agency should be made responsible and accountable for the
specific set of road links which are targeted.
The main reason for the six months loan extension arranged in 1999 was to take advantage of the funds in the Unallocated Category to
carry out Labour Intensive Works, not to achieve physical targets.
The main reason for the six months loan extension arranged in 1999 was to take advantage of the funds in the
Unallocated Category to carry out Labour Intensive Works, not to achieve physical targets.
3.2   Maintenance Policy Reform
This was the fifth loan for Kabupaten roads and, starting with KR3, changed the focus from improvement to
preservation of the existing good and fair roads as a precondition for network improvement. The main purpose
was to reform the Kabupaten habit of allocating funds to low cost (low quality, short life) stopgap repairs on
roads in bad condition which was apparent in the 1980's. It was identified that this habit was the main reason
for lack of improvement in the condition of the Kabupaten road network. For this reason, the strategy was that
all roads (and only those roads) in good and fair condition would receive maintenance funds. The Bank
strongly supported this strategy by introducing certification of maintenance works by consultants, requiring
details of programmes in advance, setting targets of the percentage of maintainable roads which should receive
maintenance, and linking approval of major works funding to satisfactory maintenance performance in the
previous year.
The maintenance conditionality had a poor start due to poor scheduling of the conditionality. At the time the
maintenance performance was assessed, the betterment programme for the next year had already been
- 34 -



determined. This meant that all Kabupaten would be considered in default if the covenant was strictly
enforced, hence the implementation of the covenant was not very practical. In the end, most Kabupaten have
greatly increased their maintenance programmes compared with those before the KR5 Project, so the target has
been achieved.
This policy was supported by the KREEM model's conclusion that with likely funds available, the optimal
allocation is that all funds should be devoted to maintenance. This will be difficult for the Govermment to
enforce as the Kabupaten officials believe strongly in network extension. Future Bank assistance should
therefore continue to concentrate on maintenance as it is highly economic but is a difficult concept, while
Kabupaten should finance their own betterment and network extension.
A related achievement was the very simple set of tender documents produced for routine maintenance by CTC
in 1994 which were based on the procurement procedures contained in Keppres 16/1994. The Bank's initiative
in sponsoring these guidelines is appreciated.
3.3    Institutional Development: Government Staff
The "Lesson Learned" from the First Rural Road Development Project (page iv, PCR, June 1989) that
strengthening local capacity ... cannot be achieved through technical assistance alone, without proper
incentives to the civil service ..." was repeatedly observed in this Project, but the lesson could not be applied
due to Government salaries policy, as in the earlier RR2, KR3 and KREI Projects. If anything, the financial
situation of civil servants is relatively worse now than at any time during the Project, and is a major threat to its
sustainability, due to lack of productivity and efficiency. The costs of inadequate incentives were seen not only
in the loss of productivity and output of Kabupaten officials, and also of field consultants and contractors. It is
not possible to measure it, but given that field consultants and contractors accounted for 87.8% of the Total
Project Cost of US$ 176.74 million (Appendix 1), the impact of say a 30% loss of output would amount to US$
53 million in value.
The objective of "strengthening institutional arrangements and improving the technical environment for
planning and implementing Kabupaten roadwork programmes, including the adaptation and dissemination of
more appropriate road technologies' was considered to be one of the functions of the technical assistance (TA)
consultants employed under the Project. The consultants all contributed to these objectives, but the Government
now realises that TA was mainly used to achieve the physical objectives of the KR5 Project, and institutional
development was extremely limited.
One of the main problems was that the method of achieving institutional development was poorly articulated
due to the complexity of the decentralised arrangements and the multiple agencies involved at each level, also
due to the necessity to treat all Kabupaten with a single approach.
3.4    Institutional Development: Organisational Aspects
The organisational aspects of institutional development of Kabupaten had been partially addressed in a pilot
study on Kabupaten DPUK organisations in 1990 during preparation of KRMTP, where it was found that the
16 sample DPUKs had 16 different organisation structures, none of which followed the Ministry of Home
Affairs' guideline on standard structure. The Ministry of Home Affairs was aware of this, but considered that
lack of standardisation was offset by the unspecified benefits of autonomy.
Kabupaten autonomy already existed at the start of the Project, not only in organisation structure but in
authority; Kabupaten were not line agencies of Provinces, and certainly not of the Central Government. The
statement in par. 2.8 of the SAR that "These second level units in theory have autonomous budgets and taxation
powers but in practice function as extensions of the central or provincial governments" wrongly implied that
Kabupaten follow central or provincial instructions. In fact central and provincial governments only had
powers of persuasion, and consultants were relied on to enforce guidelines.
The establishment and maintenance of the PS and PIU for project co-ordination and monitoring was at the top
of the list of loan covenants for KR3, KREI and then KR5. However the Project Secretariat and Project
Implementation Unit were not formally able to exercise any decision-making power. Hence the Government
- 35 -



communicated through a structural agency rather than through the "co-ordinating" unit.
As implementation was already in the hands of the Kabupaten, and provincial and central levels could only
provide guidance, there were built-in limits to "co-ordination" and "monitoring" by govermnent agencies which
not even a PS nor a PIU could overcome; secondly the structure of the PS was unbalanced, with only one
technical Director out of seven, who represented six Directorate-level agencies in DGH.
The main advantage of the PS and PIU was to act as a forum for meetings since no single agency had full
control of the programme. DGH was Executing Agency, but in fact DGH only had full control over a few
components (management of TA consultants, and procurement of equipment). The assumption in project
design (SAR par 4.18) that "the detailed responsibilities of these agencies (MPW for technical aspects, MHA
for institutional aspects, Bappenas for development planning aspects, and MOF for financial aspects) and
corresponding offices at Kabupaten, provincial and central levels have been defined" (SAR par 2.5 - 2.8)
overlooked the lack of authority by the technical agency, and the overlap between technical, institutional,
development planning and fmancial aspects. It was recognised in "Lessons Learned from Previous Project" that
"preparation of detailed implementation arrangements" was a key factor in improvement of an institutional or
technical nature (SAR par. 3.5).
The role of DGH was a source of some misunderstanding. As Executing Agency, DGH could be considered
responsible for meeting the loan covenants. On the one hand this included a set of technical objectives which
DGH supported for professional reasons, but for which it could not be held responsible because of the
above-mentioned division of powers. In DGH's view, an opportunity was lost by not assigning DGH authority
commensurate with its expected responsibility and with the capability of its strong central staffing. Because of
its lack of direct authority, DGH had to rely on its Consultants to exert influence over Kabupaten agencies and
contractors, but the Consultants in turn did not have such authority. This led to tensions between Consultants
and local agencies. There was no direct system of accountability for poor quality work, as the implementing
agencies were not accountable to the Executing Agency. Indirect channels through Consultants should not be
relied upon in future.
The legal environment changed in the final year of the Project, with the promulgation of Laws No. 18, 22 and
25 of 1999 on Construction Services, Regional Government and Revenue Sharing, but this was too late to
influence Project implementation. Significant changes will be needed, in particular (a) not to expect central
agencies or their consultants to keep up with detailed developments without adequate staffing and contact with
Kabupatens; and (b) local control of local programmes needs to be developed, based on a strong monitoring
system, and activation of local Parliaments and other interest groups.
In summary, the project design optimistically accepted the overlap between the four central agencies' roles, and
by maintaining a Project Secretariat and Project Implementation Unit which were non-executive organisation
structures, give a mistaken appearance of single executive control and had the effect of submerging the
technical agency appointed as executing agency. An unsatisfactory technical result could therefore have
eventuated, and it is to the credit of Kabupaten staff and the Consultants that the technical result was generally
satisfactory.
3.5    Institutional Development: Technical Environment
A key objective of the KR5 Project was to develop the technical environment by supporting the systematic
technical guidelines developed under previous Projects. This was addressed directly through the technical
assistance consultants, and indirectly through the Kabupaten Roads Master Training Plan, which prepared and
implemented training modules based on the technical guidelines. Funding of KRMTP and a Technology
Adaptation and Labour Intensive Method component were addressed under the KREI Project, while the
technical guidelines and training aspects continued RR2 or KR3 initiatives.
Systematic guidelines for planning of Kabupaten road improvements had been initiated with the Director
General of Bina Marga's Decree no. SK 77 of 1990. These were revised and re-issued in November 1995
without revising the decree number. A range of engineering guidelines was prepared from 1990 to 1992, which
DGH issued to all KR5 Provinces in March 1994. Planning guidelines included environmental screening, while
engineering guidelines included basic clauses for environmental protection. Engineering guidelines were also
- 36 -



re-issued in November 1995. Appendix 2 includes a list of materials for Guidance of Kabupaten Road
Development prepared or updated during the period of the Project, including recommendation for future
updating once every five years.
An important indicator of sustainability of the technical environment established under the KRP is the
acceptance of the technical guidelines for non-Project funded works. Before 1997, GOI guidelines had stated
that planning guidelines SK77 only applied to foreign-assisted works. In 1997/98 SK77 became a pre-requisite
for eligibility of betterment works, regardless of the source of funding.
The CTC were intended to assist a Planning Research Unit within DGH. This was not established, and all
planning research activities were carried out by CTC. In the future, key aspects of decentralised Kabupaten
roadworks programmes, such as vehicle operating costs, assumptions on traffic developments, costing and
budget allocation systems and definitions of work types, will still need to be decided at central level.
3.6    Technical Assistance
Technical Assistance (TA) including works supervision amounted to 12% percent of the total Project cost under
KR5, compared with an estimated 11.6% at Appraisal (Appendix 1). Supervision alone accounted for 7.9%
(including 1.3% for supervision of Labour Intensive Works in 1999 which was disbursed under category 4),
compared with an estimate of 7.8%. The Government considers that this is a relatively high figure, but it is
inevitably costly to support decentralisation policy. The investment of 4.1% of the Project cost in institutional
assistance appears high, however it ircluded only 1.7% for CTC/Bridging/Management Support. Other
components included 1.5% for KEWMI equipment management services, 0.6% for ISEM and SPEM
environmental management, and 0.4% for the RRTPA study in preparation for the Sumatra Region Roads
Project (Loan 4307-IND).
The largest slice of assistance was for Field Consultants for Implementation (FCI) consisting of two sets of
contracts, Region I supervising KREI-funded roadworks in Sulawesi and Irian Jaya, and Region III supervising
KR5-funded roadworks in Maluku, Riau and Kalimantan, and for one year in North Sumatra. All field
consultants reported improvement of Kabupaten performance over the years, but their advice not to re-employ
certain contractors was generally ignored. The Central Government does not have power to pre-qualify
Kabupaten contractors, but this greatly influences the quality of work. Future services of a similar type should
not expect advisory services to apply more authority than their Client actually possesses.
A series of Labour Intensive Works (LIW) contracts were funded from KR5 from September 1998 to October
1999 to supervise KREI- and KR5-funded works in 10 provinces, as described in section 3.7.
The Central Technical Consultant (CTC), had begun under KR3 and was nominated in both SAR to continue
through KREI and KR5. The CTC contract was modified six times under KREI, terminated in July 1996 after a
two month extension under KR5. Tendering of CTC Phase II had begun early in 1996, but was declared
invalid in December 1996 due to a difference between the Bank and the Government over technical evaluation.
A series of six contracts for Bridging of Planning and Monitoring services was arranged with the original
consultant from August 1996 until February 1998, followed by a series of four Management Support contracts
until December 1999. As these were direct appointments, the length of these contracts during KR5 averaged
3.4 months, causing considerable uncertainty and loss of efficiency. Total input amounted to 100.3 mm foreign
and 660.5 mm Indonesian professional. The Consultant's pre-fmancing to maintain continuity is noted.
CTC services established systematic planning procedures in about 150 Kabupaten in Indonesia (that is, in all
Kabupaten except those assisted by AsDB in Java); developed an economic model for allocation of budgets to
Kabupaten roads (KREEM), developed a computerised Kabupaten Roads Management System (KRMS) to
enable monitoring of planning, budgeting, contract, progress and payments; developed a performance
evaluation system based on the technical guidelines, and later on, performance indicators for Kabupaten
roadworks; a Study of Inter-District Roads in Java; a Study of the Application of High Resolution Maps for
Kabupaten Roads, and a Study of Legal Aspects in revising Indonesia's Road Law; and gave ad hoc operational
support as well as advice in co-ordination of the KR Projects.
The CTC Environmental Task Group established and implemented new environmental guidelines for
- 37-



Kabupaten roads parallel with evolving environmental regulations, and developed screening procedures and
generic environmental studies (sectoral PILs) which will save carrying out enviromnental studies on about 90%
of Kabupaten roads in Indonesia (varying between Kabupaten), thereby saving much time and money. The total
effort in the CTC Environmental Task Group from July 1992 to December 1997 was 38.6 man-months foreign
and 197 man-months of Indonesian professional services. Half of this input was fmanced under the KR5
Project, covering the period from September1994 until December 1997.
Institutional Strengthening in Environmental Management (ISEM) services were provided from September
1996 to October 1999 (3 years) for DGH Directorates of Planning (BIPRAM), Urban (BINKOT) and Technical
Guidance (BINTEK). Total consultant input was 80.84 man-months foreign and 190.43 man-months of
Indonesian professional services, about 72% under KREI and 28% under KR5. ISEM was focussed on the
strengthening of environmental procedures and operational support, particularly for national and provincial
roads. A range of guidelines/working procedures were produced, with useful abstracts.
Monitoring of the Impact of the Project on Isolated Peoples was carried out under two contracts funded from
KREI, one in 1997 with the University of Indonesia covering two Kabupaten in Riau and two Kabupaten in
East Kalimantan (roadworks assisted under KR5) and a second in 1999 with the University of Cendrawasih
covering two Kabupaten in Irian Jaya (roadworks assisted under KREI). The second report is very well
documented and is a model for future work in monitoring such impacts.
Strengthening Provincial Environmental Management & Planning Capability (SPEMC) services were provided
from November 1998 to June 1999 to assist BANGDA's Directorate for Environmental Management and
Development, BAPPEDA (regional planning offices) and BAPEDALDA (regional environmental offices). The
total consultant input was 8.0 man-months foreign and 36 man-months of Indonesian services. The focus of
the SPEMC services was an environmentally oriented management system through co-ordination and
participation in the provinces of Aceh, South East Sulawesi, and West Java. SPEMC produced a set of thirteen
draft procedural guidelines, and gave an innovative approach to decentralised environmental management.
Phase I Kabupaten Equipment and Workshop Management (KEWMI) services ran from July 1995 to July 1996
to establish improved management practices, including equipment rental guidelines and establishment of
self-financing workshop units (Swadana). A second one year Phase was completed in June 1999 which applied
the systems to 18 Kabupaten in 9 Provinces. The Consultants still reported lack of understanding of main
concepts by Kabupaten managers at the end of the services, including lending of equipment to favoured
contractors, poor management practices and weak human resources.
The Regional Roads Transport Planning Analysis (RRTPA) study from June to December 1996 prepared a
more integrated approach to road network planning for national, provincial and kabupaten roads. A study by
CTC in March 1996 had identified Northern Sumatra as the most appropriate area in Indonesia in which to
initiate this approach. This is related to the finding under Section 3.1 that Kabupaten do not concentrate
resources on the most important roads, but prefer to extend their networks.
3.7    Civil Works: Physical
Appendix 1 shows that civil works made up 80.1% of Project costs, versus 78% at Appraisal. The Project was
not seriously affected by the economic downturn which affected Indonesia in the late 1990's. Detailed reports
were produced on the eligibility of every major works sub-project.
The monitoring system recorded actual works, not design data. Although the FCI were required to certify that
designs and tender documents were adequate, it was decided to sacrifice design data from the project
monitoring databases. Only the certification of design was recorded as a basis for eligibility. As a result, much
less is known about design than about planning or implementation. One lesson learnt from KREI and KR5 is
that more effort needs to be put into improving design quality.
A series of Labour Intensive Works (LIW) were funded from KR5 in West Java and Central Java in
1998/1999). This work was initiated using "savings" from unsubmitted applications for roadworks in earlier
years of KR5, in response to the economic and unemployment crisis which hit Indonesia in late 1997.
- 38 -



3.8    Civil Works: Financial
To recover payment data for reimbursement of eligible expenditure, the Field Consultant's duties included
monitoring of payments, as well as the monitoring of roadwork programmes, contracts and physical progress
expected of a Works Supervisor. However the monitoring of payments turned out to be a greater challenge than
expected, both for the FCI to obtain the data, for the CTC to reconcile it with contracts and disbursements, and
for the Ministry of Finance to identify payments and prepare Statements of Expenditure (SOE). Appendix 3
shows the Actual Disbursement versus Expected Disbursement (from SAR) and Physical Progress (Contracts
Let and Work Done). The large effort in monitoring and co-ordination paid off in keeping the Project generally
on schedule.
Contract and SPM (Payment) Data for all of the 986 contracts funded under the main civil works sub-categories
of the Loan from 1994/95 to 1997/98 were matched and reconciled. The Loan Status Reports adjusted estimated
programme values based on actual exchange rates and contract values. A single exchange rate was calculated
and continuously updated for each Civil Works Year and Loan Sub-Category, and for each Non-Civil Works
contract and currency.
Labour Intensive Works of about US$ 8.0 million were funded using "savings" from unsubmitted applications
for unrecoverable payments for roadworks in earlier years of KR5. While this has greatly assisted the
Government to overcome some of the effects of the economic crisis, it actually represents an amount funded in
full by the Government due to inadequate administration of payments for Kabupaten roadworks. This is
evident as the final gap between Physical Progress and Disbursement. The effect of the disbursement shortfall
was to reduce the average Loan share for all civil works to 41.4% from 46.7% (average of 37% in early years
and 100% net of tax for the LIW works).
The main lesson from the KR5 financial monitoring experience is that sharing payment data between Bank
Indonesia and the Ministry of Finance needs to be established, as well as a method for the Ministry of Finance
to assemble Statements of Expenditure based on eligible works, preferably with access to the database and
online access to all KPKN's.
3.9    Civil Works: Quality
The RR2 Project had developed technical audit procedures for measuring the quality of traditional penetration
macadam pavements on Kabupaten roads, and post-construction monitoring of road conditions to monitor
deterioration starting in 1988. These efforts were continued under KR3, KREI and KR5. A small sample of 7
sub-projects in West Java was audited in 1994, and a further 17 sub-projects in 6 KR3 provinces were audited
in late 1995 and early 1996. A total of 8 sub-projects in 6 KREI provinces were audited in June 1995 (report
published May 1996). A total of 5 sub-projects in 5 KR5 Kabupaten were audited in January 1997 (report
published July 1997). The conclusion of the technical audit was that construction quality is a serious problem,
with deficiencies being found in thickness and quality of pavement materials, and also in bitumen content.
However, the impact of poor construction quality on pavement life is not so conclusive, judging from results of
post-construction monitoring.
A total of 149 sub-projects, averaging two per Kabupaten, were surveyed approximately every six months by the
FCI from February 1993 until 1996. In the KREI Kabupaten, 64 sub-projects in 49 Kabupaten were surveyed
and in the KR5 Kabupaten, 26 sub-projects in 27 Kabupaten were surveyed during this time. A list of all
projects surveyed under KR3, KREI and KR5 was included in the latest PCM Guidelines, with the latest rating.
CTC/Bridging Consultants carried out the latest survey of these links in May 1997.
The majority (62%) of the KR3 roads were still in good condition 6 to 8 years after construction, and another
38% were in fair condition, despite an imperfect maintenance regime. The deterioration curve is remarkably
flat for the penetration macadam surfaces (covering 90% of cases), compared with that for other sealed surface
types.
It appears that construction quality (particularly drainage) has a great effect on lifetime, therefore procurement
of good contractors, and application of good supervision are the major determinants. The Project was not
- 39 -



permitted to use force account construction. Therefore it was not possible to verify that force account works
should be significantly cheaper than the equivalent standard contract works.
3.10   Performance Indicators
A set of Performance Indicators was developed in the final year of the Project to measure the Project
achievements. In addition to the findings on Network Achievements described under Section 3.1 above, it was
found that (a) Planning Performance rose significantly from 1994 to 1999 corresponding with continuous
technical assistance; (b) no significant improvement in construction or maintenance speed was observable
during the Project; and (c) the number of PCM surveys has dropped off sharply since the demobilisation of the
Field Consultants for Implementation.
3.11 Equipment
Procurement of roadworks and other equipment for the Kabupaten was managed smoothly by DGH. Problems
in financing delivery of equipment were assisted by the Bank agreeing to finance Inland Delivery out of the
Loan in the final year of the Project. The KR3 Loan Covenant requirement to transfer ownership of all
Loan-financed equipment to the Kabupaten was finally achieved in 1998. Ownership of all equipment procured
under KR3, KREI and KR5 has now been transferred to the respective Kabupaten.
Improved equipment management procedures, introduction of self-financing (Swadana) mechanisms for
Kabupaten workshops, and introduction of more rational equipment rental rates were all supported by the
KEWMI services managed by DGRD and funded from KR5. 18 Kabupaten were chosen as a pilot for Swadana
of which 4 had adopted it by the end of the Project. The Swadana model was not very attractive to the
Kabupaten due to the exhaustive conditions laid down by Ministry of Finance. Secondly, all income has to be
returned to Kabupaten Revenue, so Swadana does not guarantee adequate equipment maintenance funding, and
lacks the incentive of privatisation. Earmarking of funds for equipment operation and replacement, and for
workshop operation would be a simpler solution. Rational rental rates (increased to include depreciation and
major repair costs) have not been accepted by Kabupaten or contractors.
The lack of qualified experienced mechanics and operators in the Kabupaten was not helped by minimal FCI
mechanical engineering services, greatly reduced from that provided under previous Projects. Two loan
covenants: contract packaging for Betterment and Periodic Maintenance to ensure work was done by larger
contractors, and multi-years' Betterment contracts, also intended to provide larger contracts as an
encouragement for contractors to buy equipment. The multi-years covenant did not work at all, as the Ministry
of Finance decided that all funds must be spent in one year for fiscal discipline; secondly, for planning reasons
most Kabupaten road projects are small scale, and suitable for completion in one year. The contract packaging
covenant had mixed success. In practice, many contractors sub-let part or all of the works to local contractors,
but because this procedure was not permitted under General Conditions of Contract, it was not documented.
The use of larger contractors therefore did not guarantee increased use of equipment, and raised administrative
overheads. Many contractors are just suppliers of labour.
A serious factor inhibiting equipment ownership was identified in a paper by CTC ("Availability of Credit and
Guarantee to Contractors", August 1994): the Indonesian banking system does not support lending for
equipment purchase, as the equipment itself is not regarded as collateral. Contractors rarely have large fixed
assets, so do not qualify for lending. This factor was well beyond the possible scope of the Project's initiatives,
and recent developments in the banking sector have made it even less prospective than before. Efforts to make
more efficient use of Kabupaten-owned equipment, including force-account maintenance and construction,
should therefore have been applied. However the Project covenants made it clear than force account was not in
favour: it was ruled out entirely for Betterment and Periodic Maintenance, and limited to 50% of Routine
Maintenance.
As a result of the "privatisation agenda" dictating a number of impractical loan covenants, real progress in
identifying a suitable and practical role for the private sector in the Kabupatens was not achieved. This agenda,
based on a faith in large contractors, impeded the Project objective of "enhancing the planning and
-40 -



implementation capacity of GOI agencies in charge of Kabupaten roads."
4.  BANK PERFORMANCE
Intensive Bank supervision was given, averaging one Supervision Mission every 4.5 months. The Govermment
recognises the value of a disciplined framework of regular progress reviews, accompanied by short-term action
plans and task lists. The Bank's practice of supervising KR3, KREI and KR5 together (in "clusters") assisted
the Government in management of the Projects.
However, some problems arose from the periodic nature of Bank supervision, characterised by short bursts of
intensive activity. During the short mission periods, it was often impracticable for all the relevant govermment
staff to be involved, attempts were made to address too many issues simultaneously and communication
problems arose. The apparent understandings laid out in mission Aide Memoires were not always fully grasped
by staff from all concerned government agencies.
Although the Bank was fully committed to the PS/PIU arrangements, the Mission staff still made an effort to
see key staff from all central agencies on each visit, recognising that the PS/PIU had no real authority. However
the Missions apparently did not have authority to discuss a redesign of the Project's institutional arrangements
during the Project implementation period.
5.  BORROWER PERFORMANCE
Decentralisation of management functions to appropriate administrative levels is a key objective of govermnent
policy. However this objective was made more difficult to achieve due to extensive effort required to arrange
co-operation and co-ordination between four central level agencies and their sub-agencies in the Project, and
partly due to management weaknesses among concerned staff. By spending too much time on central
government management, not enough has been done for local government management, and in this sense the
Project has contributed little to improving Borrower performance.
The Mid-Term Review of KR5 (April 1996), it was observed that: "There seems to be still some confusion over
central roles as regards responsibility for supervision of implementation of the program, and hence
participation of central agencies in the quality control of planning, design and implementation has been much
less effective than warranted." (par. 5 of Aide Memoire).
The Government accepts there is a continuing need for management upgrading within local government, and
would welcome the Bank's advice on how the problem might be tackled. Unfortunately, management
upgrading has been limited in scope to contract management and financial management, with very little
emphasis on principles of organisation, office management or personnel management and communications.
6.  CONCLUSIONS
The main questions are whether the Project loan has provided good value for money, whether it has led to
improvements that would not otherwise have occurred and whether these improvements are sustainable.
The economic re-evaluation of the KR5 Project suggests that the investmnent in road betterment and
maintenance yielded a sound return averaging about 30%, but that returns could have been higher if quality
had improved. The sustainability of the KR5 Project still remains to be demonstrated during the coming period
when further decentralisation is expected.
The main lessons of KR5 are that:
*      Strengthening local capacity cannot be achieved through technical assistance alone, without proper
incentives to the civil service. The costs of inadequate incentives were seen in loss of productivity and output of
officials, field consultants and contractors.
Construction quality has a great effect on works lifetime, therefore procurement of good contractors
-41 -



and good supervision are major determinants. The incentive issue directly affects these issues.
*      A privatisation agenda and faith in large contractors impeded the Project objective of "enhancing the
planning and implementation capacity of GOI agencies in charge of Kabupaten roads" while not necessarily
promoting the second Project objective of providing road access.
*      The Government's objective of strengthening decentralisation was not clear in the Project design.
*      Effective decentralisation requires a good monitoring system. Local Parliaments and other local
stakeholders need to be trained in this task. Central agencies or their consultants cannot assist without adequate
staffing and contact with the implementing agencies.
*      There was little accountability for poor quality work, as the implementing agencies were not
accountable to the Executing Agency. Field Consultants did not have the authority to enforce contracts.
*      Improving the Kabupaten road network is not achievable while the local authorities give priority to
expanding their networks. In future, if a central agency is responsible for a Project funded by a foreign loan, it
should be made responsible and accountable for the specific road links which are targeted.
*      Initiatives to encourage equipment ownership by contractors were not successful, as the banking sector
does not provide lending. Efforts to make more efficient use of Kabupaten-owned equipment should have been
applied, however force-account was discouraged by Loan covenants.
*      The Swadana model was not attractive to the Kabupaten: only 4 have been introduced. All income
has to be returned to Kabupaten Revenue, so Swadana does not guarantee adequate equipment funding, and
falls well short of privatisation. Specific earmarking of funds for equipment operation and replacement, and for
workshop operation would be a simpler and more direct solution.
*      Too few real resources were devoted to practical training in a Project with the supposed objective of"
enhancing capacity". Direct training delivery was not funded, not counting the CTC's planning training effort
which succeeded in training as well as in institutionalising SK77.
*      Future Bank assistance should continue to concentrate on maintenance as it is highly economic but is
a difficult concept, while Kabupaten should finance their own betterment and network extension.
-42 -






MAP SECTION






IBRD 2553~
TOO~~~~~~~~  1O6~~~~~~~~~  Ti?                              II?                                lT4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~             3?                                i36~~~~~~~~~~~136
-tII1kND                                                                                                                                                                                        INDONESIA
CHINA  SEA  ~         ~            ~            ~            ?I~PPNEFIFTH KABUPATEN ROADS PROJECT
/                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJECT DISTRICTS
MALAYSIA                                                                                                                                                                                DISTRICTS INCLUDED IN THRE EASTERN INOONESIA
KABUPATEN ROADS PROJECT [Ton. 3579-ID
f'DISTRICTS INCLUDED IN TH4E THIRD
*                     ~~~~~~~KABUPATEN ROADS PROJECT ([L... 3490-IND)
.3'                ~~ ~~~0 PROVINCE CAPITAL
GAPORE    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~*./PROVINCR BOUNDARIRS
~~~~KQ~~~~~~~~SINSAPORE ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTERNATTONAL BOUNDARIES
ALMAPIERA                          5-'~~~ACIFIC
BELITTJNG                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2508
4. Si. YOGYAKAR
6'   . JAATIIMMTEAIT>
6- tMPUNG ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~                                                                              oi
7~~~
7. IINOKIII, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~       ~       ~       ~       ~       ~       ~       ~       ~      ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     -.V
JAM61~ ~~ ~~ ~ ~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
DI  U AWE ATNQATA                                                    il AAFL AI                                                                                    ,~
20 UM.JAWSITELATARA
55. SATCENSAAERT,                                                              CA                                                                                            I
14. KAIMSA TENITARATIT                                                                                                                                            P"S 10 SO 5540 TT
27. KMO  TIMAN 0I                        nA I9  o3 Rayi.nUR. ~n nd,n
I0. Wum                           Nd,nndA..TM                                          15.>                              9 Et                                  2'                                      A2RAI
19 SULAYnSI                                                                                                      7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JNAY19



