Docurient of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 10717-IRN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
MARCH 3, 1993
Country Department II
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit   Rial (Rl)
(As of February. 1993)
US$ 1.00 - Rls 70 /1
Rls 1.00- US$0.0143 a1
US$ 1.00- Rls 1,450 /2
Rls 1.00- US$0.0007 /2
US$ 1.00 - Rls 600 /3
Rls 1.00 - US$0.00167 /3
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
BCM (billion cubic meters)    -  35.3 billion cubic feet
GWh (Gigawatt hour)            =  1,000,000 kWh
MBPD                           =  million barrels per day
MBTU                           -  million British Thermal Units
MTOE                           =  million tons of oil equivalent
MW (Megawatt)                  =  1,000 kW
One cubic meter                =  264 (U.S.) gallons
- 35.31 cubic feet
Kilometer (km)                 =  0.6214 miles
Metric ton (mt) (1,000 kg)    -  2,205 pounds
tcf                            -  trillion cubic feet
TWh (Terawatt hour)            =  1,000,000,000 kWh
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIyATIONS
AIC         -  Average Incremental Cost
CEM         -  Country Economic Memorandum
FSU         = Former Soviet Union
GDP         -  Gross Domestic Product
HRSG        -  Heat Recovery Steam Generator
ICB         -  International Competitive Bidding
IEPO        = Iranian Environmental Protection Organization
IPO         -  Iran Power Organization
LRMC        -  Long-Run Marginal Cost
MBPD        -  Million Barrels Per Day
MIS         -  Management Information System
MOE         = Ministry of Energy
PCB         =  Polychlorinated Biphenyl
PPAR        -  Project Performance and Audit Report
REC         =  Regional Electric Company
SCADA       -  Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition
STG         = Steam Turbine Generator
TAVANIR     =  Iran Power Generation and Transmission Company
TOR         -  Terms of Reference
TREC        -  Tehran Regional Electric Company
WPA         -  Water and Power Authority
EIRR        - Economic Internal Rate of Return
GOVERNMENT OF ISTANIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
FISCAL YEAR
March 21 - March 20
aL1    Official basic exchange rate.
,L2    Floating exchange rate.
_3   Competitive exchange rate for a selected list of imports.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ISLAXIC REPUBLIC OF IRau
POWRE  SECTOR EFFICIENCY INYRQVENET P
Page Nos.
LOAN AND PROJECT SULARY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . i-iii
I.     THE ECONONY   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
II.   TEHE ENEGY SECTOR   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
A.  Background   . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
B.  Institutional Setting   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
C.  Energy Endowment   . . . . .    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
D.  Electriclty Demand . . . . .    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
E.  Development Plan  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
F. Sectoral Issues . ... . .                                                    6
C. Rationale for Bank Involvement  ....                                        10
III.  TE BORROER  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  11
IV.    TEM PROJECT   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  13
A.  Project Origin, Past Lessons and Project Design   . . . . . . .  13
B.  Project Objectives and Scope  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  13
C.  Project Description . .       . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . .  13
D. Project Cost ....15
E.  Financing Plai  .............. ..                         ......           16
F.  Status of Project Preparation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  17
G.  Procurement   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    17
B.  Disbursement . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  20
I.  Monitoring and Supervis'on  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  21
J.  Environment  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . .  21
K.  Project Management and Implementation   . . . . . . . . . . . .  22
V.     FINA3NCI    ASPECTS   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  24
A.  Financial Position of Borrower .  . . . . . . . . . .   . . . .  24
B.  Financial Targets   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  25
C.  Projected Financial Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  27
D.  Finencing Plan    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  28
E.  Insurance    . . . . . . . . . . .    . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  29
VI.    ECONOMIC ANALYSIS   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  31
A.  Demand   .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    31
B.  Least-Cost Analysis   . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . .   33
C.  Cost-BenefitAnalysis ................... .  33
D. Risks.. . . ... . 34
VII.  AGREEMEMN   RECH    DURIN  NEGOTIATIONS AUD                           . . . .  35
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ANNS
1.1     Details of the Power System in Iran  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
2.1     MOE Organization-Chart    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
2.2     Iran Power Organization Chart    . . . . . . . . . . . I . . . . 44
3.1     TREC Organization Chart  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
4.1     Project Descriptior.   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
4.2     Draft TOR for gnergy Sector Development Study  . . . . . . . . . 50
4.3     Draft TOR for ,ommercialization-Privatization Study  .  .53
4.4     Draft TOR for Thermal Power Plant Improvement Project Study  .   61
4.5     Draft TOR for Power Plant Operator Training  . . . . . . . . . . 66
4.6     Summary of Project Cost    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69
4.7     Detailed Project Cost Tables   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70
4.8     Detailed Financing Plan    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
4.9     Detailed Procurement Table and Monitoring Schedule   . . . . . . 74
4.10    Loan Disbursement Schedule   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
4.11    Excerpts from Environmental Assessment   . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
4.12    Project Implementation Schedule  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87
4.13    Project Monitoring Guidelines and SuFervision PLan   . . . . . . 89
5.1     TREC Financial Status  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 91
5.2     Assumptions for Financial Projections  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 94
6.1     Economic Analysis  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 98
7.1     Selected Documents and Data Available on the Project File  . .  101
TABLES
In Text
4.1      Estimated Project Cost   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
4.2      Inflation Projections  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   16
4.3      Financing  Plan  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  17
4.4      Procurement Arrangement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    19
4.5      Estimated Disbursement   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
5.1      TREC - Financial Coefficients, FY87-91 .24
5.2     TREC - Projected Financial Coefficients, FY92-97.      . . . .  28
5.3      TREC - Financing Plan, FY93-97   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
6.1      Annual Growth Rates of Demand     ........... . 31
6.2     Alternative Demand and GDP Forecasts   . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
6.3     Results of Least-Cost Analysis   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
In Annexes
4.11.1  Project Air Quality Parameters   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
4.11.2  Expected Air Quality Measurements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
4.11.3   Plant Water Balance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
5.2.1   Projections for Inflation Rates and Exchange Rates   . . . . . . 95
5.2.2   Projected Fuel Prices  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 96
6.1.1   Main Parameters of the Least-Cost Analysis   . . . . . . . . . . 98
JIGDRE
6.1    Alternative Demand Forecasts (1980-2000)   . . . . . . . . . . . 32
IBRD Map No. 23613



ISWAIIC REPUBLIC OF lisa
POME  SECTOR EWICIEK'Y IMPROVE1ENT PROJECT
WOAN AD PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:             Tehran Regional Electric Company
9uarntog:             Islamic Republic of Iran
Amount:               US$165 million
Terms:                Standard IBRD terms, with 17 years maturity
Project Objectives   The primary objective of the project is to decreaee
and Descrintion:      load shedding through a combination of system expansion,
efficiency improvemiat, load management and price
adjustments. This would be accomplished through the
addition of 200 NW of capacity, by converting the
existing gas turbines at Qom to a combined cycle plant;
the construction of 400-kV substations and transmission
line; distribution equipment; rechnical assist:ance and
training activities; and price reform measures supported
by the project.
naefita               Electricity in Iran has been supply-constrained since the
and Rixk&:            end of the war with Iraq.  As a result, investments in
this sector are a high priority component of the
Government's reconstruction program. The Government also
intends to use investments in the power sector as a means
to attract cofinancing to assist in addressing the
substantial capital requirements of reconstruction. The
Qom Combined Cycle Plant is an integral component of this
least-cost investment plan. The conversion of the Qom
gas turbines to combined cycle operations would add about
200 MW of capacity by 1996. This project has been
classified as Environmental Category B. The project
requires no incremental fuel usage and has minimal water
requirements as it uses air cooled condensers. Hence,
the environmental impact is minimized. The project risks
are mitigated by engaging consultants of international
repute who have had experience with similar projects and
with the Bank. The risks in achieving the level of
outputs forecast are addressed by including operator
training as a component of the loan. The financial risks
have been minimlzed by substantial up-front action by the
Government on price adjustments. The EIRR for the
project is estimated to be 17 percent.



- ii -
Istmlted Prolect Cost
(US$ million)
FOREIGN   % OF
AS XF   BASE
IA)     FORRI    ZOTAL             gmIAL    C
I. Qom Component
- Civil Works                   12.2       3.0   15.2       20        5
- Equipment & Naterials         36.8    152.2  189.0        81       58
- Transmission Lines
& Substarions              14.2      66.0   80.2       82       25
- Distributiun Equipment         3.1      13.1   16.2       81        5
- Project Management            12.1       9.1   21.2       43        6
& Owner's Administration
- Base Cost                     78.4    243.4  321.8        76       99
II  T& Component
- Studies                        0.5       3.4     3.8      88        1
- Training                       0.2       0.6     0.8      80        0
- Base Cost                      0.6       4.0     4.6      87        1
Base Project Cost               79.0    247.4  326.3        76      100
Physical ContingeneLos           7.4      24.2   31.7
Price Contingencies              6.3      19.0   25.3
Total Project Cost              92.7    290.6   383.3       76
Interest During Construction     0.0      30.6   30.6
(IDC)
Total Project Cost + IDC        92.7    321.1  413.9        78
NOTE: Fiurm may s ad-p a " anrumnnu to te firn dedahd place



- iii -
Prolecc Financinu Plan
(US$ Million)
X OF
iOURCLt                         LOCAL  FORRIGN   TOTAL         TOTAL
IBRD                           0.0      165.0   165.0         39.9
- Supplier's Credit              0.0       47.8    47.8         11.5
-NOR                             0.6        0.0     0.6          0.2 '/
- TREC                          92.1      108.4   200.4         48.4
Total                         92.7      321.1   413.9        100.0
NOTE: Fgues may oot add-up as they are rounded to the firt decimal place.
if  Les hn one permat.
Estimated Disbursement
(US$ million)
rY94     PY95     FY96      FY97     FY98
- Actual        27.0      58.9     53.6      21.3      4.2
_ ctmulative    27.0      85.9    139.5    160.8    165-0
- Percentage    16.41    52.1S    84.51    97.51   100.0O
NOTE. Fgues may aot add-up as they are rounded to the fint decimal place.



This report is based on the Zindings of an appraisal mlssion to Irsn in
January 1992, comprising Messrs. G. Stuggins (Task Nanager), C. Woodruff
(Senior Financial Analyst), L. Gutierrez (Senior Energy Economist), S. Ouahes
(Senior Power Engineer), T. Moore (Consultant), A. Posada (Consultant), U.
Chandra (Consultant). The report was updated on the basis of a post-appraisal
mission comprising Messrs. V. Bhargava (Mission Leader), R. Nendonca, C.
Woodruff, and U. Chandra, which visited Iran in August 1992. Peer Reviewers:
Messrs. Peter Cordukes (IENED) and Suman Babbar (CFSPS). The report has been
endorsed by Mr. Caio Koch-Weser, Vice President, hM&VP, Mr. Ram K. Chopra,
Dlrector, )M2DR and Mr. Vinay K. Bhargava, DlvLsion Chief, MN2IE.



1
I. THE ECONOMY
1.1         Iran's economic policies and performance in the last decade were
influenced by the revolution in 1979 and by the war with Iraq from 1980 to
1988. During the war years, the economy was subjected to many forms of
control and administrative intervention, and economic performance was mixed.
A fast rate of GDP growth (averaging 8 percent per year in 1980-85) in the
early years was followed by a decline (3 percent per year in 1985-88) and
rising inflation (averaging 20 percent per year in 1985-88) due, in large
part, to excess money supply created to meet growing public deficits (on
average, equal to 8 percent of GDP each year during 1985-88). Following the
end of the war in 1988, Iran prepared the First Five-Year Plan (FFYP) spanning
1989-1993. The policy objectives in the FFYP include the progressive
elimination of financial imbalances, the decentralization of economic
decision-making and the privatization of state enterprises in various parts of
the economy.
1.2         Since ths inception of the FFYP, the Government has initiated
sound policy changes. Additional macroeconomic and sectoral policy reforms
nevertheless will be required to consolidate and advance the reform process.
A major distortion has been the multiple exchange rate system. In January
1991, the Government reduced the number of rates from seven to three (the
official rate of Rials 70/US$, the competitive rate of Rials 600/US$, and the
floating rate, lately Rials 1450/US$), and a proposal has now been passed to
unify the rates. Other recent policy reforms have included: a large effective
depreciation of the rial, especially for non-oil exporters; widespread removal
of non-tariff barriers on imports at the floating rate; decontrol of many
domestic prices, along with dissolution of price enforcement courts;
introduction of a less onerous income tax schedule; steep increases in public
utility rates; abolition of credit ceilings; and a decision to permit private
nonbank financial institutions.
1.3         Implementation of key reforms has helped to stimulate economic
growth and to lower budget deficits. From a low base that ensued from the
1980-88 war, GDP grew an average 7 percent per year during 1989-92. The
general government deficit was reduced from 9 percent of GDP in 1988 to an
astimated 2 percent in 1992. With lower deficits, the growth of net credit to
government and that of broad money declined between 1988 and 1990. This
helped to lower inflation from 29 percent in 1988 to around 10 percent in
1990. Since then, however, inflation has edged up to around 20 percent each
year in 1991 and 1992.
1.4         The rapid restoration of oil production and export facilities over
the past four years, together with the high oil prices reached in 1990, helped
Iran's external accounts. The overall balance of payments totalled a positive
$2 billion in 1989-90. In 1991, however, the balance of payments deteriorated
sharply as oil prices fell 20 percent while the volume of imports rose 30
percent. This underscores the importance of export diversification for Iran to
reduce its vulnerability to oil price fluctuations. Before increasing its
output and exports on a sustainable basis, Iran will need to further improve
economic incentives and make substantial investments to rehabilitate its
productive infrastructure.



2
CoiMtrv Dialogue and Bank StrateMv
1.5         The reform process has been remarkably successful thus far, and
the stage has been set for an acceleration and deepening of reforms to
continue developing the economy. The key to efficient growth and longer-term
development in Iran is to complete the unification of the exchange rate and
price reform and to enhance the role of the Drivate sector. This would need
to be accompanied by the correspond.tng trade reforma, compensatory mechanisms
such as wage adjustments and social safety nets, and the mobilization of
domestic and external resources to underpin policy reforms, finance
development expenditures and strer7then essential public and privata sector
institutions.
1.6         These steps are an integral part of the Governwsnt's plan.  The
Government has adopted a program of progressive movement towards exchange rate
unification and world market prices (including those in the agriculture
sector) and elimination of subsidies, notably for agricultural inputs and
equipment.  Work is also going ahead on the design of a social safety net
program.
1.7         Against this background, Bank country strategy aims to: (.)
support the Government's economic reform program; (ii) support the
rehabilitation of the Iranian economy and human resources development; and
(iii) help Iran strengthen its links to the world economic and financial
system and re-establish access to international capital markets. To achieve
these goals, the Bank program comprises economic and sector work, investment
lending, and the mobilization of other international financial resources
through cofinancing and technical assistance.



3
I. THE EREPGX SECTOR
A. Backgernd
2.1         Iran's electricity supply in characterized by wldespread load
shedding that affects all sectors. In 1989, slectrlcity consumers generally
experienced six hours of load shedding per day. Electricity sales sine- then
have grown by about 10 percent per annum, reflectlng the growth ln both the
economy (para. 1.3) and populatlon (estimated at about 3.2 percent per annum).
In splte of this, the power utillties have been effectlve ln reducing dally
load shedding to about two hours per day, reflecting an estlmated supply
shortfall of about 1,000 MW. This improvement was accompllshed by
reconstructing plants and transmissLon lines, which were dauaged in the war
wlth Iraq, and by expandlng capaclty. In spite of the considerable
investments planned, load shedding is expected to persLit through at least
1995. AS load sheddlng is esatimated to cost the economy more than US$1
billion per year/, the Government accords a high priority to eliminating
this problem.
2.2         Iran's power system consiote of a major 400-kV interconncated
system, which supplies electrLcLty to most of the country, and to two isolated
systems in eastern Iran (one in Xhorazan and the other in Siatan-BaluchiLtan).
The effective generating capacity in the lnterconnected system was about
11,000 MW as of March 1991 and about 1,000 MW in the Lsolated systems. The
lnterconnected system is subdivlded into two well-developed grLds, with weak
transmisLson links between the one in the north and the other ln the south.
This results in a bottleneck in power transfers from the south to the north,
whLch is currently being addressed by reinforcing the transmisoion grid.
Detailed description of the power system in Iran li presented in Annex 1.1.
2.3         Efficiency issues are being addressed within the sector.  Staff ln
the Ministry of Energy (MOE) have made major improvements Ln their load
forecasting and investment plannlng analysis and in the process, have helped
identify ways to improve efficiency in power production. In addition, energy
conservation options are belng actlvely pursued through priclng adjustments
and time-of-use tariffs. However, the largest potential impact on power
sector efficiency is expected to come from the Government's proposed
institutional reform as described in their Statement of Povar Sector
Development Policy (para. 2.18), which focusses on the corporatization and
privatization of the exieting entities.
B. Institutional Settlng
2.4         Prior to 1965, the power sector consisted of a number of small
municipally or privately owned power companies and generatLng plants
associated with industries. In 1965, all of the power companLes were
nationalized and placed under the control of the newly created MOB.   To thie
day, all power transmission and distribution activlties, as well as all
generating capacity, except that which io captive to industrial enterprieso,
remain under the jurisdiction of MOE. Thus, in the absence of independent
;./   Based on an estimated 2 Tgh per annum of energy unserved valued
conservatively at over US$0.50/kVh.



4
suppliers, MOE has a virtuai monopoly on the supply of electricity to the
grid.
2.5         Power Sector Institutions.   In addition to MOE, the power sector
consists of the Iranian PowAr Generation and Traasmission Comnany (TAVANIR);
16 distribu.ion companies, 6stablished either as Regional Electricity
Companies (RECs) or Water and Power Authorities (WPAs); and the Iran Power
Organization (IPO). As indicated by the organization chart ahown in Annex
2.1, MOE is responsible for many of the day-to-day activities as well as the
future development of the sector. The sector enterprises, described below,
have limited autonomy and function mainly as administrative subdivisions of
the Ministry.
2.6         TAVANIR was established in 1969 to take over and operate the
thermal generation and power transmission facilities. TAVANIR currently owns
and operates over 90 percent of total thermal power plant capacity, as well as
over 80 percent of the national transmission grid. The 16 RECs or WPAs,
including the project executing ager.cy, the Tehran Regional Electricity
Company (TREC), are responsible for power distribution in their respective
regions. RECs vary greatly in size, from TREC with annual sales of about
14,000 GWh, to the Semnan REC, which was recently formed to take over part of
the TREC distribution network and has annual sales of less than 1,000 GWh.
Though mainly confined to distribution, some RECs have retained transmission
and generation facilities or taken over such facilities from TAVANIR. The
WPAs operate damse, irrigation systems and hydropower stations, as well as
power transmission and distributions facilities.
2.7         IPO was created in 1988 to take over the functions and much of the
staff of the power section of MOE. As shown by the organization chart in
Annex 2.2, IPO is headed by the Minister of Energy and managed, on a day-to-
day basis, by the Deputy Minister of Power. IPO was created to take over
responsibility, from TAVANIR and the RECs, for dispatching electric power
throughout the national interconnected transmission system. More recently, in
response to the Government's decision to cease financing power generation
projects directly from the budget, IPO has been empowered to collect financial
surpluses generated by the RECs and to oversee the allocation of such
surpluses among generation investment projects (para. 2.14). Thus, on a de
facto basis, the incomes of the RECs are subject to an effective tax rate of
at least 100 percent, which is paid directly, at source, out of receipts from
the sale of power. This reorganization has also led to the elimination of the
TAVANIR monopoly on the construction of new power plants. TAVANIR does not
contribute to IPO as it does not generate surplus funds internally, and, until
recently, its investments were funded directly from the budget. Now TAVANIR
must compete for IPO funds with other RECs, which are permitted to build their
own power plants.
C. Energy Endowment
2.8         Iran's energy resource endowment is considerable, including oil,
natural gas, hydropower, coal and solar energy. In January 1987, tho National
Iranian Oil Company (NIOC) increased its estimate of proven oil reserves to 93
billion barrels; Iran's reserves are now ranked among the five largest in the
world. Current production rates of about 3.3 million barrels per day (MBPD)
put the oil reserve to production ratio at about 80 years. Of the current oil
production, about 2.4 MBPD are exported and 0.9 MBPD are for domestic use.
From 1982-1989, domestic petroleum product consumption grew at 6.5 percent
p.a., diminishing the exportable surplus. Tempering growth in domestic



5
consumption and interfuel substitution are key elements in increasing oil and
gas exports.
2.9         Iran's gas reserves are considered to be conservatively estimated
at 17 trillion cubic meters, second in size only to the Former Soviet Union
(FSU) reserves. This estimate is thought to understate Iran's true potential
because gas-prone areas have not been the focus of extensive exploration. At
1990 production levels, the gas reserve-to-Toduction ratio was about 400
years, thus indicating considerable potential for accelerating utilization in
domestic and export markets. The Government is actively pursuing both of
these mprkets by increasing the supply of gas for power and household usel/
and by exports to the FSU. At present, about one billion cubic feet per day
of associated gas production is being flared. Given that gas oil is being
used by dual-fuel fired gas turbines, for which natural gas is a cost-
effective substitute, there is considerable unmet gas demand.2/ The
Government has assigned a high priority to reduce flaring and has sought Bank
assistance for this purpose.
2.10        Iran cu?rently has developed about 1,900 MW of hydroelectric
power, representing only a small proportion of its potential, with the Karun
and Karkeh Rivers alone estimated to have about 20,000 MW of economically
attractive sites. Three sites on the Karun River are in advanced stages of
preparation - Karun III, Godar-e-Landr and Karun IV - which would more than
triple system hydro capacity.
D. Electricity Demand
2.11        Electricity consumption in Iran increased by 17 percent per annum
in the period immediately preceding the war with Iraq (1970-80) and by 10
percent per annim during the war years (1980-88), reflecting strong economic
growth, low prices and high population growth. During the post-war period,
the annual rate of growth in consumption increased to 11.7 percent, reflecting
a rebound in the economy despite large price increases. However, the
structure of the growth changed: agricultural, residential and service
demands grew less rapidly, while industrial consumption increased
substantially (para. 6.1). It is difficult to estimate total demand because
of load shedding and the concomitant latent demand. Energy sales increases
are expected to remain high while the supply/demand gap is being addressed.
However, these rapid energy sales growth rates are unlikely to continue over
the medium- to long-term as electricity prices are expected to continue to
increase in real terms.
E. Development Plan
2.12        The Government has embarked upon an ambitious investment program
with annual capacity increases of about 1,500 MW costing about US$2 billion
(see Annex 1.1). Over the near term, the investment plan focusses on building
gas turbine plants to address the load shedding problem. In addition, dual-
fueled steam units (using residual fuel from nearby refineries and natural
gas) are under construction. Dual-fired steam plants are being built to
1/    The number of cities supplied by the gas grid is expected to double from
100 to 200 during the First Five-Year Plan period.
y    Gas oil currently is imported because of refinery constraints caused by
the var with Iraq.



6
mLtlgate the rlsk of shortfalls in gas productlon. However, because of the
abundance of low-cost natural gas ln Iran, gas turblnew for peaklng and
mldrange operatlon and comblned cycle unlts for base load operation are
Lntegral components of the least-cost plan.
2.13        The lnvestment plannlng capabilities in the power sector suffered
from a lack of LnternatLonal technlcal cooperation durlng most of the 1980a.
There are still management and methodological problems that need be addressed
to achleve more efflclent lnvestment plannlng. Durlng appralsal, MOE has made
major advances in thelr Lnvestment planning analyals through the use of
Lmproved load forecasting tools and long-term optlmal generatlon investment
plannlng models. A counterpart team that worked closely with the Bank
mlsslon has eastablished the capability to use these analytlcal tools and will
contlnue to reflne the eatabase. The project components are based on the
results of these analyses. The energy plannlng capabliLties ln MOE will
continue to be strengthened under the Energy Sector Development Study (para.
4.7).
2.14        Sector Financin.g  As sector enterprless have been permitted to
Lmport capital goods at the offLeial exchange rate of 70 Rls/US$ rather than
at the competLtive rate of 600 Rls/US$ or the market rate of 1,450 Rla/US$,
the consumer has been the beneflciary of a large capital subsidy. A large
implicLt subsidy also exLits based on domestlc fuel prlces, which are well
below their export values. In 1991, tariffs were set to enable the sector to
be flnancially self-sufficLent. IPO levies were established so that the net
funds available would enable each Rec to break even on a cash basis. RECe,
however, collect substantial revenues ln the form of consumer connection
charges, which are deslgned to cover some transmission and all distribution
Lnvestments. Electrlicty prices are revlewed annually to ensure that tariffs
are sufficient to enable IPO levles to flll the generation and transmission
financing gap. Hence, the sector is independent of government financial
resources.
2.15        In order to reach thLi  high level of self-financing, the average
alectriclty tariff was ralsed from 3 Rls/kWh to 5.2 Rls/kWh at the beginning
of FY89, to 8.5 Rls/kWh at the beginning of FY91, and to 10.3 Rls/kWh as of
February 1992. Thus, the average revenue has Lncreased nearly fourfold in
only three years. However, the IPO fLnancLng plan is flawed in that it makes
no provLiLon for financing the increased working capltal requirements of the
sector, in particular accounts recelvable, which can be expected to increase
ln line with the tarlff Lncrease.
F. Sectoral Issues
2.16        Institutional Issues.   The Iranian electricity market is typical
of the vast majority of power sectors throughout the world in that it is
characterized by an absence of competition. The managers of TAVANIR and of
the RECe lack autonomy and authorityt their accountability is limited, and
they are not given appropriate incentives, even though these enterprises are
responoible for major investments and are engaged in critlcally important
commercial businesses. The Government lntends to redress this problem by,
first, cowuercializing the sector; second, by divesting operations that are
not dlrectly related to the delivery of electricityt and, finally, by
encouraging private sector particlpatlon. Initially, the Government intends
to redletributo the assets of the power sector among 9 regional
companies(RHCs) whlch wlll be created as holding companies. TAVANIR will
cease to exist and its generatlon and transmission assets will be turned over



7
to the regional holding
companies which will also
take over the assets of the   .   ...       .=.a=.':
16 existing RECs.  The RHCs
will then rent their assets            In.1990 the Government.announced it
to 20 individual generating       would rllQw private SOctot participation in
companias and 24 individual     power distribution.  In addition, the.
distribution companies(one      government would divest its ownership in
for each of the 24             .-power utilities that had become involved in
provinces). The Bank has       -'non-power related business. .At the Bank'.
recommended that the            .suggestion,the Government has agreed to
Government consider
broadening this policy by       broaden th- s       f - -   -   . ..io..to.include
eventually transferring the      geeain Itwlasoudtae.
generation and distribution  ''"".    rc:aliati''/Pr v a ti'   St-d  (
assets to the operating         para r  4.7), that addresses  lititsegructring
companies which would then        q: of thSsetcin order toelimifnate hea-    -
be privatized.  In this way,      handed regulation, and-thus, create'a'more
generation can be undertaken    competitive market for .po  :.'Oale. The
in a competitive framework,    .stud  8wiI1 also rec        weI . -de d steps:
thus increasing the beneflts      ." be taken to increase coame ''lizaton and
of private sector
participation.  The             pre. par asset  fo  divestite....
Government has agreed, in              Meanwhile1 the follo,in; te,. ill b
principle, to explore this        4aknprio toX.  the !a~orpltomo  h
avenue further and, with                  i.t     o                   n   wi
Bank assistance, will study             d'b  priat  audit    t -ob
alternate ways (para. 4.7)       nnen tinlly accepabl WPinancial
to induce private sector         sttmnswt   eaaeacut   ~   ah"
participation in order that           a       tao               .           i
efficiency gains may be  8      b    nueto'djust eleeit   re -o
realized.                        elc  the cost of s           ensuri   f     -
2.17        In spite of the           hrough.of.i  lrices.a: .'::
fact that the average           utlities will continue to divet non,   er
salaries are much lower than      U..ines. Un$ts s.uch-a,s,,o.n,s,trtio   ln--
those available in the          tr   aneac   n   nilr  ci't.
private sector, the calibre       k           ,,fod.e        ,  ud
of the technical staff         .mngmn,ec
employed in the electricity  ...
sector is high.   The
technical management of the
generation stations, in particular, is of a high standard.  However, the
institutions themselves are not organized to obtain the most out of the
resources they deploy. Management systems are hierarchical and occupationally
biased. Financial management is almost nonexistent. There is a preoccupation
with technical data and performance standards, and insufficient attention is
paid to financial performance. This problem will be addressed by the
corporatization of the existing entities, followed by privatization. The
increased autonomy of entities, including financial independence, is not orly
expected to achieve the reforms sought but will better prepare these entities
for privatization.
2.18        The proposed project would address the various institutional
issues in a number of ways. In particular, the project would support the
commercialization of generating plants and RECs and the creation of market
competition wherever possible. To this end, the Government has furnished the



8
Bank with a Statement of Power Sector Development Policy. The Government
intends to undertake the following sector restructuring measures:
(i)      bring energy prices to levels that reflect market prices or the
long-run marginal cost of production;
(ii)      commercialize sector enterprises, with all major generating
plants, RECs and WPA power sections reorganized into joint-stock
companies operating independently on a commercial basis and
TAVANIR divesting itself of its power plants;
(iii)      continue to divest ancillary business units so that these units,
which currently provide maintenance, construction, engineering,
catering and accommodation services, could be privatized and
compete with other enterprises;
(iv)      restructure the sector to promote competition among sector
enterprises;
(v)      establish a legal/regulatory framework for power enterprises to
ensure that monopoly powers are not abused;
(vi)      improve financial transparency and accountability in the sector by
requiring enterprises to have their accounts audited by
independent and internationally recognized auditors;
(vii)      redefine the role of the Government to limit its activities to
advising on sector policies;
(viii)      promote cogeneration schemes by industrial enterprises; and
(ix)      incorporate international environmental standards governing the
operation of the sector.
2.19        Pricing.  Electricity price adjustment proposals are based on an
analysis of the financing needs of the sector by MOE.  Recommendations on
changes to the level and structure of tariffs are based on implementing the
Government's policy of full financial independence for the sector; they are
forwarded from MOE to the Higher Economic Council for its consideration. The
main issues concerning electricity tariffs in Iran are that: (i) electricity
rates are distorted by implicit subsidies on foreign exchange and fuel costs;
and (ii) the tariff structure does not reflect the costs of supply to each
customer class. In 1989, the Government embarked on a major policy change in
its approach to pricing in the power sector. It resolved that prices would be
set at a rate that would allow the sector to be fully self-financing,
requiring little or no transfer from the budget. It has consistently followed
this policy. As a result, prices were increased from 3 to 5.2 Rls/kWh in
1989. Furthermore, it was recommended that increased focus on the industrial
sector to ensure that price signals would guide new investments and
restructuring by providing the basis for determining the optimal capital-
labor-energy mix. Taking these recommendations into account, in March 1991,
the Government increased average electricity prices by 64 percent, tripling
the prices charged to industrial consumers. In February 1992, the Government
increased electricity tariffs by about 21 percent and introduced time-of-use
pricing so as to reflect the seasonal nature of supply costs. Time-of-day
pricing has also been established to reflect the increased cost of supply
during peak hours. This incentive system to shift consumption to off-peak



9
hours will become effective once time-of-use metering is installed. The
Government has decided to increase the weighted average tariff by about 65
percent, effective March 21, 1993, for FY93. Despite these increases, the
cost recovery is currently estimated to be about 20 percent of the long-run
marginal cost at the floating exchange rate of Rials 1450/US$ and about 50
percent at the competitive exchange rate (para. 1.2).
2.20        Given the paucity of debt financing, pricing is based on a high
self-financing capability within the sector. As the Government increases
access to capital markets for the sector entities, its stated policy is, over
the medium-term, to evolve a pricing strategy based on market principles in
which the Government plays a minor role. The principles upon which this
strategy would be implemented are to be analyzed in the Commercialization-
Privatization Study. The study would include the establishment of a risk-
related rate-of-return target that would be adequate to attract private sector
financing. Thus, the proposed self-financing ratio targets (para. 5.10) are
viewed as a temporary measure until power sector entities are converted into
joint-stock companies (para. 2.18). The results of the study and the
implementation of a rate-of-return target would form the basis for future Bank
involvement in the sector.
2.21        In keeping with the commercialization and privatization objectives
of the sector, the focus of the pricing policy dialogue has been financial
targets. As the current debt burden of entities in the sector is small,
financial targets for the near term have centered on achieving a credible
financing plan for proposed investments. The proposed 40 percent self-
financing ratio starting FY94 (para. 5.10) would ensure adequate internal cash
generation to enable entities to maintain the debt/equity ratio needed to
encourage increased private sector participation. A Commercialization-
Privatization Study, the results of which the Government has agreed to review
with the Bank, would assess the risk associated with investments in power
projects, relative to other opportunities, to determine the return-on-equity
necessary to induce investments from the private sector (para. 5.13).
Following the study, the Government intends to put in place a system for
market pricing of electricity (para. 2.18).
2.22        Energy Conservation.  There is potential for substantial energy
conservation in Iran. The first, and most important, step in conserving
energy is to make pricing more efficient (para. 2.19). The relatively strong
link between long-term price elasticity and demand is expected to result in a
much lower growth in electricity consumption. According to the load forecast
estimates, the proposed price adjustments would result in a reduction in
generation capacity needs of over 2,000 MW by 1998. This would not only
result in investment savings in excess of US$2 billion, but would also
dramatically reduce fuel consumption and concomitant air pollution.
2.23        MOE is actively addressing load management options with
substantial analytical work already undertaken for the cement industry. A
pilot study has considered a two-step approach: imposed restrictions followed
by tariff-induced restrictions. MOE has reviewed the load curves of many
cement plants and determined an energy management strategy that would reflect
time-of-use supply cost considerations. Seminars have been presented to
cement plant managers on how this plan would be implemented. For the second
stage, the Government has already implemented time-of-use pricing by
increasing the tariffs during peak seasons (when air conditioning and heating
loads are high) by 50 percent. Time-of-day tariffs will be implemented when



10
specialized meters are acquired based on the results of the Energy Sector
Development Study (para. 4.7).
2.24        Increasing efficiency in generation would be addressed on two
fronts: (i) the introduction of new technologies (including combined cycle and
cogeneration schemes); and 'ii) the rehabilitation of existing plants. The
project would directly support the former by introducing a combined cycle
plant with thermal efficiencies of about 45 percent, well above the current
system efficiency of 32 percent. The Thermal Plant Rehabilitation Study (see.
para. 4.7) would enable a technical audit of the existing thermal plants,
which could be used to determine which investments could best increase plant
efficiency and reliability. In addition, the operation of equipment at two
major hydroplants, Dez and Karun I, is being reviewed by Electroconsult
(Italy) and Lahmeyer (Germany) so that rehabilitation and upgrading can take
place.
G. Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.25        The major objectives of Bank assistance strategy in Iran are to:
(a) assist the Government implement a sound economic reform program; (b)
support the reconstruction and rehabilitation of the Iranian economy and human
resources development; and (c) strengthen Iran's access to capital markets.
(See Report No. P-5947-IRN, dated February 19, 1993.) The proposed project is
in line with items (b) and (c) of the assistance strategy and would assist the
Government in formulating an action program consistent with its proposed
policy reforms. Specifically, through this project, the Bank would support a
rational program of investments and actions, which would enable the
supply/demand gap to be reduced and efficiency enhancements to be achieved
through restructuring. In addition, the Bank's sector policy dialogue with
the Government focuses on the reforms necessary to: (i) enable entities to
borrow commercially while increasing private sector participation; and (ii)
formulate and implement an energy conservation program.



11
III. THE BORROWER
3.1         TREC is considered to be one of the beat run RECs in Iran.  The
technical staff are competent and have been effective in maintaining system
performance given the constraints they face. The accounting and financial
staff have performed well, producing quality reports. The size of staff
relative to its sales and customer base compares favorably with similar
entities elsewhere. Because of its excellent performance record, other RECs
have requested TREC to undertake projects on their behalf. With the
reorganization in the sector, (para. 2.7) in which generation has been
decentralized, TREC has been selected as the first REC to own and operate a
generating plant.
3.2         Statutory Functions.  TREC was constituted by legislation enacted
in 1964 to produce, transmit and supply electric power in its service area.
It currently operates under the Companies Law, which applies to private and
publicly owned companies. TREC is the largest of the RECs, accounting for
about 27 percent of total electricity sales in Iran. Following the
centralization of the sector in 1965, TREC continued to operate the generating
plants located on the site of its Tehran headquarters complex and to
distribute electricity to the greater Tehran area. However, with the
decommissioning of old equipment, total TREC power generation fell from 5,014
GWh in 1986 to 989 GWh in 1991.
3.3         TREC has recently been permitted to build its own power plants,
including the gas turbine plant at Qom and the associated combined cycle steam
turbine plant proposed for financing under this project. TREC will also build
the transmission and substation facilities necessary to connect the plant to
the national grid. To accommodate the proposed new generation capacity, a new
Generation and Transmission Division has been formed within the company.
3.4         Oraanization and Senior Management.   The TREC internal
organization, shown in Annex 3.1, follows the functional pattern of sector
enterprises. The board of directors consists of the managing director and two
members appointed by the General Assembly. The managing director (who is also
the cbairman of the board) is appointed for a two-year term, which is
automatically renewed unless otherwise decided by the board of directors.
Reporting to the managing director are four deputy managing directors. Seven
staff functions, including the Inspection, Audit, Planning, Advisory,
Security, Administrative and Public Relations Departments advise the managing
directors. This organization structure is operating satisfactorily. The team
of senior executives that assist the managing director are impressive, well
qualified and highly regarded individuals. Financially, the organization seems
to be adequately organized, although, as with the sector, commercialization is
desirable.
3.5         Ultimate control of TREC is exercised by MOE through the general
meeting, at which it is the only shareholder. The general meeting appoints
the managing director and consists of a representative of MOE, usually the
Minister, and the board of directors. It approves the budget and balance
sheet of the company, personnel levels and the operational plan and policy for
the forthcoming year. The interests of the owner (the Government) are not
represented on the board of directors. This issue will be addressed in the
Commercialization-Privatization Study to be carried out under the proposed
project (para. 4.7).



12
3.6         Personnel Policies.  The TREC technical staff also appear to be
doing an excellent job of operating and expanding the TREC distribution
system. TREC, however, shares the problems of TAVANIR and other RECs with
respect to the attraction and retention of good staff. Numerous means have
been devised to provide nonsalary benefits for staff, ranging from providing
the traditional business car and housing loans all the way to hiring a wedding
hall.
3.7         Accounits.   TREC accounting capabilities appear to be among the
best in the power sector in Iran. However, accounting is largely a recording
process, and financial information is not routinely used as a basis for
managing the various operating departments.
3.8         Recent Organization Developments.   In addition to its major
expansion in generation activities, TREC has recently divested itself of two
ancillary divisions. Tehran Niro (TN), formerly a TREC construction division,
was reorganized as a separate registered company under the Companies Law. TN
has its own management and makes independent decisions. It is able to offer
better and more flexible wages and salaries to its staff. The work that it
obtains from TREC is by way of competitive tendering. It specializes in civil
and electrical engineering, with more than 2 billion rials of work in hand.
TREC holds 49 percent of the shares, with 25 percent held by Ghodss Niroo, a
consulting engineering firm, and 26 percent by the Deprived People's
Foundation.
3.9         TREC divested itself of its engineering department, which became
Moshanir, a government-owned, indepenldent, registered consulting engineering
firm that undertakes many engineering tasks for TREC by direct selection
rather than by tender. Pymanir, a private construction firm, is the other
major associated company whose business is based on open competitive
tendering. TREC has shares in three other government companies: SATKAB, a
trading and electrical component manufacturing company; Albuaz Industrial
Park, a land purchase and infrastructure company; and Kaveh Industrial Park, a
land development company. These developments indicate that the concept of a
utility dealing with other public and private sector companies under a holding
company structure is well established, thus creating the potential for more
rapid movement towards the privatization of ancillary functions.
3.10        Institutional Issues.  While TREC compares favorably with the
other entities in the sector, in many respects it shares some of their
institutional problems. Many of these problems will be dealt with in the
Commercialization-Privatization Study (para. 4.7), while the maintenance of
staniards with respect to financial performance and audits will be dealt with
through the financial performance conditions of the loans.



13
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Prolect Origin. Past Lessons and Proiect Desi2n
4.1         The Government of Iran requested the Bank to finance a power
sector project to address the substantial load shedding problem. As this
would be the first Bank-sponsored project in the power sector of Iran in over
15 years, the lending modality, policy framework and project component design
were key elements addressed during the appraisal process. Although the need
for addressing the supply/demand imbalance is urgent, lessons learned from
Bank experience clearly indicate the importance of establishing a policy
framework first, with up-front actions on necessary reforms. Policy dialogue
has focussed on the Government's Statement of Power Sector Policies (para.
2.18). The project includes two policy analysis studies to help formulate and
implement key sector restructuring measures envisaged in the Government's
policy. Supply options were considered as a residual of energy conservation,
particularly pricing and load management. The Qom conversion to combined
cycle component is included in this project because it is an integral
component of the least-cost plan, is environmentally friendly and has no
resettlement issues. In addition, the executing agency is considered to be
among the best in Iran. The environmental aspects of project design have been
largely guided by studies from the Environmental Policy and Research Division
of the Bank, particularly with regard to the minimization of air pollution
from both a regional and global perspective.
B. Project Obiectives and Scope
4.2         Given the annual growth in power demand of about 1,000 MW and the
persistent load shedding problem, the primary short-term objective of the
proposed project is to add about 200 MW of supply capacity. Reducing the
supply/demand gap is of particular importance in the context of Iran's
reconstruction efforts, as power interruptions constrain growth in downstream
sectors. MOE has initiated a number of generation projects including the Qom
component. By 1996, about 6,000 MW of new generation capacity is planned to
become operational, significantly narrowing the supply/demand gap. Industrial
growth over the near term may be considerable when capacity utilization in
existing industries increases, necessitating a quick supply response by the
power sector. The proposed project is designed to have a relatively short
gestation period so that the load shedding problem may be quickly addressed.
Additional objectives include upgrading planning capabilities to help ensure
the sustainability of project benefits, laying the groundwork for
commercialization and setting the stage for attracting private sector
participation.
C. Project DescriRtion
4.3         The project would consist of the following components:
(i)      the addition of 200 MW of generating capacity by converting the
open cycle gas turbine units currently under construction at Qom
to combined cycle operation (see Annex 4.1 for a detailed
description);



14
(ii)      the construction of 400-kV substations and transmission lines to
transmit power from the Qom combined cycle plant and strengthen
the north-south interconnection;
(iii)      the supply of distribution equipment to improve TREC's
information, customer billing and collection systems and planning
capabilities;
(iv)      technical assistance and consulting services for: (a) an Energy
Sector Development Study; (b) a Commercialization-Privatization
Study for the power sector; (c) a Thermal Power Plant
Rehabilitation Study; and (d) power plant operator training.
4.4         Oom Combined Cycle Component.  The Qom combined cycle component
would be about 15 km outside of Qom, which is 150 km to the south of Tehran.
The four 100 MW (site rating) open cycle gas turbine units currently being
installed would be converted to two combined cycle modules, with a total
nominal site rating of 600 MW. The addition of heat recovery steam generators
(HRSGs) would link each pair of gas turbines with a steam turbine generating
unit of about 100 MW (site rating). There are no land or resettlement issues
as sufficient land has been acquired for the comp'.ete plant. The dual fuel
fired gas turbines are being supplied and erected by Mitsubishi Heavy
Industries of Japan (MHI) and are expected to be commissioned between May 1993
and July 1993. The primary fuel for the gas turbines would be natural gas
with gas oil as the standby fuel. A 15-day reserve capacity of gas oil would
be available in a storage tank at the plant site to account for any shortages
in gas supply. The 200-MW combined cycle add-on would require no additional
fuel. Water requirements would be drawn from wells located about 1 km from
the plant site. Tests of these wells indicate that the size of the aquifer is
adequate for plant needs without compromising other local needs. The plant
would use a dry cooling system (air cooled condensers) to minimize the water
supply needs. TREC has carried out an assessment of water supply availability
and consumption for the Qom region. Results show that the proposed project
would not affect the water supply pattern to the Qom region.l/ The gas
turbine generating units would be connected to the system via 230-kV
transmission lines.
4.5         Substations and Transmission lines.  As part of the strengthening
of the north-south links of the interconnected syatem (para. 2.2), a 400-kV
substation and a 400-kV transmission line would be built to connect the power
plant to the national grid. The Qom substation would be located about 10 km
to the southwest of Qom city. The works related to the Qom substation include
the 400-kV switchgear, autotransformers, necessary relay protection, AC/DC
systems and control measures. Two 400-kV single circuit lines would be
connected ts this substation - one from the under construction Golpaygan and
the other from the existing Jalal substations. On commissioning of the gas
turbines, their output would be connected to the interconnected system via
2/    Due to water conservation measures in plant design, the combined cycle
add-on would require a maximum water supply of 15 1/s to meet cooling
water needs (5 1/s) potable, -f're fighting and landscaping needs (10 l/s).
This is not expected to have any adverse impact on water supply to the Qom
region given that Qom city needs (about 160 l/s) are taken from a separate
aquifer, and future needs will be met from the Panzdah Khordad reservoir
with an 850 1/s supply capacity.



15
230-kV transmission lines. Once conversion to combined cycle is complete, the
power plant output would be connected to the national interconnected system
via 230-kV and 400-kV transmission lines to the Qom substation. Work is well
in progress for hhe laying of the 400-kV transmission lines purLhased from
Romania. Power would be supplied to the Saveh, Qom and Behranf areas through
the 230-kV network and to Jalal, Arak, and Golpaygan through the 400-kV
network.
4.6         Distribution Equipment.  This component covers the promotion of
improvements in the information and customer billing and collection systems,
and planning analysis of TREC, including engineering services, equipment,
software, and support for establishing the necessary systems and procedures.
4.7         Technical Assistance and Training Component.  This component would
provide assistance to the Iran Power Organization (para. 2.7) to formulate
detailed measures for restructuring the power sector in line with the
Government's Statement of Power Sector Development Policy (para. 2.18) by
providing financing for studies and training, including the following:
(i)      an Energy Sector Development Study that would review indigenous
resources, forecast demand, provide least-cost investment plans,
determine a feasible financing plan and recommend a price reform
program based on economic and financial considerations (see Annex
4.2 for the draft TOR);
(ii)      a Commercialization-Privatization Study that would assist GOI in
its efforts to restructure the power sector, encourage private
sector participation and improve the efficiency of the present
power sector entities (draft TOR included in Annex 4.3);
(iii)      a Thermal Power Plaiat Rehabilitation Study to upgrade
the efficiency of existing thermal plants (see Annex
4.4 for the draft TOR); and
(iv)      operator training for specialized functions, such as gas turbine
maintenance and combined cycle plant operation, as well as
manpower development programs for engineers, chemists and
technicians (see Annex 4.5 for the draft TOR).
D. Project Cost
4.8         The total project cost (as shown in Table 4.1) is estimated to be
about US$414 million, of which 78 percent, amounting to US$321 million, is in
foreign exchange. Costs were converted between Iranian Rials and US Dollars
at the floating rate of Rials 1450 to US$1. All costs were estimated in US
Dollars. A summary of estimated project costs for the principal components of
the project is shown in Annex 4.6.



16
Table 4.1: Estimated Project Cost
(US$ Million)
FOREIGN
AS X OF
LOCAL   FORE-GN   TOTAL   T
Component
- Qom Conversion to Combined Cycle        49.0   155.2    204.2       76
- Transmission Lines & Substations        14.2    66.0      80.2     82
- Distribution Equipment                   3.1    13.1      16.2      81
- Engineering & Project Management        12.1     9.1      21.2     43
- Studies & Training                       0.6     4.0       4.6     87
Base Cost (January 1993 prices)         79.0   247.4    326.3       76
Physical Contingency                     7.4    24.2      31.7      76
Price Contingency                        6.3    19.0      25.3      75
Total Project Cost                      92.7   290.6     383.3      76
Interest During Construction             0.0    30.6      30.6    100
(IDC)
Total Project Cost + IDC                92.7   321.1    413.9       78
NOTE: Figures may not add-up as they are rounded to the first decimat place.
4.9         The base cost is in January 1993 prices using estimates by
Monenco-Iran (para. 4.14) for the Qom combined cycle component; and by IPO for
the studies and training components.  These estimates were reviewed during
post-appraisal and are considered to be reasonable, based upon international
comparisons and site conditions in Iran. The detailed cost estimates are
shown in Annex 4.7. Physical contingencies have been added at the rate of 10
percent for equipment and civil works for the Qom combined cycle component.
Price contingencies have been added to the base cost using the inflation rate
projections shown in Table 4.2 below.
Table 4.2: Inflation Projections
1993    1994    1995     1996     1997    1998
Local               23.0   18.1      14.2     12.4     10.6    13.4
Foreign              3.8    1.9       2.7      3.4      3.6     3.6
E. Finuncina Plan
4.10        The financing plan for the project is summarized in Table 4.3 and
is detailed in Annex 4.8. Bank funding would cover the full foreign exchange
requirements of the Qom combined cycle add-on, except for civil works, the
HRSG packages, the substation and the transmission line interconnector to the
grid. Bank financing would also cover the full foreign exchange requirements
for the studies, training and for distribuition equipment. The Bank loan would
be to TREC with a maturity of 17 years, including 5 years grace. TREC would



17
on-;.end US$4.6 million to IPO for the studies and training components using
the same terms as the Bank loan. IPO would bear the full foreign exchange and
interest rate risks. Execution of a subsidiary loan agreement. between TREC
and IPO. satisfactory to the Bank. would be a condition of loan effectiveness.
For the HRSG package, suppliers' credit or export credit agency funding would
be requested, with the Bank financing the 15 percent downpayment. TREC would
finance 100 percent of the cost for substation and transmission lines and the
local costs component of the Qom conversion to combined cycle from its own
resources. IPO would finance the local costs associated with the tech&nical
assistance component. Given that tariffs would be set on the basis of a
minimum self-financing capability of 40 percent, TREC would be able to finance
part of the foreign exchange costs from internally generated funds if
suppliers' credit was not available from the lowest evaluated responsive
bidder. However, all prequalified suppliers for the HRSG package have
indicated that they will be able to offer suppliers' credit with their bid.
Purino neooti-tions. assurances were obtained from TREC on the financina olan.
and a suspension clause would be introduced in the loan documents. should
adecuate cofinancina and/or other arrangementl to cover the needed foreian
exchancie satisfactory to the Bank. not be available in a timely manner.
Table 4.3: Financing Plan
Source                           Local      Foreign       Total     X of Total
IBRD                             0.0        165.0        165.0        39.9
Supplier's Credit                0.0         47.8         47.8        11.5
MOE                              0.6          0.0          0.6         0.2
TREC                            92.1        108.4        200.4        48.4
Total                          92.7        321.1        413.9       100.0
Note: Figures may not add-up as they are rounded to the first decimat place.
F. Status of Proiect Preparation
4.11        The detailed engineering design was initiated in November 1991 by
Monenco-Iran for the combined cycle add-on at Qom based on a feasibility study
previously undertaken by local consultants. Following the review of the
engineering design report (Phase I) during appraisal in February 1992, the
Government appointed Monenco-Iran to undertake the detailed engineering
design, the preparation and isEue of bidding documents and bid review (Phase
II), Tender documents were issued in February 1993. Retroactive financing
of US$2.0 million would be included to cover the costs of consulting services
detailed engineering and tender document preparation.
G. Procurement
4.12        Materials and Eguipment.  All Bank-financed procurement for the
supply and installation of materials and equipment would be in accordance with
the Bank's Procurement Guidelines. Bank financing is proposed for the foreign
exchange component of the following packages:
1/    The HRSG package would be bid on a supply and finance basis, with the Bank
financing the 15 percent down payment. Should the lowest evaluated,
technically responsive bid not include financing, TREC would .-e its own
resources to finance the gap.



18
(a)   the main package for the Qom combined cycle add-on, including the
steam turbines and air condensers, electrical eyetems,
instrumentation and controls and the balance of plant equipment;
(b)   the HRSG package for the Qom combined cycle add-on (including
embedded materials and steel structures for the civil works
package), to be bid upon separately on a supply-and-erect basis;
bid documents have requested suppliers' credit financing on a
optional basis (para. 4.10), and Bank proceeds would be used for
the 15 percent downpayment; and
(c)   the distribution equipment package would include computerized
information and customer billing/collection, planning analysis
systems equipment, software and englneering services for design
and implementation.
Except for small-value items, International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
according to Bank Procurement Guidelines would be followed for the above
packages. However, miscellaneous items such as water supply, lighting and
HVAC would be bid as separate packages common to (a) and (b) under ICB. For
performance guarantee reasons, the main package (a) would be procured as a
single responsibility contract under ICB on a supply-and-erect basis. The
contractors for packages (a) and (b) would be responsible for the detailed
engineering design of related civil works and would supply the associated
embedded parts. Local contractors are competent and costs of construction are
below international market rates. As the size of the civil works package
(US$14.4 million) is too small to attract interest from foreign contractors,
it would be procured under Local Competitive Bidding (LCB), but foreign firms
may bid if they wish to do so.   Such LCB procedures were reviewed and found
acceptable to the Bank for the contract.
4.13        Substation.   Procurement of the substation and transmission lines
are underway using TREC procurement procedures that are similar to the Bank's
limited international bidding procedures. The TREC procedures were reviewed
by the Bank and found to be satisfactory. TREC would finance 100 percent of
the substation and transmission lirnes package on a supply-and-erect contract.
TREC has demonntrated a satisfactory capability for supervising and managing
such contracts.
4.14        Technical Assistance.  The technical assistance services would
follow Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants in Bank-financed projects.
Bank financing is proposed for the foreign exchange component of the following
packages:
(a)   consulting services for the supervision and construction
management of the Qom conversion to combined cycle component; and
(b)   consulting services for the studies and training components.
TREC used the services of Monenco-Iran for Phase I (feasibility and
engineering design). In the interest of project efficiency, Monenco-Iran
would be retained as consultants under the Bank's Guidelines on the use of
Consultants to assist TREC in Phase II, i.e., bid document preparation, bid
award, construction supervision and commissioning of the project.



19
4.15        Bidding documents and recommendations for the award of contracts
would be prepared by TREC with the assistance of thelr   consultants (para.
4.14). Contra-to for goods and works financed under the Bank loan valued at
US$2 million o  more would be subject to prior review by the Bank.  Three
bidding packages for equipment, estimated to cover about 91 percent of the
value of Bank-financed equipment and material contracts would be based on ICB.
The smaller Bank-financed contracts would be subject to selective post-award
review. Local manufacturers would be expected to bid for some categories of
equipment for which domestic preference of 15 percent or the corresponding
import duty, whichever is lees, wouLd be applied in the comparison of bids.
All packages are expected to be awarded by November 1993. Procurement
arLangements are summarized in Table 4.4 and details are provided in Annex
4.9(Attachments 1 and 2).
Table 4.4: Procurement Arrangement
(USS M11ion)
Procurement Methoc
Total
ICB   LE     ~Other */ N B F. b/ Cogt
Civil Works                                14 4                          14 4
0.0
Equipment & Materials         223.9                             4.1     228.0
(136.3)                                  (136.3)
Transmission lines &
Substations                                              93.3      93.3
Distribution Equipment        14.0                     1.0      3.5      18.5
(14.0)                  (1.0)             (15.0)
Project Management                                     9.5      14.7      24.2
& owner's  Admin. c/                             (9.5)              (9.5)
Studies                                                4.1                 4.1
(3.6)              (3.6)
Training                                                0.8                0.8
(0.6)              (0.6)
Total                  237.9       14.4       15.4    llS.6      383.3
(150.31                (14.71            (165.01
NOTE: Figures !n parentheses to be financed by the Bank.
Figures may not add-up as they are rounded to the first decimal place.
A/  Shopping and ConsuLting Services.
bi  Non-Bank Financed.
S/   IIncludes USS2.0 million retroactive financing (para. I4.11).



20
H. Disbursements
4.16        The proceeds of the loan would be disbursed over a period of five
years (FY94-FY98) on the following basis:
(a)   100 percent of the foreign expenditures for the supply and
installation of the main equipment for the Qom combined cycle add-
on, except for the HRSG equipment;
(b)   100 percent of the foreign expenditures for the down payment for
the supply and installation for the HRSGs equipment and for the
embedded materials and steel structures of the civil works package
at Qom;
(C)   100 percent of the foreign experditures for the supply and
installation of computerized information and customer billing,
planning analysis equipment and associated engineering services;
and
(d)   100 percent of foreign expenditures for consulting services,
technical assistance and training.
4.3-        The disbursement schedule is summarized in Table 4.5 and detailed
in Annex 4.10. It generally follows the EMENA (MENA and ECA) power sector
disbursement profile adjusted to take into account advance payments made while
opening a Special Account and the disbursement against down payments for about
16 percent of the loan amount in the early stages of project implementation.
The disbursement schedule is two years shorter than the standard disbursement
profile for the power sector as this project is limited to the add-on of
equipment to an existing plant. In order to enable prompt payments to be made
to the contractors and consultants, the Bank would advance funds, as needed,
to the Special Account to be opened in a commercial bank in Iran for a maximum
amount of US$5 million; this would cover the Bank's share of eligible
expenditures over a period of 4 months. Payments from the Special Account
would only be made for eligible expenditures indicated in the loan agreements.
The account would be d'enominated in US dollars and replenished against
withdrawal applications of at least US$1,000,000. Applications with
appropriate supporting documents would be submitted when approximately half of
the maximum allocated amount of the account had been spent, or quarterly,
whichever occurred first. Disbursement under the project would be made
against standard documentation except for contracts for goods and works of
US$50,000 equivalent or less, which would be claimed under Statements of
Expenditure (SOE). Related supporting documents for SOE claims would be
retained at TREC headquarters and made available for inspection by Bank
missions and project auditors. The loan closing date would be June 30, 1998.
Table 4.5: Estimated Disbursement
(US$ Million)
FY94     FY95     FY96    FY97      FY98
Annual                   27.0     58.9     53.6    21.3       4.2
Cumulative               27.0     85.9    139.5   160.8    165.0
Percentage               16.4X    52.1X    84.5X   97.5X   100.0X
NOTE: Figures may not add-up as they are rounded to the first decimal place.



21
I. Monitoring and Sugervision
4-18        It is estimated that at least 20 staff weeks per year for half
yearly supervision missions would be required during the first 2 years of
project execution and at least 14 staff weeks per year thereafter. The
supervision mission would include a thermal power plant engineer, a
procurement specialist (for the initial missions) and a financial analyst.
TREC would be responsible for preparing documents for Bank supervision
missions, quarterly progress reports to the Bank during project implementation
and a Project Completion Report within six months of project completion.
J. Environment
4.19        The Iranian Environmental Protectici Organization (IEPO) has been
established along the lines of the United States Environmental Protection
Agency (EPA) to review environmental matters on behalf of the Government.
Fuel usage, and the consequential thermal plant emissions, and water usage are
the primary environmental concerns. TREC engaged consultants to undertake an
Environmental Analysis (EA) for the Qom project to determine the environmental
impact of the plant and recommend an environmental mitigation plan, a summary
of which, is included as Annex 4.11. As a result of the Bank's review of the
EA, TREC agreed to undertake a study of groundwater resources and the impact
of the plant on these resources and other potential users. This study was
completed in March 1992 and forwarded to the Bank; it indicated that the
project would have no adverse impact on competing needs for water resources.
The study indicated that the level of pollutants from natural gas use and the
increased efficiency associated with combined cycle operations would minimize
the environmental impact. Further, dry cooling using air condensers would not
have any thermal discharge impact and would use no water for cooling (except
for make-up). In addition, general seismicity concerns in Iran, from the
point of safety and stability, would be addressed in the design of the project
structures. The project is assigned to environmental Category B on the basis
that: (a) it has no incremental fuel usage; (b) there are minimal cooling
water needs; and (c) there are no resettlement issues.
4.20        Air Quality.   The site for the Qom combined-cycle plant is within
the land area approved by IEPO for the construction of the gas turbine plant.
The city of Qom, located 15 km away, is predominantly a religious center, and
there are no major industrial activities in the area. Currently the only
source of NOx, C02 and S02 emissions is the low-to-moderate truck traffic on
the Tehran-Arak road. TREC would use natural gas with low hydrogen sulphide
(3.9 ppm) as a primary fuel for the gas turbines. The combined cycle add-on
would use heat from unfired heat recovery boilers installed at the exhaust of
the gas turbines and would not require additional fuel. There would be,
therefore, no additional emissions resulting from the combined cycle add-on.
4.21        Water Resource*.  The Qom region is dry and barren with an annual
precipitation of less than 150 mm. The plant would use air-cooled condensers
to minimize water needs. Water supply requirements would be drawn from two
wells located about 0.7 and 1.2 km from the plant site. TREC has completed
studies that indicate that adequate water would be available from the wells
for plant operation, including boiler makeup, potable, fire fighting and
landscaping needs. Well water would be treated for the plant process as well
as for potable needs. Plant wastewater would be minimized by recycling and
would consist mainly of pretreatment (reverse osmosis) of rejects, including
boiler blowdowns, demineralization and condensate plant-polishing regeneration



22
waters.  Rejects would  J.:.  -: -.
be collected in a      ...
settling pond and           uromta  movietThohEfday
treated to remove any    X        the t.tl  of the pe -       -lies, the
contaminants; the         ,t ita                                    he,
clean effluent would     f     o project design is efficiency --
then be disposed of in    UficiecyImpovemet. goal arxetd to             .....
a solar evaporator pit   dec.e-se t- o fs yand hen.e.t.. .
after sampling to        ira   re remen-av and                    nmdecreaseei en at
ensure compliance with   c'o caused b  f   use  The efficiency of,,man
environmental  of the gas turbines c~~~~~urrently operatin  i the
requirements. Any         y  _      u        b  b       _  t     age and
organic (oil) waste                atenance re i - from.'the war wit'h
going~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ra to                    Om. he war. w.
would  be   separated   ... ........          . . ....
prior to the effluent     r  adtaeebros              ou1,5MWfgs
packaged, biological-  '.e''i'red and',^:,,'.. some e.take *O of  'e.ic tfor
type o ank on-site.      co. dces  environne
4.22       ToiLat   E    eve more da atc  fh  _o plan  tetU.ien
HazardoUs Substance                 .bb        . .. 'e'n  (relati`e "t a
ponagd.u... TREC has    sge                3'.. -rn     i  zs. '.Q..-
plant transformerrs   ~     Oi Pf 5kwh orod d  the total imac R  the
would be oil cooled        o        qxpected te          n dras--
and would not contain   'df erion. ofabou,t0.3 iliocntonser year x   .
any PCDs. The~~~~~~~~~~~~.OnfV.:A
building codes        ~.\ ................................ .. a
prohibit the use of
asbestos as
construction material. ucnannegotiations. TREC a.ree.d to develo .
Hanadothe   Subsaneo aadu  aeras   uha  rnfomrcoat.lb
oial.etMC.. b      on  lPlsmlar to US EPA) cuidelines.  TREC would urs only
approved fertilizers and pesticides for landscaping to minimize the
contamination of groundwater resources.
4.23       Pllc  ftod   .  The project structures would be designed for
appropriate earthquako loading, based on local geotechnical and seismic data.
srun neotionatiisl. TREC acreed to develop, bv March 1993. orocedures and
soecifications for remedial actions to deal with fires and other emeroensv
situations in conformity with Iranian naitional standards.
a.  Prolece Manaaement and Implementation
4.24 Pe.b ect onagePment.  TREC would implement the Qom combined cycle
component converieon, and SPO would implement the technical assistance
component. TREC has appointed Monenco-Iran to assist in engineering design
and bidding document proparatron for the conversion of gas turbines at Qom to
combined cycle.  At prement, the proj site is being readied for the
installation of the four gas turbines. The consulting engineering firm of
Ghodes Niroo ie assieting HHI in the erection and commissioning  of the gas
turbines.   Monenco-Iran prepared tho engineering studies for the Qom
convralion to combined cycle, which was reviewed during apprateal and found
Ratinfactory. nonenco-Iran would finalize the design, assist TREC in the



23
preparation of bidding documents for the various procurement packages and
evaluate bids and contract awards.
4.25        Project Implementation.  The project implementation schedule is
shown in Annex 4.12 with a project completion date of June 30, 1996. Annex
4.13 shows the reporting requirements and the supervision planned by the Bank.
The documents listed in the Annex would assist IPO and TREC in providing the
quarterly reports required by the Bank for project supervision. Durina
necotiations. assurances were obtained from TREC that it would take the
followina measures in a timely manner to achieve the oroiect's obiectives:
(a)   continue to employ engineering consultants, satisfactory to the
Bank, throughout the project implementation period (para. 4.24);
(b)   comply with environmental standards and adopt an emergency
mitigation plan (paras. 4.19, 4.22 and 4.23);
(c)   revalue assets using a methodology acceptable to the Bank; the
results of this revaluation would be reported annually as a note
to the audited balance sheet for each year starting in FY93 (para.
5.9);
(d)   increase its billing frequency of residential customers to at
least every two months by March 30, 1994, with interim bills based
on estimated consumptions (para. 5.12);
(e)   ensure the completion of:
(i)   the Commercialization-Privatization study by June 30, 1994;
(ii) the Thermal Power Plant Rehabilitation Study by June 30,
1995; and
(iii) the Energy Sector Development Study by June 30, 1994.
(f)   following the joint review of the Commercialization-Privatization
Study by TREC, IPO and the Bank, TREC would prepare and review
with the Bank, no later than September 30, 1994, an action program
for the commercialization of its operations and for an increase in
private sector participation in operations, maintenance and
financial affairs.



24
V. FINAICIAL ASPECTS
A. Financial Position of Borrower
5.1         TREC recent financial statements are presented in Annex 5.1. TREC
has a very low debt:equity ratio, a high self-financing capability and a good
liquidity position. When its payments to IPO are considered as part of its
internal cash generation, TREC can demonstrate, for the last two years, a high
level of internal cash generation relative to its fixed capital investment.
However, the return on fixed assets would be unacceptably low if fixed assets
were to be revalued at an estimated unified exchange rate.
Table 5.1: TREC - Financial Coefficients, FY87-91
FY87 FY88 FY89 FY90 FY91
Return on Sales - X
- Operating Income  22.9  18.5 38.3  45.7 S8.7
- Net Income        15.5  13.2  9.6  17.9  13.4
Return on Assets - % 1/   4.8  3.r 10.0 11.2 24.0
Internat cash generation
to fixed Investment - % 2/ 270.1 (47.0) 160.5 116.5 147.3
Debt service coverage
Oebt:equlty ratio   19:81 9:91 9:91  8:92 20:80
Current ratio        2.4  4.2  4.6  3.8  3.3
Source: TREC
1/ Originat Cost Basis
2/ Based on 3 year average for investments
5.2         Though TREC, the borrower, is legally constituted as an
independent entity and functions as such in carrying out its day-to-day
operating activities, its current financial structure and recent financial
performance is largaly the result of decisions taken by MOE. TREC and the
other sector enterprises have little control over tariffs, financing strategy
or the allocative mechanisms that redistribute operating surpluses.
5.3         The profit and loss statements of sector enterprises do not give
an accurate picture of their financial structure and performance since they
fail to adequatPly reflect the cost of capital. First, depreciation charges
are inadequate since they are based on the low historic costs of imported
capital goods, which were purchased at the overvalued official exchange rate.
Therefore, large adjustments would be required if the balance sheets of sector
enterprises were to reflect the value of their assets based on either the
competitive or free market rate. Second, for reasons discussed below, the
reported charges for the use of capital (e.g., interest expenses) are almost
negligible.
5.4         The only debts enterprises in the sector owe are to the
Government. None of these debts have carried interest charges or are subject



25
to amortization. During the 1980s, most of the investment in generation and
transmission was financed by government contributions from the budget, as the
transfer price paid by the RECe to TAVANIR did not permit significant levels
of self-financing. Since 1989, the situation has completely changed, with
nearly 100 percent of investments being self-financed on a sector-wide basis.
In addition, the Government is currently studying ways of changing this by
treating some budget transfers as equity and the rest as debt with commercial
rates.
5.5         The accounts of the sector enterprises are based on a code of
accounts established almost 30 years ago. Though the accounts are detailed
and comprehensive, an inflexible use of these codes has often led to an
inappropriate classification of balance sheet and income statement items. The
statutory published accounting statements do not include a statement of
sources and application of funds. The accounts of the sector enterprises have
not been subject to timely and regular auditing, although they are
periodically examined by the audit branch of the Ministry of Finance. To
address this problem, the Ministry of Finance has hired independent private
accounting firms to undertake audits on its behalf. Finally, payments to IPO
are not treated in the manner normally associated with levies and taxes.
Instead, RECs carry the cumulative amount of their IPO contributions as part
of their equity reserves, and the difference between levies to IPO and
contributions from IPO is carried as an investment on the asset side of their
balance sheet. As a result, it may be argued that both assets and reserves
are inflated. The role and ownership of IPO will be addressed in the
commercialization-Privatization Study (para. 4.7), while the treatment of IPO
levies in TREC accounts will be reviewed by TREC auditors. The Government
also proposes to remove the IPO levies and set prices, including transfer
prices, based on commercial principles.
5.6         It is significant that there have been no reports from TREC
concerning revenue collection problems. Government and industry customers are
billed 10 times per year.  However, TREC bills its other customers only every
third month due to inadequate data processing capabilities. The average
collection period for TREC at the end of FY90 was 3.5 months. This suggests
that once bills are issued, they are promptly paid. However, it also suggests
that as total sales grow, TREC may fall farther behind on its monthly payments
to TAVANIR. For example, TREC accounts payable to TAVANIR at the end of FY90
were Rials 0.87 billion, or about 0.4 months of purchases. However, by
December 1991, the accounts payable had increased to almost Rials 6.0 billion,
or 2.8 months of purchases. Accounts receivable and billing problems are
being addressed at the sectoral level with a study to be carried out by
internationally experienced consultants and by measures to be undertaken by
TREC (para. 5.12). The suggestions made by the study would be implemented on
a pilot basis at Khorason REC and, if successful, would be transferred on a
later date to other RECs. In addition, consideration is being given by TREC
to the establishment of a series of branch offices to assist with revenue
collection. The project would finance technical assistance to TREC for
improving their billing and collection systems (para. 4.6).
B. Financial Tareets
5.7         The foremost principle guiding the establishment of targets was to
achieve a level of financial soundness that would be adequate to attract
private capital. The financial targets would: (i) establish financing based
on commercial principles; (ii) generate adequate funds to finance the
investment plan; (i4i) maintain a balance sheet that reflects current asset



26
values; (iv) generate a return on capital sufficient to attract private sector
investment; (v) increase discipline in collections and payments; and (vi)
adequately provide for debt service.
5.8         The proposed Commercialization-Privatization Study (para. 4.7) is
designed to establish financial criteria that would be adequate to attract
private sector financing. However, certain actions can be taken prior to the
completion of this study to facilitate the transition to private ownership.
To establish confidence in the utilities' accounts. TREC aareed durina the
negotiations. to submit audited financial statements no later than six months
after the end of each fiscal years in addition. TREC agreed to have its
accounts and financial statements audited. in accordance with ayyroyriate
auditing principles consistently apolied by independent auditors satisfactory
to the Bank.
5.9         As in most countries, Iran's accounting standards are based on
historically valued assets. Given the substantial devaluation expected in the
exchange rate over the near term, restating the balance sheet based on current
values is important to determine the real return on capital.  During
negotiations. TREC aareed to revalue its fixed assets usina a methodoloov
acceotable to the Banks the results of this revaluation would be regorted
annually as a note to the audited balance sheet for each year startina in
FY93.
5.10        As a result of the reconstruction program, the persistent load
shedding problem and the substantial economic and population growth,
investment in the power sector is expected to be unusually high over the near
term.  The Government is actively rddressing Whis issue by gradually raising
tariffs to boost internal cash generation and by seeking outside financing
sources for the sector's foreign exchange needs. In order to establish a
feasible financing cRlan. including adeauate-levels of self-financina. TREC
agreed. during neaotiations that:
(a)   it would generate, for each fiscal year, after the fiscal year
starting in FY94, funds from internal sources equivalent to not
less than 40 percent of the annual average of the capital
expenditures expected to be incurred by the Borrower for that
fiscal year, the previous fiscal year and the next fiscal year
(for FY93 the target would be set at 20 percent);
(b)   before November 20 of each fiscal year, TREC would review its
financial forecasts for the next fiscal year, with respect to the
target set forth in paragraph (a) and would furnish a copy of the
review to the Bank; and
(c)   if any such review shows that TREC would not meet the requirements
set forth in paragraph (a) for the next fiscal year, the Borrower
would promptly take all necessary measures (including adjustments
of the structure and levels of prices) in order to meet such
requirements.
5.11        In order that TREC can comfortably satisfy its debt service
requirements, a debt service coverage target has also been established.
Durina neaotiations. the Government and TREC confirmed that. exce=t as the
Bank shall otherwise aoree. to maintain a debt service coverage ratio. for
each fiscal year startinq in FY93. of no less than 1.5.



27
5.12        TREC accounts receivable and accounts payable to TAVANIR are
unacceptably high. The practice of billing many of its consumers every three
months contributes to this problem. This problem is being addresaed by
financing under the loan the purchase of computerized information and customer
billing/collection systems. To improve the situation, TREC confirmed. durina
negotiations that:
(.)  it would increase its billing frequency of its residential
customers to at least every two months by March 20, 1994, with
interim bills based on estimated consumption;
(b)   no later than March 20, 1994, it would take actions to enable it
to reduce its accounts receivable to three months' sales
equivalent; and
(c)   it would maintain its accounts payable to TAVANIR at an amount no
more than the equivalent of two months of its purchases from
TAVANIR.
5.13        The above actions are designed to help lay the groundwork for
privatization. The Commercialization-Privatlzation Study would look closely
at the structure of the sector, labor, capital and tariffe, institutional
autonomy and the regulatory framework necessary for privatization, along with
ways to involve private sector participation. Durino neootiations: (i) the
Government confirmed that the results of the Commercialization-Privatization
Study would be reviewed iointlv by the Bank, and an action olan for
imolementino the aareed recommendations of the study would be oreoared for
review with the Bank no later than September 30. 1994: and (ii) TREC would be
asked to orecare and submit to the Bank. no later than Seotember 30. 1994. an
action plan for commercialization includina increased orivate sector
2articioation in its ooerations.
C. Proiected Financial Performanee
5.14        TREC pro forma net income, cash flow and balance sheet statements
covering the period FY87-FY97 are presented in Annex 5.1, and the results are
summarized in Table 5.2, below. The assumptions used in preparing the
financial projections are detailed in Annex 5.2. In particular the
assumptions reflect the Government's stated intentions to: (i) remove the
exchange rate subsidy (therefore, the projections are based on a floating
exchange rate of Rials 1450/US$ for FY93, adjusted by the differential between
the domestic and foreign inflation estimates for subsequent years); (ii)
increase electric_ty tariffs in order to reach LRMC by FY96; (iii) increase
fuel prices to either domestic marginal cost or to world price levels by FY98;
(iv) convert into debt a portion of the Government's past contributions to
investments; and (v) ensure that any future contributions to sector
enterprises are provided as loans on commercial terms. On this basis, it is
projected that TREC returns on fixed assets wlll improve due to higher
tariffs, but its self-financing ratio will decrease as the large implicit
subeidy on foreign exchange expenditures is removed. It is estimated that
under the current assumptions, for FYs 1994, 1995 and 1996, annual tariff
increases of about 100 percent would be required in order for electricity
tariffs to reach LRMC for FY96 while maintaining an internal cash generation
ratio of at least 40 percent for FY94 and thereafter. However, the actual
size of increase necessary in a given year wouald depend upon: (a) the unifLed
exchange rate as determined by the market, (b) the actual inflation outcome,
(c) the fuel prices, and (d) the investment needs. The combined effect of



28
these outcomes may call for higher or lower tariff increases. The March 1996
target for achieving the LRMC may need to be reviewed in light of
sustainability and social impact of massive tariff increases year after year.
Table 5.2: TREC - Projected Financial Coefficients, FY92-97
with FY91 (actual)
FY91 FY92 FY93 FY94 FY95 FY96 FY97
Return on Sates - X
- Operating Income  58.7 56.8 68.4 22.1 38.2 20.3  9.0
- Net Income        13.4 (0.0) (8.5) 3.2  7.5  2.6 (3.2)
Return on Fixed Assets
in service   -X I/   23.5 23.1 18.5  7.0 19.7 17.4  6.5
Internal cash generation
to fixed investment - X 147.3 281.7 110.0 40.1 48.1 S2.8 106.8-
Debt service coverage 2/           34.5  2.2  2.3  1.6
Debt:equity ratio 3/
- as stated          0.2  0.2  0.1  1.5' 1.3  1.1. 1.0
- including qyast equity  0.0  0.2  0.1  1.3  1.1  0.9 -0.8
Current ratio         3.3  2.8  3.3  2.5  2.0  1.9 1A.8
Tariff Increase
- nominal           69.4 10.7 50.0 100.5 100.5 100.5 11.5
- real              47.2 (7.5) (4.3) 66.5 72.8 77.0  0.0
Avg. Tariff/LRHC          0.21 0.20 0.33~ 0.56; 1.00 1.00
11 Assumes assets are revalued In FV93
2i Debt service negligible prior to FY94X
3/Assumes that SO of subordinated coumercialization loan cn be-
coauted as eqJity.
5.15         As shown above, if TREC is allowed to increase tariffs to the
level of LRMC by FY96, it should be able to comply with the 40 percent
internal cash generation target and service the equivalent of US$532 million
in new foreign debt (see Table 5.3), including its share of the Bank loan
(i.e., US$161 million), and still maintain sound balance sheet ratios.
D.   Financing Plan
5.16         The sources and applications of funds for TREC over the period
FY93-FY97 is presented in Table 5.3, below. In order to finance the
generation and transmission components of their investment programs, while
maintaining tariffs at or near LRMC levels, it was found that TREC may have to
borrow as much as 85 percent of the foreign exchange component of its fixed
investments. On this basis, TREC projected sources and application of funds
for the period FY93 through FY97 are summarized below.



29
Table 5.3: TREC - Financing Plan, FY93-97
(US$ millions)
SOgrCeS of Funds            Amt.   x
Cash from Operations       811  65.8
Customer Connection Charges  353  28.6
Less:
- Debt service              455  (36.9)
- increase in Working capitat  57  (4.7)
Internal'Cash generation   652  52.9
Other sources
- IPO                       50   4.1
* Wortd Bank Loan           161  13.0
- Other Investment Loans   371  30.0
Total sources 1_234  100.0
Applications
'' PO Levy
- *Fixed Assets
Foreign                   625  50.7
:.Local                   241   19.5
C apitalized interest     97   7.9
lotal Fixed Assets        963  78.1
Total A tications         1,108  89.8
Net Cash plow               126  10.2
5.17        In addition to the World Bank loan, TREC will need to mobilize
other investment loans totalling over US$371 million over FY93-97 period.
Shortfalls in the availability of such loans would necessitate that additional
revenues be generated from higher tariffs, equity injections or loans from the
Government on commercial terms. Given that exchange rate reforms would
increase budget flows for exports currently denominated at the official
exchange rate, funding prospects from the local capital markets are expected
to be substantially increased. Any future dividends would have to be paid out
of net cash flow, which is projected to be rather small relative to projected
TREC equity capital at the end of FY97 (US$1.1 billion). The proposed
Commercialization-Privatization Study would determine adequate levels for a
return-on-equity to attract pr!;att capital, and it is possible that
implementing the findings of the study could either drive tariffs to levels
higher than those projected or, alternatively, require that assets be sold for
less than their projected net book value.
E. Insurance
5.18        Since, at present, all sector enterprises are considered to be
part of HOE, the sector enterprises qelf-insure their physical assets.
Destruction resulting from war or natural disasters has, in the past, been
addressed by the Government. Given the objectives of commercializing and
eventually privatizing sector enterprises, insurance options would be
addressed in the Commercialization-Privatization Study. As the Government has



30
already demonstrated its willingness to finance the rebuilding of war damaged
facilities, self-insurance is considered to be acceptable, on an interim
basis, until the results of the study can be implemented.



31
VI. ECQNOMIC ANALYSIS
A. Damand
6.1         Electricity consumption in Iran increased by 17 percent per year
in the period immediately before the war (1970-80). During the war years
(1980-88), the growth of elrctricity consumption declined to 10 percent per
annum, with agricultural consumption growing at 23 percent per annum,
residential at 13 percent, commerclal at 11 percent and industrial at 4
percent. During the post-war period, electricity males increased 11 percent
per annum. However, relative changes occurred among sectoral consumerst
agricultural, residenitial and service demands grew less rapidly than earlier,
while industrial consumption grew at a substantially higher rate (see Table
6.1). These rapid growth rates are expected to decline because of electricity
price adjustments and the expected decrease of economic g.owth as the
reconstruction program matures. Table 6.1 below presents the demand forecast
for the 1991-2000 period under the projected tariff adjustment schedule.
Table 6.1:  Annual Growth Rates of Demand
Residential      20.3%     13.4%    11.4%      7.7%        4.6%
Industrial       15.2%     3.7%     12.3%      7.2%        4.5%
Commercial       16.9%     11.3%     9.9%      7.7%         1.7%
Agricultural     19.8%    23.3%     17.8%      6.9%         1.5%
Services         10.2%     11.0%     3.5%      8.4%        9.3%
Total            16.8%     10.4%    11.4%      7.5%        3.8%
Note: The 1991-2000 forecasts corresponds to the "Efficiency Pricing Scenario."
6.2         Several entities forecast electricity demand in Iran (see Table
6.2 for details). However, those prepared by MOE are used for investments as
MOE is responsible for system planning.  In the First Five-Year Plan, MOE had
forecast electricity demand to grow at about 11.9 percent per annum during the
1991-95 period and at 9.4 percent for the 1995-2000 period. MOE forecasts
were reviewed and found to be optimistic. Therefore, MOE, with Bank support,
has examined alternative forecast methodologies. Several factors have been
considered in forecasting demand: (1) the reconstruction program; (2)
increasing electricity prices; and (3) the load shedding problem. Given these
factors and the uncertainties facing the Iranian economy, alternative demand
scenarios were examined. Figure 6.1 presents the growth in demand from 1980
to 1990 and compares the original MOE forecast with the revised forecast for
the 1991-2000 period. The efficiency pricing scenario (EPS) assumes rapid
increases in rate levels (in real terms) consistent with understandings
reached with the Government. Table 6.2 presents the demand growth rates for
the different scenarios, along with the GDP growth assumed in the forecasts.
The table presents, for comparative purposes, an intermediate case - the
business as usual scenario (BAU) - estimating the future demand based on
tariff levels that remain constant in real terms.



32
Alternative Demand Forecasts
TWh        1980-2000
140
120.
40-
20-
0igW    [19-55'   1990    1995    200
Figure 6.1 Alternative Demand Forecasts
Table 6.2: Alternative Demand and GDP Forecasts
E___ __ __ __ __ _  __ __ __ __ __   I-   95-2000
Alternative Scenarios     MOE              11.9%        9.4%
BAU              12.6%       9.1%
EPS              7.5%        3.8%
Demand Growth Rates   Low GDP Growth        6.5%        2.1%
Base GDP Growth       7.5%         3.8%
High GDP Growth        9.1%        6.2%
GDP Growth Rates       Low Growth           3.5%        3.6%
Base Growth         6.0%        6.0% 
._______________ _ .High Growth          9.6%  .     9.5%  l
6.3         The EPS forecast is lower than the MOE forecast; largely due to
the fact that the MOE forecast model does not consider price elasticity
effects and assumes an average GDP growth of 8 percent per annum.   As the MOE
survey has shown, all forecasts consider the entrance of special loads
consisting mainly of large new industrial users, several of which are related
to the reconstruction effort. The higher demand growth in the first period is
explained by the reconstruction effort. Thus, as the rezonstruction effort
diminishes during the second half of the 1990s, the growth in demand slows as
well. A detailed demand forecast is provided in the project file.



33
B. Least-Cost Analysis
6.4         Based on demand forecacts that consider the projected increase in
tariffs, an optimization of the expansion of the generating capacity of the
interconnected system was carried out with the WASP model. The financial
costs were converted to economic costs by netting out taxes and other domestic
transfers and expressing the import content at c.i.f. prices. The costs
include all the required investments for the 10-year investment program, as
well as the value of the unserved energy due to random outages. The main
parameters employed in the least-cost analysis are presented in Annex 6.1.
The economic analysis presented in this chapter is based on a foreign exchange
rate of Rials 1450 = lUS$ for 1993.
6.5         The results of the analysis indicate that the Qom project forms
part of the least-cost expansion. A sensitivity analysis was carried out with
respect to the price of gas. Given that no economic estimate of the cost of
gas in Iran is available, an expansion plan with a price of gas of -:S$l.50 per
MBTU was developed. This sensitivity run showed that as natural gas price
declines, fewer combined cycle units become economically feasible; gas
turbines then become more attractive until a price of US$1.50 per MBTU is
reached, where future needs are divided between gas turbines and combined
cycle options. However, given that the analysis has not quantified the
environmental benefits that accrue to combined cycle add-ons (para. 6.6),
combined cycle conversions are expected to be more attractive than the other
alternatives. Table 6.3 presents the summary of the least-cost exercise.
Table 6.3: Results of Least-Cost Analysis
Plan  19941   1995 I    1996 I    1997                    1998 I   1999
'r2t1Plan CoAUS$12,634 million  :  -  :    . :.-                 : ..
Gas Turbines (100 MW)     2 |        l      l        l         l
Gas Turbines (120 MW)     2         T       I        T         I _
QomCC(IOOMW)               1         1 I_TII
Combined Cycle (100 MW)    1        T                T       8 
Shahid Montazeri (200 MW)  .. _     .               2        2
C. Cost-Benefit Analysis
6.6         A cost-benefit analysis was undertaken using the estimated costs,
excluding taxes and duties and price contingencies, and an annual operating
and maintenance cost stream equivalent to 2 percent of the capital costs. The
Qom component has no incremental fuel costs associated with it as the design
is based on a non-refired boiler. As the combined cycle plant would have the
highest operating efficiency of all thermal plants in the system, it is
assumed to be base-loaded, operating as many hoars as it is available.  The
analysis assumes that the plant would only have a 50 percent plant factor in
its first year of operation due to higher than average levels of maintenance
for inspection and teething problems. The output is assumed to increase to a



34
60 percent plant factor in its second year of operatlon and to a 70 percent
factor for the remainder of its first decade of operation. The plant factor
is forecast to decline to 60 percent during its second decade of operation and
to 50 percent for its last decade. The benefit stream is valued using
projected tariffs at the generation level based on meeting the proposed
financial targets as a proxy for benefits. The results indicate that the
project's ERR is 17 percent. The project also includes an implicit
envircnmental benefit in decreasing CO2 production from power plants.  The
estimated annual reduction of CO2 would be 0.3 million tonnee/year, which
would increase the benefits by approximately US$6 million p.a. / This
benefit has not been included in the economic analysis because of the
difficulty in valuing C02 reductions.
D. Risks
6.7         The main risks associated with the project are: (a) failure to
continue with electricity price reform; (b) market growth below that forecast;
and (c) cost overruns. If electricity prices are only increased to 80 percent
of LRMC at the generational level (estimated at 4.5 US cents/kWh), the EIRR
would drop to 14 percent. As noted in para. 5.14, the estimated amount of
tariff increases that would be necessary to attain LRMC by March 1996, is
large (about 100 percent for each of the next three years). There is a
genuine risk that such large increases may not be socio-economically
sustainable - the Government's commitment notwithstanding.  Under such
circumstances, the target date may be extended and the gap between the
domestic tariffs and the LRMC may close slower than expected. However, the
sensitivity analysis shows that to bring the EIRR down to 10 percent, prices
at the generation level would have to be less than 2.8 US cents/kWh. Given
the Government' s demonstrated commitment to reform, this appears to be a low
risk. The risk that market growth will be lses than anticipated is also
expected to be small. The demand forecast used for the least-cost analysis
and the cost-benefit analysis is conservative and the lowest of all analyses
undertaken to date. However, should the demand growth not develop as
forecast, the implementation schedule for gas turbine plants can be varied to
respond to changes in demand. In addition, much of the equipment for
committed plants are to be supplied from countries suffering from substantial
internal turmoil (Former Soviet Union and Eastern Europe). This is likely to
delay the implementation of other generating plants, further emphasizing the.;
need for the project. Hence the risk of slower than forecast demand growth is
manageable. Should project implementation be delayed by one year, the EIRR
would be 15 percent. The project cost would have to increase by more than 61
percent to result in an EIRR of less than 10 percent. Given that the design
is based on standard equipment, which is readily available and for which there
are numerous suppliers, the likelihood of such a cost overrun is small.
J/ This benefit is based on a conservative estimate of the economic value of
CO2 reduction of US$20/tonne.



35
VII. AGRUEMENTS REACHED DURING NEGOTIATIONS AND RECOMMENDATION8
7.1         purl-no neaotiatLons, the Government agreed that it would:
(a)   enable TREC to fulfill its financial targets (paras. 5.10 and
5.211) and
(b)   review the Commercialization-Privatization Study jointly with the
Bank and develop an action plan for implementing the agreed
recommendations of the study for review by September 30, 1994
(para. 5.13).
7.2         During negotiations, TREC agreed on the followings
(a)   it would cover the foreign exchange needs, with cofinancing or
other arrangements, should the proposed suppliers' credit not be
available in a timely manner (para. 4.10), failure to do so would
be a cause for suspension of disbursements;
(b)   TREC would take all actions necessary to carry out a Project
Implementation Plan satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.25);
(c)   to support the commercialization process, independent auditors
would be employed to audit TREC accounts, and this audit would be
furnished to the Bank no later than six months after the end of
each fiscal year (para. 5.8);
(d)   TREC fixed assets would be revalued and would be reported annually
as a note to the audited balance sheet for each year starting in
FY93 (para. 5.9);
(e)   TREC would produce, for each fiscal year, funds from internal
sources equivalent to not less than 20 percent of the three-year
rolling average of its capital expenditures for FY93 and 40
percent for FY94 and thereafter (para. 5.10);
(f)   TREC would maintain a debt service coverage ratio, for each fiscal
year starting in FY93, of no less than 1.5 (para. 5.11);
(g)   that by no later than March 20, 1994, TREC would increase its
billing frequency for its residential consumers to at least every
two months, and that by no later than March 20, 1994, TREC would
take actions to enable it to reduce its accounts receivable to
three months' sales equivalent and its accounts payable to TAVANIR
to no more than the equivalent of two months of purchases (para.
5.12); and
(h)   that by no later than September 30, 1994, TREC would furnish to
the Bank its action plan for increasing commercialization and
initiating private sector participation in its operations (para.
5.13).
7.3      Execution of a subsidiary loan agreement, between the Borrower and
IPO, satisfactory to the Bank, would be a condition of loan effectiveness
(para. 4.10).



36
7.4      Subject to the above agreements, the proposed project is suitable for
a Bank loan of US$165.0 million to the Government of the Islamic Republic of
Iran. The loan would be for a term of 17 years, including a five-year grace
period, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.



37
Annex 1.1
Page I of 4
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DETAILS OF THE POWER SYSTEM IN IRAN
Introduction
1.       The power sector consists of three electrically isolated systems: (i)
the interconnected system (ICS); (ii) the Khorazan system (KS) in the
northeast; and (iii) the Sistan-Baluchistan system (SBS) in the southeast.
The ICS supplies electricity to most of the country, as indicated in the table
below.
1991 Peak      Installed Capacity          1991 Estimated
System       Demand (MWI         End FY90 (MWI          Load Sheddino 1MWM
ICS           10,137                 12,650                    1,000
KS                920                  1,320                       0
SBS               136                    305                       0
2.       After the end of the war with Iraq in 1988, the power sector entities
have been busy reconstructing assets that were destroyed. The technical staff
have done an excellent job in rebuilding plants, especially in light of the
limited access Lo spare parts resulting from trade sanctions.  The war also
took a toll on system reliability as major maintenance programs were deferred.
The thermal plant rehabilitation will be the focus of a study (para. 4.7,
Annex 4.4 for draft TOR).
3.       Generation planning has been eomewhat ad hoc based on independent
feasibility studies, which do not properly address the dynamic problems of
integrated system development. MOE has acquired the WASP computer program1/
and is in the process of strengthening its data base required to determine a
least-cost plan. Initial analyses have been reviewed and improvements are
being made. A major review and upgrade will be undertaken under the Energy
Sector Development Study (para. 4.7, Annex 4.2 for draft TOR).
4.       The backbone of the transmission system consists of 5,946 circuit km
(1991) of 400-kV lines and 14,361 circuit km (1991) of 230-kV lines. The
transmission system is currently inadequate. Plants in the southwest are run
below capacity while load is shed in the northwest. This bottleneck is
expected to be minimized as the balance of regional supply and demand is
addressed. The transmission constraint not only causes load shedding but also
1/    WASP (The Wien Automatic Simulation Program) was developed in the 1970s
by the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and is widely used by
power utilities to determine least-cost generation investment plans by
explicitly emulating the stochastic nature of operation of alternative
system plans and minimizing the sum of investment and operating costs
using dynamic programming.



38
Annx 1.1
Page 2 of 4
does not allow for least-cost system operation. The limited short-circuit
capacity of the substation is a major problem that constrains system
operation. Some of these problems are currently being addressed by the
addition of transmission and substation capacity, but theme are short-term
solutions. Long-term development of the tranmission grid will have to be
addressed in a future National Grid Study. In addition, the feasibility of
interconnecting the two isolated systems (KS and 8BS) to the ICS, and it's
optimal timing, will also have to be assessed.
Power Sector Background
5.       Electricity supply in Iran started with many small municipally or
privately owned power companies with generating plants that were operated by
industries. Tehran alone had 30 small companies and Tabriz had 6. The
Ministry of Water and Power was created in 1964, and the public electricity
supply facilities were nationalized in 1965. Industries retained their
captive power plants. In 1965 the sector was small, at about 400-MW total
load, with the largest steam plant being the 50 MW Tarasht plant in Tehran.
The power system grew rapidly after nationalization; by 1970 the country's
total generating capacity was about 2,100 NW, including 700 MW of captive
industrial plant.
6.       However, even in its early years of development, the sector suffered
from poor quality service. A 1971 Bank energy sector review noted there were
voltage and frequency reductions, load shedding of roughly 10 percent at peak
load and the overloading of generators. The causes of the poor service were a
high rate of load growth coupled with an inability to plan and commission
plants in time to meet the expanding electricity demand. The power supply
problems were aggravated by the lack of an interconnected system to share
generating reserve capacities and to coordinate hydro and thermal plant
outputs and integrated maintenance programs. System interconnection was
greatly assisted through the north to south 400-kV transmission lines
installed in the mid-1970s under Dank financing (Loan 856-IRN).
7.       The Bank's past participation in the development of the power sector,
through loans totalling US$201 million, is summarized as follows:
- Loan 247-IRN for US$42 million in 1960 financed the Dez multipurpose
project with four 65 MW units (later increased to eight) in Khuzestan
Province and created the Khuzestan Water and Power Authority.
- Loan 716-IRN for USS160 million in 1970 financed the rehabilitation
and expansion of distribution facilities on the TREC system.
- Loan 856-IRN for US$51 million to TAVANIR in 1972 financed 400-kV and
230-kV lines to connect the 1,000 MW Karun I hydro plant then under
construction, to interconnect the Pars area, and to strengthen the
north-south transmission.
- Loan 1001-IRN for US$58 million to TAVANIR in 1974 financed 400 MW of
gas turbines and a 400-kV line between Arak and Tehran.



39
Annex 1.1
Page 3 of 4
Installed Generating Capacity in 1991
8.       The demand for electricity in Iran has grown almost 10-fold over the
past 20 years, and today the demand is still supply-constrained. In 1991 the
total installed generating capacity (based on nameplate ratings) was 14,276
NW, of which about 90 percent was in the interconnected system. Thermal
plants (steam, gas turbine, diesel) made up 87 percent of total capacity as
shown below.
Plant t=pe               MW
Gas turbine             3,402                23.9
Steam                   8,255               57.8
Hydro                   1,915                13.4
Diesel                    704                4.9 1/
Total                  14,276              100.0
9.          The number of individual generating units at the country's three
power systems totalled 242 units (55 plants) in 1991, excluding diesel plants.
The details of plant locations and unit arrangements are shown as Attachments
to this Annex (Attachments 1 and 2).
Generation Capacitv Oueration
10.         The available generating capacity is being operated very
effectively by TAVANIR and the RECs, in spite of capacity limitations and
difficulties in arranging outages for maintenance. The plants are being
operated at high plant factors to maximize energy delivery to the system and
thus minimize load shedding. In 1990 the average plant factors on the ICS and
KS were as follows:
Annual Plant
System            Plant Tvoe           Factor %
ICS               Steam                    79.8
Gas Turbine             52.2
Hydro                   78.8
KS                Steam                    93.7
Gas Turbine             80.7
11.         This exceptionally high utilization record for available capacity
results not only from system overload but also from an effective performance
monitoring program at the national control center for power operations. All
unit outages and their causes are recorded and plant operators are urged to
achieve high utilization through competition and an award system, including
the regular reporting of the performance and achievements of each plant.
Annual availability factors for the highest individual units (96.9 percent for
steam, 99.8 percent for hydro and 98.3 percent for gas turbines) were reached
1] Diesel accounts for less than 1 percent of energy.



40
Annex 1.1
Page 4 of 4
in 1990. However, maintenance is being neglected in the interest of
maximizing output. Additional capacity is urgently needed to permit
maintenance, to eliminate load shedding and to establish a margin of
generating capacity reserve.
Suppressed Power Demand
12.         The electricity supply is being restricted about 10 percent on a
capacity basis and 3 percent on an energy basis. The unserved energy demand
was estimated to be about 2000 GWh in 1991, representing an economic loss of
US$1 billion based on an economic worth assumed to be US$0.50/kWh. The causes
of the power shortages are a mixture of inadequate generating capacity
reserve, transmission limitations, fuel shortages and water limitations at
hydro plants. However, the overriding cause is the eight-year war with Iraq
and the resulting delays in planning and installing additional generation,
transmission and fuel facilities in time to meet the growing demand for
electricity.
Transmission System
13.         Iran is a large country stretching 200 km west to east and 1,600
km north to south. The long distances require a large transmission grid even
though most of the population is concentrated in the western and northern
areas. Consequently, the light load in the eastern and central areas has not
warranted, to date, the linking of the two isolated systems in the east to the
interconnected system in the west. The existing 400-kV transmission comprises
118 lines totalling 14,361 circuit Kms. There are only two 400-kV north-south
transmission paths, and the capacity of these lines is inadequate to handle
the power flows required to balance load areas in the north and generation
sources in the south. An overall National Grid Study is required to address
this problem.



41
Annex 1.1
Attachment 1
CAPABILITY OF EXISTING POWER PLANTS ON THE
NATIONAL INTERCONNECTED SYSTEM IN 1991
(Installed Nameplate Capacity)
GAS-TURBINE POWER PLANTS                          STEAM POWER PLANTS
Units * NW                                 Units * NW
3*99         ZcR4RTfl SAT.TMT (NF.RA)    4*42a
R* YSAHITD MONTA7WR-CRARM                  4*156
3 *  - F      SRARTn RRWHSHTT             2* 12 7 .
_________________________  6*91          rRSAP                      3*99F
AWARTn MON 9TrAR-GRAWM         1*91            TRT4AT                     4*12 5
sRARTfl RHTrRT                  9*FF                                      O*w7
RWSAT                       91+9* 53                ISFAHAN             1*La
sTAHTn - FT1RO7T (TARASRT)     9*11           _*__0
RAS"TT                        9*23.5          -SAUY  MONT A79RT           4*20
*TSFAAN                        15+19                                      2*12 5
j rl*, MTTr.r. _              1*1R                  STEEL MILL            1*60
sT4r. Mk  00 0 f:X0       L   3*19                                         I *55 
flAKRTARAN                     2*2R            RAMTN                      2*?15
nonRon                         9*26             In 1*14
MANAn.                         9*20 *TaBRT7                                    7
NWRA (RSARTn SAT.TMT)       2*117+1*30         RANnAR-ARBAS                 *320
3                       )~~~~~~~~~~~~*91,  2 ARAMn                  2*3n
i*q R           AR-rTRBTMWH cOPPWR _j
SHIRAZ                1*1R              TOTAT, 9TRAM 7q9T,M
1 50;n        HYDRO POWER PLANTS Units * NW
2*11                                     __
__QR____"___                   2* .             HATn ARRAS-POtlR          4*g5n
fPA1RRT7___                    9*9A           nw7                          R*65 
SOOFTAN                        4*91            RFFIf ROF*
OROMTRRZ                       9*96           _AMTR-TCARTR                9*4F F
GUARA-MAT.WR (TARRT%           2*12           _.ATTAN                     9*92.5
RAcR MANUFACeTuRTNG          9*R           ARAS                         9*11
___nAR__  _     __AR__   2*91.                   YANnRW ROOfl
S;AR-L%W.9RMTra                x*1            MAWARAnf
yAhn                           4*90            RAT.AN                     ?*385
COAT. PRQCERiTNp                1*0            nORQOnnAN                  2*9.5
TOTAL GAS-TURBINE           2702              TOTAL HYDRO               1915
DIESEL POWER PLANTS             510               GRAND TOTAL            12650.5



42
Annex 1.1.
Attachment 2
CAPABILITY OF EXISTING POWER PLANTS ON THE
NATIONAL ISOLATED SY8TE3 IN 1991
(Installed Nameplate Capacity)
KHORASAN REGIONAL ELECTRIC                 SISTAN & BALUCHXSTAUN
COMPANY                      REGIONAL ELECTRIC COMPANY
UNITS &                               UNITS &
POWER PLANT     TYPE       CAPACITY      POWER PLANT    TYPE      CAPACITY
STEAM       4*150        ZAHEDAN        GAS T.    3*19.5
TOOS
S          GAS T.        1*6         CHABAHAR       GAS T.     6*23
CAS___T.   1___6_         (KONARAK)     CAS__T.
STEAM        2*60        SISTAN &       DIESEL      109
1*12        BALUCHISTAN    DEE          0
MASHHAD         GAS T.      2*72.5       TOTAL          _305.5
2*17
1*22
SHARIATI        GAS T.      6*21.5
SHIRVAN         GAS T.       6*21
GHAEN           GAS T.      2*20.5
SOUTH           DIESEL        85                 TOTAL NATIONAL
KHORASAN                                  CAPABILITY OF POWER PLANTS
TOTAL                     1320                     IN 1991
INTERCONNECTED           KW
SYSTEM                  12650.5
KHORASAN NETWORK        1320
SISTAN & BALUCHISTAN    305.5
NETWORK
TOTAL                14276



43
Annex 2.1
MOE ORGANIZATION CHART
pfi
Y 4X
X: .



M| nilerof Eneryw
I   eW  Widgt  rPwPer          I
I harcod Iran Eieddcriy 
Organtzailbn 
I Nic P     Relatbsn  icr    d                                                   a  rd |
E|Ofi OH ce                                                               d D6  do is           a
Audnlz  ExparddEedrcreau d Pjeffon &
hidll Expenand Secet Alabrs                                        3
- dControl arnd           Cant      for        ESst Uin                                         ACenkaizat      |          h*tat1ad i           Datcngb an
-| andCostEsUmate | SLRoseashGteup | -| Dtbn l -| SyslensSludes | q tmdStCaagmu lcatlo_k ton|mjnFcaflon PSectbn 
_i chkatnl Btreau    |           t3alCoan;         yms   Iue             ansedar I           |                             i         |
Economic SGudies                                          PMM                               * GAdD| ess  Seiard for
1-Ul  atireau     ~      Geera Semans
G eoStW b          lt           Ade  e
cordnA~~~~~~~~~~~m GOM  C-                                                          0Je Gu 
^ The &tarbs d th empltees h _ Teartments                                                                             arepi=yt)aXg  hrdrIeU    .1



45
Annex 3. 1
TREC ORGANIZATION CHART
it  W yI 11 I   I
W~~~~~~~~~W
n  1M 1141 1ii         111E
X~~~~~~~J TTT-'--  ni rII
t[0S~~ii i      ___
F~i ii IiI!



46
Annex 4.1
Page 1 of 4
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Oom Conversion to Combined Cycle
1.          Under this component, the four 100-MW (site rating) open cycle gas
turbine (GT) units currently being installed would be converted iato two
combined cycle (CC) modules providing an additional total capacity of 200 MW.
Under this scheme, unfired heat recovery steam generators (HRSGs) would be
installed at the exhaust of each GT unit. Using the heat from exhaust gases
of GT units, two HRSGs would produce enough steam to operate a steam turbine
generator (STG) unit of about 100 MW capacity. Hence the total capacity of
the 2 CC modules would be 600 MW gross (588 MW net) when power consumed by the
auxiliaries has been deducted. The expected overall efficiency (net, low
heating value) would be about 45 percent, compared to 32 percent for the open
cycle mode. The scheme would be operated as a base load station with an
expected capacity utilization factor of no less than 70 percent.
2.          Installed Capacity and Configuration.  The Qom power plant was
designed to operate initially as a simple cycle gas turbine generating station
with four Mitsubishi MW-701 industrial type units, with provisions for the
future addition of two more units. The commissioning of the first four units
is scheduled between May-July 1993. The gas turbines are designed to fire
natural gas or gas oil fuel (distillate) with the following guaranteed
performance:
Ambient Conditions             ISO conditions           Site Conditions
Temperature                    15 CO                    31 CO
Elevation                      Sea Level                1,022 mete
Relative Humidity              60%                      42.5%
Inlet/Exhaust Losses           101.6/76.2 mmH20         101.6/76.1   i2O
Turbine Exhaust Temperature   515 C                     528 C
Exhaust Flow                   452 kg/s                 373 kg/s
Gas Turbine Rating             128.58 MW                100.6 MW
Taking into account the performance of gas turbine units and the steam cycle
equipment, as well as investment and O&M coste, a configuration of 2 GT + 2
HRSGs + 1 STG has been adopted. Dry cooling with air cooled condensers has
been selected to minimize water consumption.
3.          Location and Land.  The Qom power plant is located approximately
15 km west of the city of Qom, which is about 150 km south of Tehran. The gas
turbine plant is a walled 800 m x 800 m area immediately south of the Tehran-
Arak road. TREC owns the plant site and during appraisal construction work
for the 4 x 100 MW gas turbine was well underway. The area available is
adequate for the installation of the combined cycle add-on. Access to the
site is via the two-lane paved road from Qom. Equipment and matirial delivery
for this project would be via sea to Persian Gulf ports and then inland by
road or by rail. Railroad tracks pass within 200 m of the site.



47
Annex 4.1
Page 2 of 4
4.          Site Conditions.  The site is on a level terrain formed of
conglomerate and well-consolidated soils. Geotechnical and seismic data for
the proposed site are available from the investigations made for the Gas
Turbine Power Station in 1989 and 1991. The 1991 report was commissioned in
response to the discovery of collapsible soils in the foundation deposits
during site rough grading. This particular aspect is being addressed in the
engineering phase and would include further site investigations and laboratory
tests and analyses. Available seismic data show the design ground
acceleration at the site to be 0.18g. The Qom region is dry and barren with
an annual precipitation of less than 150 mm. Water requirements for the gas
turbine plant would be drawn from two wells located about 0.7 km and 1.2 km
south of the plant site. To minimize additional water supply needs, the
combined cycle add-on would use air cooled condensers limiting water
consumption to the HRSGs make-up requirements (about 5 1/o). TREC has
completed studies that indicate that adequate water will be available from the
wells for the plant operation including potable, fire fighting and landscaping
needs. Water from the well is highly mineralized and will be treated to make
it suitable for use in the HRSGs.
5.          Fuel Gas SuDDlV.  There would be no additional fuel requirerent
from the combined cycle add-on. The primary fuel for the GT would be natural
gas, and the stand-by fuel would be gas oil (distillate). A 15-day storage
capacity is being constructed under the gas turbine contract. The gas
requirement for the 600-MW scheme for an average daily generation of 9.5 GWh
at 70 percent capacity utilization factor would be 1.94 million cubic meters
per day based on a heat rate (net, low heating value) of 1893 kcal/kWh. The
National Iranian Gas Company is contractually obligated to start supplying
natural gas by March 1994. The extension of the IGAT II pipeline and the
commissioning of the Kangan gas refinery is expected to be finalized by the
end of 1993 to enable the gas needs to be met.
6.          Transmission of Power.  The two steam turbine generating units
would be connected to the 230-kV substation and the four outgoing lines being
constructed under the gas turbine contract. By the time the combined cycle
add-on would be commissioned, a 400-kV substation and two outgoing lines would
be constructed at the Qom site and would be connected to the 230-kV substation
through two 500-MVA transformers.
7.          Staff and Staff Colony.  A housing colony is being constructed for
the gas turbine plant. The combined cycle plant would require 67 additional
staff, including 7 full time instructors to provide a training program on an
on-going basis. There is ample space to construct residential accommodations
for additional staff within the exiating colony.
8.          Technical Features.  The combined cycle add-on would include the
following features. (a) The HRSG for each unit would be an unfired, double
pressure (specific HP and LP values to be opt'mized during engineering),
horizontal/vertical gas flow type with a self-supporting stack; steam for a
1/ At 100 percent capacity utilization factor, the average daily generation
would be 13.6 GWh, and the (maximum) fuel requirement would be 2.77 million
cubic meters per day.



48
Annex 4.1
Page 3 of 4
deaerator would be from a dedicated evaporator in the HRSG to improve
efficiency; a multi louver type on single flap diverter type inlet damper
would be installed at the base of the gas turbine bypass stack to direct the
exhaust gas either to the atmosphere for simple operation of the GT or to the
HRSG for operation in the combined cycle mode. (b) Steam from two HRSGs would
be supplied to a condensing non reheat through main steam piping; the steam
entry to the turbine would be through a set of emergency stop and control
valves; the turbine control system would be of the electro-hydraulic type with
hydro-mschanical system as a back-up; 100 percent HP and LP bypass systems for
dumping the HP and LP steam to the condenser during start up and turbine trip
conditions would be provided; the turbine would be provided with an air cooled
condenser; two 100 percent mechanical vacuum pumps would be provided for ti.e
evacuation of the air from the condenser. (c) The generator would be a two
pole 3-phase, 13.8-kV, 50 Hz, 120 MW nominal rating (at 0.8 p.f.) with a
totally enclosed water/air cooled rotor and stator; the excitation system
would include a brushless exciter, pilot exciter, static rectifier amplifier
and automatic voltage regulator. (d) The power from the scheme would be
evacuated through an oil immersed two winding outdoor type step-up transformer
with a nominal ratio of 13.8-kV to 230-kV, which would be connected to the
230-kV substation under construction; on-load taps would be provided and the
transformer would be rated to carry maximum generator load at 0.8 p.f. with
cooling to limit the maximum winding temperature rise to a value consistent
with the expected ambient temperature. (e) The auxiliary systems would
comprise water treatment, circulating water, auxiliary cooling water, heating,
ventilating and air conditioning, service water, potable water, fire alarm and
protection, power station electrical supply, protection, control and
monitoring, compressed air, communication, safety, grounding and lightning
protection, emergency generation and related systems.
Transmission Lines and Substation
9.          The main transmission network in Iran consists of overhead
transmission lines and substations operated at 400-kV, 230-kV and 132-kV.  In
addition, 66-kV and 63-kV overhead distribution lines and distribution
substations are in eervice through the electric companies in different
regions.  Farther, in some parts of Iran 33-kV, 20-kV, 11-kV and 6-kV
distribution lines are also employed in distribution networks.  The lenqths of
400-kV, 230-kV, 132-kV and 66/63-kV transmission lines (in circuit kms) are
given below.
Year        400-kV             230-kV             132-kV             666C-kV
1991        5,946              14,361              n.a.                n.a.
1990        5,618              10,971             8,532              18,202
1989        5,618              10,530             8,144              17,310
1984        4,318               8,266             5,605              11,732
1980        1,833               6,297             4,699               6,735



49
Annex 4.1
Page 4 of 4
10.         To meet the increasing lengths of transmission lines, a growing
number of transformer substations have been installed. According to the
latest available statistics (1990), MOE is operating 1,352 transformers with a
total output capacity of 53,759 MVA, whereas in 1982 MOE was operating 703
transformers with a total output capacity of 25,763 MVA.
11.         The Qom substation and transmission line component would enable
the evacuation of power from the plant to the 400-kV national grid. On
commissioning the open cycle plant, the output would be connected to the
interconnected system via the 230-kV transmission lines. The 400-kV project
at Qom is mainly being taken up to strengthen the north-south interconnection.
At present, the plants in the southwest are run below capacity while load
shedding is quite common in the northwest.
12.         With the conversion to combined cycle operations at Qom, plant
output would be connected to the national interconnected system via 230-kV and
400-kV transmission lines. The substation would be located about 10 km to the
south-west of Qom city. The works related to this substation include 400-kV
switchgears, autotransformers, necessary relay protection, control systems and
related auxiliaries. Two 400-kV single circuit lines would be connected to
the Qom substation--one from Golpaygan and the other from Jalal, both existing
substations. Operations are underway for the laying of the 400-kV transmission
lines purchased from Romania. Power would be supplied to the following areas:
Saveh, Qom and Behranf through the 230-kV network and Jalal, Arak and
Golpaygan through the 400-kV network.



50
Anneg 4.2
Page 1 of 3
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
ENERGY SECTOR DEVELOPMENT STUDY
A. Obiectives
1.          The purpose of this study is to assist the Government of Iran in
preparing a comprehensive policy strategy for the development of the energy
sector. The study would include the following activities:
*     historical analyses and forecasts of energy balances by primary
sources, secondary energy forms and consuming sectors;
*     a review of the energy resource base of Iran, its current and
planned production and export potential;
*     demand forecasts by fuels (petroleum products, natural gas, coal
and electricity), taking into account different economic and price
scenarios;
*     an assessment of energy pricing policies and institutional
mechanisms with specific proposals for improvement;
*     a review of fuel producing, transport and distribution facilities;
*     an assessment of fuel prices, taxes, transport costs, distributive
margins and opportunity costs, pointing out distortions and
inefficiencies;
*     an assessment of investment requirements and alternative sources
of finance for the power sector over the next 10 years.
*     an analysis of the  macroeconomic impact of the energy sector,
particularly with reference to the current account and budget;
*     an analysis of the environmental impact of energy use;
*     the development of a pricing policy that reflects economic costs
and financing needs, including taxation policies on energy to
reflect environmental impact and the impact on downstream sectors;
and
*     the training of counterparts in the models developed and used in
this analysis.
2.          To this end, consultants will review the available information --
previous and ongoing studies to assess their relevance and potential
contribution to the preparation of this study. Consultants should maintain
close contact with the responsible entities preparing other enercy studies so
as to have consistent data and a oid any duplication of efforts.
B. ScoRe of the Study
3.          The study will assess the resource needs (fossil fuels, hydro
power, investment capital and management resources) and the possible financial
sources for developing future energy needs.



51
Annex 4.2
Page 2 of 3
4.          The study will review the available macroeconomic data concerning
population, capital formation, gross national product, per capita income, oil
trade, exchange rate policy and industrial, commercial, transport,
agricultural and services activities. The relationship between these
variables and sectoral market variables, such as price and cost, will be
studied to determine alternative scenarios for demand forecasts by type of
fuel, explicitly modelling interfuel substitution prospects. Thus, the effect
on the demand and supply of alternative energy prices and macro economic
scenarios will be evaluated.
5.          An evaluation of energy resources, their opportunity costs and
potential uses will be made to determine the most economic sources of supply
to satisfy domestic needs. Hydro resources (existing and proposed) will be
reviewed explicitly, taking into account the seasonality of water availability
and the stochastic nature of its supply. Recommendations for modelling these
aspects of hydro resources will be specifically identified.
6.          The study will examine fuel prices, their composition and
opportunity costs. Both the level and structure of pricing distortions will
be examined, and concrete proposals will be advanced to overcome them. The
institutional setup will be examined to recommend a transparent pricing
mechanism that responds in a timely manner to changes in opportunity costs.
The impact on the budget and the current account balance of recommended
pricing changes will be assessed.
7.          The study will examine the investment programs of the power
sector, explicitly taking into account environmental concerns and critically
reviewing investment options in determining a least-cost plan for the next 10
years. The consultant will leave behind an analytical tool and the database
to enable the counterpart team to undertake feasibility studies of proposed
investments. The WASP III model should preferably be used for the least-cost
generation expansion analysis).
S.          Following the review of the reference demand forecast and least-
cost expansion program for the power sector, the study will evaluate the
marginal economic costs of power generation, transmission and distribution at
different places, times and voltage levels to different consumer categories
over the time-frame specified and compare them with the existing tariff
structure and rates. Based on the results of this analysis, the consultant
will make a first set of proposals for changing the existing tariff system so
that the incentives (and disincentives) it provides to consumers correspond
more closely to the schedule of marginal costs derived. These proposals would
take into account, among others, the need for the utilities to secure an
adequate rate of return on net assets in operation and any income distribution
objectives (e.g., subsidizing poorer consumers) to which the electricity
tariffs may be required to contribute.
9.          The study will determine the most economic combination for meeting
the demand for energy up to 2010 on the basis of the least economic cost
(investments, fuel cost and O&M). A price reform strategy will be developed
focussing on level and structure of prices and the speed of implementation of
price reforms. The impact on macroeconomic balances, environment and poverty
will be explicitly identified. Based on the results of the investment



52
Annex 4.2
Page 3 of 3
program, recommendations on training, research and development will be
addressed.
C. Reporting Reguirements
10.         The study will consist of the following reports:
*     an Inception Report, to be reviewed by GOI and the Bank,
summarizing the findings on data availability; ways to improve
data reporting and access to information; the relevance of
available studies; the organization and schedule of future work;
and the use of counterpart personnel and local services;
*     a Draft Final Report describing the work performed and the
findings, policy recommendations and action plan (including
implementation plan and timetable) proposed by the study; and
within 30 calendar days of the receipt of comments from GOI and
the Bank on the Draft Final Report, a Final Report incorporating
all suggestions and recommendations deemed appropriate.
D. Iranian ParticiRation
11.         The GOI has appointed the Iran Power Organization (IPO), an energy
agency of the Ministry of Energy, to be the responsible counterpart for the
study. This agency will have the high-level support needed to access to the
data for the study; the computing resources needed to process the information;
and the staff needed to perform the analytical work.
E. Timetable
12.         Key dates in the timetable for the study are planned as follows:
Start-Up:                    30 June   1993
Inception Report:            30 August 1993
Draft final Report:          30 March  1994
Final Report:                30 May    1994



53
Annex 4.3
Page 1 of 8
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
CONMERCIALIZATION-PRIVATIZATION STUDY
Background
1.          The Government of Iran (GOI) is restructuring the electric power
sector in order to promote, wherever possible: (i) competition among power
sector enterprises; (ii) private sector participation in the operation of
power generation and distribution facilities; and (iii) co-generation by
industrial enterprises.
2.          All facilities in the power sub-sector are currently Government-
owned and until recently all operations were controlled by the Iran Power
Organization (IPO) which is in effect the electric power branch of the
Ministry of Energy (MOE). In the past, the main responsibility for the
generation and transmission of electricity belonged to the Iran Power
Generation and Transmission Company (TAVANIR), while the distribution function
was carried out by 16 Regional Distribution Companies (RECs). The Tehran
Regional Electric Company (TREC) is the largest distribution entity in the
Iranian interconnected electricity system. IPO's mandate also includes the
responsibility for the new National Dispatch Center.
3.          As of October 1991 the installed capacity of existing power plants
was 12,650 MW of which 7,523 MW from steam power plants, 3,212 MW are from
gas-turbine plants and 1,915 MW from hydro plants. Most of the hydro plants
are operated by the Kuszestan Water and Power Authority (KWPA). By 1989. Irar.
was experiencing about 6 hours of load shedding per day. Demand for
electricity since then has grown by about 10 percent per annum, reflecting the
growth in the economy (GDP growth for 1990 was estimated to be about 10
percent) and population (estimated at about 3.2 percent per annum). In spite
of this, the power sector enterprises (PSEs) have been effective in reducing
load shedding to rotating blackouts generally lasting about two hours per day
as a result of an estimated supply shortfall of about 600 MW. This improvement
was accomplished by reconstructing plants and components of the network
damaged in the war with Iraq and by installing gas turoines. In spite of an
ambitious power investment plan, the MOE forecasts that about 360 MW of load
shedding is expected by the end of the second five year plan (March 1998).
4.          The Iranian energy market (with monopolies at all levels) is
characterized by an absence of competition. The organization structure, as it
exists, appears to be conventional and reasonably logical.
5.          Electricity prices are far less than the estimated long run
marginal cost of supply. The current average tariff of about 10.3 Rls/kwh
does not reflect the full cost of supply. Meeting the long run marginal cost
of supply would require that electricity prices be about five to six times
their current rate. In summary, the most notable drawbacks of the present



54
Annex 4.3
Page 2 of 8
legal and institutional framework are: (a) absence of competition and
management accountability; and (b) absence of a clear set of rules and
principles regulating the entities in the sector.
PurDose and Obiectives
6.          GOI wants to improve the present organizational and regulatory
arrangements in order to establish efficiency through competition and
effective regulation, increase the accountability of management, ensure
corporate autonomy for the power utilities, encourage a more commercial
approach to production and distribution, and mobilize greater resources for
efficient sector expansion. First, steps were taken to promote the divestiture
of ancillary functions such as consulting, construction and maintenance.
Then, in 1992, GOl undertook steps to commercialize existing PSEs, with all
major generating plants and RECs reorganized into joint-stock companies
including 24 Regional Distribution Companies (RDCs) which will operate their
respective distributions systems under a 5 year lease agreements, 9 regional
holding companies which will own the power plants located in their respective
regions and 20 enterprises to operate the individual power plants under a 5
year lease agreements. These changes represents the first steps towards
decentralization, commercialization and privatization (partial privatization
through employee share ownership) of the sector. The next phase will involve
development of an appropriate regulatory framework, tariff reforms, and
eventually access to the capital markets.
7.          The main purpose of the study is to propose a strategy and a
blueprint for reducing the Government's involvement in the power sector while
increasing the sector's efficiency by completing the commercialization of the
PSEs and promoting the participation of the private sector. This will enable
the sector to: (i) become financially autonomous, thus reducing the burden
imposed on Government's finances; (ii) develop decentralized and privately
owned utilities; and (iii) eventually support, a competitive and sustainable
process of development.  The obiectives of the studv are to prepare a long
term strategy for the institutional development of the sector with public as
well as private participation and to produce a blueprint for carrying out the
sector restructueing. This will require:
(a)   development of alternatives for regulation and private sector
participation based on evaluation of options taking into account
experience in other countries that implemented reforms in the
power sector;
(b)   preparation of a blueprint for the implementation of the strategy
chosen by GOI;



55
Annex 4.3
Page 3 of 8
(c)   preparation of a draft regulatory framework (including a new or
amended Electricity Law) that would enable efficient and reliable
supply of electricity at least cost, attract foreign and local
private capital, and promote environmentally sound operation; and
(d)   preparation of a program to privatize generation and distribution
businesses and to promote private investment in new facilities.
Scope of Work
8.          Phasina  of the study.  Phase I would include (a) a review of the
existing power sector organization, legal framework and regulatory
arrangements; (b) evaluation of the options for restructuring the sector to
achieve the Government's objectives; and (c) proposal for a sector
restructuring strategy for a suitable institutional and regulatory framework.
Following Government's approval of tie strategy, phase II would develop and
prepare a blueprint (phased implementation action plan) for commercializing
and then privatizing the existing PSEs. Phase III would comprise the
implementation of the action plans, which would require the preparation of a
new legal framework and regulatory arrangements, completion of the
establishment of the power companies on a fully commercial baeis and
subsequently facilitate greater involvement of the private sector.
Phase I - Diagnosis and Evaluation of Institutional Ogtions
9.          For phase I of the study, the consultant(s) will be expected to
perform the following tasks:
(a)   review the current status of the power sector based on available
atudies and information from other sources, including:
(I)      the functions and operational performance of the
existing PSEs, including their legal status and
organization;
(ii)      the financial position and performance of the existing
PSEs, including the condition of their assets;
(iii)      the human resources and management of the existing
PSEs;
(iv)      the current laws and institutional arrangements
governing the operation of the power sector; and
(v)      the relative roles of other existing
producers/distributors of power in Iran such as
captive power, industrial estates, cogeneratlon,
cooperatives and village electric organizations.
(b)   Based on experience in other countries and taking into account the
Government's objectives, evaluate alternative organizational
structures and regulatory arrangements for the Iranian power



56
Annex 4.3
Page 4 of 8
sector and provide the Government with analyses and
recommendations concerning:
(i)      the extent of vertical or horizontal integration
needed to achieve the Government's objectives;
(ii)      the feasibility and scope for competition and sound
regulation in generation and supply;
(iii)      the ownership options for generation, transmission,
and distribution;
(iv)      the regulatory arrangements required for each
alternative institutional and ownership structure;
(v)      the pros and cons of different alternatives for
institutional organization and regulation;
(vi)      the commercial principles for tariff setting which
will be implemented through a separate regulatory body
to encourage efficient allocation of resources, energy
conservation and financial self-sufficiency;
(vii)      the appropriate principles for pooling and dispatching
in the power systems;
(viii)      the appropriate means of responding to the needs of
consumers and to potential abuses of natural
monopolies; and
(xix)      the regulatory role of the state and the autonomy of
the utilities, particularly for setting prices,
salaries and employment conditions and procurement.
(c)   based on (a) and (b), propose a sector restructuring strategy
including the appropriate organizational and ownership structure
for the power sector and an appropriate regulatory framework; and
(d)   propose an organizational structure, budget, charter and functions
for the regulatory Authority.
Fhase II - Development of Organizational Structure and Regulatory Framework.
10.         For phase II of the study, the consultant(s) will be required to
perform the following tasks:
(a)   after MOE selects a restructurinc  strategy structure based on the
results of phase I of the study, develop and prepare detailed
blueprint (timetables and action plans) for creating new and
restructuring existing entities while defining:



57
Annex 4.3
Page 5 of 8
(i)      the organizational structure and functions of the
entities in the power sector, including those for
system operation, load dispatch and regulation;
(ii)      the separation of finances including the transfer of
existing assets and liabilities to new entities;
(iii)      detailed specifications for adopting a fully new
commercial approach including application of
international accounting and auditing standards; and
(iv)      staffing implications, including any issues with
respect to: pay and conditions, pension arrangements,
redundancy provisions, union representation and make
appropriate recommendations.
(b)   subsequently, prepare a strategy and action plarn for completing
the processes of corporatization and privatization the existing
entities (e.g., reorganization of the entities into autonomous
companies responsible for their investments and operating
decisions);
(c)   based on the agreed strategy for restructuring the power sector,
provide a detailed outline of the required regulatory regime. In
doing so, it would be necessary to define:
{i)      the institutional arrangements necessary to administer
the sector entities;
(ii)      the relationship of the regulatory .nstitution(s) to
existing governmental entities;
(iii)      the functions of the regulatory institution(s),
including the role in rate making, provision of
reliable supply, system and least cost investment
planning, competitive selection of generating
investment projects, licensing, dispatching,
maintenance of quality of service, safety, protection
of the environment, and dispute resolution;
(iv)      detailed guidelines and procedures for each of the
foregoing functions. In particular, identify the
criteria, periodicity, participants and procedures to
be involved in rate making and investment proposals;
(v)      model articles of incorporation/statutes for new
joint-stock companies; and
(vi)      the rights and obligations of the power sector or
portions thereof (e.g., generating companies,
transmission companies, and distribution companies)
vis-a-vis the new regulatory institution(s), to other



58
Annex 4.3
Page 6 of 8
governmental entities, to private sector projects, and
to the public.
(d)   propose a strategy and action plan to modify the existing
legislation and procedures as required in order to implement the
recommended regulatory framework, including the drafting of the
new/amended laws and regulations, which concerns the regulatory
framework;
(e)   prepare a strategy and action plan to privatize the generation and
distribution businesses and to promote private investment in new
facilities; and
(f)   the restructuring for privatization of the electricity industry,
including transfer of assets, liabilities and employees,
contractual arrangements or other commercial arrangements,
management development/training needs, etc. (e.g., ESOP, offer and
share, sales to investors (bidding), customer ownership (consumer
deposits). (This should include preliminary estimations of the
value of the entity).
Phase III -/Rlementation I/
11.         For phase III of the stutdy, the consulta'it(s) would be required to
include in the report of phase II a proposal for assistance in implementing
the agreed strategy and action plans of phase II.
Orlanization of the Studv
12.         The study would be conducted by a conaulting firm with extensive
practical experience in the restructuring, regulation and privatization of
public enterprises, including the energy sector. The firm should have access
to the following areas of substantive expertise either .n-house or through
sub-contractors or associatess
(a)    power sector regulation, pricing and costing;
(b)    utility operation and maintenance;
(c)    commercial aspect of power wheeling and exchange;
(d)    personnel management;
(e)    utility demand forecasting;
1/    The key steps which should be followed in the implementation process
ares (a) establishment of the legal framework; (b) completing tha
commercialization of the sector; (c) corporatization of the existing
entities; and (d) privatization of the sector.



59
Annex 4.3
Page 7 of 8
(f)    investment banking related to privatization of the power sector;
(g)    legal aspects of power regulation, corporatization, and private
participation; and
(h)    local and international accounting and legal practices.
13.         It is expectad that the consuleant(s) would work closely with the
MOE. If required, the MOE will request assistance from representatives of
other concerned ministries and agencies.
14.         Throughout the study the consultant(s) should report to the MOE.
The consultant(s) may also have direct communication with the Bank.
Dellverables and Timetable
15.         The study should be performed in the following phases:
(a)   Phase I.  The consultant(s) should prepare a report proposing a
sector restructuring strategy with an executive summary of not
more than 10 pages. The draft report should be completed within
90 days and following review by MOE and the Bank (30 days), the
final report would be submitted within 30 days of receipt of MOE's
and the Bank's comments. Approval by MOE of the report is planned
in no more than 60 days.
(b)   Phase II.  Once the MOE has selected a strategy, the consultant(s)
should prepare a report with a detailed blueprint and action plans
that includes the proposed functions, organization guidelines and
procedures necessary to implement the framework recommended in
phase I. This report should not exceed 50 pages in length,
excluding attachments and provide an executive summary of not more
than 10 pages. Organizational charta and tables summarizing the
material should be included. Any financial models used for
financial projections would be subject to review by MOE and the
Bank. The draft report on the detailed institutional,
organizational requirements for the recommended power sector
structure and the appropriate regulatory regime would be submitted
in 60 days. Allowing the review by MOE and the Bank (30 days).
The final report on detailed requirements for the proposed
structure would be presented within 30 days following receipt of
comments. Approval by MOE of detailed requirements and regulatory
regime for the recommended structure would be expected within 60
days.
(c)   Phase III.  The Consultant(s) should include in the report for
phase 'I, a proposal for services in assisting in implementing the
agreed recommendations of phase II.



60
Annex 4.3
Page 8 of 8
16.         For phases I and II, the Consultant(s) should submit fifteen (15)
copies of the draft report and thirty (30) copies of the final report to MOE
and five (5) copies of the draft report and ten (10) copies of the final
report to the Bank. Monthly progress reports should be forwarded to MOE and
Bank. It is expected that the assignment would start in June 1993, with a
target completion date of June 1994.
Budget and Fee3
17.         The Consultant(s) should propose a fixed fee for phases I and II
of the study. Details should be provided for each of the Consultant(s)
proposed to undertake the work, their experiences, and a tentative work
program showing the number of days each would work and the fees to be charged
for each consultant. The proposal should include allowances for international
travel and subsistence, preparation of interim and final reports, legal
documents, office supplies, and transportation in Iran.



63
Annex 4.4
Page 3 of 5
Implementation of Recommendations
7.          Following MOE agreement on the recommendations submitted, the
consultant should prepare the terms of reference, technical specifications and
bidding documents for the equipment to be purchased and services to be
performed for the implementation of the recommendations.
Regorts
8.          The consultant should submit to MOE the following reports:
(a)   a preliminary report within 45 days after visiting each power
plant or facility to be reviewed by the Bank and MOE, dealing with
the following topics:
(i)   performance evaluation (para. 3);
(ii) performance targets (paras. 4-5);
(iii) recommendations to improve performance (paras. 6-8);
(b)   a final report within 30 days of receipt of comments from the Bank
and MOE on the preliminary reports; and
(c)   terms of reference, specifications and bidding documents for
selected works to be performed.
Electric Power Company Assistance
9.          The power generating companies would assist the consultant in the
performance of this assignment by providing the following:
(a)   in-country transportation and access to all thermal power
stations;
(b)   a description of each thermal unit to be evaluated, including
turbine inlet steam conditions, exhaust pressure and water cooling
temperatures and boiler characteristics;
(c)   design and guarantee criteria, including efficiency and output,
for boilers and turbines and heat balance for each plant;
(d)   unit performance test results (carried out during commissioning);
(e)   operating logs and records as required to evaluate performance,
including fuel gas analysis, feed water treatment and fuel cost
analyses; and
(f)   qualified engineers to accompany and assist the consultant duri:ig
plant visits.



64
Annex 4.4
Page 4 of 5
Duration of Services
10.         The MOE would appoint one of its subsidiaries to be the
responsible counterpart for the study. The said company would be expected to
work in close coordination with the involved power generating companies. The
consultants are required to include in their proposals, project schedules
defining the completion of the study on this basis. It is expected that the
assignment would start in July 1993, with a target completion date of June
1995.



61
Annex 4.4
Page 1 of 5
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
THERMAL POWER PLANT IMPROVEMENT PROJECT STUDY
Introduction
1.          The purpose of this study is to assist the Ministry of Energy
(MOE), in evaluating the performance of its existing thermal plants and to
make recommendations concerning improvements to thermal efficiency and unit
availability. The objective is to achieve the lowest cost operation of the
power generation system consistent with adequate service.
2.          To this end, the consultant should establish target heat rates
(kcal/kWh) for each unit and plant. Target heat rates should be developed
using design conditions modified to accommodate actual field conditions. In a
like manner, the consultant should establish target unit availability.   The
consultant should comment on the system economic operation should the focus of
this be targets, or should identify elements of inefficiency where component
upgrading would be useful considering fuel, operati.on (particularly plant
turn-d&in ratio) and maintenance costs. The consultant should make
recommendations to bring the actual system performance is in accordance with
established targets.
Scoge of work
3.          Evaluation of Performance.  The consultant would review any
existing reports analyzing plant operation, visit each power station as listed
in Attachment 1 and evaluate actual operation procedures and the condition of
each unit in the station. A written report of the evaluations would be
submitted including, but not limited to, the following considerations:
(a)   combustion efficiency and flame characteristics;
(b)   flue gas analysis and/or exhaust conditions;
(c)   condenser and heat transfer conditions;
(d)   the utilization of station auxiliaries;
(e)   ope-ating procedures, including the fuel/air ratio, the cleaning
of burner tips, spinning reserve, unit loading, cooling the water
supply from an overall system operation context, make-up of water
supply;
(f)   operational anJ preventative maintenance of plants;



62
Anneg 4.4
Page 2 of 5
(g)   unit and station thermal efficiency, availability and capability,
electrical plant auxiliary consumption and losses, proper daily
report systems, annual test schedules;
(h)   analysis of individual unit forced-outage rates as experienced
since commercial operation, with a view of identifying chronic
problem areas and potential remedies;
(i)   operator training and availability of operation manuals;
(j)   maintenance programs and availability of maintenance manuals;
(k)   the adequacy and suitability of spare parts;
(1)   fuel characteristics and cost; and
(nm) the economic dispatch of theri.oelectric units.
4.          Establishment of Performance Targets.  The consultant would
establish targets to be used by the Power Generating Companies plant staff and
management to evaluate efficiency and performance of the power generation
plants. The target-. would be developed for each generating unit and for each
power station as listed in (Attachment 1). The targets should consist of the
following:
(a)   thermal efficiency targets expressed in
kcal/kwh; and
(b)   availability targets expressed in hours/month.
5.          The thermal efficiency target developed by the consultant would be
based upon design and guarantee criteria but modified to reflect actual field
conditions. The consultant would consider the following:
(a)   condition and age of the unit;
(b)   ambient conditions; and
(c)   instrumentation and controls.
6.          Recommendations to ImRrove Performance.  The consultant would
evaluate unit and plant performance and make appropriate recommendations to
improve performance and operation so that the project objective--least-coat
system operation--may be achieved. Recommendations would be made by
considering the following:
(a)   items listed as (a) through (m) in paragraph 3 above; and
(b)   modifications to plant and units such as the replacement of
existing burners, additional instrumentation and heat exchanges.
Any recommendations concerning plant modifications should include
a cost estimate and the expected benefits of related works.



65
Annex 4.4
Page 5 of 5
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THERMOELECTRIC POWER PLANTS TO BE VISITED
Power Plant                  Installed Capacitv               Location
(MW)
1.    Bemat (Steam)                  3 x 82.5 MW                    Tehran
2.   Montazer-Ghaem (Steam)          4 x 156.25 MW                  Tehran
3.    Ray (Gas-Turbine)              1241.6 MW                      Tehran
4.    Bandar-Abbas (Steam)           2 x 315 MW                     Hormozgan
5.    Esfahan (Steam)                2 x 31.5 + 120 + 2 x 37.5 KW Esfahan
6.    Tabriz (Steam)                 2 x 387 MW                     Azarbaijan
7.    Luuhan (Steam)                 2 x 120 MW                     Tehran
S.    Mod-Haj (Steam)                2 x 145 MW                     Rhuzestan
9.    Ramin 192 (Steam)              2 x 135 MW                     Khuzestan



66
Annex 4.5
Page 1 of 3
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
POWER PLANT OPERATOR TRAINING
General
1.          The power subsectur is government-owned and is controlled by the
Ministry of Energy (MOE).
2.          The Power Generating Companies (PGC)1/ operates most of the
thermal power stations in Iran. As of October 1991, the installed capacity of
existing power plants within the national interconnected system was 12,650 MW,
of which 7,523 MW are from steam power plants, 3,212 MW are from gas turbine
plants and 1,915 MW are from hydro plants. Most of the hydro plants are
operated by the Kuhzestan Water and Power Authority (KWPA).
3.          MOE is planning to commission about 3,110 MW of new plants within
1993, and plans to install an additional 11,730 MW by the end of 1998. In
addition, the Tehran Regional Electric Company (TREC) proposes to install its
first combined cycle unit by 1995.
4.          To avoid major breakdowns and increase plant efficiency and
availability, extensive maintenance in existing thermal plants needs to be
carried out. Further, the build-up of capacity of open cycle gas turbines, to
be converted later to combined cycle operation based on system needs, will
exacerbate PGC's maintenance and operation capabilities. The availability of
gas turbines has been a problem in the past. Hence, the Government is keenly
interested in bringing gas turbine reliability up to industry practice
standards. In addition, due to the low cost of natural gas in Iran, combined
cycle plants are only attractive if they can be base loaded with plant factors
exceeding 70 percent. Therefore, it is necessary to formulate and adopt an
adequate preventive maintenance program to assure the long-term, reliable and
efficient operation of PGC combined cycle and gas turbine generation.
Training requirements would also have to be assessed.
Obiectives
5.          The principal objectives of the study are to:
(a)   determine MOE's needs regard_.ng steam and gas turbine maintenance
facilities and operational staff over the next 10 years;
1/    Until recently, the Iran Power Generation and Transmission Company
(TAVANIR) was responsible for all the thermal generation in Iran.



67
AnnexLA J
Page 2 of 3
(b) identify equipment and tool requirements and define a manpower
development program to enhance MOE capabilities in carrying out
such a programs and
(C) provide training in Iran and abroad for engineers and technicians.
The purchase of a simulator to train operators for combined cycle
plants would need to be assessed.
ScoRe of work
6.          The scope of the work is:
(a) review MOE's existing capabilities and assess what is needed to
operate and maintain present and future gas turbine, combined
cycle and thermal power stations;
(b) propose a suitable organization to handle maintenance activities,
centralized or otherwise, including crews, tools and workshop
equipment and facilities, keeping in mind government options for
privatization in the power sector, taking note of TAMIRAT-NIRO,
the existing maintenance company of TAVANIR; and
(C) propose and implement a training program for Iranian (technicians/
engineers) in Iran and abroad, including the number and
qualifications of trainees needed, as determined in consultant
reports.
General Reauirements
7.          The consultants would be expected to work closely with NO4  and the
companies affiliated with MOE. An inception report would be issued no later
than 45 days after the start of the assignment.
8.          Monthly progress reports would be submitted by the consultants to
MOE by the middle of each month summarizing project progress during the
previous month and outlining the work performed, personnel movement, problem
encountered and actions taken, forecasts and actual accomplishments, special
requests or recommendations and budget status, appropriately illustrated by
graphs and photographs. These reports would constitute an important means of
monitoring the project, and, therefore, at the start of the project,
consultants be required to obtain IBRD approval of the format they intended to
use.
9.          The consultant reports and all correspondence and other
communications would be in English language (O4 would arrange for any
translation if required).
10.         The consultants would work closely with counterpart staff assigned
by MOE and would be expected to work in close cooperation with them under the
supervision of a MOE senior official specifically appointed.



68
Annex 4.5
Page 3 of 3
11.         MOE would provide the following direct local support for project
activities:
(a)   counterpart professionals for all field personnel; and
(b)   transportation services for field missions within Iran.
12.         MOE would be responsible for making arrangements for
administrative, secretarial and other local support staff. The consultants
would be responsible for living accommodations, educational facilities and
medical services for all personnel assigned to Iran.
o_rk Program
13.         The consultants would provide technical manuals, reference books,
calibration and test equipment and instruments to be purchased through the MOE
account. All such manuals, equipment and instruments would become the
property of MOE upon completion of the contract.
14.         It is expected that the assignment would take 18 months, starting
in December 1993 with a target con,pletion date of June 1995.



69
Amngx 4.6
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COST
(Ri Billion)           CUSS Nillton)
Local Foreign   Total   Locat Foreign   Total Foreign
1. oCN Corponent
Civil Works                                17.69    4.35   22.G4   12.20    3.00   15.20       20
HRSG & Auxitiaries                         13.98   64.38   78.36    9.64   44.40   54.04       82
Steam Turbino & tIr Condensor              20.23  102.23  122.45   13.95   70.50   84.45       83
Etectrical System                           7.11   27.55   34.66    4.90   19.00   23.90       79
Instrumentation & Controls                  1.71   14.21   15.92    1.18    9.80   10.98       89
BOP Equiprent                              10.37   12.33   22.69    7.15    8.50   15.65       54
Transmfssfon line & Substation             20.59   95.70  116.29   14.20   66.00   80.20       82
Distribution Equfpment                      4.43   19.00   23.43    3.06   13.11   16.16       81
Eno. ProJ. Ngmt. & Own. Aduin.             11.90   11.75   23.65    8.21    8.10   16.31       SO
Project Preparatory Studies                 5.66    1.45    7.11    3.90    1.00    4.90       20
Base Cost                                 113.66  352.94  466.60   78.39  243.41  321.79       76
Physieeal Contingencies                    10.80   35.15   45.95    7.45   24.24   31.69
Price Contingencies                         9.07   27.11   36.18    6.26   18.69   24.95
Sthtotat 1                                133.53  415.19  548.72   92.09  286.34  378.43       76
:1. TA Component
Energy Sector Develtopment Study            0.22    1.96    2.18    0.15    1.35    1.50       90
Sect. Corptzn. L Pvtzn. Study               0.29    2.25    2.54    0.20    1.55    1.75       89
Thermal Plants Rehabilitation Study         0.15    0.65    0.80   (D.10    0.45    0.55       82
Operator Trafning for GT/CCP                0.22    0.87    1.09    0.15    0.60    0.75.      80
Base Cost                                   0.87    5.73    6.60    0.60    3.95    4.55       87
Price Contingencies                         0.06    0.40    0.47    0.04    0.28    0.32
Subtotal Il                                 0.93    6.13    7.06   0.64    4.23    4.87        87
TOTAL PROJECT COST C1*11)                 134.46  421.32  555.79   92.73  m.57  383.30         76
Interest During Construction               0.00   27.51   27.51    0.00   30.57   30.57
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED                  134.46  448.84  583.30   92.73  321.14  413.87       78



ItMIC autuc Of TM
ran  c    IFFICIK  uIWRI6Uh p-oJ
STAFF *FMAI3AL MIS
EAILS V=T 1cmTM
(So - Ullltn
1995                16914                199                  1196                 "Pr                 16I54
I. tlDI Ce_blt       Local FtLu Fwi Tout   Ll Forelli Total  Locml Fersp  Totat  Loct foreft Tal  Loal Uaai1 tota               al FirlW  Totl
(is Civit me*
civi  inlwt            0.0   61    0.75   3a5    6.90 *    .47   5.9S   1.50   7.45   I."0  .4   2.aa    s.m  o.e.   *.uo  I.11  o.0   1.0C"
OSttin A tfe           0.0   0.00   0.01   0.09  0G0   0.0   0.15   6.00   0.15  0AS   0.00   0.65   0.0   0.00   O.C0   0.30   0.0   0.30
neotaI                 0.61   0.tS   0.7   S.46   0.90   4.56   6.10   1.50   7.60   1.    6.45   228   0.00   0.0   0.00  12.0   3.00  15.20
PIcal  mtl i        In    0.06   0.02   LO.S   037   0.0W   0.4   0.1   0.15   0.76   6.16    .0   0.Z5   0.00   6.00   0.00   1.Z2   0.30   1.52
Pria Cmtlqmnsg         0.0   0.01   0.6    0       6.    0.20   0.55   0.14   0.69   0.22   6.06   6.3   0.00   6.60   0.60   1.63   0.o    1.20
Total tl)              0.70   0.17   0*0t  4*2   1.04   5i9   7.26   1.19   9.6t   22    6.15   2.26   0.00   0.00   0.00  14.45   3.55  16.0
SWly A Erertion        0.tO   0.00   0.60   1.   12.22  O3tAS  L2.   2035  22.71   1.1S   9.4  1.L   6.Z   Z.2   2.46   5.0  44.40  4940
1W1*5  4 To            LOO    O 6D   0.00   1.22  O6.0    1.12   2.0    0J    2.03   0.96   6.0   0.90   0.22   0.00   0.zz   4.44   0.C   4A4
tl                    0.00 *o.0    0.      25  12.21M Ra47   4.41  M.    24.74   2.0   9.64  11.3   0.46   2.ZZ   2.70   9.4  44.40  54.04
fbpical CmlIepuwet    O.o   0.00   6.0   0.37   1.22   1.49   6.44  2LO    2.47   0.21   0.00   1.17   0.05   0.12   o.27   0.96   4.44   S.40
Price cwtIq  uO.OD 0.00   6.0   0.16   6.74   6.90   6.40   1.64   2.24   0.26   1.16   1.44   600   0.65   0.13   0.9    S2   4.71
Total (i1)             0.00 6O       6.00   3.06  14.-1   17.5   1.5  Z.20  29.46   2.56  11.70  14.3   0.61   2.49   3.10  11.56  52.A6   4.16
(III) ste_m          S Air O W-ue r 
lvt * Erecton          6.00   0.09  0.00   1.90  WA.40  2.JD 6    .16  3.27  35.43   1.50  15.36  16.60   6.3   3.53   3J    6.90  70.56  77.46                   0
Sutl  4 TaNgo          0.00   6.00   0.00   1.94   6o.   1.94   33   6.o0   3.25   1.53   0O.    1.53   0.35   0.00   0.35   7.DS   0.00   7.CS
Sh Tott                0.0e   0.00   0.00   SA4  19.40   3.24   63   32.27  3.46   3.05  15.30  16M3   0.70   3.53   4.22  13.95  76.56  34.45
PhysIpal Cilq Ie       0.6O   0.00 D6O    03    1.94   232   0."   3.23   3.67   0.3   1.53   1.S   0.07   035   0.42   1.40   7.05   6.45
Price emimnstm         0.00   0.00   0.00   6.21   1.1s   1.41   0.5   2.93   3.51   0.37   1.1   2.25   0.11   6.6   0.19   1JD   6.06   7.36
Total Ci i)            0.60   0.0   0.00   4.46  22.52  2LO    7.60  S643  46.63   3.70  16.7 Z12.41   0.0   3."5   4.J  1C"4  90.61 160.25
(IV) Elctrical S)ti
SLy & Erection         0.00   0J.   0.00   0.9    5.23   6.65   1.7   8.70  10.07   0.0   4.12   4.    0.1S   O.95   1.10   3.00  19.00  12.00
Dutas a Tes            0.00   0.a0   0.00   0.52   0.00   0.52   0.67   0.00   0.67   0.41   0.OM   0.41   0.10   0.00   0.16   1.90   0.00   1.90
ab Totol               0.00   6.00   0.00   1.35   5.23   6.31    2.24   5.70  10.94   1.06   4.12   5.1t   0.25   0.95   1.20   4.90  19.00  23.90
PstcalOe C    uaIcl.s   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.13   0.52   0.6"   0.22   0.L7   1.09   0.11   0.41   O.S   0.02   0.10   0.12   0.49   1.90   2.39
prce Oent londns       0.00   0.00   0.00   0.66   0.2   0.40   0.20   0.7n   O.9W   0.13   0.51   044   0.04   0.02   0.06   O.4   1.63   2.09
Toutt Wlv)             0.00   0.00   0.00   1.57   6.07   7.63   2.67  10.36  13.03   1.30   5.04   6.34   0.31   1.07   137   5.155  22.53  2383
(v) lnstnnntatin * Contrate
sqpty S reaction       0.0   0.00   0.00   0.06   2.70   2.75   0.09   4.49   4.56   0.04   2.13   2.17   0.01   0.49   0.50   0.20   9.80  10.00
sutes I Tae            0.00   0.00   0.00   0.2   0.00   0.2L   0.5   0.00   0.45   0.21   0.00   0.21   0.65   0.00   0.05   0.98   0.00   0.96
S"b Total              0.00   0.0o   0.00   0.32   2.70   3.02   0.54   4.49   5.03   0.26   2.13   2.36   0.66   0.49   6.55   1.16   9.10  10."0
P siel Cantia  le.   L.0O   0.eo   0.00   0.03   0.27   0.30   0.05   0.5   0.50   0.03   0.21   0.24   0.01   0.05   0.05   0.12   0.96   1.10          p
Price csratinenlas     0.0o   0.00   0.00   0.02   01    0.18   0.05   0.41   0.46   0.0   0.26   0.29   0.01   0.01   0.02   0.11   0.84   0.95
Total Cv              o0.00   0.00   0.00   0.58   3.13   3.51   0."   5.34   5.99   0.31   2.60   2.91   0.07   0.55   0.62   1.41  11.62  13.03         P
O.



ItSANIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
POIIER SECTOR EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DETAILED PROJECT COS TAKLE
Cln US$ Million)
1. OM Ccotntd)               1993                 1994                1995                1996                 1997               1993-97
Local Forefgn Total  Locat Foreign Total  Locat Foreign Total  LocaL Foreign Totat  Local Forefgn Totat  Local Foreign Total
Cv1) WP Equipmnt
Supply * Erction       0.00   0.00   0.00   1.73   2.34   4.07   2.85   3.89   6.78   1.37   1.84   3.21   0.32   0.43   0.74   6.30   8.50  14.80
Duties * Taxes         0.00   0.00   0.00   0.23   0.00   0.23   0.39   0.00   0.39   0.18   0.00   0.18   0.04   0.00   0.04   0.85   0.00   0.85
Sub Total              0.00   0.00   0.00   1.97   2.34   4.31   3.27   3.89   7.16   1.55   1.84   3.40   0.36   0.43   0.78   7.15   8.50  15.65
Phpical Contingencies   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.20   0.23   0.43   0.33   0.39   0.72   0.16   0.18   0.34   0.04   0.04   0.08   0.72   0.85   1.57
Price ContiCgncess    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.12   0.14   0.26   0.30   0.35   0.65   0.19   0.23   0.42   0.06   0.01   0.07   0.67   0.73   1.40
Total (vi)            0.00   0.00   0.00   2.28   2.71   5.00   3.90   4.63   8.53   1.90   2.26   4.15   0.45   0.48   0.93   8.53  10.08  18.61
(vil) Trasmission line & shsetation
Suppty A Erection      2.28  19.80  22.08   3.42  29.70  33.12   1.90  16.50  18.40   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   7.60  66.00  73.60
Outies * Taxes         1.98   0.00   1.98   2.97   0.00   2.97   1.65   0.00   1.65   O.0D   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   6.60   0.00   6.60
Sth Total              4.26  19.80  24.06   6.39  29.70  36.09   3.55  16.50  20.05   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  14.20  66.00  80.20
Phpical Contingencies   0.43   1.98   2.41   0.64   2.97   3.61   0.36   1.65   2.01   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   1.42   6.6C   8.02     -t
Price Contingencles    0.19   0.88   1.07   0.39   1.81   2.20   0.32   1.50   1.82   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.90   4.19   5.09
Total (v1f)            4.8  22.66  27.54   7.42  34.48  41.90   4.23  19.65  23.87   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  16.52  76.79  93.31
(viii) Dlstribwtion Equipment
SuWly nd Installation   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.52   3.93   4.46   0.87   6.55   7.43   0.26   1.97   2.23   0.09   0.66   0.74   1.75  13.11  14.85
Duties 4 Taxes         0.00   0.00   0.00   0.39   0.00   0.39   0.66   0.00   0.66   0.20   0.00   0.20   0.07   0.00   0.07   1.31   0.00   1.31
Sub Total              0.00   0.00   0.00   0.92   3.93   4.85   1.53   6.55   8.08   0.46   1.97   2.42   0.15   0.66   0.81   3.06  13.11  16.16
Phyircl Contingzenfes    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.09   0.39   0.48   0.15   0.66   0.81   0.05   0.20   0.24   0.02   0.07   0.08   0.31   1.31   1.62
Price Contingelces     0.00   0.00   0.00   0.04   0.18   0.22   0.07   0.29   0.36   0.02   0.09   0.11   0.01   0.03   0.04   0.14   O.S8   0.72
Total (vii)            0.00   0.00   0.00   t.05  Y.    5.55   1.75   7.50   9.25   0.52   2.25   2.77   0.17   0.75   0.92   3.50  15.00  18.50
Cix) Engg. Proj. Igt. I Own. Acin.
Igt. & Admin.          1.11   1.21   2.33   1.85   2.03   3.8   1.85   2.03   3.88   1.48   1.62   3.10   1.11   1.21   2.33   7.40   8.10  15.50
Duties & Ta            0.12   0.00   0.12   0.20   0.00   0.20   0.20   0.00   0.20   0.16   0.00   0.16   0.12   0.00   0.12   0.81   0.00   0.81
Sub Total              1.23   1.21   2.45   2.05   2.03   4.08   2.05   2.03   4.08   1.64   1.62   3.26   1.23   1.21   2.45   8.21   8.10  16.31  '
Physfcal Contingencies   0.12   0.12   0.24   0.21   0.20   0.41   0.21   0.20   0.41   0.16   0.16   0.33   0.12   0.12   0.24   0.82   0.81   1.63  D 0
Price Continpicie      0.05   0.05   0.11   0.12   0.12   0.25   0.19   0.18   0.37   0.20   0.20   0.40   0.20   0.03   0.23   0.77   0.59   1.35    >
Total (fx)             1.41   1.39   2.80   2.38   2.35   4.73   2.44   2.41   4.86   2.01   1.98   3.99   1.56   1.36   2.92   9.80   9.50  19.29
(x) Project Prep. * Related studies                                                                                                             
Comultumy ServIce      3.12   0.80   3.92   0.78   0.20   0.98   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   3.90   1.00   4.90
TOTAL I               10.10  25.02  35.13  27.64  91.19 118.83  35.75 114.31 150.06  14.54  45.17  59.71   4.05  10.65  14.70  92.09 286.34 378.43



ISLAMIC REPftLIC OF IRAN
POUER SECTOR EFFICIENCY IPROVEMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DETAILED PROJECT COST TABLE                               (In USS Nilion)
1993                 1994                  1995                 1996                  1997                 1993-97
It. TA C nmnt         Locatl Foreign Total  Local Forefgn rotal  Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Loal Foreign Tot&
(1) Energy Sector Oewtqpm n Stuty
Consultancy Servlces    0.02   0.14   0.15   0.06   0.54   0.60   0.06   0.54   0.60   0.02   0.14   0.15   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.15   1.35   1.50
Prfce Contnuencles      0.00   0.01   0.01   0.00   0.03   0.03   0.00   0.04   0.05   0.00   0.02   0.02   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.01   0.09   0.11
Total (1)               0.02   0.14   0.16   0.06   0.57   0.63   0.06   0.58   0.65   0.02   0.15   0.17   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.16   1.4    1.61
CII) Sector Corporatizatlon-Prlvatiztlon Study
Camltancy ServIces      0.02   0.16   0.18   0.08   0.62   0.70   0.08   0.62   0.70   0.02   0.16   0.18   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.20   1.55   1.75
Price Contrngnies       0.00   0.01   0.01   0.00   0.03   0.04   0.01   0.05   0.06   0.00   0.02   0.02   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.01   0.11   0.12
Total (1)              0.02   0.16   0.18   0.08   0.65   0.74   0.09   0.67   0.76   0.02   0.17   0.19   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.21   1.66   1.87
(III) Thermal Plants RdehbllItatian Study
Censultency services    0.02   0.0o   0.08   0.03   0.11   0.14   0.04   0.18   0.22   0.02   0.09   0.11   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.10   0.45   0.5S
Price Cntingeices       0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.01   0.01   0.00   0.01   0.02   0.00   0.01   0.01   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.01   0.03   0.04
Total (IIi)             0.02   0.07   0.09   0.03   0.12   0.15   0.04   0.19   0.24   0.02   0.10   0.12   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.11   0.48   0.59
Clv) Operator Trainirn for GT-CCP
Con ltency ServIces     0.02   0.06   0.08   0.00   0.!o   0.3t   0.04   0.15   0.19   0.02   0.09   0.11   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.15   0.60   0.75
Price Contingepces      0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.02   0.02   0.00   0.01   0.02   0.00   0.01   0.01   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.01   0.04   0.05
Total Clv)              0.02   0.06   0.08   0.08   0.32   0.40   0.04   0.16   0.20   0.03   0.10   0.13   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.16   0.64   0.80
TOTAL 11                0.07   0.43   0.50   0.2    1.66   1.91   0.24   1.61   1985   0.09   0.52   0.61   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.64   4.23   4.8?
TOTAL PROJECT CMI      10.17  25.4   35.63  27.89  92.85 120.74  35.99 115.92 151.91  14.63  45.69  60.32   4.05  10.65  14.70  92.73 290.57 383.30
vi. Intemt OurIng Cotructlen
beC                     0.00   0.97   0.97   0.00   5.65   5.65   0.00  14.10  14.10   0.00   9.85   9.85   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  30.57  30:57
TOTAL FINUACIG UIiRB  10.17  26.43  36.60  27.89  98.50 126.39  35.99 130.02  166.01  14.63  55.54  70.17   4.05  10.65  14.70  92.73 321.14 413.87
I'd
w00
0
W%J



73
ISLANIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DETAILED FINANCING PLAN
Project Element           IBRD  Supplier  MOE     TREC  TOTAL
Credit
1. QO  Corponent
Local                                             92.09  92.09
Foreign                  160.77  47.78            77.79 286.34
IOC                                              30.57  30.5s
Sub Totat              160.77  47.78   0.00  200.45  409.00
1I. TA Component
Local                                      0.64           0.64
Foreign                   4.23                            4.23
Sub Total               4.23    0.00   0.64    0.00   4.87
TOTAL
Local                      0.00    0.00   0.64   92.09  92.73
Foreign                  165.00  47.78   0.00   77.79  290.57
IDC                       0.00    0.00   0.00   30.57  30.57
TOTAL FINANCING          165.00  47.78   0.64  200.45  413.85



74
Annex 4.9
Attachment 1
ISLMIC RE,PUBLIC OF IR
P R_EOR  EFFICIENCY IMROEMNT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL ZPQORT
DETAILED PROCUREMENT TABLE
CUSS million)
Proctirwent Method
--- -.. --------------------  Total
I C B   L C B Other a/ NSF b/    Cost
Civil Works                                14.45                     14.45
NRSG & AuxiLiarfes                 64.16                            64.16
(7.90)                           (7.90)
Steam Turbine & Air Condensor    103.81                            103.81
(84.14)                          (84.14)
Electrical System                  28.38                            28.38
C22.53)                          (22.53)
Inctrumentation & Controls         13.03                            13.03
(11.62)                          (11.62)
SOP Equipment                      14.49                     4.12   18.61
(10.08)                         (10.08)
Transmission Line & Substation                              93.31   93.31
Distribution Equipment             14.00             1.00    3.50   18.50
(14.00)          (1.00)         (15.00)
Project Management &                                9.50    9.79   19.29
Owner's Aministration c/                           (9.50)           (9.50)
Project preparatory studies                                  4.90    4.90
Studies                                             4.07             4.07
(3.59)          (3.59)
Training                                            0.80             0.80
(0.64)          (0.64)
.                      *~~~~~---.... ......  ......  ......  ......
TOTAL                             237.86   14.45   15.38  115.62  383.30
(150.28)        (14.73)         (165.00)
Note:
Figures in parentheses to be financed by the Bank.
a/ Shopping nd CorisuLting Services
b/ NSF a Non-Bank Financed
c/ Includes US$2.0 milion retroactive financing (pare 4.11)



77
Annex 4.11
Page 1 of 10
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMFNT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL RL2ORT
EXCERPTS FROM ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
Policy. Legal and Administrative Framework
1.          Rentulatory Policy and Requirements.  Under the current regulatory
structure, a private enterprise or a government agency interested in
developing an industrial facility such as a power plant has to acquire an
approval from the Iranian Environmental Protection Organization (IEPO) for the
construction and operation of the facility. This approval is based on a
preliminary project description submitted by the developer. IEPO reviews this
information and issues an approval letter if the project development would not
result in any major, adverse environmental impact. If IEPO review indicates
any potential adverse environmental and/or social impact as a esult of the
proposed developmez.t, IEPO requires an acceptable environmental impact
statement (EIS) prior to the start of construction.
2.          IEPO has the authority to inspect the project operation anytime
for compliance and can shut down a plant if specific regulations relative to
air emission, water/sewage discharge and noise pollution are violated. In
practice, IEPO cooparates with the operator to ensure compliance with the
regulation. IEPO also acts as the forum for complaints regarding the
operation of the plant from any affected party, nongovernmental organizations
(NGQs) or the public. IEPO permits power plant siting based on regional
development needs and criteria as well as potential impacts to existing and
planned residential, commercial and industrial developments.
Baseline Data
3.          Proiect Setting.  The city of Qom is predominantly a religious
community with a few light industrial plants locatel outside the city. The Qom
Combined Cycle Conversion Project (QCCP) would be located approximately 15 km
west of the city of Qom in the Tehran province.  The project is located on the
Tehran-Arak road approximately 150 km south of Tehran. TREC has contractc.sd
with Mitsubishi Heavy Industries (MHI) of Japan for the supply, installation
and commission!.ng of 4 dual fired simple cycle gas turbine units each with a
capacity of 100 MVW. Civil works are in progress at the site, and the
commissioning of the units is scheduled between May 1993 and July 1993.
4.          Generation from the gas turbines would be fed into the
interconnected electric transmission system via a new 230-kV line now under
construction. The plant would be connected at the plant substation to the
400-kV transmission system being constructed by the Ministry of Energy (MOE)
as part of the strengthening of the national north-south link. A dedicated
gas pipeline is under construction by Iranian National Gas Company (INGC) for
the gas turbine plant and should be completed by July 1993. Until that time,
the gas turbines would use gas oil as fuel.



78
Annex 4.11
Page 2 of 10
5.          Land Use.  The area surrounding the plant is undeveloped, dry,
waste land. The nearest development is a grain silo and flour mill located
1.5 km from the site, on the road to Qom. The area along the road is not
designated for industrial development. According to IEPO, no residential
development would be permitted close to the plant.
6.          TREC has acquired sufficient lands to locate the QCCP and the
associated structures adjacent to the gas turbine plant. 5he entire plant
area has been cleared and regraded. Subsurface investigations indicate the
principal characteristic of the soil is its collapsible structure when allowed
free access to water. The collapse of this loose soil may also be induced by
seismic activity. TREC and its engineering consultants has conducted
additional geotechnical investigations to ensur- adequate design of the
project structures.
7.          Air Quality.  It is expected that existing ambient N02
concentrations at ground level would be around 8 pg/m as suggested in the
Bank guidelines. TREC has conducted air quality modelling of the gas turbine
plant exhaust and has estimated that the incremental annual average ambient
N02 concentrations at ground level using gas oil would be 40.4 pg/rn3.  The
expected S02 emissions from such operations have not been estimated by TREC.
Assuming a background S02 level of 3 pg/m3 (Bank guidelines), and a 60 percent
plant factor for the 400 MW gas turbine units, an average uncontrolled SO2
emission rate of less that 20 tons/day (TPD) is estimated for the low sulphur
gas oil operation. This level of emission should not have a significant
impact on the air quality in the area and is expected to result in ambient
ground level concentrations within IEPO limits.
8.          With natural gas firing, the incremental annual average ambient
NO2 concentrations at ground level due to the gas turbine plant would be
reduced to 30.4 pg/m3 over background levels. S02 emissions would almost be
completely eliminated. TREC is taking steps to accelerate the commissioning
of the gas pipeline to cut the high operating costs associated with gas oil as
well as to lower emissions from the stack.
9.          Water Resources.  The Qom region is dry and barren with an annual
precipitation of less than 150 mm. The Qom river, located approximately 1.5
km south of the plant perimeter wall, is not conducive to the development of
local surface water resources and, therefore, obtains water from groundwater
resources, the extraction of which is controlled by the Qom Water Authority.
The city of Qom with a population of 300,000 meets its estimated water demand
of 825 1/s (2979 m3/hr) from groundwater resources. To augment the supply,
the Pandzdah Khordad dam and reservoir is beir., constructed on the Qom river
50 km south of the site near the town of Delijan.
10.         TREC has developed two wells to supply raw water tc the gas
turbine plant. The wells are located 0.7 km and 1.2 km south of the existing
plant perimeter wall. The wells are approximately 140m deep with a static
water level about 42m below ground surface. Bed rock is estimated to be at a
depth of between 150m and 170m. The gas turbine plant would require
approximately 15 ls (1,300 m3/day), of which over 60 percent is for
irrigation.



79
Annex 4.11
Page 3 of 10
11.         Wastewater and Solid Waste Management.  Wastewater from the gas
turbine plant would consist of water treatment plant reject and domestic
sewage. The treatment plant reject would be neutralized and charged into a
solar evaporator pit. The sewage water would be treated in a packaged
anaerobic biological plant with a capacity of 30 m3/day. The effluent from
the sewage treatment plant would meet the standards required by IEPO and would
be used for irrigation. TREC would dispose of the plant sludge in an IEPO
approved landfill.
12.         Toxic and Hazardous Substances Manaaement.  TREC has confirmed
that all gas turbine plant transformers are solid cooled and would not contain
any PCBs. The building codes now prohibit the use of asbestos as construction
material. TREC would store approximately l0,OVO tons of gas oil in 2 surface
tanks to supply 2 weeks of fuel requirement. TREC would design a fire
fighting system comprising ring mains, pressure gages and fire hoses. TREC
would also monitor the leakage of oil from these storage tanks using a scheme
of gravel drains alongside the tanks to detect any leakage. The drains would
be monitored regularly for traces of oil. Typically, soil is used to sponge
any oil leaks. TREC would develop procedures for day-to-day usage as well as
any emergency spill cleanup of hazardous materials such as transformer
ccolants, lube oils, etc. TREC would use only approved fertilizers and
pesticides for landscaping to minimize any contamination of groundwater
resources. TREC proposes to implement manufactu re-recommended maintenance
procedures to prevent exposure to toxic gases 1.Aking from the boilers.
13.         Noise Pollution.  The gas turbine plant design would be such as to
meet the IEPO regulations for ambient noise levels (70 dB for general activity
in an industrial area). Noise level in the vicinity of drive equipment would
meet appropriate IEPO standards, which would conform to the Bank's guidelines
(not more than 90 dB). TREC would provide workers with ear protection to
prevent exposure to excessive noise while working near drive mechanipms.
14.         Natural Resources Protection.  The project area has already been
cleared of all vegetation as part of t;,e gas turbine development. TREC would
obtain a letter from IEPO confirming that no endangered plant or animal
species migrate through the plant site and that the project would have no
impact on such species. TREC has agreed to landscape the plant area and
maintain a green ring of kevir trees around the plant. TREC would use
indigenous species arnd dry landscaping to reduce water consumption. IEPO uses
US EPA guidelines to minimize avian hazards from stacks and transmission line
towers. MOE would follow IEPO guidelines when designing and constructing the
project transmission lines.
15.         Historical. Cultural and Aesthetic Resources.  No historical or
cultural artifacts were reported found during the land clearing and
preparation activities for the gas turbine project. Excavation for the QCCP
would be carried out in the area already disturbed and graded for the gas
turbine plants.
16.         Socioeconomic Settinif.  The gas turbine plant would be a
significant employer in the area with around 300 operators and white-collar
workers. IEPO expects that the plant would ensure a more reliable power



80
Annex 4.11
Page 4 of 10
supply from the Panzdah Khordad reservoir, would have a significant, positive
socioeconomic impact and would provide an incentive for light industrial
activity along the Tehran-Arak road.
17.         Public Safety.  Heavy construction activities could potentially
cause accidents at the site. TREC would institute a sita construction safety
plan in consultation with the contractor to ensure adequate protection to
construction as well as operation workers. The general public would not be
admitted to the construction site. TREC would design the project structures
for appropriate earthquake loading based on local seismic data. The project
stacks would be the tallest structures in the area (50 m). TREC would obtain
appropriate clearances and would install lights to warn aircraft of the
stacks. Similar warning systems would be installed on the highest
transmission towers if required. TREC has agreed to develop procedures and
specifications for remedial actions to address emergency situations arising
from pipeline fires, storage tank fires and tanker oil spills.
Environmental ImRact
i8.         Land Use.  No signiiicant impact to existing lana use is expected
during construction. The location of QCCP offers the least impact to land use
in the area since all ground-disturbing activities were carried out as part of
the gas turbine project. tNo additional land for project structures or right-
of-way for project gas pipeline or transmission lines would be required.
19.         Air Ouality.  Monenco Consulting Engineers (Canada) has designed
the stack height for the QCCP using dispersion modeling based on US EPA models
that incorporate Gaussian dispersion formulas. The results from modeling the
gas turbines and the HRSG operation for the QCCP indicate that the annual
arithmetic mean ambient N02 concentrations at ground level would not exceed 33
yg/m3 when firing gas and 46 pg/m3 when firing gas oil over background levels.
The incremental concentrations over those predicted for the gas turbine
opera'ions alone would be 3 and 6 pg/m3, respectively (see Tables 4.11.1 and
4.11.2). These concentrations would be felt at a distance of about 1.5 km
downwind from the plant. The maximum concentrations near the city of Qom
under similar conditions would be approximately 15 pg/m3 and 25 pg/m3,
respectively. These levels are within the IEPO limits and are considered
acceptable.



?,
Annex 4.9
Attachment 2
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PROCUREMENT IMPLEMENTATION MONITORING SCHEDULE
Issue     Bid    Submission of  Signing    LC      Expected
Package      of Bid   Opening    Evaluation     of    Opening  Completion
Packages              Report     Contract
HRSG Island      Mar 93   Jun 93      Sep 93      Nov 93   Nov 93     Feb 98
STIG Island      Mar 93   Jun 93      Sep 93      Nov 93   Nov 93     Mar 96
Civil Contract   Jan 94   Mar 94      Apr 94      Jul 94     N/a      Jul 95
Engineering                                       Apr 93   Jun 93     Jul 96
& Project
Management
Distrbution
Equipment
- Consulting                                      Jun 93     Nla      Jun 95
Services
- Works       _Nov 93   Feb 94        Mar 94      Apr 94    NWa       Jun 95



76
annex 4.1Q
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
LOAN DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
Bank Fiscat Year                 Quarterly       Cummutative      Disbursement
Quarter Ending                   Disbursement    Dlsbursement    as a % of Total
CUSS million)
FY 1994
Septeffber 30, 1993                 2.30            2.30             1.40%
December 31, 1993                   2.30            4.60             2.79%
March 31, 1994                     11.22           15.82             9.59%
June 30, 1994                      11.22           27.03            16.38%
FY 1995
September 30, 1994                 11.22           38.25            23.18%
December 31, 1994                  11.22           49.47            29.98M
March 31, 1995                     18.21           67.68            41.02%
June 30, 1995                      18.21           85.89            52.05%
FY 1996
September 30, 1995                 18.21          104.10            63.09X
Decemaer 31, 1995                  18.21          122.32            74.13%
March 31, 1996                      8.58          130.90            79.33%
June 30, 1996                       8.58          139.48            84.53%
FY 1997
September 30, 1996                  8.58          148.06            89.73%
December 31, 1996                   8.58          156.64            94.93%
March 31, 1997                      2.09          158.73            96.20%
June 30, 1997                       2.09          160.82            97.46%
FY 1998
September 30, 1997                  2.09          162.91            98.73%
December 31, 1997                   2.09          165.00           100.00%



81
Annex 4.11
Page 5 of 10
Table 4.11.1. Project Air Quality Parameters (pg/m3)
Parameter               Current Value        IEPO Limits    Bank Guidelines
Ambient Values:
Avg. Annual N02
Concentrations                      8l0                                   l0
Max. 24-hr Avg.
NO2 Concentration                   81                250                none
Avg. Annual S02
Concentrations                      31                 80                  80
Max. 3-hr S02
Concentrations                      31             1,0002               1,0002
Stack Emissions
Average S02 (TPO)                                                         <50
Annual NO2
Emissions'                         --                none                none
Annual SOn
Emission.-                                           none                none
Annual CO2
Loading2                           --                none                none
Assumed Bank Guidelines.
V In 1000 tons.



82
Annex 4.11
Page 6 of 10
Table 4.11.2:  Expected Air Quality Measurements (pg/m3)
Value with   Value with   Value with   Value with
Parameter           GTs only     GTs only          QCCP         QCCP
(gas        (gas oil      (gas         (gas oil
firing)      firing)      firing)       firing)
Ambient Values:
Avg. Annual N02
Concentrations                  38           48            41           54
Max. 24-hr
Avg. Concentrations            --3           --3          179           __
Avg. Annual S02
Concentrations           existing3         504,5   existing3          8594
Max. 3-hr S02
Concentrations           existing3        8594.6   existing3          8594
Stack Emissions
Average S02 (TPO)                            20
Annual N02 Emissions           2.4          5.24         2.48          __4
Annual S02 Emissions         trace         10.54        10.58          __4
Annual C02 Loading           1,860        1,8604       1,8608          __4
j/ Assumed Bank Guidelines.
Z/ In 1000 tons.
2/ Data not availabte.
i Not applicable to the project, which uses naturaL gas as a primary fuel and gas oil as a standby fuel.
2/ Estimates without modeling.
y Project value Es for 1/2 hour average.
Z/ Max. 24-hr inside project fence.
1/ QCCP does not use any more fuel than gas turbines alone, and, hence no additional emissions.
20.         Water Resources.  Water is in short supply in the region.  The
plant would use air cooled condensers to minimize water needs. Preliminary
designs indicate that the maximum raw water requirement for the plant would be
2,200 m3/day including 1,300 m3/day for the gas turbine plant. Raw water from
the wells is brackish with a total dissolved solids (TDS) content in the range
or 6,000 ppm. Table 4.11.3 below shows the plant water balance.
21.         TREC has completed studies that indicate that adequate water
(maximum of 2,200 m3/day or 25 l/s) would be available from the two wells for
the plant operation, including pocable, fire fighting and landscaping needs.
The aquifer supplying these wells is reported to be separate from that
supplying the city. The Qom Water Authority has approved a long-term
groundwater extraction of 3,020 m3/day (35 1/s) by TREC for the development.
There is a reasonable indication that sufficient water would be available for
the plant operation. The Monernco report, however, does not confirm the
available sources. Instead, the rsport enumerates alternative supply sources
available in the area, which may be tapped by TREC if necessary. TREC should



83
Annex 4.11
Page 7 of 10
submit to the Bank a letter from the Qom Water Authority confirming that no
long-term impact to the Qom water supply or the local area would result from
QCCP abstraction. Alternatively, TREC should make a firm commitment to
develop alternative resources to assure long-term plant water supply.
Table 4.11.3: Plant Water Balance (all figures in m3/day)
Supply System             Quantity                Treatrent
Process - HRSG makeup                     950      Pretreatment, desalting, demineralizatton
Potable water                              50      Pretreatment, desalting, demineralization
Service water                             380      Pretreatment, desalting, demineralization
Pretreatment reject                       110      None
Desalting plant reject                    630      Pretreatment
Demineralizer backwash                     40      Pretreatment, desalting
requirement
Demineralizer plant reject                 40      Pretreatment, desalting
Total Raw Uater                          2.200
33383
Drainage System
Total treatment plant reject              780      No treat-ent; evaporated in solar pond
Domestic sewage                            50      Treated and used for Irrigation
Oily waste                                 60      Treated and used for irrigation
BoSler Blow-down and clean service water  1,270    Recyclable
Backwash system                            40      Recyclable
Total                                    2,200
*....
22.          Wastevater and Solid Waste Manatement.  Wastewater from the boiler
area, rejects from pretreatment, desalting plant and demineralized plant would
be collected in a settling pond and neutralized. Clean effluent would have
greater TDS content than would be permissible by IEPO and would be disposed of
in a solar evaporator pit. Dry sludge would settle in the pond at the rate of
less that 1 m/yr.  The deposit would be excavated and removed to an approved
landfill once every few years. This practice is acceptable to IEPO and would
not cause any impact. Wastewater from areas where oil contamination or
leakage may occur would be collected through a separate pipe system, which
would pass through an oil separator unit. Oil would be collected and recycled



84
Annex 4.11
Page 8 of 10
or disposed of and regulated by IEPO. Clean water would be discharged to the
plant agricultural (landscaping) pond.
23.         All domestic sewage would be collected into -.he existing piped
system and treated anaerobically in a biological treatment plant. TREC has
agreed to incorporate provisions in the final design of the facility for
monitoring, collecting and treating any leakages from the gas oil storage
tanks to ensure no contamination of groundwater. This should provide adequate
protection to the groundwater resources. Sludge from water and sewage
treatment plants would be disposed of at regular intervals in an approved
landfill designated by IEPO. TREC has agreed to dispose of residual sludge
from gas oil firing as regulated by IEPO. IEPO generally follows US EPA
guidelines, and, therefore, the practice would satisfy the Bank's guidelines.



85
Annex 4.11
Page 9 of 10
Mitigative Measures
Resource                           Mitigative Measure
Land Uce               TREC to develop appropriate specifications to ensure
optimal use of available land and minimize land
clearing activities.
Air Quality            TREC to collect baseline data; monitor baseline
pollutant concentrations for several months; provide
air quality model analysis and modify stack desi;g if
acessary to meet IEPO NO2 concentration limits; and
s"iecify methods to minimize fugitive dust during
c:instruction.
Water Resources        TREC to provide letter from Qom Water Authority
stating no impact of water withdrawal for QCCP on
local users; reassess design to conserve water;
alternatively, commit to alternative sources of water
for long-term plant needs.
Wastewater and Solid  TREC to develop equipment and design specifications to
Waste Management       IEPO limits or raw water concentrations for
pollutants.
Toxic and Hazardous   TREC to develop equipment and design specifications as
Substances             well as disposal procedures for QCCP, similar to
Management             existing practices.
Noise Abatement        TREC to develop equipment and design specificaticns to
l ____________________   meet   IEPO   standards.
Natural Resources      TREC to develop design construction specifications to
ensure minimal clearing of vegetation and the careful
disposal of spoils.
Historical and         TREC to include provisions in construction
Cultural Resources     specifications for consultation with IEPO should
l____________________  siqnificant artifacts be found during excavations.
Socioeconomic          TREC to ensure construction traffic does not affect
Impacts                local traffic.
Public Safety          TREC to eneure appropriate design of project
structures to withstand seismic loading; develop
procedures to include QCCP operation in its emergency
fire fighting plans; and continue its staff training
on safety at the work place.
Monitoring             TREC to develop environmental monitoring program in
consultation with IEPO, NGOs and the general public.
Training               TREC to establish an environmental unit and train
personnel to ensure the implementation of ISPO
requirements.



86
Annex 4.11
Page 10 of 10
Monitoring. Management and Training
24.   Environmental Monitorfna.  TREC has proposed a regular, concontinuous
environmental monitoring program to measure ambient ground level N02
concentrations and plant water and sewage discharges, as well as noise levels
in the plant area. In addition, TREC should monltor N02 concentrations at
ground level at a station that, based on modeling studies, would suffer the
greatest environmental impact from the plant. TREC should consult with IEPO
to determine the location of the station.
25.   TREC would sample and analyze plant water supply and sewage discharges
on a weekly basis. The sampling locations should include representative raw
water supply and sewage discharge, as well as water treatment plant diccharge
points. TREC should test the effluent for temperature, pH, total dissolved
solids, nitrates, chlorides, phosphates, sulfates and other parameters that
may be of concern to IEPo in the local area, to ensure that no pollutants are
higher than those found in raw water or IEPO limits, whichever is greater.
26.   Project TraininR Needs.  TREC has proposed to include well-defined
technical training for operators for installation, operation and maintenance
as part of the equipment supply contract.
27.   It is recommended that a short training program be instituted for the
environmental monitoring unit to emphasize the need for monitoring, the value
of the data to be collected and the interpretation and use of the data to
address potential issues or complaints arising from plant operation. A public
information and interaction mechanism should be developed as part of these
training programs to ensure that the project avoids or minimizes any
unforeseen negative impact, as well as enhances its usefulness to the
community in which it operates.



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
POVER SECTOR EFFICIENCY iMPROVEMENT PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
FY93                           1F94       iY95                 FY96                   Y97 
COiMlPONENT                  I    11  IIl  IV    I    11  III  IV    I    11  III  IV    I    If  III  IV    I    11  III  iV
L OCM COMPONENT
Clv Works
Prepare & Issue bid documents
Open, evaluate & award contract
Desgn and erect structures
Heat Recovery Steam Generator Island
Prepare & issue bid documents
Open, evaluate & award contract
Supply and erect
Commission
Steam Turbine Generator Island
Prepare & issue bid documents
Open, evWauate & award contract                                                                                                                          OD
Supply and erect                                               _4
Commisson                                                _
Transmission Line and Substation
Prepare & issue bid documents
Open, evaluate & award contract
Supply and erect
Commission
Distribution Equlpment
Constiting Service (feasibility)                                    _
Prepare & issue bid documents
Open, evaluate & award contract
Supply and Instal                                                                                                                                 CD _ _
Commission                                                                     _                                                                     x
o A4-



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT PrtOJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
.-Y93                FY94                 FY95                 FY96                FY97
COMPONENT                   I   11  III  IV    I    11  IlI  IV    I   It  III  IV    I   11  fi1  IV    I    11  1II  IV
11. TEC .NICAL ASSISTANCE
Energy Sector Development Study
Shod list consultants
Prepare & Issue proposals
Open, evauate & award contract
EpWcted completion date
Commercializatlon-Prlvatizatlon Study
Short list consultants
Prepare & Issue proposals
Open, evaluate & award contract
Expected completlon date                                                                                                                              co
Thermal Plant Rehabilitation Study
Shot list consultants
Prepare & issue proposals
Open. evaluate & award contract
EKpected completion date                                       _
Operator Training br GT-CCP
Shod lIt consultants
Prepare & issue proposals
Open, evaluate & award contract
Expected completion date                            ._._.____
m :3
0 x-
o -



89
Annex 4.13
Page 1 of 2
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PROJECT MONITORING GUIDELINES AND SUPERVISION PLAN
Prolect Monitorina Guidelines
1.          The monitoring guidelines indicate the broad requirements and
supplement the Borrower's obligation according to the Loan and Projec-t
Agreements. These requirements could be modified if needed. Records would be
maintained giving planned and actual achievements, to be reviewed annually for
the following:
(a)   installed and derated capacity in MW for each of the power
stations according to types (thermal, gas, hydro);
(b)   energy capabilities in GWh/year by each power station;
(C)   maximum demand in MW and energy generated in GWh by each power
station;
(d)   fuel consumed in mt/m3 by fuel type in each power station;
(e)   number of consumers and sales in GWh by consumer categories;
(f)   transmission and distribution (line) losses;
(g)   planned and forced outages (by classification) In power stations
and in the transmission and distribution network;
(h)   monthly maximum demand in MW (gross) for the interconnected
system;
(i)   quality of supply to the consumers (number of interruptions,
durations classified according to cause and voltage conditions at
the consumer end);
(j)   annual system load duration curve for the interconnected system;
(k)   plant and load factors and plant availability; and
(1)   MOE investment plan and annual budget by activity in local and
foreign costs.



90
Annex 4.13
Page 2 of 2
Proleat Implementation
2.          Records would be maintained showing the oziginal schedule against
actual achievements to be supplied to the Bank at agreed regular interva.ls on
the following aspects:
(a)   procurement action by bid packages (bid specifications, bid
'invitation, opening of bids, bid evaluation, award of contract,
signing of contract and contract process as amended from time to
time);
(b)   physical progress according to project components and contracts
(highlighting critical activities and bottlenecks);
(c)   actual project costs and expenditures (local and foreign) and
estimated remaining expenditure (local and foreign) projected
quarterly through project completion;
(d)   disbursement schedule (for Bank loans as well as other loans);
(e)   information on problems encountered during implementation
(including major mishaps) and expected impact on commissioning
schedules; and
(f)   minutes of meetings and progress reports by consultants.
Proiect Suoervision
3.          The proposed Bank supervision missions and their composition would
be as follows:
Mission                  Composition                    Proposed Dates
Project Launch Mission         Power Engineer                  February 1993
Financial Analyst
Procurement Engineer
Project Supervision            Power Engineer                 Twice/year
Financial Analyst              1993-1994
Procurement Engineer
Project Supervision            Power Engineer                 Twice/year
Financial Analyst              1995-1997



91
Annex 5.1
Page I of 3
IRAN -Power Sector Efficfeency Inprovemsnt Project
TREC - Income Statement FY87 to FY97
(Rfits bilLions)
Actual.                                         Projected
temn                                FY87   FY88  FY89   FY90  FY91    FY92        FY93      FY94     FY95       FY96      FY97
ro,ss Generation -                            IU      1so5                 5     3 S00    3,392    3,604      3,478      3,803
urchased Enery    I               11.915 10,918 12,265 13.414 14.218  15 970   14,100   15,538   16,183    16,942    17.257
nergy Sales - GWIAg               10.209  9.678 11 070 11.808 12,661  14 564   16,000   17 368   18 153    18 734    19 321
nergy Sates Growth -                 6.9   -5.2  i4.       6.7    7.2    15.0      9.9      h.55     4'.52      i.20      K.14
osses.-Gh                               1   1.241  1.197  1607  1,139   1,311    1.440    1.563    1,634       1,686     1.739
. %                   U.3~~71    11.4  '9.87  i2.0    9.0   9.0      9.0       9.0      9.0       9.0        9.0
No. of Customers (000's)
n ewinn  orfbyar                                   178    133    177       90       90        90       90         90        90
Average Tariff   -Rskh4.29   4.26  .5.85   6.29  10.66   11.80    17.70    35.48    71.13    142.58    158.92
increase -%      - nominat                                                                  100.5    100.5     100.?       11.5)
-reaL                                                                     66.5      72.8      77.0       0.0
Average Purchase Price   RL/kWh      2.02   2.07   2.16   2.03   2.23    2.80      2.80    26.70    44.00    120.00    154.00
Revenues
-Sales of etectrifcity              43.8   41.2   64.7   74.3  134.9   171.9   283.2    616.2  1,291.2   2,671.1   3,070.6
other revemue                       4.3    4.0    4.4    4.9    9.2    16.6      20.9      26.0     31.2       36.5      41.9
Total                              48.1 45.          69.2    79. 14.    188.5    304.1    642.2  1,322.4   2,707.5   3,112.5
Lectricity purchases                24.1   22.6   26.5   27.2   31.5    44.7      39.5    414.9    712.1   2,033.1   2,657.6
eneratfng Casts                      0.0    0.0    0.0    0.2    0.2      0.7     17.4      37.2     48.6       59.4     103.1
ross Margin                         24.0 2.    42.6   51.7  112.2   143.0    247.3    190.2    561.7          615.1      351.8
t.ransiExesesio                   inct.  inc.  fnct.    0.7    1.4       1.9      8.3      10.8     13.1       15.4      17.6
distributfon                     fnd.  mnc.  fnct.   8.0    9.3    12.8         15.5      20.2     24.5       28.7      33.0
customer accounts                fnc.  fnc.  inst.    2.0    3.9        5.4      4.5       5.9      7.1       8.3        9.6
sates expense                    fnc.  fnd.  inct.    0.0    0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0        0.0
admfin. and general              fnst.  inc.  mnct.    8.5   17.0    19.8       15.0      19.6     23.7      27.8       31.9
other                             17.0   18.2  20.1    0.3    0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0       0.0
TotaL                             1.    18.2  20.1   19.5   31.6   40.0         43.3      52.1     60.4      68.4       76.2
rOSS operating Profit                7.0    4.4    25   32.2   806   130    20.             3.1    501.3      546.6      275.6
it rest
C    rcm'riatizatfon Loan                                                         0.0       0.0    245.9      200.4     170.5
World Bank Loan                                                          0.0      0.8       6.1     17.0       26.2      28.6
other investment loans                                                   0.0      1.8      20.2     51.1       73.4      87.2
less capitalized portion                                                 0.0     (2.7)   (20.6)   (54.3)    (85.4)    (53.9)
not fnterest wqwtse                            ~~~~0.0   0.0      0.0      5.7    259.7      214.7     232.4
nercitfintrsexne                     0.0    0.0    0.0    4.6   20.6      9.9     85.3    112.0    142.3      172.4      249.6
Imortifzat ion                                                             0.0      0.0      0.1       0.6       4.3       9.3
Income from Operations                7.0   4.4 2.    27.6   60.0    93.2    118.6           20.3     98.7     155.3   (215.8)
Other Income                          0.4    1.6    1.5    1.6    1.3      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0       0.0
ncome before levies and taxes        7.5    5.    2. 292 6.4   93.2    118.6                20.3     98.7      155.3   (215.S)
PO Levy                              0.0    0.0   17.4   15.0   42.0    93.2    144.6        0.0      0.0        0.0       0.0
income taxes                                                              0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       83.9    (116.5)
Net Income                            75      .9    6.6   14.1   19.4   (0.0)   (26.0)    20.3        98.7       71.4    (99.3)
Lass an Tranisfer of Fixed Assets    (0.0)  (0.0)  (0.0)  8LS
.ange in earned surplus             7.      .9     66      .    19.4    (0.0)   (26;.0)    20-.3,   -9'8.7    '7'1.4    ('99.3')



92
Annex 5.1
Page 2 of 3
IRAN - Power Sector Efficiency Improvement Project
..................................................
TREC   Cash Flow Statement FY87 to FY97
.......................................
(Riots billions)
Actual                                            Projected
............................... .. ................................................................ ............................ ................
Sources of Funds                      FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91    FY92        FY93      FY94      FY95      FY96       FY97
Cash From Operations
Caht profit                            7.5    5.9    6.6    5.4   19.4    (0.0)   (26.0)    20.3         98.7       71.4      (99.3)
Depreciation                         4.2    3.9    4.1    4.6   20.6       9.9      85.3    112.0    142.3       172:4      249.6
Amnortization                                                              O. O       . O      O1       0.6        4.3        9.3
I 2nterest                                                                   0.0       0.0       5.7    259.7      214.7      232.4
- IPO tevy                             0.0    0.0   17.4   15.0   42.0    93.2    144.6          0.0      0.0        0.0        0.0
- Customer connection charges          7.5    8.9   11.8   16.0   31.9    36.0        40.0      58.5     99.3      190.9      408.9
...... ..... ..... .......    .... .....    ....   ....    ....  ....  ....  ..... ...-..  ....
- Total                               19.2   18.7   39.9   41.0  113.9   139.0    244.0    196.6    600.6          653.7      801.0
Less:
- Debt service
Interest                                                                  0.0       0.0      5.7    259.7       214.7     232.4
Principal
- Commercialization loan                                                            0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0      116.5
* World Sank Loan                                                         0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       26.5      28.6
- OtherInvestment loans                                   0.0    0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      6.3       37.4      107.5
- Other                             1.0    0.7    0.4    0.6    0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      4.4        9.2       9.2
..... ;.......... ......... ...... ...... ......... ..... ;........  ..... ....... ...... - ..... ------ ........    ......    ......
Total                               1.0    0.7    0.4    0.6    0.0       0.0       0.0       5.7    270.4      207.7     494.1
* Increase in Working capital        (17.5)  25.7    0.9    5.6   42.9       3.4      (6.3)    32.6      86.6      121.6    (123.4)
..... ...... ... .  . . ....... ...... ------.. ......   ------... ------    ......... ...... ............................................ ...
tnternal Cash generation              35.6   (7.7)  38.6   34.8   71.0   135.6    250.2    158.3    243.6          244.4     430.3
Other sources
- IPO                                  0.0    0.0    0.0   10.0   11.4       9.5      50.0
W World Bank Loan                                                            0.0      21.2      98.9    140.0       60.6        0.0
- Other Investment Loans
foreign currency                                                    0     0.0       0.0    171.0    147.0       179.3     210.4
local currency                      0.0    0.0    C.0    0.0    0.0       0.0       0.0     43.8      47.8        0.0       0.0
- Total                                0.0    0.0    0.0   10.0   11.4       9.5      71.2    313.8    334.8       240.0      210.4
._....... ......    ........ ......    ......... ......  ------. .. ......  ...... . .. ......  ........ .................. .................. ...
Total sources                         35.6   (7.7)  38.6   44.8   82.3   145.1    321.5    472.1    578.4          484.4      640.7
Application of Funds
....................
- Fixed Assets
Foreign                          finc    fnct   inct   inct    inct    11.9        67.4    343.3    390.8       284.9     210.4
Local                             incl   fnct   inct   inct    fncl    63.1        65.2    108.2    133.3        98.2      78.0
Capitalized Interest                                              0.0     0.0       2.7     20.6      54.3       85.4      53.9
Total                              12.9   15.8   20.3   36.1   33.3    75.1    135.3    472.1    578.4          468.5     342.3
IPO levy                               0.0    0.0   17.4   15.0   42.0    93.2    144.6          0.0      0.0        0.0       0.0
....... ..... ................ .... ... ...... ..... ......  ......... ......    .........   ...... .........   ......    ------... ......
Total Applications                    12.9   15.8   37.6   51.2   75.4   168.3    279.9    472.1    578.4          468.5     342.3
Net Cash Flow                         22.7  (23.5)   1.0   (6.3)   7.0   (23.2)    41.6          0.0      0.0       15.9      298.4
Ratios
Internal cash generation          270.1  (47.0) 160.5  116.5  147.3   281.7    110.0        40.1      48.1       52.8     106.8
Debt service coverage                                                                       34.5       2.2        2.3        1.6
Return on Fixed Assets in Servi   7.7    4.7   22.2   15.8   23.5    23.1          18.5      7.0      19.7       17.4       6.5



93
Annex 5.1
Page 3 of 3
IRAN- Pover Sector Ef ficency Inprovamont Project
TREC.. iiSelano        ..et ......o.19
Ac"tua                                    ProJected
Assets                     FY7   18    18   P9 ..1.          19    P93 FFy94 ....5.P19               . P19
current Aassts             30.2   6.7   5.7  12.0    24   0.7'  42.2    42.2    42.2    58.1    356.5
-Casb sndnot"s
*Aocoimts receivable      23.8  24.6  25.9  21.9  65.9  83.9   70.8   128.4   269.0   556.5    639.7
customers               (1.1)  3.6  17,.6   6.8  52.9  52.9   32.9    52.9    52.9    52.9          52.9
Other
totat            'W22.   28.2  43.4  28.  118.8  136.8  123.7   181.2   321.5   609.3    692.6
Inventarlos                                      ?-~~~~~~~34  8.0    10.9    13.8   32.1
FUset rs21.1  19.6  27.3  32.9  33.9  22.5   30.3    38.9    46.4    53.9                          61.4
Totatl                                      ..    ..    ..    ..          ..      ..
- Total             ~~73.9  54.5  76.5  73.6  176.5  159.9  199.6   270.4   421.5   735.0  1,142.5
* Total             ~~~~3.?   4.5   4.6   4.4   9.4   9.4    9.4      9.4      9.4     9.4       9.4
E spoy  bowing Louu     45.8  47.1  51,3  74.4  44.2  44.2   44.2    44.2    44.2    44.2           44.2
A=vnc paumnts & LCa
Fixed Assets
-Etectric Plants at Cost   92.1  91.6  95.4 107.4  121.8 219.6 1,706.4 2,L39 9 2 846.6 3,4475  4,992.8
In service              21.1  20.9  22.9  31.2  54.0  31.2  335.8   783.  1,187.5  1,512.6    820.9
Under cmtructi    113.2:  112.5  118.3, 138.6  1735.7' 2530".8 2,042.2, 3 0'23 .. 74,03-4.2  4,960.1  58,813".7
Totat                  (29.5) (30.2) (33.6) (38.0) (46.3) (56.2) (584:1) j878.1)(1,149.7)CI,469.1) (1.878.7)
A hefumileted Duap   latfon...                                         ..   ..      ..       ..       ..
83.7T  82.2  8.7 100.6  129.4  194.6 1,458.1 2,145.6 2,884.4 3,491.0  3,935.0
m et flxed Assets                                     0.0   0.0    2.7    23.3    77.0   158.2    202.7
cm Caiaie neet             0.0   0.0  17.4  22.4  30.7 114.4  209.0   209.0   209.0   209.0    209.0
-etcontributions to IPa  20.5  35.8  36.9  47.1    37    3  37         37       37           37       37
Other Assets227.5  224.2 2'74".3 3'2'2".7 4'2'7.3'' 59". 7 1,90. 2, 2,7139".0  3.,68,2.6- 4,6'8'4".0'  5,50,. 0
Total Assets
Liabilities and Equity
Current Liabflities         0.3   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4    0.4          0.4     0.4      0.4      0.4
-Notes ayle2.7   2.4   4.0   7.3   9.8   9.5    9.8                         9.8      9.8      9.8      9.8
A asaoc i patYe dc coqianes 0.0   0.1   0.1   0.0.  0.0   0.0    0.0         0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0
-Taxes                    27.4  10.1  12.3  11.6'   43    46         51      09      153      330      562
*Accomuts Payable                                       0   0.0    0.0    10.7    46.5    46.5        46.5
Ctwrnt  wtfn o  to 3t0.4:  1-2-.9,  16".8'  19.3  53.4,  56.6  '6"1.0    1 0-9 .8  2-10-.2-  3'8'6.4    618. 8
*Total
Lon Tr   et0.0    0.0  1,165.4  1,165.4  1,168.4  1,048.8
- Cuuuecializ tio oan                                   0.0   21.2   135.3   297.9   359.3       34.
~~~~ld 3~~~~ gga~~~~~~~                  0   0.0     0.0  1W3.    3.:4   530.9    631
*  te forin o"curmc toan                           0.0           0.0    43. a             78.0     68.9
I te loalcrrency loan   1.6   1.3   0.9   0.6   0.6   0.6    0.6          0.6     0.6      0.6      0.6
16   13 09 0606 0.               6    21.8  1,528.8  1,903.4 2,134.3  2,145.5
- Total                                                0.0   0.0    0.0    10.7    46.5    46.5        46.5
less currant portion    .. ;      5;    .:                                 ... -"          ---      ...
- Not tong te1.6 1e3t0.    0.6                   .     .    21.8  1,518.1  1,856.9 2,087.7  2,099.0
other LtbiLities4.3   4.3   4.4   4.5  16.6  16.6   16.6    16.6    16.6    16.6                16.6
Capital                     0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0          0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0
capital stock             56.5  42.5  42.1  54.4  45.2  45.2   45.2    45.2    45.2    45.2           45.2
l:e:t;:. Of  eC*:a:m    69.3  93.9  92.9  108.9  140.7 176.7  216.7   27.3   374.6   565.5    974.5
CLatmer contrifbutions    0.0   0.0  16.2  16.2  16.2  16.2   16.2    16.2    16.2    16.2           16.2
Other Pefdin empfteL17.4  32.4  48.8  142.0  286.6   286.6   286.6   286.6    286.6
-IM Revaluaton treserve                               0.0   0.0 1,216.2  1,564.3  1,921.4  2,317.3  2,722.
Gross reserve                                                     0.0 (1,165.' N(1,165.4X(1,163.4) (1,165.4)
Less stock dividend                  0.0   ~~~~~~0.0 1,216.2   398.9   756.0  1.151.9  15$57.1
Net rmerve                                                 0.0    0.0   C27.8)  (79.41 p142.3)  1204:9)
*Exchange loss            65.5  69.3  73.6  86.4  105.7 105.7  7,9.7   100.    198.7  ,270.1    170.9
Befw    supus...                ...    ...   ---    ...    ...    ...      ......                    ...
191.3 205.7 242.2 298.3 356.7 485.9 1,860.8  1,094.5  1,599.0  2,193.3  2,845.6
*Total                       .    ..     ..    ..     ..     ..    --       ..               ..       ..
227.5  224.2 264.3 322.7 427.3 559.7 1,960.2  2,739.0 3,682.6 4,684.0  5,580.0
Toltal Liabilities &Equity 
Ratios                      2.4   4.2   4.6   3.8   3.3   2.8    3.3          2.5     2.0      1.9      1.8
- arrant                  0.19  0.09  0.09  0.08, 0.2.)  0.15    0.05       1.50    1.30    1.14      0.96
-debt to equty                                              0.15   0.05    1.31    1.07    0.91       0.75
-debt to equity and quasi equty



94
Annex 5.2
Page 1 of 4
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
7 TF APPRAISAL REPORT
ASSUMPTIONS FOR FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
A. Basis of lizo1ections
1.          Financial projections up to and including FY97 have been made for
TAVANIR as well as for TREC. Projections for TAVANIR were prepared in order
to establish an appropriate price for the power that TREC purchases from
TAVANIR. For the purpose of the projections, this price is assumed to be the
price required in order to permit TAVANIR to achieve an internal cash
generation ratio of 20 percent in FY93, and 40 percent thereafter. The
projections also incorporate several policy proposals including:
(i)      the elimination of the subsidy for investment costs by pricing
imported capital goods based orn rapid exchange rate projections.
(ii)      electricity tariff increases that would, by the beginning of FY96,
bring electricity tariffs and transfer prices to levels that
reflect LRMCs;
(iii)      fuel price increases that would, by the beginning of FY98, bring
domestic fuel prices to levels that reflect world prices for
petroleum products or domestic marginal costs for natural gas;
(iv)      explicit recognition of the cost of capital employed;
(v)      the conversion of equity, which currently yields no direct return
to the Government, to debt, yielding a rate of interest that is
positive in real terms;
(vi)      the annual adjustment of fixed asset values and depreciation costs
in order to reflect current replacement costs;
(vii)      the recognition, following commercialization but prior to
privatization, that sector enterprises need to generate adequate
financial performance coefficients as presented in Section 3 of
this chapter; and
(viii)      the taxation of senctor enterprises as soon as tariffs reach LRMC
levels.
B. Inflation Rates and Exchange Rates
2.          The projections for inflation rates and exchange rates are given
in Table 5.2.1 below. The exchange rate at which the sector accesses foreign
exchange is assumed to go from 70 Rials/USS in FY92 to 1450 Rials/USS in FY93
and then to change according to the differential between local and foreign
inflation thereafter.



97
Annex5.
Page 4 of 4
E. Balance Sheets
11.         Accounts Recelvable.  TREC accounts receivable, currently 3.5
monche of equivalent sales, are expected to increase at the same rate as sales
through FY92, then decline Ln FY93 to 3 months' equivalent sales '.nd then to 2
months' equivalent salea in FY94 and thereafter.
12.         Fuel lnventories are expected to incrtase from current levels as
fuel costs increase. Other stocks are expected to increase with the cost of
other consumables.
13.         Accounts Payable.  Accounts payable, as of March 20, 1991, are
expected to grow each year by an amount equal to one twelfth of the
incremental cost of fuel and other consumables.



98
annesx 6.1
Page 1 of 3
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
1.          The first stage of the economic analysis examined whether the
project formed part of the nost economic expansion of electricity supply.  The
second stage verified whether there wera enough economic benefits to justify
the commitment of resources to the project..
Least-Cost Analysis
2.          Based on the demand forecasts that considered the projected tariff
adjustments needed to align them with LRMC, the WASP model was used to find
the optimal investment plan for generating capacity in the interconnected
system. The input data were reviewed and adjusted where needed to make them
more realistic. The costs include a 500 per kWh charge for the unserved
energy due to random outages in supply. The main parameters employed in the
least-cost analysis are presented in Table 6.1.1 below.
Table 6.1.1: Main Parameters of the Least-Cost Analysis
| ~~, ' ,' .................~~~~~~~~.....   ...   ..    ' :-:1 .-,'"''''' '.'
Basic Natural Gas Price (US$/million                   2.00
BTU)
Fuel Oil Price (US$/ton)                              65.00
Gas Oil Price (US$/bbl)                               24.00
Capital Cost Steam Power Plant (US /kW)            1,012.00
Capital Cost Gas Turbines (USS/kW)                   509.00
Capital Cost HRSG (USS/kW)                           880.00
Period of the Analysis (Years)                    1991-2000
Discount Rate (%)                                     10.0
3.          MOE plans that the Shahid Montazeri plant extension to be supplied
by the FSU will be operational by 1996. However, these units would take about
five years to bring into operation under normal circumstances, and considering
the problems in the FSU, delays are to be expected. Thus, the input
information that describes the committed generating expansion program in the
WASP program was modified to reflect a likely delay in the commissioning of
these plants.



99
Annex
Page 2 of 3
Cost-Benefit nalvsit
4.          A cost-benefit analyaLs was undertaken using the estimated coats,
based on the e.urrent floating rate of 1,450 Rla/US$, excluding taxes and
duties, and  n annual operating and maintenance cost stream  guivalent to 2
percent of tho capital costs. The Qom component has no incremental fuel costs
associ&tod with it as the deaign in based on a non-refired boiler. As the
combined cycle plant would have the highest operating efficiency of all
thermal plants in the system, it is assumed to be base-loaded, operating am
many hours as it is available. The analysis assumes that the plant would only
have a 50 percent plant factor in its first year of operation duo to higher
than average levels of maintenance for inspection and teething problems. The
output is assumed to increase to a 60 percent plant factor in ito second year
of operation and to 70 percent for the remainder of its first decade of
operation. The plant factor Ls forecast to decline to 60 percent during its
second decade of operation and to 50 percent for lts last decade. The benefit
stream is valued using forecast tariffs at the generation level (based on the
results of maintaining the proposed financial targets) as a proxy for
benefits. The results indicate that the project's EIRR is 17 percent. The
project also includes an implicit *nvironmental benefit in decreasing c02
production from power plants. This benefit hao not been included in the
economic analysis. However, as the estimated annual reduction of C02 would be
0.3 million tonnes/year, the benefits would Lnerease by approximately US$6
million p.at
1/   This benefit is based on a conservative estLmate of the economlc value of
C02 reduction of US$20/tonne.



100
&Dnex 6.1
Page 3 of 3
Cost-Benefit Analysis of Oom Combined Cycle Component
Fiscal   Capital    O&M       Total   Energy    Value       Not
Cost     Cost      Cost     Genr.             Benefits
Year    (USS M)  (USS M)  (US$ M)   (GOWh)   (US$ M)  (USS M)
1993     3.39               3.19                         (3.39)
1994    61.79              C1 f9                       (61.79)
1995    99.99              99.99                       (99.99)
1996    47.38      1.12    48.50   219.00       4.05   (44.45)
1997    12.12      3.37    15.49   788.40    35.18    19.69
1998               4.49     4.49  1226.40    55.19    50.69
1999               4.49     4.49  1226.40    55.19    30.69
2000               4.49      4.49, 1226.40    55.19    50.69
2001               4.49     4.49  1226.40    55.19    50.69
2002               4.49     4.49  1226.40    55.19    50.60
2003               4.49     4.49  1226.40    S5.19    50.69
2004               4.49     4.49  1226.40    55.19    50.69
2005               4.49     4.49  1226.40    55.19    50.69
2006               4.49     4.49  1051.20    47.30    42.81
2007               4.49     4.49  1051.20    47.30    42.81
2008               4.49     4.49  1051.20    47.30    42.81
2009               4.49     4.49  1051.20    47.30    42.81
2010               4.49     4.49  1051.20    47.30    42.81
2011               4.49     4.49  1051.20    47.30    42.81
2012               4.49     4.49  1051.20    47.30    42.81
2013               4.49     4.49  1051.20    47.30    42.81
2014               4.49     4.49  1051.20    47.30    42.81
2015               4.49     4.49  1051.20    47.30    42.81
2016               4.49     4.49   876.00    39.42    34.93
2017               4.49     4.49   876.00    39.42    34.93
2018               4.49     4.49   876.00    39.42    34.93
2019               4.49     4.49   876.00    39.42    34.93
2020               4.49     4.49   876.00    39.42    34.93
2021               4.49     4.49   876.00    39.42    34.93
2022               4.49     4.49   876.00    39.42    34.93
2023               4.49     4.49   876.00    39.42    34.93
2024               4.49     4.49   876.00    39.42    34.93
2025               4.49     4.49   876.00    39.42    34.93
Total    224.66   125.81   354.97              1343.93   993.01
EIRR   -        17%         NPV    -       121 US$ Million
Notes
(1) Costs are for generation only as transmission benefits
cannot be estimated.
(2) Benefits are based on tariffs at the generation level.
(3) NPV calculated at 10% opportunity cost of capital in Iran.



MAP SECTION



101
Annexl71
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY IIIPROVEMv.NT PkOJECT
APPRAISAL REPORT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PkWJECT FILE
Ghom Combined Cycle Power Plant Feasibility Study prepared by Monenco Iran in
association with Monenco Consultants Limited, Canada, January 1992.
Qom Power Station Water Supply Study prepared by Sazand-Ab Company, Tehran,
Iran, March 1992.
Environmental Assessment of Power Sector Efficiency Improvement Project
prepared by Ebasco Environmental, Arlington, VA, USA, February, 1992.
Er.vironmental Asseesment of Power Sactor Efficiency Improvement Project
submitted by Tehran Regional Electric Company (TREC), Tehran, Iran to The
World Bank, May 1992.
Iran - Reconstruction and Growth (in Two Volumes), Volume I: Main Report and
Volume II: Annexes and Statistical Appendix, World Bank Report No. 9072-IRN,
July 1991.
Other reloorts and documents
Consultant's Report (Engineer - Mr. Posada) of the Preparation/Identification
mission for the Power Sector Efficiency Improvement Project, August 1991.
Consultant's Report (Energy Economist - Mr. Bridgeman, ACRES, Canada) of the
Preparation/Identification mission for the Power Sector Efficiency Improvement
Project, August 1991.
Consultant's Report (Engineer - Mr. Warnock, Monitor International, Scotland,
U.K.) of the Pre-Appraisal Mission for the Power Sector Efficiency Improvement
Project, November 1991.
Consultant's Report (Hydro-Engineer - Mr. Posada) of the Appraisal Mission for
the Power Sector Efficiency Improvement Project, February 1992.
Economic Analysis including demand forecast and cost/benefit analysis.
Project cost and financing model including disbursement profiles and
procurement arrangements.
Various financial and accounting statements and Annual Reports.
Tables showing the tariff schedules before arv't after March 1992.



95
aBnnex 5.2
Page 2 of 4
Table 5.2.1:  Projections for Inflation Rates and Exchanqe Rates
.FYI-FY92 FY93 FY94 F95 FY96 FY97
l G~~~-5 SJVPrIcz  --  
l-  vPercent Chae  i.10 4.30 3.80 190--2.70 3.40 3.60-l
Local Price: :.                               . 
-PercentCha-ng-  19.6-i.0 23.0 18.1 t4.2- 12.4 10.  -
Prolotd   a Ret      -
Theoretl --
l   :aegiuMi%ngofZ  year 135 - 9 1,4iS01.71 1i991 2`214 2,407:
l   -~~~ End of year     978 1.12$ 1,715 1.991 14 2,40? 2,570-
1  -id year    9071,05Z1,5841.855 2,103 2,311 2.A8,-   Z-.
Act at/Projetd  7   7 ,.0 't52,0 I1 2488 
,1/  - Source:  MN .            . E  .- --.,*.=,.-.E..
C.  Fixed Asset Revaluation and Refinancing
3.          Asset Revaluation.  Based on an analysis of actual TAVANIR capital
expenditures in local and foreign currency over the period PY85 through FY90,
and taking into account international and local inflation rates during the
period and the assumptions regarding exchange rate movement, the current value
of TAVANIR net fixed assets on March 20, 1991 was estimated to be at least 2.8
times che reported book value at that date. This factor was also assumed for
ThEC. Current values of fixed assets were then calculated for each year
through FY97 and were taken onto the projected balance beginning in FY93, at
which time a revaluation surplus was established.
4.          It is assumed that by the end of 1993 the revaluation surpluses
would be converted, in whole or in part, into commercialization loan;3,
carrying floating rates of interest that would be positive in real terms. The
loan (which is considered to be quasi-equity), would not, in any case, cause
TREC's adjusted debt:equity ratio (with 50% of the loan considered to be
equity) to exceed 1.5. The loan would be established only when TREC is
capable of servicing at least the interest cost, and a grace period of two
years would be provided before principal would be serviced. Thus, a loan,
amounting to US$628 million equlvalent, would be established at the end of FY
94 and amortized over ten-years. The rate of interest on the loans is assumed
to be equal to the rate of inflation in the previous year plus a spread of 3.0
percent. The term of the loan woulca be 12 years. It is assumed that the loans
would be administered, on behalf of the Government, by IPO and that the
interest and principle payments receivpd would be recycled to finance
investments in the sector.
D. Income Statements
5.          Sales Revenues.  Energy sales are expected to increase from the
1990/91 levels as projected by the WASP model. Through FY96, actual selling
prices will be driven by the covenanted level of internal cash generation.



96
Annex S.2
Page 3 of 4
6.          Power Purchases.  Projections of TREC purchases of power are
derived by subtracting TREC projected generation, as determined by the WASP
model, from the forecast of power sales and losses. The price of purchased
power, currently Rials 2.80 per kWh, is expected to remain unchanged during
FY93 and then increase rapidly to around 92% of LRMC by FY96 so that TAVANIR
would also obtain a level of internal cash generation of at least 40 percent
in FY96 and thereafter.
7.          Fuel Consumption and 'osts.  Fuel consumption by TAVANIR and TREC
is based on projections by the VIASP model.  For gas turbines it is assumed,
based on actual results in 1989/90, that in 1991/92 23 percent of the energy
input required is being supplied by gas-oil; the energy supplied by the
generating stations is based on the WASP model results. Fuel price
projections are shown in Table 5.2.2 below.
Table 5.2.2:  Projected Fuel Prices
-1992 1993 1994 199  1996 1997 .1998
!.: FueL Prfe :* $US'-
Gaa Oii-  -   0.15t 0.162 0.171 0.183 0,218 0.254 0.29Q
Heav- Nfuel 0il '   0.068 0,072 0.077 0.082 0.098 0.114 0.130
Nati a      i     037 0.038 0.039 .040 0.041 0.048  .055
...                  7    1.5   19.6- 20.9    25.0    29 .1   33.
   <--  -  -  asOiL-; -    --   - -15:  29-  53  87:1   --115    0300  -780 -- - 
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-0
:---Hea8VyFueV'Oflt .8      28; ~~41  55   3   4
~~iret Os,   n~~    5   12  1928~ 3    76  167
8.          Salaries and other operatina expenses are expected to increase
from current levels in line with increases in sales and local inflation. An
exception is the operating ard maintenance cost of the TREC Qom power station,
which has been estimated on the basis of 2 percent of the initial capital cost
and adjusted for inflation.
9.          Sector enterprises calculate deoreciation at various rates
depending on the expected life of the asset in years (i.e., steam plants, 25;
gas turbines, 20; transmission systems, 33.33; despatch centers and
miscellaneous other assets, 6.67). For simplicity of calculation, the
projbctions for depreciation expenses are based on an average life of 20
years.
10.         Interest Expense.  It is assumed that the investment loans,
whether foreign or domestic, would be denominated in US$ and carry terms
typical of those offered by export credit agencies for long-term credit. Thus,
the assumed terms are an interest rate of 8 percent, a grace period of three
years and an amortization period of seven years, with the Borrower carrying
the exchange rate risk. Commercialization loans in rials carry a floating
rate (see para. 4).



5 > > , <Illi  a sp i a   n    POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT PROJECTE 
./ 9 = \ S e o ; sa;/v .f \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Project:
xum r.  ri\({ -    /                                                                                                   \              Al    Qom Thermcil Plant
7 (> ; R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Arl( iiln -  .d                                                                          Planned Constr. Existing
S C: <- .1z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Toos 7Tbriz Thermal Plant
~~~~~5 ~  ~      ~      Z HnrJl  K1~ tr o _NysoUgtsh                                                                                      Dams
tx           2)  @    {~Sh.hd   At n ThoPr//r*_|_                                                                                _              OO Kv Trans. Lines        ^
<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n                                                                              E       N    40  -Kv SubteationaBonris-
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0   ,Kaowrke\nv Station Ysd2Q  
9   Uhomeharb  AhW~maon;)                 God>t 1                            t    G r e a tS a t      D e s e r t                   ,         50            10 20
<    X   a    e  jC  X  ulShahd Karur 3 _> t^obu~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ivrokh\s *>   
rURKEY j t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                                            InternationalKBoundaries
FIRAG  ISLAMIC REP t ?t > \ * t \~~~Y-
X  '  OF IRAN    i  ,  '4                   Bandarabbas                                                           J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MLE
OFOAN   i  iNT   !    J  :                          X                        ,>   Q  \                                                r.r~~~~~~b.
|~~~~~~~~~~~~  o                                                                     r  Aes a    5 a nI cl,,    I e0A -s e~ r  -    



