Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 24826
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 11.4 MILLION
(US$15.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF ALBANIA
FOR THE
MUNICIPAL WATER AND WASTEWATER PROJECT
DECEMBER 30, 2002
Infrastructure and Energy Sector Unit
Southeast Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 30, 2002)
Currency Unit = Albanian Lek
LEK I = US$.00749
US$1 = 133.499 LEK
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADF                   Albanian Development Fund
CAS                   Country Assistance Strategy
CMU                   Contract Monitoring Unit
CP                    Consumer Panel
EMPF                  Environmental Management Plan Framework
GEF                   Global Environment Facility
GPRS                  Albania - Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy
IF                    Investment Fund
KESH                  Albanian National Power Company
KfW                   Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (Germany)
MoE                   Ministry of Economy
MoF                   Ministry of Finance
MoTAT                 Ministry of Territorial Adjustment and Tourism
NWRC                  National Water Regulatory Commission
NWSS                  National Water Supply and Sanitation Strategy
O & M                 Operations & Maintenance
PIP                   Project Implementation Plan
PIU                   Project Implementation Unit
PSP                   Private Sector Participation
RWSA                  Rural Water and Sanitation Agency
RWSS                  Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Strategy
SLA                   Subsidiary Loan Agreement
SP 2002 - WSAP        Summer Period 2002 - Water Supply Action Plan
VAT                   Value Added Tax
WSAP                  Water Supply Action Plan
WSURP                 Water Supply Urgent Rehabilitation Project
Vice President:  Johannes F. Linn, ECAVP
Country Director:  Christiaan J. Poortman, ECCU4
Sector Manager/Director:  Motoo Konishi/Hossein Razavi, ECSIE
Task Team Leader:  Andreas Rohde, ECSE



ALBANIA
MUNICIPAL WATER AND WASTEWATER PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                    Page
1. Project development objective                                                     2
2. Key performance indicators                                                        2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project    2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                        3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                7
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                               10
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                    11
3. Benefits and target population                                                   11
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                    12
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                        14
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies       15
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                              16
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                 18
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                      19
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                         19
2. Financial                                                                        20
3. Technical                                                                        25
4. Institutional                                                                    26
5. Enviromnental                                                                    28
6. Social                                                                           29
7. Safeguard Policies                                                               31
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                   32
2. Critical risks                                                                   32



3. Possible controversial aspects                                                   33
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                          34
2. Other                                                                            34
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                       34
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                      35
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                       36
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                 39
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                      50
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                51
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities                       53
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                                                 62
(B) Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements                       68
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                   74
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                 76
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                77
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                          79
MAP(S)
IBRD 28467R



ALBANIA
Municipal Water and Wastewater Project
iroDed Apprafi$An    Do¢nmeim
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSIE
llDate: December 30, 2002                          Team Leader: Andreas Rohde
Sector Manager: Motoo Konishi                      Sector(s): Water supply (80%), Sanitation (20%)
Count ry Director: Christiaan J. Poortman          Theme(s): Infrastructure services for private sector
Project lED: P041442                               development (P), Access to urban services for the poor (S)
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)
Pvojeca Financing Data
1 Loan       [X1 Credit    1 Grant     [ ] Guarantee     [ ] Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): $15.0
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                          Years to maturity: 20
6nzncGno Man IJJsm):     $ource-                                          FoEn               aO..,
BORROWER                                                         6.93           0.00          6.93
IDA                                                              0.00          15.00          15.00
Total:                                                           6.93          15.00         21.93
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF ALBANIA
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF TERRITORIAL ADJUSTMENT AND TOUlRISM
World Bank Water P.I.U.
Address: Rr. "Bajram Tusha", Lagja Nr 14, Durres, Albania
Contact Person: Mr. Ndricim Shani, Director
Tel: 355 52 64184           Fax: 355 52 64184            Email: shani@albmail.com
Other Agency(ies):
Contract Monitoring Unit
Address: Rr. "Bajram Tusha", Lagja Nr 14, Durres, Albania
Contact Person: Mr. Ndricim Shani, Director
Tel: 355 52 64184           Fax: 355 52 64184            Email: shani@albmail.com
Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
FV          2003       2004       2005      20060      2007       2008       20'9
Annual      0.32       2.48       3.36       3.09       2.64      2.23       0.88
Cumulative     0.32       2.80       6.16       9.25      11.89      14.12      15.00
Project implementation period: 6 years
Expected efectiveness date: 04/30/2003  Expected closing date: 12/31/2009
OCS PAD F,f - MA, ZCO



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex I)
The overall development objective of the Project is to improve water supply and sanitation services in
four participating cities and achieve financial viability in their water utilities, by introducing a new
incentive-based multi-city management contract approach.
The Project will focus on institution building rather than on targeted poverty reduction. However, the
Project will alleviate poverty by providing access to safe water to all levels of society, including the poor.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
For measuring the success of the Project, the following indicators (which are also the indicators for the
payment of the incentive-based fee under the management contract) will be measured:
* Safety and Oualitv: Percentage of water quality analyses meeting faecal coliform standards
*   Reliability: Number of hours of water supply
* Financial Viability. Efficiency and Sustainability: Improvement of collection rate and working ratio
*   Service to the Poor and Needy: Increase in the percentage of the total population in the service area
with a minimum of two hours of daily water supply.
A private operator (the Operator) will be engaged under the management contract. The extent of
progress towards achieving these performance targets by the Operator will be directly related to the
amount of the annual performance-based incentive compensation payment. The performance indicators
of the management contract are presented in more detail in Annex 1. Independent technical and financial
auditors will verify the results as they are directly linked to the incentive fee which the Operator would
be paid.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex I)
Document number: 24189-ALB Date of latest CAS discussion: June 20, 2002
The Project is included in the latest CAS which was approved on June 20, 2002. The CAS emphasizes
poverty alleviation and strengthening institutions, and increasing transparency and accountability as the
underlying conditions to assure sustainable development in Albania within a stable Southeast European
region. Access for Albania's population to safe drinking water is an important element of this poverty
alleviation strategy and water sector interventions figure prominently in the CAS.
Tangible improvements in water supply and sanitation services are one of the main objectives of
Albania's Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy (GPRS) which is the foundation for the CAS. The
main emphasis of the CAS is on accelerating poverty alleviation in connection with economic growth,
improving govemance, building capacity in the institutions, and improving natural resource management.
In promoting efficient water supply and sanitation services in connection with natural resource
management, the Project supports the GPRS and CAS goals. Also, in line with the decentralization
strategy in the GPRS and the CAS, the Project will promote management of water and wastewater
services at the local level by setting up transparent and inclusive mechanisms at the level of local
governments for decision-making, implementation and management of natural resources and public
services.
2 -



2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
2.1 Background
Albania has abundant water resources; however, water supply in almost all urban areas is intermittent
because of the dire condition of Albania's water infrastructure. Supply is provided for 2 to 4 hours per
day on average, with many customers getting less or no water at all. In addition, drinking water quality is
often compromised by lack of adequate treatment and disinfection facilities, and unreliable supply of
chemicals. Inadequate maintenance and repair, and lack of metering and operational control, have
resulted in excessive water losses, estimated to be greater than 50 percent of water production in all
cities.
The table below shows some of the main financial and operational indicators of the four utilities
participating under the Project, providing some indication of the severe situation in the water sector.
Data from the four utilities were gathered by using the Bank's Toolkit for Benchmarking Water Utilities.
The utilities under the Project are only four out of 52 water utilities in Albania, but the situation in the
others is similar to the four shown in the table. Out of the 52 utilities, 40 have been commercialized so
far, including the four under the Project, with the remaining 12 utilities to be commercialized in the next
year.
IndlcatorlCity          European Standards  Durres   Lezhe      Fier  Saranda
Working Rato                         0.75     4.60     6.90     4.90     6.10
Current Rato                         >1.3     0.30     0.60     0.90     0.60
Collecfion Rate (%)                 >95%     34.00    33.00    33.00    33.00
Staff/1000water                      1.00    11.19    28.87     7.60    1Z75
Connection
Stafl`1000watar&                    2.00        -     13.18     4.90        -
Sanrtation Connectoios
Non revenue water (%)               -12%     73.00    61.00    59.00 . 63.00
Hours of Supply                     24.00     2.10    20.00     6.20     1.76
Customers recvmg
nmnimum of 2 hours
suppy perday (%)                   100.00    38.00    95.00    88.00    45.60
Sarples complying                   99.00
wifh residual chlonne                        56.40     5.80    28.80    21.00
standard (5)
Current Domstic Tariff   0.44 -4.44 (av. 2.53)  0.15   0.11     0.14     0.11
USDAn3 (W&S)
The poorest segment of the population is hit the hardest; on average, its accessibility to water is lower
and the cost of access is higher (in relative and absolute terms). The dilapidation of the water supply and
sanitation facilities is believed to have sparked several water-borne disease epidemics in the last decade,
and is thought to be one of the major contributing factors to increased infant mortality in Albania.
The environment (rivers, wetlands, and coastal waters) is severely polluted because not a single
wastewater treatment plant exists in Albania.
-3 -



2.2 Main Sector Issues
The main reason for the dire condition of Albania's water sector is that, in the past, the responsibility for
water supply and sanitation was assumed mainly at the level of the central government, without an
adequate institutional framework that would have allowed ownership at the local level to overcome weak
management and insufficient revenue generation. This has contributed to:
(i) Lack of resources: Tariffs are generally far below the true cost of water supply, and revenue
collection enforcement has been weak. As a result, the water utilities have lacked the necessary funds to
provide adequate repair and maintenance. Inefficient operations and overstaffing in the utilities have
further affected financial viability. Consequently, Albania's water and sanitation systems have received
virtually no maintenance in the last ten years.
(ii) Overconsumption: In areas where sufficient water supply is still available, water consumption levels
go up to over 500 liters per capita per day (compared to 80 to 130 liters in Western European countries).
The contributing factors for this overconsumption are mainly: (a) a tariff structure (flat rates rather than
metered consumption) that results in massive water waste, creating such a high demand on the supply
systems that these were pushed to the brink of collapse, and sometimes, beyond; (b) a shift, in the 1990s,
from cooperative irrigated agriculture to subsistence agriculture on garden plots on the one hand, and the
collapse of the irrigation systems on the other, resulting in massive (illegal) use of domestic water for
irrigation in rural and peri-urban areas; and (c) a massive migration to urban centers which created illegal
settlements without engineered water distribution systems. In these settlements people connected
(illegally) to the water network and have no incentive to limit their consumption. All this further
compromises the technical integrity of the water and sanitation systems.
(iii) Deteriorating physical infrastructure: During the 1980s, efforts were made to improve access to
piped water supplies. The existing systems are expensive to run and to maintain because of a lack of
appropriate materials and equipment, and insufficient consideration of the economic aspects during the
design. New construction often proves more economical than rehabilitation of existing systems. Many of
the investments carried out in the 1970s and 1980s are approaching the end of their lifetime and are
creating enormous replacement needs. No investment was carried out in the area of wastewater
treatment. Overall investment needs for water supply and sanitation are estimated to be up to USD 170
million per year for the next decade as compared to an average of USD 6 million that the Government
has spent annually for the sector during the last three years (excluding the USD 10 to 15 million spent
annually from donor grants).
2.3 Government Strategy
The Bank and the donor community support the Government's general outline of a sector strategy which
involves a two-tier approach: focusing in the very short-term on urgent repairs to the systems, but
continuing in parallel with a medium-term program that will support sector reforms. The Bank has
played a lead advisory role to the Government in developing this two-tiered approach which includes:
A short-term priority investment program aimed at:
* Urgent rehabilitation works and interventions aimed at avoiding the collapse of the systems while
improving, where possible, the basic water services (both in quality and in quantity), and reducing
operation costs; and
* Technical support for improvement in the financial and operational management of the water
companies.
-4-



A medium-term development and investment program, whose main objectives are:
Institutional
* Changing the role of central government: The functions associated with management of water
resources and related aspects including water quality and regulation of water supply and wastewater
services (e.g., service standards, benchmarking competition, and control of undesirable monopoly
behavior) would be retained and streamlined at the central government level. In addition, the central
government would play a leading role in the allocation of external resources to support clear sector
development goals.
* Changing the role of local governments: Responsibility for investment and operational
decision-making of water and wastewater services would be given to local governments.
* Water conservation: Most water uses would be metered and all consumption appropriately priced to
provide water and wastewater services in a sufficient and cost effective way.
* Disconnection: The water companies would be enabled to disconnect illegal and nonpaying
customers.
Financial
* Corporatization and cost recovery: Water and wastewater services would be operated under an
organizational scheme independent of central or local government and with adequate autonomy to
the utilities, under clear tariff-setting rules, to make operational and investment decisions necessary
to meet the development goals agreed with their shareholders. These corporations would operate on
a commercial basis, i.e., operational revenues would be adequate to cover at least all operating
expenses, including adequate repair and maintenance, and debt service obligations. Towards this
end, there is a need to introduce wastewater tariffs and to gradually adjust water rates upward; at the
same time, it is vital to improve productivity of operations and investments to avoid passing on the
costs of inefficiencies to consumers.
Investment
* Rehabilitation of existing water and wastewater infrastructure, including investments in expansion of
the wastewater collection and treatment systems, and in expansions of the water supply systems to
populations migrating to urban centers.
* Gradually introduce basic wastewater treatment in areas of environmental importance.
Private Sector Participation (PSP)
* As a rapid way to improve service quality and productivity of operations, the private sector is
increasingly being allowed to participate competitively in the sector under clear incentive schemes
(as evidenced by the envisaged management contract under the Project).
Main sector reforms which have already been undertaken during Project preparation, and which will
support the Project:
*   Approval of the Council of Ministers for introducing a management contract for the four
participating utilities under the Project.
*   Awarding of the management contract by the Executive Committee, which is composed of members
from the central and local governments, and which will later be in charge of supervising the
management contract.
-5 -



*   Abolishing of the national water tariff and passing of the Law on Decentralization that provides the
right of tariff-setting to local authorities. This law became effective on January 1, 2002, enabling
water companies to start making tariff increases towards eventual full-cost recovery.
* Passing of the water code by the National Water Regulatory Commission (NWRC); the code
regulates, among other aspects, the disconnection of illegal and nonpaying customers.
*   Corporatization of most of the water utilities, and merging of municipal wastewater departments with
the water companies.
The actions mentioned above show the advanced stage of the Project's preparation even prior to the
awarding of the management contract. Most of these reforms were facilitated through the Bank's sector
dialogue during the Project preparation, along with strong participation from other donors active in the
sector.
The Government is currently also developing with Bank assistance a National Water Supply and
Sanitation Strategy (NWSS), which will enable concrete steps to be taken to implement the
above-mentioned medium-term development program. One of the key elements of this strategy will be to
improve the management of the utilities with the help of the private sector. The Project will assist the
Government in this approach by implementing the first management contract under the decentralization
strategy. This is expected to have a major impact on the sector through its demonstration effects. A
separate strategy for rural water supply and sanitation is also being prepared with the Bank's assistance,
and with the endorsement of the donor community.
Aware of the fact that the above-mentioned strategy can only have a medium-term effect on the sector,
and that immediate actions are required to improve or at least stabilize the poor service level, the
Government, at the Bank's suggestion, has set-up a Strategy Task Force to develop and implement a
Water Supply Action Plan (WSAP) for the water sector. The draft Action Plan comprises the
following:
*   Introduction of a monitoring and benchmarking program.
*   Increase of revenues by reducing the number of illegal connections, tariff adjustments and
increasing the collection rate.
*   Introduction of a demand management program.
*   Conduction of a public awareness campaign.
It is foreseen that the Action Plan will cover all service areas with more than 15,000 inhabitants. Fifteen
water utilities are included in the program, covering between them about 70 percent of Albania's urban
population. The Bank is assisting the Task Force in developing the Action Plan in close cooperation with
all stakeholders, including the utilities, municipalities, concemed ministries, and the donor community.
The private sector participation (PSP) arrangement for the four utilities under the Project is expected to
set a positive example as to how the targets of the Action Plan can be achieved.
The WSAP will draw from the experience the Govemment gained from the implementation of the
Summer Period 2002 - Water Supply Action Plan (SP-2002-WSAP). The Govermment had initiated
the SP-2002-WSAP to stabilize the quantity and quality of water supply under the additional strain put on
the systems by the higher demand in summer. This Action Plan includes various measures that involve
local govemments, water utilities, and some ministries related to the sector. According to the data
submitted, the mid-term results were: (a) out of 7,728 illegal connections, 1,475 were cut off; (b) out of
392 unlicensed car washing facilities, 180 were closed; (c) parts of the cities, which had water for barely
I to 2 hours per day, now receive significantly longer hours of water supply; and (d) the revenue
- 6 -



collection rate during June-July 2002 increased by about 30% on average. Although this is only a
short-term action plan for the summer, the following main elements of it are important and will be
included in the WSAP: the collaboration among the relevant institutions; the efficient use of the police
force; the real focus on illegal activities carried out by some customers; improvements in financial
aspects of the water utilities; and the increased role of the local government units.
The Bank assisted the Government, in collaboration with other donors, in developing a Rural Water
and Sanitation Strategy (RWSS), which is expected to be endorsed by the Government soon. The
Bank will continue to support the implementation of this strategy under the Technical Assistance
component included under the Project. The main characteristics of the strategy are:
* Develop and implement a demand-driven approach that allows beneficiaries to determine key
elements of a project at the planning stage. At its center, a demand-driven approach transfers
responsibility for pricing decisions from the local or central government to the market - by letting
communities decide service levels and how much of the service they wish to purchase.
* Implement community management and ownership of water assets in the communities.
* Redefine the Government's role in infrastructure provision from provider to facilitator, accompanied
by decentralization of responsibilities to communities and the regional branches of the Rural Water
and Sanitation Agency (RWSA).
* Initiate cost-recovery principles in the rural areas, and move sector financing from government
subventions to user charges.
* Support the development of PSP in the provision of goods and services in the rural water and
sanitation sector.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The key strategic choices made during project preparation were:
Use of PSP as a key element of urban water sector reform by turning over utility management and
operation responsibilities to a professional private operator (the Operator): At present, the water
companies' weak managerial and technical capacity prevents the companies from addressing even the
most urgent operational problems. This would not allow them successfully to implement the Project,
which seeks significant improvements in a relatively short period. Effective assistance by an
internationally experienced and reputed Operator will be an important factor in reaching the project
objectives. The strategic choice is to bring in an Operator under a performance-based management
contract to take over.the management of the water supply and sanitation services.
Involvement of such an Operator under a management contract-type arrangement, as opposed to a
traditional technical assistance program, will provide a faster and more cost-effective way to address the
main sector issues mentioned earlier:
(i) Lack of financial resources:
* Incentives to collect revenues are much higher for an Operator under an incentive-based
management contract as compared to a public utility, so stricter enforcement of revenue collection is
expected to increase the revenue stream of the utility.
* The Operator has strong incentives to use his broad international experience to reduce the operation
and maintenance expenses, thereby freeing funds to provide an improved level of services.
-7 -



(ii) Overconsumption:
*   The combination of changes to the tariff structure and increased enforcement of revenue collection
by the Operator, which is one of the indicators for payment of incentive fees under the management
contract, will significantly reduce wastage and misuse of water.
*   The Operator will also provide intemational expertise in implementing a comprehensive metering
program, and a computerized billing and collection system, which are key elements to reduce
overconsumption. The public utility in Durres was unable to carry out successfully on its own a
comprehensive metering program under the previous IDA-supported Durres Water Supply
Rehabilitation Project.
*   The Operator will have strong incentives to carry out a long-lasting program to reduce illegal
connections, whereas the public utility only sporadically disconnected illegal connections when the
political pressure was high, but did not follow up effectively and illegal consumers quickly
reconnected (sometimes with the help of utility staff).
(iii) Inadeauacv of the Uhysical infrastructure:
* The Operator would have more experience than any public Albanian water utility in investing scarce
resources in the most cost-effective way, with direct and long-lasting benefits for the utilities'
financial and technical performance.
Including the four utilities under one management contract: The four service areas with a total of about
350,000 inhabitants were combined under one management contract in order that the expenses associated
with involving an intemational utility operator could be covered, and to make the contract large enough
to attract highly qualified intemational utility operators. However, the utilities will remain distinct and
separate entities, independent from each other. Such bundling of different water utilities under a single
contract allows the inclusion of smaller utilities (e.g., serving only 35,000 people), which otherwise
could not attract a private operator.
Empowering local authorities to develop ownership for deliverv of water supply and sanitation services:
At present, all investment decisions for water and wastewater utilities are taken by the central
government, and the local governments are only in charge of operating the systems. This has changed so
far only for the four utilities participating under the Project. During Project preparation, the right to
make investment decisions was transferred to the local governments through changes of the goveming
boards of the utilities which are now chaired by representatives from the local govermments, and by a
Water Company Agreement that gives the representatives from the local governments the majority in the
Executive Committee which decides on important matters, including the annual investment plans.
In the past, the local govemments had only the right to propose water and wastewater tariffs, which then
had to be approved by the National Water Regulatory Commission (NWRC). The NWRC, also officially
an independent entity, but with politically appointed staff, generally refused substantial tariff increases
and only allowed modest increases that were far below the cost-recovery level. The Decentralization
Law, which became effective in the beginning of 2002, provides the local govermments with the right to
set tariffs.  All local governments participating in the Project have decided to increase tariffs
substantially. Although the NWRC tried to prevent these tariff increases from becoming effective by
claiming legal discrepancies between the Decentralization Law and the Law on the National Water
Regulatory Commission, the central government is strongly committed to assist the local governments in
making the new tariffs effective and to remove any legal discrepancies that might exist.
The empowering of local governments has paved the way to address some of the main sector issues
-8-



mentioned earlier. Under the Project, the local governments have agreed to address the sector issues as
follows:
(i) Lack of financial resources:
*   Water supply tariffs will gradually be adjusted upwards to reflect the true cost of water supply;
*   Wastewater tariffs were introduced for the first time in Albania's history.
(ii) Overconsumption:
*   A shift from flat rates to metered consumption will occur, and will provide a strong incentive to stop
wastage and misuse of water.
*   The local governments will deploy the Municipal Police, currently being established, to support the
water utilities in disconnecting illegal and non-paying customers.
(iii) Inadequacy of the physical infrastructure:
* For the first time in modem Albanian history, local governments will be able to make investment
decisions on their own, based on the needs of the community and based on technical advice from an
experienced Operator.
By empowering the participating local governments, and at the same time enabling private sector
participation, the Government has now created a favorable opportunity which should not be missed for
implementing a new approach to the sector. The Project will be closely watched by the central
govemrnent and other donors who are eager to extend the approach to other areas.
Concentrate on reform in the urban water sector: It was decided to concentrate on urban water sector
reform although the Government is also highly committed to rural water sector reform. This is in line
with the Government's focus on water sector issues in urban areas where political pressure is high and
where the Government recently had to tackle an array of preparation and implementation issues in
different donor-financed projects (e.g., IDA, Italian Cooperation, EU PHARE, KfW). In addition, the
Government focused on the implementation of the (urban) Summer 2002 - Water Supply Action Plan,
and this despite changes at the top of the Ministry of Territorial Adjustment and Tourism (MoTAT).
Given the Government's limited resources, it was unable to deal with problems in both the urban and
rural water sectors at the same pace. Consequently, the Government could not make the progress
required (e.g., endorsing the RWSS, creating a Rural Water Task Force) which would have made it
possible to prepare and include a pilot rural water supply investment component under the Project.
Although the time has not yet come to support the Government's efforts in rural water sector reform with
an investment component, the commitment of the Government to rural water sector reform will create
other opportunities later. Therefore, it is foreseen in the CAS that the Bank will continue to assist the
Government in implementing the RWSS by financing a Rural Water Project in fiscal year 2005, which
will help alleviate poverty in the rural areas where poverty is more prominent.
Address broad water sector reform issues by including a component for assistance in sector reform:
Technical assistance (TA) will be needed for important elements of sector and institutional reform
included in the NWSS and the RWSS (e.g., benchmarking of water utilities, support for the
newly-founded water utility association and the national vocational center for the sector, establishing of
the Rural Water and Sanitation Agency). To ensure strong Government commitment, TA for the rural
-9-



water sector foreseen under the Project would be conditioned on the Government's official endorsement
of the RWSS.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Management Contract:
This component will finance the costs related to the five-year management contract. These costs include
a base fee and a performance-based fee to be paid to the Operator according to the achievement of targets
defined in the contract. The Operator would be given full responsibility for managing the investment
program; operating the water supply and sewerage systems; developing and implementing the demand
management program, including a public awareness campaign; and implementing improved commercial
(billing and collection) and financial management systems.
Investment Fund:
The Investment Fund (IF) will finance works, goods, and services aimed at improving the operation of
the water supply and sanitation services and achieving the performance targets in the management
contract. The Operator will propose the investments that are required in an annual investment plan and
propose revisions, if necessary. The investment plan, including any revision to it, is subject to clearance
by the Executive Committee and the Bank.
Technical Assistance and PIU:
*   The component will strengthen project implementation by supporting the Project Implementation
Unit (PIU), including salaries, training, vehicles, and incremental operating costs; and various
consulting services for supervision of the management contract and audits, studies, and field
investigations related to the Project;
*   In addition, the component may finance services, goods, and works to support important elements of
sector and institutional reform, such as preparation of PSP options after the termination of the
management contract, benchmarking of water utilities, support for a public consultation program on
water sector issues, support for the newly-founded water utility association and a national vocational
center for the sector, and preparation of other proposed water sector projects throughout Albania.
*   Part of the technical assistance will be provided for reform of the rural water and sanitation sector,
and will include assistance for establishing the Rural Water and Sanitation Agency (RWSA);
developing a statute and operational manual for the RWSA; providing assistance to the RWSA and to
the Albanian Development Fund (ADF); benchmarking the rural water and sanitation sector, and
preparing the Rural Water Project scheduled for FY05.
Indicative            Bank-      % of
Component                       Costs      % of    financing   Bank-
_ _ _ _ __ (USSM)  Total  (US$M)  flniancing
Management Contract                                   4.40      20.1      3.96       26.4
Investment Fund                                      13.76      62.7      7.93       52.9
Technical Assistance and Project Implementation Unit  3.27      14.9      2.61       17.4
PPF Refinancing                                       0.50       2.3      0.50        3.3
Total Project Costs  21.93    100.0     15.00     100.0
Total Financing Required   21.93      100.0     15.00     100.0
Costs including taxes, duties and contingencies.
- 10-



A detailed description of the components is provided in Annex 2.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The Project will address policy reforns to create the foundation for long-term development of the sector,
namely:
*   Introduce PSP to improve efficiency of operations and capital investments, and improve cost
recovery by introducing modem utility management methods.
*   Devolve ownership and investment decisions to local governments.
*   Introduce demand management: The utilities will gradually move towards universal metering, strict
enforcement of revenue collection, and required tariff adjustments.
3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits: The Project will have the following direct benefits:
*   Improved service delivery and increased supply of piped water will come closer to meeting consumer
demand and hence increase consumer satisfaction.
*   Long-term sustainability of the services derived mainly from improved financial viability of the
utilities.  This will result from  tariff increases, improved revenue collection, institutional
restructuring, and other improvements in the financial efficiency of the utilities.
*   Health benefits from improved water quality and improved access to water supply and wastewater
services.
*   Increase in water supply services, especially to the poor and needy, by mandating a minimum service
delivery (at least two hours of supply) to all parts of the community.
*   Local capacity building by bringing in internationally experienced management from the private
sector.
*   Environmental benefits through reduction of water and energy wastage.
Given the limited resources that would be available through the Project, the rehabilitation of the system
would not be completed to a fully satisfactory level, but noticeable improvements would yield the above
mentioned benefits. Additionally, the success of the Project will have an important demonstration effect
for the necessary reformns in the urban water sector in Albania. The table below shows some of the
indicators that are expected to improve significantly during the Project.
2007
IndlIca to r/Clty        Durres     Lezhe      Fier  Saranda
Workins Ratio               1 00     0 90     8.00      i 00
Current Ratio               3.       2.50     3 70 01 s90
Collection Riet ( it      95.00     79 00    79.00     79.00
Steaff/1 00 0 W atoar       3.90     7.20     4.50      8.10
& Sanitation Connections
Non revenue Wdater(%)      4t00     23.00    41.00     20 00
Fiours of Supply            6.00    23.80    1 3.00    1 2.00
Customers receiving        76 00    99030    98 00     93.00
m Inim um of BO liters per
person per day (% )
Samples complying with     95.00    95.00    95.00     95 oo
residual chlorine
Istandard (%)
lDomestic Tariff USD/m 3    0.40     0.40      0 31     0.33 
Target Population: Apart from the general benefits that will derive from policy development and sector
reform, the Project will have a direct impact on the population in the Project area (approximately
350,000). The Project's design takes into account the poor in the service area by providing incentives to
- 1 1-



the Operator to deliver a water supply service at a minimum of two hours per day to the entire
population. The poor will benefit the most from this provision because it will satisfy basic needs, and the
percentage of poor households is the highest in areas currently served with less than two hours per day.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The Project is expected to be implemented over a period of six years, fully covering the five-year service
period of the Operator. The institutional and implementation arrangements are laid out below:
Institutional Arrangements: To allow the four participating water utilities to enter into a single contract
with the Operator, a water company agreement was signed among these companies, which regulates the
relationship among the companies, and between the companies and the Operator. The agreement
establishes an Executive Committee to oversee the contractual relationship with the Operator on behalf
of the water utilities. This Executive Committee, assisted by an international consultant, was also
responsible for the recruitment of the Operator.
The Executive Committee will appoint the existing World Bank Water PIU (created under a previous
IDA-supported project) to carry out the functions of the Contract Monitoring Unit (CMU). The CMU
function includes the execution of contract supervision on behalf of the Executive Committee with
far-reaching responsibilities. Most of the CMU's decisions will only be subject to post review by the
Executive Committee. Prior review by the Executive Committee is only foreseen for policy decisions
and the annual investment program. Former or current employees of the water utilities are excluded from
serving as members of the Executive Committee or the CMU.
The baseline fee for the management contract and fees for technical assistance to supervise the
management contract will be paid out of the Special Account. These costs will be shared among the
water utilities proportionally to the number of registered customers, which will be adjusted annually.
The incentive-based fee will similarly be shared by the water utilities based on the amount the Operator
is entitled to receive for his performance in each respective city.
Implementing Entity: The Water PIU was established in 1994. The PIU was created specifically to
implement IDA-financed projects and has already established a successful track record in its
implementation of these projects. In addition to the current project, the PIU is implementing the
IDA-financed Water Supply Urgent Rehabilitation Project and the GEF-financed Integrated Water and
Ecosystem Management Project. Prior to these projects, the PIU implemented the IDA-funded Durres
Water Supply Rehabilitation Project. The Water PRU reports to the MoF and the MoTAT.
All financial management activities will be carried out by the CMU. For Component 3, this is stated
directly in the Development Credit Agreement, and for Components I and 2 the CMU will handle
financial management on behalf of the four utilities as indicated in the Project Agreements. One of the
responsibilities of the Operator will be the procurement under the Investment Fund, but the CMU will
make the payments to the suppliers and keep accounts for these payments. The CMU will include these
transactions in the periodic reporting, and compare actual expenditures with the budgets in its quarterly
reporting.
For the four utilities, the development of proper financial reporting is part of the Project activities, and
information on the performance of the Project will be directly linked to this financial reporting. The
Project Agreements consequently include financial covenants as to acceptable financial management,
including furnishing of audited financial statements to the Bank.
- 12 -



Funds Flow: Project funds will flow from: (i) IDA, either via a single Special Account which will be
replenished on the basis of SOEs or by direct payment on the basis of direct payment withdrawal
applications; or (ii) the Government, via the Treasury Department at the MoF, on the basis of payment
requests approved by the Treasury Department directly to the local supplier for VAT and other taxes.
Procurement: The procurement responsibilities are divided as follows:
* The recruitment of the Operator was carried out by the Executive Committee with the assistance of
an international advisor.
* The Operator will be responsible for the implementation of the proposed IDA-financed Investment
Fund under procurement procedures acceptable to IDA.
* Procurement for external audits and technical assistance for supervision of the management contract
will be carried out by the CMU.
Onlending Arrangements: The proceeds of the IDA credit will reach each of the four water utilities via a
Development Credit Agreement (DCA) with the MoF on behalf of the Government of Albania and
Subsidiary Loan Agreements between the MoF and each water utility. Although the financial analysis
assumes a split of the credit among the four utilities based on needs and affordability, the portion of the
credit going to each utility will not be predefined. Based on the proposed annual investment program and
the financial situation of the utilities, the Executive Committee, with the assistance of the Operator, will
determine the distribution of the credit proceeds subject to IDA's no-objection. The subsidiary loan
agreements will be amended as needed.
As explained later in Section E.2, the financial analysis for the project shows that the utilities can only
afford onlending terms which are close to IDA terms. This seems to be justified because the modest
exchange risk the Government has to assume will be more than offset by (i) the declining need for
Government subsidies for operation, maintenance, and investment, and (ii) the expected increase in VAT
revenues due to improved collection rates and tariff adjustments.
Financial Support for Operation and Maintenance Expenditures: The MoF agreed to cover, for each
participating utility, the shortfall between operation and maintenance expenditures and revenue
generation, which is expected to gradually decline and be eliminated over five years of project
implementation, i.e., by 2007.
Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements: The CMU, with the support of international independent
technical and financial auditors, will monitor progress against agreed performance indicators specified in
the service contract. The CMU will prepare and provide to the Bank, on a semi-annual basis,
consolidated reports on Project implementation progress covering (i) projections for Project financing
and implementation; (ii) status of Project finances, procurement of goods and works; (iii) status of
implementation of the Investment Fund; (iv) sales volume, revenues, collections, cash expenditures, and
VAT position for each utility for the current and previous quarter; (v) monthly cash flow projections for
the next six months, (vi) semi-annual update of the projection of the utilities' financial performance until
the end of the Project; and (vii) status and projection of the operating subsidies from the central
government. Draft annual action programs for the upcoming year, including the annual adjustment of
tariffs, will be included with the corresponding quarterly report for the Bank's review and comment.
The implementation of the Environmental Management Plan Framework (EMPF) is a provision in the
management contract, the Project Implementation Plan (PIP), and in the Development Credit Agreement.
- 13 -



D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
During Project preparation various design alternatives were considered and evaluated. These include:
Technical Assistance Project: One option considered was to finance technical assistance to develop
stronger management capacity within the four utilities without entering into a performance-based
management contract. Consultants would be responsible for staff training and for the development of
modem systems for company and water resources management, but would not have overall responsibility
and authority for implementing operational reforms in the companies. This approach was already tried
under the Durres Water Supply Rehabilitation Project and did not attain the desired service
improvements. It was therefore decided that demonstrating the viability of PSP is critical to the success
of sector reform in the medium term, and that given the willingness of the companies and municipalities
to work with a private operator, the risks were relatively small compared to the potential benefits to
companies and consumers.
Long-term Lease or Concession: There are numerous uncertainties surrounding the water supply and
sanitation systems of the four utilities, including lack of sufficient knowledge of the facilities and of the
capacity of the customer base to generate sufficient revenues to operate and rehabilitate the system, lack
of familiarity with private operators in the water sector, and uncertainties about the effects that a demand
management approach can have in the Albanian context. These conditions would make it unattractive for
a foreign operator to make a long-term commitment in the form of a lease or concession contract unless a
very high-risk premium is charged or some of the risks are taken over by the Government. A
performance-based service contract is considered, at this point, to be the most appropriate approach to
involve the private sector because it has attractive features that would increase the likelihood of success
including (i) lower risk for the Operator as there is a fixed operating fee; (ii) relatively short-term
commitment by the Government to have an opportunity to learn more about the benefits of PSP in the
sector; (iii) incentives in the service contract for the Operator to achieve key improvement targets; and
(iv) full delegated management responsibility to the Operator and control over an investment fund to
cover priority investment needs. The municipalities, together with the Govermment, evaluated various
options to involve the private sector in the provision of water supply and sanitation services, and rejected
the altemative of a long-term lease or concession.
Providing TA Only to the ADF for Implementation of the Rural Water Supplv and Sanitation Strategy: It
was considered to assist only the existing Albanian Development Fund (ADF), which is implementing
IDA- and other donor-financed rural infrastructure (including water) projects, so that it could become the
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Agency (RWSA) in charge of implementing the strategy. This was
rejected because the social aspects of community participation are crucial for failure or success of the
strategy, and ADF has an insufficient track record regarding the social aspects of community
participation. In addition, the RWSA will be responsible only for rural water and sanitation projects,
and it would be difficult to integrate in the ADF, which is implementing projects in other sectors as well.
It would be a disadvantage if the RWSA would be associated with the existing ADF approach in
infrastructure, and not become a distinctive counterpart for rural water and sanitation projects with a
clear demand-responsive approach. However, a mechanism will be established for the ADF to adopt the
approach outlined in the Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Strategy. This will improve the quality of
ADF's water projects and ensure that ADF does not inadvertently undermine the Rural Water Supply and
Sanitation Strategy.
-14 -



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                     Project                 (PSR) Ratingsn
.                          . ~~~~~~~~~(Bank-financed.proJects only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                  Progress (IP)  ObJective (DO)
Water and Sanitation              Water Supply Urgent               S            S
Rehabilitation Project.
US$5 million Supplemental
Credit to Community Works
Project.
Other development agencies
Germany KfW                       Grants and soft loans for the
rehabilitation of water and
sewerage systems of Elbasan,
Kavaja, Kukes, Has, Korca,
Kruja, Pogradec, and
Rrogozhina. Also under
appraisal for possible future
funding are: Kushnje, Berat,
and Gjirokaster: US$100
million since 1992.
Italy                             60 billion lira credit for Tirana
water supply.
EU Phare Program                  Design and emergency works
for Tirana, Lezhe, Saranda, and
Fier. TA for
Gjirokaster and Vlora.
Austria                           Feasibility studies for Lezhe
and Shengjin. Loan for
Shkoder.
ECHO                              Grants for construction /
rehabilitation of water supply
systems in Tirana, Vlora,
Girokastra, Peshkopie. Rural
water supply project all over
Albania. US$22 million since
1997.
JICA-JSF                          Feasibility studies for Tirana
wastewater and Fier and
Saranda water and sewerage.
USAID                             TA for various laws in water
sector.
lP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
- 15 -



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Project design reflects the Bank's experience in the preparation and implementation of water projects in
Albania and throughout the world, and specifically borrows from the lessons learned from the design
and implementation of (i) the Albania - Durres Water Supply Rehabilitation Project (closed in 2000); (ii)
IDA-financed projects and ESW in Albania's energy sector; and (iii) similar Bank-financed projects in
other countries involving management contracts for water supply and sanitation services.
The critical lessons learned and applied in this Project's preparation are the following:
(i) Lessons learned from the Albania - Durres Water Supply Rehabilitation Project
*   Commercial and financial autonomy of water utilities is essential to reduce political interference in
the day-to-day management of the water utility and to achieve the financial objectives: All
participating water utilities have been transformed into commercial companies before the start of the
Project. In addition, the Decentralization Law provides the utilities, together with the local
governments, with the right to make all operation and investment decisions, as well as to set tariffs.
However, these rights are not yet fully implemented for all utilities in Albania. Local governments'
representatives are chairing the boards of the water utilities only for the utilities participating in the
Project. The boards of utilities not participating in the Project are still controlled by the line
ministries.
*   Local governments' participation in project preparation and implementation is essential to establish
ownership and commitment: Local governments have shown their strong commitment to the Project
by (i) participating actively in Project preparation: the local governments were heavily involved as
members of the working group for the design of the management contract, and they constitute the
majority of the members of the Executive Committee in charge of awarding the contract and which
will be in charge of supervising it; (ii) increasing tariffs by 40 to 100 percent before the
commencement of the Project and the management contract; and (iii) expressing their willingness to
support disconnection of illegal and nonpaying customers by the Municipal Police, which are being
established in all four participating municipalities. In the city of Durres, the disconnection of
customers has already begun, but needs to be sustained.
*   Politicization of tariff liberalization, staff recruitment and other administrative and financial matters
undernine the potential for reforms and diminish improvements of service delivery: As mentioned
earlier, tariff adjustments are no longer subject to interference by the central government, but were
transferred directly to the local governments which are in charge of service delivery. The
responsibility for staff recruitment and incentive-based remuneration was completely transferred to
the Operator, which shows a major commitment compared to some other projects financed by the
Bank in other countries, where local governments did not agree to transfer these rights to the private
operator.
*   It is unrealistic to expect the Government to support substantial institutional change in one enterprise
without linking it to broader sector reforms:  During Project preparation, the Government
implemented key elements of sector reform, e.g., by issuing a water code that regulates
customer-utility relationships, and allows the disconnection of illegal and nonpaying customers;
transforming 40 out of 52 water utilities into commercial entities (including all four utilities
participating in the proposed project); and merging water and sewerage utilities in several cities
(including the cities participating under the Project); and transferring the tariff-setting authority to
- 16 -



local governments. In addition to the above, the Government is currently working on (i) providing an
executive title to the water bill which will facilitate suing of nonpaying customers in the courts and
execution of court decisions; and (ii) changes to the statute of the water utilities which would allow
the utilities to enter into service agreements with each participating municipality/commune. This
would spread the empowerment of the local governments beyond the main municipality in the service
areas to other smaller communes which are also served by the same water utility. Some of these
reforms were triggered during the preparation of the Project.
*   Physical improvements and demand management in the rural areas connected to the transmission
main need to be addressed: Demand management was identified as a key element which is needed to
improve the financial performance of the utilities and to improve service delivery. As a major
component of demand management, it is anticipated that almost universal metering will be achieved
in all service areas by the end of the Project, including in the rural areas. Physical improvements are
also foreseen along the transmission mains.
*   The project area was too restricted to Durres city: The Project will cover the entire service area of
the water utilities, including some semi-urban and rural areas where applicable.
(ii) Lessons learned from Bank-financed projects and ESW in the energy sector:
Despite some major differences between the water and the electricity sectors in Albania (e.g., only one
power company directly under the control of the central government versus 52 water utilities with control
shifting from the central to local governments; different perception of water and electricity as a public or
commercial good; and differences in the possibilities of metering), there are a number of common issues
in the two sectors to learn from:
*   Successful implementation of an Electricity Action Plan:  Triggered by the successful
implementation of the Electricity Action Plan, key elements of this plan were included into the
Summer 2002 - Water Supply Action Plan, which is the basis for the medium-term Water Supply
Action Plan currently under preparation. As mentioned in Chapter B 2.3, first results achieved under
the Summer 2002 - Water Supply Action Plan are very positive and are expected to be sustained by
the medium-term action plan.
* Flows of budeetarv funds to budgetary agencies are dependent on prior settling of their invoices with
KESH (the national power company): The MoF confirmed that it will prepare a similar guideline
for the water utilities based on a request from the MoTAT.
*   Experience in the electricity sector unveils the need for an executive title on the utility bill to
effectively enable the suing of nonnaying customers in courts: Based on this experience, the MoTAT
initiated the introduction of an executive title for the water bills. This has been approved by the
Council of Ministers.
*   Enforcement of disconnections by using a specially-created Energy Police: Although the Summer
2002 - Action Plan was mainly enforced by using the National Police, it is planned that the
municipalities will use the Municipality Police, currently being established in most of the
municipalities, to disconnect customers at the local level.
-17 -



(iii) Lessons learned from similar Bank-financed projects involving management contracts for
water supply and sanitation services.
* The sustainability of the Project depends on a realistic assessment and projection of the minimum
financial capabilities of the water utilities, and the commitment of the participating municipalities to
support the financial viability of the utilities through strict enforcement of collection of water and
wastewater fees, and commensurate tariff increases.
* To mitigate problems that can arise from unrealistic targets set on the basis of unreliable baseline
data, clear procedures for target adjustment are laid out in the management contract: adjustment only
once after the first two years, adjustments only if targets are surpassed or missed by a margin
specified in the contract, and, if applicable, new targets will be proposed by an independent auditor.
In addition, the incentive-based fee is kept at a minimum during the first two years of implementation
to acknowledge the difficulties in achieving improvements in a short period of time.
* The Project should support the Govemment's efforts to implement institutional and financial reforms
in the water supply and sanitation sector. The experiences under the Project are expected to be used
in other cities and for other utility sectors.
Four Bank-financed management contract projects, similar to this operation, are currently under
preparation in Georgia, Tajikistan, Kazakhstan, and Uzbekistan, and two are currently under
implementation in Armenia and Kosovo. In all these projects, a private operator will be or has been
contracted to manage and operate the water supply services (and in some cases, wastewater services as
well). Although it is still too early to fully evaluate these projects, the first results are positive. For
example, in the second year of the management contract in Armenia, the private operator was able to
reduce electricity consumption by 11.8 percent as compared to the base year. Similar management
contracts (with incentive fees directly linked to performance improvements) in other regions have also
resulted in rapid improvements in the quality of service and efficiency of the system. For example, the
management operator in the Gaza Water Supply and Sewerage Service Improvement Project, with an
investment fund of about US$12 million, was able to achieve basically all performance improvement
targets. On the other hand, mixed experience gained in the Amman Water and Sewerage Management
Project initiated in 1999, emphasizes the importance of a strong PIU, clear and simple contract
arrangements, and providing the private operator with broad control over staffing decisions. All of the
above has been taken into account during Project preparation: The Project will rely on the existing PIU
with a strong track record, the contract indicators were focused on the key areas of improvement, and the
Operator will have full control over the staff.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government, through the Council of Ministers, the MoTAT, the MoE, the MoF, the Ministry of
Environment, the Ministry of Local Government, and the water utilities and municipalities of Durres,
Fier, Lezhe, and Saranda, have all indicated their full support for the Project's objectives. This is
reflected in the advanced Project preparation which shows the commitment and ownership of the central
and local governments. The above-mentioned stakeholders have taken the following actions, which were
facilitated by the leading role the Bank has played in the sector dialog with the Government:
* An Executive Committee, composed of representatives from the local governments which hold the
majority in the Executive Committee, and from the line ministries, was established and it awarded
the management contract in June 2002.
* The Council of Ministers approved the preparation of a management contract for the four
participating utilities.
- 18 -



* The four municipalities together with the MoTAT and the MoE established a working group for the
preparation of the bidding documents for the management contract.
* All four participating utilities were transformed into commercial entities.
* All four utilities signed a company agreement that allows them to enter into a single contract with the
Operator and which regulates the supervision of the contract.
* All four municipalities made substantial tariff increases for water supply services before the
commencement of the Project and the management contract, and introduced wastewater tariffs.
* During Project preparation, the NWRC issued a water code that, among other aspects, allows the
water utilities to disconnect illegal and nonpaying customers.
*   The Govermnent has a strong commitment to necessary sector reform, and has requested the Bank's
assistance for developing a comprehensive National Water Supply and Sanitation Strategy (NWSS)
and a medium-term Water Supply Action Plan (WSAP).
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The design of the Project has been tailored to support broad sector reformns, while responding to the
constraints in Albania. It is quite innovative in its approach and brings into fruition the sector expertise
that the Bank has accumulated in Albania and in other developing countries. In particular the Bank has:
* broad international experience in PSP in the water and sanitation sector;
* the experience to coordinate closely with other donors and mobilize additional sources of funds; and
* policy development expertise and experience in the design of institutional reforms in the water and
sanitation sector.
In addition to the above, the Bank is proactively involved in the dialog on sector reform with the
Government, and the Bank's engagement was instrumental to achieving the reforms that the Government
has already undertaken. Although other donors are supporting the sector dialog the Bank has with the
Government, none of them is prepared to take over the Bank's leading role.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV=US$5.2 million; ERR = 15 % (see Annex 4)
'_ Cost effectiveness
'J Other (specify)
It should be noted that the operational, technical, and financial data available for economic analysis are
limited. However, it is apparent that the water supply and sewerage systems have deteriorated seriously
for lack of adequate investment, and repairs and maintenance. The incentives built into the management
contract will lead the Operator to optimize the use of the limited resources available to achieve the
performance improvement targets in a cost-effective way. An Investment Fund (IF) has been prepared
with the help of international consultants. The investmnents under the IF will be subject to confirmation
by the Operator. A description of the expected benefits is given in Annex 4 and briefly summarized here.
*   Reduction of technical water losses by rehabilitating deteriorated sections, improving network design
and operations, and reducing excessive water consumption and usage will lead to input savings
(energy, chemicals, other variable costs); load reduction of wastewater collection and treatment
systems; and avoided damage to private and public property.
*   Improvement and sustainability of water service (reliability, continuity of service) will help in
reducing mitigating/coping expenditures (fetching water, purchasing water, tanks, booster pumps,
-19-



etc.).
* Improvement and sustainability of water quality by rehabilitating key elements of the existing
disinfection facilities will help reduce the risk of water-related diseases; avoiding related mitigating
expenditures (e.g., filtering, boiling water, purchasing bottled water).
* Network optimization and rehabilitation of inefficient pumping stations will contribute to energy
savings and avoided damage to the system.
* Overall improvements in the management and operations of the four utilities.
The estimated economic return of the improvements associated with the Project investments and the
management improvements have a larger confidence interval than with better documented utilities.
Nevertheless, a cost-benefit framework was utilized to assess the financial and economic viability, based
on with and without project scenarios. The analysis evaluates the NPV and IRR for the service contract
and the IF. The discount rate used is 10% which is IDA's generally accepted and used hurdle rate for
water supply projects. The key assumptions for the Base Case model include the main performance
improvement targets, including lower energy costs and increased operational efficiency that would result
in reduction in water losses and wastage. The Base Case scenario (see Annex 4) indicates rates of return
of 15% in economic terms and 15% in financial terms. The Base Case scenario analysis does not include
other benefits of importance for the population of the four cities but difficult to quantify given the
limited data available. Some of these benefits include: (i) avoided coping expenditures due to poor
service and poor quality (fetching water, purchasing water tanks or booster pumps, filtering and/or
boiling water, purchasing bottled water); (ii) avoided cost of expanding or rehabilitating redundant water
production and treatment facilities; (iii) reduction in sewerage-related impacts such as uncontrolled
overflows and damages to property; and (iv) reduction in the incidence of water-bome diseases. Since
these benefits could not be quantified, the rates of return obtained are expected to underestimate the
project benefits.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ 5 million; FRR = 15 % (see Annex 4)
Project Financing Plan: The total cost of the Project is estimated at US$21.93 million (including taxes
and duties of US$2.65 million). The IDA credit of US$15 million equivalent will account for about 68%
of the Project cost. The entire balance of US$6.93 million (or 32%) will come from the central
govemment as grants since all four utilities would not be in a position to generate funds for investment
purposes from intemal sources throughout the Project implementation period. With the help of the
Operator, all four utilities are projected to break-even on a cash flow basis (i.e., collected cash revenues
covering all cash operating expenses) in 2007, the penultimate year of project implementation, and to
reach full-cost recovery, including depreciation, not later than 2010.
Financial System and Tariffs: Water companies in Albania follow financial regulations, and accounting
and tax rules, issued by the central govermnent. These rules and regulations deviate substantially at
present from intemational accounting standards (IAS) for similar revenue-eaming entities. This affects
the presentation of financial information by the utilities. In the case of the Durres Water and Sewerage
Company (DWSC), some improvements in its financial management systems, as well as external audits,
were introduced under the earlier Bank projects; nevertheless there is scope for further strengthening as
identified by the auditors. One of the key tasks of the Operator, therefore, would be to develop and
implement appropriate improvements for each utility that would provide adequate, relevant and accurate
information for management decision-making and external financial reporting.
Until 1993, the water supply utilities were under the central government's Ministry of Territorial
Adjustment and Transport (MoTAT). In that year, responsibility for operation of the utilities was
- 20-



transferred to the local govermments. However, the central government still owns the utilities, and with
the exception of the four participating utilities, continues to review and approve all investment decisions.
Wastewater services were provided by departments of the municipalities. They were entirely dependent
on the budget for their revenues. In the case of Fier, Lezha, and Saranda, the water supply and
wastewater services have now been merged. A decision to merge in the case of Durres has been taken
and is expected to be implemented soon.
Until 1998, all decisions in regard to potable water tariffs were centralized and subject to the central
government's approval. In 1998, under a policy of liberalization of water tariffs, water supply enterprises
were required to make an assessment of the costs of providing the services and to propose tariff
structures to their local authorities. Upon the approval of the authorities, the proposed structure is then
presented to the NWRC for approval. The decentralization law, which came into effect in January 2002,
transferred the tariff setting function to the local governments alone.
Past and Present Financial Position:  Historical financial statements for each of the four utilities are
presented in Annex 5. With the exception of DWSC, the financial statements have not been the subject
of independent external audits since these were not required under the governing local regulations (for
DWSC, the audits were required under the Project Agreement with IDA). During the three-year period
1998 to 2001, the financial situation of each utility worsened. All four utilities incurred annual losses in
each of the years.  In 2001, losses for Durres, Fier, Lezha and Saranda were Lek 314 million, 136
million, 43 million and 27 million, respectively for a combined loss of about Lek 520 million (US$3.7
million equivalent). Collected revenues have not been adequate to cover the utilities' cash operating
expenses (not taking into account depreciation and other non-cash charges). The increasing cash deficits
have been met through a combination of direct and indirect subsidies from the government's budget -
direct subsidies include payments made directly to KESH, the electricity company which is the utilities'
principal creditor, and to the water utilities themselves, and the indirect subsidies, the accumulation of
tax and other payables.
The main issues and problems affecting the utilities' financial performance are the following: On the
revenues side, (i) low percentage of billed water: For each utility, the share of billed water consumption
out of total water production is low, which reduces the revenue base; (ii) low tariff levels and distorted
tariff structures: The tariffs, particularly for residential consumers, have been kept at low levels on
political considerations. The levels currently in force are not adequate to cover the utilities' cash
operating expenses even if the utilities were able to enforce 100% collection of billed revenues. The
situation is further exacerbated by the fact that residential consumption accounts for the bulk of water
consumption for each utility. Although tariffs for the other consumers are currently higher, the utilities
are unable to enforce collections, including from institutional and budgetary agencies; and (iii) low
collections:  Collected revenues have generally ranged between 30% to 35% of the billed revenues for
the four utilities. Although nominally the utilities can enforce collection by discontinuing service to
non-paying consumers, in practice it has proved difficult to enforce due to political interference and
influence which in effect discourage disconnections. Collections have also been problematic in the case
of supply to villages where a tradition of non-payment has evolved over time.
On the expenses side, (i) operating inefficiencies:  The physical facilities and equipment have
progressively deteriorated due to the lack of adequate funds for replacement and maintenance. Repairs
and maintenance are undertaken on an ad hoc basis in response to day-to-day needs, and are severely
limited by the resources available. Break-downs and make-shift fixes increasingly have taken the place of
planned maintenance, and contributed to rising operating expenses. Specific consumption of electricity
per unit of water produced has also been increasing due to inefficient pumping and other equipment; (ii)
overstaffing: Productivity ratios (employees per 1,000 connections) are lower by a factor of three to four
-21 -



as compared to well-run Western European utilities. Although salary levels are low in comparison with
Westem Europe, the overstaffing results in the share of personnel expenses in total expenses equalling or
exceeding Western European levels; and (iii) rising input prices: Electricity expense is a major item for
each utility accounting for 30% to 50% of total expenses. Electricity tariff levels in Albania have been
rising as KESH, the electricity company, progressively achieves full-cost recovery, as required under the
Action Plans agreed with IDA and bilateral donor agencies.
Overall, in addition to these problems related to revenues and expenses, the utilities' financial
management systems are in need of substantial improvement. The existing systems, particularly for Fier,
Lezha, and Saranda, do not provide adequate, timely, and relevant information to the utilities'
management, including for monitoring and controlling of receivables and payables, or for external
financial reporting.
Recent Actions Taken by the Central Government. the Municipalities and the Utilities: As part of its
Action Plan for the recovery of KESH, the electricity enterprise, the central government compensated
KESH in the amount of Lek 1.1 billion (US$7.9 million equivalent) in 2001 for its arrears from the water
companies. Since KESH was the water companies' main creditor, this has provided substantial relief to
the water companies. Under a program agreed with the IMF to foster greater transparency and discipline
in the settlement of inter-enterprise arrears and arrears towards the budget, the Government has required
all state-owned companies, budgetary agencies, and water companies to prepare jointly agreed statements
as to their respective collectibles and obligations. Thereafter the MoF intends to enter into agreements
with the companies seeking subsidies from the central budget which will specify the undertakings and
obligations of the enterprises in return for the subsidies. These agreements are expected to reduce
uncertainty and provide greater stability in the financial planning of the entities.
The local governments of Durres, Fier, Lezha, and Saranda have approved water supply tariff increases
for the year 2003 and the introduction of a sewerage tariff. The approved levels are in line with those
discussed by Bank staff with the utilities as part of the first year of the overall recovery program during
the period of Project implementation. These initial increases will be followed by further progressive
increases during Project implementation, keeping in view affordability considerations.
Future Finances: Projections of the four utilities' financial statements, including the main assumptions
made, are provided in Annex 5. A key assumption in the projections is that the selected Operator would
be in place by early 2003 so that the expected improvements in operating and financial performance
would progressively be achieved thereafter. To determine the respective levels of contribution by the
utilities and the local/central govemments, financial analysis was carried out during Project preparation
(available in Project Files) examining the implications and impacts of altemative scenarios as to the
speed of full-cost recovery by the utilities from their current low positions. Conclusions from this
analysis, discussed with the utilities, the municipalities, and the MoF, were that, given the current low
levels of tariffs, collections, and cost-recovery, and taking into account affordability and social impact
considerations, the most realistic scenario is to require the utilities to target to achieve a cash break-even
(collected revenues not less than cash operating expenses) by 2007, the penultimate year of the project
implementation period. Furthemnore, the on-lending of the IDA credit to the utilities would have to be
close to IDA terms if the utilities are to be able to make the minimum level of investments needed after
2007 from intemally generated funds. Thus, the IDA credit would be onlent to the four utilities for the
same grace and maturity periods (10/20 years) but at a higher interest rate of 1.5% per annum. However,
during the period 2003 to 2007, since the utilities will continue to incur operating deficits, the interest
payable by them on their subloans will be capitalized and added back to their subloans. Starting 2008,
the utilities will begin paying in full the interest on the subloans (including the capitalized interest). The
Government and the utilities will review the situation in 2008, the last year of project implementation, to
-22 -



detennine if any change in the terms (e.g., a higher interest rate) is feasible and warranted.
The financial projections carried out for this alternative indicate that: For the utilities,
*   cash operating break-even (i.e., a working ratio not greater than 1.00) would be achieved not later
than 2007;
*   full-cost recovery (including depreciation and adequate provisioning), would be achieved not later
than 2010;
*   domestic tariffs would need to be progressively increased in real terms during the implementation
period by an estimated 168% for Durres, 120% for Fier, 263% for Lezha, and 200% for Saranda;
*   collection ratios would need to be progressively doubled from the current low levels; and
*   the utilities would have to start servicing the debt on the subloans (including the capitalized interest
for the period 2003 to 2007) starting in 2008.
For the central government, during the implementation period, 2003 to 2008, the Government would
need to contribute an estimated amount of Lek 2,060 million (US$14.73 million equivalent) to cover both
Project investment-related financing as well as subsidies to cover operating cash deficits and debt
service, as follows:
*   Local counterpart financing (including taxes and duties) for the project (US$3.16 million);
*   Technical assistance (US$4.05 million);
*   Operating subsidy (on a declining basis, expected to be eliminated by 2007) to cover electricity and
other operating expenses (US$5.65 million); and
*   Debt service towards IDA on the existing and new debt in the case of Durres, and the new debt in
the case of the other three utilities (US$0.68 million).
In addition, the central government would also have to provide financing, through the social security
funding sources, for the severance payments to the employees rendered redundant when the Management
Contract is implemented (US$1.19 million).
The net fiscal impact on the central government's budget is discussed in the relevant section below.
The respective obligations and undertakings on the part of the central government and the utilities/local
governments are reflected in the Credit Agreement between IDA and Albania, and will be reflected in the
Subsidiary Loan Agreements between the MoF and each utility.
Affordability: The scope and size of the Project have been based on affordability considerations. The
rate of tariff increases over the implementation period has taken into account the impact on household
water and sewerage bills. The socially acceptable rate of tariff increases has also been used to determine
the relative contributions of the utilities and the central government during the Project period. To
provide relief to low-income households, the utilities and their municipalities have accepted that an
amount of 20 Ipcd will be supplied free of charge to all metered consumers. Any consumption over this
level would be charged at the tariff rate for metered consumption. If a metered household consumes
amounts higher than 20 lpcd and fails to pay the dues, it will be subject to disconnection. The estimated
affordability impacts are summarized in Annex 5, Table 9. The estimates show that the projected higher
water and sewerage tariffs will remain affordable (less than 4% of monthly income) for average income
households (monthly income of Lek 45,000) at consumption levels of up to 150 Ipcd. With the
progressive introduction of metering, as planned, households would have both the ability and the
incentive to further limit their consumption and eliminate wastage. Consumption of the poorer
households tends to be lower, and will remain affordable (3% of monthly income) for levels of up to 40
- 23 -



Ipcd. For the extreme poor households, in case they are unable to pay, it will be ensured that they have
reasonable access to standpipes for their water supply. The municipalities, in cooperation with the
Operator, will monitor the success of the affordability approach.
Financial Rate of Return and Risk Analysis: The financial viability of the Project depends critically on
the anticipated improvements from the management contract. The Operator is expected to be able to
progressively improve the collection performance as indicated while at the same time enabling cash 0 &
M expense savings through improved techniques and practices. The utilities' experience has proved that
such improvements would not be possible without the assistance of the Operator. The Project's FRR is
therefore based upon the incremental benefits (incremental collected revenues plus incremental 0 & M
expense savings) to be derived from the management contract. The assumptions and the analysis are
summarized in Annex 5, Tables 7 and 8. The FRR is estimated at 15% with a Net Present Value (NPV)
of Lek 752 million (US$5 million equivalent) at a discount rate of 10%.
The main financial risks are: (i) the Operator is not effective in securing the necessary improvements
due to either (a) inadequate performance, or (b) lack of the required support from the utilities, the
municipalities, and the central govermnent. This would affect the Project through:
*   lower than anticipated revenues due to lower than projected tariffs or lower than projected collection
ratios or both; and
* lower than estimated 0 & M expense savings; this includes delays in the planned staff reduction.
(ii) failure on the part of the central government to provide the required financial contributions in a
timely and adequate manner which could adversely affect Project implementation and entity
performance.
The risk in regard to the Operator's performance is sought to be mitigated through:
* selection of an internationally reputed firm with experienced staff assigned to the Project;
*   performance incentives built into the management contract where a substantial part of the overall
compensation would be determined by performance in achieving agreed targets; and
*   establishment of an appropriate oversight arrangement composed of municipal and utility
representatives to monitor progress and provide required support.
The risk in regard to the Operator obtaining the required support from the local/central governments
would be mitigated through the establishment of the Executive Committee consisting of representatives
of the central and local governments which would periodically meet with the Operator to review progress
and address issues. IDA would have to remain involved in the process through proactive and diligent
supervision to anticipate problems to the extent possible and to help in expediting solutions.
The risk in regard to the timely and adequate financial contributions by the central government is
mitigated to some extent by the fact that the key ministries (MoF, MoTAT) have been involved in the
Project preparation process which has included joint reviews of the Project objectives, the financial
constraints and alternatives, and the sharing of the financial burden between the central government and
the municipalities/utilities. In addition, the central government would participate in the Executive
Committee responsible for contract supervision. The central government's obligation to financially
support the Project is reflected in the Credit Agreement. Nevertheless, the risk cannot be entirely
eliminated, and needs to be viewed in the context of IDA's exit strategy in case of non-performance by
the central/local governments and/or the utilities.
-24-



Sensitivity analysis for the FRR is presented in Annex 5, Table 8. The collection rate is the most
significant variable for the FRR; a shortfall of 10% in the collection rate would drive the FRR from 15%
to 9%.
Financial Conditionality: The enabling of successful performance by the'Operator, and timely and
adequate financial contributions by the central government, would be critical for the success of the
Project. To ensure this, under the Credit Agreement, the central government is required to:
*   confirm that it would provide, annually during project implementation, in a timely and adequate
manner the funds required by each utility to cover (i) local counterpart financing of the Project
cost; (ii) import duties, VAT and other applicable taxes on Project investments; (iii) operating
subsidies to cover all operational expenses which cannot be covered by revenues collected,
including but not limited to, expenses for operations and maintenance cost, social security
payments, VAT payments, and profit tax; and (iv) debt service towards IDA in respect of the
subloans from the existing and new IDA credits;
*   enable the municipalities and the utilities to put into effect the tariffs proposed by them during the
implementation of the project; and
*   ensure that budgetary institutions and agencies timely and fully meet their payment obligations
towards the utilities.
Under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements, each utility would be required to:
*   review with IDA on a semi-annual basis its financial performance, including revenues and
expenditures for the preceding and following semesters, and annually its projected performance for
the following two years, on the basis of forecasts prepared by it, and to take steps as necessary,
including but not limited to tariff increases and improved collections, to ensure the adequacy of the
revenues to meet the projected financial requirements; and
*   not incur any new debt unless the forecasts show that debt service coverage can be maintained at a
level of not less than 1.5.
Fiscal Impact:
Over the implementation period, the Project would have a net positive impact on the central government's
budget through progressive reduction and elimination of subsidies. Although the central government
would have to contribute to Project financing through coverage of the local counterpart financing
requirements, the applicable taxes and duties on the investments, and the debt service on the IDA credit
(during 2003 to 2007), this would be more than offset by the progressive elimination of the operating
deficits of the four utilities with the help of the Operator. In the absence of the Project, the present
situation of major drain on the central government budget through direct and indirect subsidies would
continue and likely progressively worsen; under the Project, the need for operating subsidies is expected
to be eliminated by 2007. Beyond the implementation period, the improvements in revenues generated
under the Project would yield increased VAT net transfers to the budget.
3. Technical:
Predefined investment: Investment needs were identified during Project preparation, and bidding
documents were prepared for an investment component of about USD 1.7 million in Fier and the start-up
of the metering program in all four cities. However, the Operator will review the investment needs and
final decisions will be made on the basis of his recommendation, the Executive Committee's approval,
and the Bank's no-objection.
- 25 -



In addition, investments in all four cities have already been defined, and implementation of these
investments commenced under the IDA-financed Water Supply Urgent Rehabilitation Project (WSURP).
This will provide very good starting conditions for the Operator because he can take over the operation of
some of the investments already during the start-up phase of the.management contract.
Focus on water supply: Because of the dire financial situation of the water utilities and the need for
clean and sufficient water supply, the Project's focus will be on improving the financial situation of the
utilities and improving water supply services. Nevertheless, improvements in wastewater discharge are
also expected by having the Operator in charge also of the operation of the wastewater collection system.
However, because of the limited amount of investment funds, only cleaning and rehabilitation of the
existing sewage network is expected, but no major extension of the network or introducing of wastewater
treatment is anticipated. It needs to be stressed that the Project will not increase but rather will decrease
any existing wastewater flow because demand management will reduce water consumption and thereby
generation of wastewater. No increase of connections is foreseen, only the conversion from illegal to
legal connections which again will reduce the generation of wastewater.
Link to pro2osed GEF project: To address also the need to protect the environment from the negative
impact the discharge of untreated wastewater has, a GEF funded project is proposed which would
introduce wastewater treatment facilities in Durres, Lezhe, and Saranda. The proposed IDA and GEF
projects are closely linked because the sustainability of the GEF - Integrated Water and Ecosystem
Management Project relies heavily on the improvements foreseen under the IDA project in regards to the
capacity of the utility to operate and maintain the wastewater treatment facilities. On the other hand,
only the GEF project would allow to fully extend the management improvements that the IDA project
will bring to the wastewater sector.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The Project will be implemented through the Executive Committee and the Operator.
4.2 Project management:
Supervision of the management contract will be carried out by the Contract Monitoring Unit (CMU). It
was agreed that the existing World Bank Water PIU will take over the functions of the CMU to assure
sufficient institutional capacity.
4.3 Procurement issues:
The procurement can be divided into three major parts:
*   Recruitment of the Operator
The management contract was awarded by the Executive Committee with the assistance of an
intemational advisor. The Executive Committee is currently finalizing the contract negotiation with the
Operator. The Banks Regional Procurement Advisor together with the project team advised the
Borrower and his consultant in finalizing the bidding documents in accordance with the Bank's
guidelines. An international advisor will continue its support to the Executive Committee through
contract negotiation.
-26-



* Procurement and procurement supervision carried out by the CMU
A Procurement Capacity Assessment of the PIU was carried out during the appraisal of the now ongoing
Water Supply Urgent Rehabilitation Project and a separate procurement review of the PIU activities was
conducted in July 2001. Because the existing PIU, which has been working for Bank-funded projects
since 1994, will take over the CMU function, no major procurement issues are expected.
* Procurement carried out by the Operator
The Operator will prepare and submit to the Executive Committee an annual procurement plan
(indicating specific procurement methods in a form acceptable to the Bank) to procure goods, works, and
services under the Investment Fund in accordance with the Bank's procurement guidelines. The Bank
will also closely review this annual procurement plan. Once this procurement plan is approved, the
Operator will implement it and sign the contract on behalf of the client. The Operator will use funds
from the Investment Fund (IF) only for those activities defined in the service contract. The Operator's
independence and incentives to improve performance will reduce the risk of undue pressure to deviate
from the Bank's Procurement Guidelines. Specific provisions to avoid potential conflict of interest
situations were incorporated in the service contract with the Operator. The Bank's support and
supervision during implementation will be key to reduce these risks. In addition, the Bank will review at
the beginning of Project implementation, the capacity of the Operator's management team to conduct
procurement in accordance with Bank guidelines.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The PIU implementing the WSURP will be also responsible for the financial management of the
proposed Project by integrating the function of the CMU into the PIU.
The financial management assessment confirmed that the financial management arrangements of the
Project are acceptable to the Bank.
As of the date of the assessment, the Borrower is in compliance with its audit covenants of existing
Bank-financed projects. The CMU's previous and current project financial statements and auditing
arrangements are satisfactory, and it has been agreed that these will be replicated for the Project. The
annual audited project financial statements will be provided to the Bank within six months of the end of
each fiscal year and also at the closing of the Project.
The latest Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) confirms that improvement is required
in the management of public expenditures, including cash management in Treasury and better internal
control throughout the public sector. Absence of a sound legal basis for intemal audit further hampers the
solidness of the intemal control. Thus, the CMU has developed policies and procedures that operate in
addition to those of the current public expenditure management framework to minimize Project financial
management risks.
The banking sector in Albania is relatively weak and the Bank of Albania where the Special Account will
be opened does not provide normal commercial banking services. However, the CMU will open all of its
Projects' second-tier Bank Accounts in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank whose financial status
and statements are reviewed on an ongoing basis by the Bank. As these arrangements have been
satisfactory, they will remain in place during implementation of the Project.
All financial management activities will be carried out by the CMU. For Part C of the Project, this is
- 27 -



stated directly in the Development Credit Agreement, and for Parts A and B, the CMU will handle the
financial management on behalf of the four utilities as indicated in the Project Agreements. One of the
roles of the Operator will be the procurement for the Investment Fund (Part A), but the CMU will make
the payments to the suppliers and account for these payments. The CMU will include these transactions
in the periodic reporting while comparing actual expenditures with the budgets in its quarterly reporting.
For the four utilities, the development of proper financial reporting is part of the Project activities, and
information on the performance of the Project will be directly linked to this financial reporting. The
Project Agreements consequently include financial covenants requiring acceptable financial management
of the utilities, and the furnishing of audited financial statements to the Bank.
5. Environmental:                Environmental Category: F (Financial Intermediary Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The Project is expected to finance rehabilitation of the existing water supply and sanitation
infrastructure, which should contribute to improve the quality of life and the environment. No additional
structures of significant size are envisaged under the Project. Specific physical investments will be
defined only during the course of the Project by the Operator. Nonetheless, potential negative
environmental impacts are expected to be localized or mitigated. It is not expected that the Project will
require land acquisition or result in involuntary resettlement, since most of the work will be done in
properties owned by water/wastewater companies, municipal land or rights-of-way assigned to municipal
infrastructure. The environmental category for the project is proposed to be Fl. Apart from the local
municipalities, and water/wastewater companies, the MoTAT is other key stakeholder.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
An Environmental Management Plan Framework (EMPF) was sent to the Bank's Infoshop on August 1,
2002. The EMPF provides the four participating water/wastewater companies with an overall framework
to guide the preparation and implementation of their annual work program. The EMPF reflects the
environmental guidelines and standards of IDA for water supply and sanitation project since such
standards are not well developed in Albania. No detailed legislation for Environmental Impact
Assessment has been enacted yet in Albania, but draft regulations were prepared in 1994. The EMPF
describes procedures for deciding on whether environmental assessment categories A, B, or C are
appropriate for each sub-project. Only environmental categories B and C sub-projects are expected. Each
annual investment plan will be screened for its potential environmental impacts and assigned
environmental category A. B, or C in accordance with Bank OP 4.01 on Environmental Assessment. The
environmental assessment and review work for category B projects will be handled by the CMU.
Procedures for category A subprojects would be developed on a case by case basis in consultation with
IDA. Procedures and requirements to be followed for each category include requirements for public
information and disclosure; and will set implementation arrangements for ensuring full consideration of
environmental concems in accordance with the 1993 Law on Environmental Protection and OP 4.01. A
partial environmental assessment (category B) including the EMP was carried out for the rehabilitation of
the Fier water production facilities. This EMP is an integral part of the EMPF for the overall project.
The implementation of the EMPF is a provision in the management contract, the Project Inplementation
Plan and in the Development Credit Agreement. The EMPF has been translated into Albanian and
public disclosure of the EMPF in Albania was done on September 14, 2002. It is also expected that the
Bank will review each annual work program and monitor environmental conditions during Project
- 28 -



implementation.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: N/A
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of(a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe
mechanisms of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
The preparation of the Project builds on the social assessment that was carried out, and included focus
group meetings and a stakeholder workshop. It is expected that consultation with beneficiaries will be on
a continuous basis during Project implementation through public relations campaigns conducted by the
Operator.
The draft EMPF will be distributed to relevant government bodies, institutions, and NGOs. To facilitate
access of the EMPF, copies will be distributed to local municipalities for public review, and a newspaper
announcement will be made to inform the public about the key issues and the availability of the draft
EMPF.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Environmental indicators will be monitored annually, and obligations for implementation in accordance
with the 1993 Law on Environmental Protection and OP 4.01 will be included in the contract with the
Operator. Most likely, consultants (or NGOs) will be engaged to monitor Project implementation and
conduct periodic environmental audit.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
A social assessment (SA) was completed in March 2001 as part of Project preparation. The SA utilized a
survey of 700 households, 12 interviews of water services experts, and 15 focus group discussions with
Project beneficiaries. A stakeholder workshop was held and presented numerous stakeholder views that
were incorporated into the SA. The key social development issues identified through the SA include the
following:
About 4 percent of households in the project area have incomes below the poverty line, and about 4.5
percent of households earn more than Lek 100,000 (US$704) a month. The remainder can sustain
themselves but cannot afford items beyond basic household needs.  Currently, average monthly
expenditure on water is only about Lek 299 (US$2), about 0.85 percent of the average total monthly
income of about Lek 45,000 (US$32 1).
Despite their relatively low level of income and expenditure, the two most important problems
households in the Project area say they face in their daily life are "insufficient drinking water supply"
and "low quality drinking water." Shortages of employment, money or food are less salient. In addition
to difficulties with water supply, residents say other important problems that confront them include "bad
roads/inadequate access", "unsafe sanitation," and "crime." Water is used mainly for "drinking, cooking,
washing and sanitation." Most households in the city use an "indoor tap" as their main water source.
Whenever there is insufficient water supply, they use the "neighbor's indoor tap." In villages, people
also use "yard wells" or an "outdoor tap." When their main source of water is not functioning, village
-29 -



households use water tanks or mechanical pumps. The two most important improvements municipal and
village households want are "improved safety of drinking water" and "increase hours of water
availability."
Most households in the city discharge wastewater from their toilet directly into the central sewage system
while village residents use septic tanks in their yard. In the city, sewage often floods the streets,
increasing health risks to residents. In villages, leaks in septic tanks are becoming more problematic as
well. But despite the difficulties with water and sanitation, only a small proportion of households say
that "stomach and intestinal" illnesses are recent problems. Cardiovascular and respiratory illnesses
were far more important problems.
Only a few households currently pay for their water regularly. Most household say they "cannot afford
to pay," "do not want to pay," or they do not pay because there is "no enforcement for nonpayment."
The minority of households that are not willing to pay for the new, more expensive water tariff are those
households that cannot afford to pay the existing, lower tariff. But most households are willing to pay
the new tariff if they receive a reliable (24-hours) supply of good quality water under sufficient pressure.
In addition, almost all households are willing to pay a monthly fee to connect to the central sewage
system and to receive septic-tank cleaning service. Consequently, the inability of the Government to
enforce payment is a very significant problem. Most households feel that the criteria for water payments
should be the amount of water used by individual households on a monthly basis. In both municipalities
and villages, installation of metering is perceived as a precondition for paying higher tariffs.
Additionally, most households want to pay a separate organization for these services rather than the
existing government water/sanitation agency.
Key elements to address the issues mentioned above and to increase the households willingness to pay
are: (i) gradual introduction of universal metering, (ii) conducting of public awareness campaigns, (iii)
establishing consumer panels, (iv) improvement in services, and (v) improvements in enforcement of
payments through the Operator and the local governments which are now fully responsible for the
services.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The key stakeholders are the residents who will benefit from the Project, local water supply companies,
local governments and the MoTAT. The resident beneficiaries have participated in the conduct of a
Rapid Needs Assessment (February 2000), the SA (May-August 2000), as well as workshops to discuss
the SA's findings. In addition, resident beneficiaries will help monitor and evaluate the Project. Further,
the Project will sponsor the establishment of Consumer Panels (CPs) to enable those who use water to
interact directly with management about problems and opportunities. Minutes of the CP meetings will be
provided to the general public and to the Bank's supervision teams.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
The Project will help establish civil society organizations (CPs) in each participating city. The CPs will
help channel constructive suggestions of consumers back to the utilities. Public awareness campaigns on
water services and the need to pay for them will be included as part of these activities. As a consequence,
the Project not only will consult civil society, it will empower it.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The CPs will enable various consumer groups, especially those who currently utilize drinking water for
irrigation or those who are not served by an official distribution system, to interact directly with
- 30 -



management to voice their concems, identify problems, and inform other users of the plans and activities
of the water companies. Minutes of the meetings of the CP and its Executive Committee will be made
available to the general public, as well as to the Bank's supervision teams.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The Project will establish a Social Impact Monitoring & Evaluation (SIM&E) system to gather
information, assess it, and feed the appropriate conclusions to the utilities, CPs, and supervision teams.
Key indicators utilized by the system will include baseline data and follow-on data for monitoring of
Project progress. Indicators relevant to social development outcomes will include acceptance of Project
rules by consumers; the financial health of locally-controlled water systems; the extent to which the,
poorest segments of the communities have access to affordable water supply; the quality of service; and
increases in hygiene. The activities of the CPs will be monitored to ascertain both the frequency of
meetings, the content of discussions, and management follow-up, based on minutes of the meetings of the
panel and discussions with management, members of the panel, and their constituents.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Are any of the following safeguard policies triggered by the pro ect?
-,.          ,   ,.- .''olicy' -, ._ 2-,4 '*   ''       ' , ,   Triggered
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)         S Yes U No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                 U Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                    Yes S No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                      Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                _ Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                 U Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                        S Yes (_ No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                              Yes S No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  * Yes (U) No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*      9 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Environmental Assessment: An Environmental Assessment and Environmental Management Plan
Framework (EMPF) was completed and sent to the Bank's Infoshop on August 1, 2002. The EMPF was
translated into Albanian and published in the country on September 14, 2002.
Proiects in International Waters: Despite the fact that the Project will mainly rehabilitate already
existing infrastructure, use the currently used national aquifers without increasing the quantity
withdrawn, and will not increase the quantity of wastewater discharged directly and indirectly into the
Adriatic Sea, the Project Team concluded that OP 7.50 is triggered by the Project's activities, because of
the wastewater discharge into the Adriatic Sea, which is an Intemational Water. In accordance with OP
7.50 on International Water, the ECA Regional Vice-President has waived the requirement for notifying
the neighboring countries.
Involuntarv Resettlement: Rehabilitation of the networks is expected to take place on public land and
rights of ways, therefore no resettlement is anticipated. In addition experience with the ongoing Water
Supply Urgent Rehabilitation Project shows that illegal encroachments were never impaired by the
rehabilitation works. Nevertheless the Project Team introduced safeguards in case resettlement might
occur. In case the works would impair legal or illegal properties, the owner/user of this property shall
-31 -



not be worse off after the works are completed. The Executive Committee will introduce a clause in the
management contract during negotiations obliging the Operator to take all necessary measures to
guarantee the above. The Operator will indicate potential resettlement issues in the annual investment
plans and report on them in the progress reports. The management contract and legal agreement will
specify the obligation of the Operator to prepare a resettlement plan consistent with the Bank's policy if a
subproject gives rise to resettlement. For all subprojects involving resettlement, the resettlement plan is
to be provided to the Bank for approval before the subproject is accepted for Bank financing. The
Bank's social expert will visit Albania from time to time to monitor the compliance with the Bank's
resettlement policy.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
As one of its main objectives, the Project aims to increase the sustainability of water supply and
sanitation services. Involvement of the private sector and the associated improvements in financial and
operational management will be key tools to ensure sustainability.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk.                 -Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
The participating municipalities do not   H         1) Upfront increase of tariffs to demonstrate
continue to support the tariff adjustments          commitment to the financial principles of the
needed to improve financial performance             project
2) Intensive monitoring of compliance with
financial covenants and prompt action in case
of noncompliance
3) Adequate collection of financial information
to demonstrate to local authorities the need for,
and the ability to incur, the required tariff
increases
4) Physical investments designed to have a
visible impact on service quality to make tariff
increases more acceptable to local govermment
and consumers
5) Implementation of an effective tariff policy
Consumers unwilling/unable to pay for      S        1) Willingness-to-pay study shows that
water services                                      willingness-to-pay is high and the envisaged
tariffs are affordable
2) The Operator is expected to launch a public
awareness campaign
3) Metering in combination with adequate tariff
policy will allow poor customers to reduce
consumption and pay less
Future municipal administrations           S        Project preparation included extensive
unwilling to engage private sector in               consultations with members of all relevant
water sector                                        political groups and all groups indicated high
commitments to private participation in the
sector
- 32 -



Social unrest                             M        The social unrest in 1997 showed that the PIU
could organize the protection of the Durres
water utility much more effectively than the
utility itself. The involvement of the Operator
will increase the ability to protect the utility in
case of civil unrest.
Private operators not interested to bid for  N     The Management Contract has been awarded to
management contract.                               an intemationally experienced operator.
From Components to Outputs
Executive Committee interferes in the     S         Provisions in contract and company agreement
Operator's procurement and operating               to minimize the possibility to create delays
decisions causing delays in achieving
improvements.
Performance incentive indicators in       M        Well defined possibility provided in the
management contract too low or too                  contract for making warranted adjustments
stringent.
Counterpart funds for investment are not  M         Intensive monitoring of Credit covenants to
sufficient or timely.                               ensure timely Govermnent's contribution
Disputes between Operator and             H         1) Intensive Bank supervision to avoid long
Executive Committee or municipalities               discussions without resolution
are not resolved promptly and cause                 2) Well prepared contract to minimize risks of
significant project implementation                 misunderstandings and disputes
delays.                                             3) Support to Executive Committee, CMU and
Municipalities with intemational consultants
for prompt resolution of disputes
Counterpart funds from the Govermment     H         1) Intensive monitoring of Credit covenants to
to support operation and maintenance are           ensure timely Government's contribution.
not sufficiently or timely.                         2) Ministry of Finance has agreed to provide
these counterpart funds, and showed
commitment by offsetting the water utilities'
arrears to the power company
Overall Risk Rating                       S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
The main controversial aspects of the project are:
*   The need for tariff increases: The risk is reduced by not exceeding the tariff levels determined in the
willingness-to-pay study, and the up-front demonstration of commitment by all the participating local
govemments through approving increases in tariffs even before the start of the Project and the
engagement of the Operator. Future tariff increases will be accompanied by improvement of
services, and a public awareness and education campaign.
*   Retrenchment of staff who are not required by the Operator. On the basis of existing legislation,
- 33 -



severance payments from the Government will be provided for redundant staff. The severance
payments will equal the full salary payments for at least 6 months, and thereafter unemployment
benefits will be provided, if necessary.
*   Measures to improve revenue collection, such as disconnection of non-paying customers. Experience
with disconnections during the Summer 2002 Water Supply Action Plan have shown broad public
support for these measures.
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
* The Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower, the water
utilities, and the local governments.
* The Management Contract with the Operator has been signed.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
* Covenant requiring the local governments to make tariff adjustments satisfactory to the Bank.
*   Covenant requiring the MoF to provide funds required by each utility, in case of shortfall, to cover
(i) operating subsidies to cover all operational expenses which cannot be covered by revenues
collected, including but not limited to, expenses for operation and maintenance, social security
payments, VAT payments, (ii) local counterpart financing of the project cost; (iii) import duties,
VAT and other applicable taxes on project investments;and (iv) debt service towards IDA.
*   Disbursement for Technical Assistance for the rural water sector can only take place after the Rural
Water Supply and Sanitation Strategy has been endorsed by the Council of Ministers.
* Other financial covenants are described in chapter E 2, and financial management covenants are
described in chapter E 4.4.
*   The required initial tariff adjustment in Lezhe for 2003 has to become effective before disbursement
for goods and works for Lezhe can take place.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[1] 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
L  1. b) Not applicable.
L] 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
D 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
D 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
-34-



1. Compliance with Bank Policies
[2 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
L 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. 3oject complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.
(t)           -                            5         ga>                            00
Andreas Rohde                      Moto Ko o-shi                      ChristiaaA
Team Leader                        Sector Manager                     Country Director
- 35 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
ALBANIA: Municipal Water and Wastewater Project
_K   Key Performande        Data .Collection
-Hlerarhy   dof Objectives:.  -    lndI(at o___r___s_____,_ --r_t
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:   (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Project is included in the CAS Financially viable water  * Financial Audit reports  Central Government remains
as part of the medium-term  utilities cover their operation  * Project Status reports  committed to decentralize
strategy to bring long term  and maintenance expenses out  * Project's Implementation  water and sanitation services.
viability to the water sector.  of their own revenues by 2007.  Completion Report
-36 -



Key Performance. I     Data Collection Strategy                     VI [i  -
Hierarchy of Ob1ectivesiV -'t-  Indicators-    - -  _   .   _._-_              Critical Assumpi,o
Project Development       Outcome / Impact          Project reports:          (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
To improve water-and      1. Participating water utilities  * Project Status reports.  1. Local authorities will
sanitation services in four  engage private operator  * Project's Implementation  remain committed to maintain
participating cities and achieve through management contract  Completion report.  and honor the contractual
financial viability in their  to take over operation and                      arrangements with the private
water utilities, by introducing  maintenance of existing                      operator and will continue to
a new incentive-based     facilities.                                         adjust the tariffs as stipulated
multi-city management     2. Improvements of service                          in the financial projection.
contract approach.       level (end of proj ect):                             2. Continued Central
2l1eAverage hours of   supply                       Government support for
2.1 Average hours of supply                         private sector participation in
per day: Durres from 2.1 to 6,                      the sector through financial
Fier from 6.2 to 13, Lezhe                         support for participating water
from 20 to 23.8, Saranda from                       utilities.
1.76 to 12.
2.2 Percentage of total
connected population in
service area receiving at
minimum 2 hours of water
supply per day: Durres from 38
to 76 %, Fier from 88 to 98
Lezhe from 95 to 99.3 %,
Saranda from 46 to 93 %.
2.3 Percentage of samples
complying with faecal coliform
standard: Durres from 96 to
98.5 %, Fier from 98 to 98.5
%, Lezhe from 55 to 98.5 %,
Saranda from 88 to 98.5 %
3. Improvements of financial
viability:
3.1 Working ratio: Durres
from 4.80 to 0.80, Fier from
4.90 to 0.90, Lezhe from 6.70
to 0.80, and Saranda from 6.10
to 0.90.
3.2 Collection rate (%):
Durres from 39 to 79, Fier
from 33 to 79, Lezhe from 33
to 79, and Saranda from 33 to
79.
- 37 -



5 1 ~1-  f--  ' ~. ^Key Perfornaric  | Data,,Collection Sttad§gy.f | - r,
Hierarchy of Ob,jectives: l      ridicators t-            -                     Critical Assumptions,
Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. Operational Support:   1.1 Management contract in  * Project Progress Report  1.1 Contract design provides
Implement management      place                                               sufficient flexibility and
contract that attracts private  1.2 Utility management                        operator and Executive
operators, provide sufficient improved.                                       Committee are capable to
incentives and responsibilities                      * Project Progress Report  solve any issue that might
to improve the management.                           * Quarterly Management   arise.
Status Report
* Independent audits
2. Investment Component:  2.1 Satisfactory disbursement                        2.1 Investment program
Priority investment program  rate                     * Project Progress Report  proposed by the private
completed successfully    2.2 Wastage and             * Quarterly Management   operator is adequate to achieve
overconsumption of water      Status Report          output.
reduced                     * Independent audits     2.2 Metering program
2.3 Savings in O&M costs                             successful implemented.
achieved.                                            2.3 Payment of water bills
enforced.
3. Technical Assistance:  3.1 Project and contract   * Project Progress Report
TA for project            management satisfactory
implementation and sector  3.2 High satisfaction of
reform                   recipients with TA provided.
Project Components /      Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:           (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                           Outputs)
1. Operational Support:   USD4.4 million              * Project Progress Report  * Degree of cost recovery
* Quarterly Management       from revenues can be
Status Report             increased as anticipated in
* Independent audits        the financial forecast.
* Counterpart financing is
available in a timely
.manner.
2. Investment Component:  USD13.76 million
3. PIU & Technical
Assistance for Project    USD3.27 million
Implementaton and Sector
Reform
-38-



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
ALBANIA: Municipal Water and Wastewater Project
By Component:
Project Component I - US$4.40 million
Management Contract
1.     This component will pay for salaries and expenses of the Operator's core group of staff managing
the operations of the Service Area's water and wastewater infrastructure. In addition to overall
improvement of performance and efficiency, some of the outputs resulting from this involvement include
development of standard operating procedure manuals; maintenance manuals; a computerized
maintenance management system; an asset and customer database; an improved meter reading and billing
and collection system; a customer service program; a public information program; a computerized
mapping system; an occupational health and safety program; an emergency response plan; and
management and technical training programs.
2.     The following list of deliverables to be completed from the Base Fee are expected to add value to
the Service Area. These projects fall into the categories of institutional development for the system and
are to be completed in parallel with the management, operation, and maintenance of the system.
- Standard Operating Procedure Manuals for all operating facilities
- Operation and Maintenance Manuals for all facilities
- Computerized Maintenance Management System, including:
Maintenance Work Order System
Inventory Management System
Preventative Maintenance Schedules
- Asset Database
- Energy Management Plan
- Customer Database
- Updated Meter Reading, Billing, and Collection System
- Customer Service Program
- Public Information Program
- Computerized Mapping System
- Computerized Management Information System
- Occupational Health and Safety Program
- Emergency Response Plan for all facilities
- Management Training Program
- Technical Training Program
3.    In addition the operations management portion of the contract will require the Operator to
provide information on a weekly, monthly, quarterly, and/or annual basis regarding:
- all operations and maintenance activities
- financial operations
- progress toward completing and implementing all of the above deliverables
- condition of assets
- recommendations for any programs and activities that the Operator deems important regarding
future operations of the utility
- 39 -



4.    In accordance with the Contract, the Operator shall:
- provide all necessary Management Staff to manage, operate and maintain the Facilities and
supervise and direct the Operations Staff of the Water Companies.
- allocate its Management Staff resources equitably between the four Water Companies to
achieve a commensurate improvement in the operation and performance of each Water
Company.
- be responsible to provide and improve the water supply and wastewater services to all existing
and new customers within the Service Area.
- be responsible to manage, operate and maintain the Facilities to carry out:
the production, treatment, transmission and distribution of drinking water;
the collection, transmission, treatment (possible future) and disposal of wastewater; and
the collection, transmission and disposal of stormwater from customer connections and
any storm water from the public roads system that enters the sewer network of the Water
Companies.
- be responsible for all billing, collections and customer service functions related to the water and
wastewater services.
- evaluate and propose the tariffs, fees and any other customer charges paid for the water and
wastewater services but the Water Companies shall be responsible to approve and set these
tariffs, fees and charges subject to the agreement of the relevant Council of the Communes and
Municipalities.
- provide training for the Operations Staff in all functions;
- design and install modem systems for management information, customer service and
accounting.
- plan and procure investments for operation and maintenance equipment, repair and
rehabilitation of the Facilities under the Operating Investment Fund Program;
- develop and maintain a Master Investment Plan for the application of capital funds;
5.     The Operator may also propose additional programs it thinks necessary according to its
experience of good practice in similar utility operations and contracts in order to complete the
following tasks:
6.     To improve the general management of the Water Companies the Operator shall:
a.     operator will carry out an evaluation of the Operations Staff and prepare and maintain a
human resources plan on an annual basis;
b.     design and implement a management information     system, including financial
management and operation information, using an appropriate computer-based system;
7.     To improve the commercial management and customer service the Operator shall:
a.     Conduct customer surveys to establish the characteristics of water use, and customer
views on service standards and tariffs that are relevant to developing a sustainable
strategy for water service improvements;
b.     design  and  implement a   new  commercial system, which    will allow  for
consumption-based billing and will support effective and equitable collection
procedures, account management and consumer-friendly customer services;
c.     design and implement a public infornation campaign that explains to consumers the
need for tariff increases, investment projects and water conservation measures;
d.     manage the provision of new service connections for consumers including control of the
process whereby property owners may carry out the construction of extensions to the
-40 -



water distribution network for the purpose of connecting new properties;
e.    improve the control of bulk water supply arrangements.
8.     To improve the financial management the Operator shall:
a.     design and implement a general ledger and cost accounting system, that addresses both
the Water Companies' internal needs for better financial information, analysis and
decision making and is also compatible with the IDA's project financial management
reporting requirements;
b.     create separate financial accounts for water and wastewater services; and
c.     prepare annual and quarterly financial reports for each Water Company.
9.     To improve the efficiency of revenue collections the Operator shall:
a.     develop and maintain a database of connections and classification of consumers;
b.     develop a program to identify illegal connections and convert these connections to legal
service connections;
10.   To improve tariff policy and setting the Operator shall:
a.     Prepare tariff proposals and submit for approval on an annual basis;
b.     Analyze and recommended a tariff structure and tariff levels that will promote
willingness to pay by consumers.
11.   To improve the quality of the water and wastewater services to consumers the Operator shall
manage, operate and maintain the Facilities to:
a.     Provide a minimum daily duration of supply to all customers to meet basic water needs
and to progressively increase the daily duration of supply during the Contract term;
b.     Provide reliable disinfection of water supplies at all times to protect bacteriological
quality;
c.     Develop and implement a water quality monitoring program.
12.   To improve the general operation and maintenance of the water and wastewater systems the
Operator shall:
a.     Develop and implement a preventative maintenance program and train Operations Staff.
b.     Develop and implement a comprehensive occupational safety program and provide safety
training.
13.   To improve the efficiency of the water production, transmission and distribution systems the
Operator shall:
a.     Develop and implement a leak detection program including repair of leaks and
replacement of pipe;
b.     Develop and implement a consumer meter installation program;
c.     Develop and implement a production and network meter installation program;
d.     Develop and implement a meter calibration, repair and replacement program;
e.     Prepare and implement a water network management plan to control network pressure
and reduce hydraulic losses;
f.     Prepare maps of the water network and develop a computer model of the network.
14.   To improve the efficiency of the wastewater collection, transmission and disposal systems the
Operator shall:
a.     Develop and implement a sewer and drainage canal network cleaning program;
b.    Improve the management and operation of any existing septage handling and disposal
-41 -



services but without any obligation to extend the services during the term of the
Contract;
c.     Prepare maps of the sewer network and develop a computer model of the network.
15.   To strengthen the capability of the Water Companies the Operator shall:
a.     Provide on-the-job training for the Operations Staff in all management, operations,
finance and technical functions;
b.     Develop the knowledge and skills of the Operations Staff and transfer to them an
increasing responsibility for managing and operating the water and wastewater services
to an improved technical and financial performance.
16.   To improve operations management and administrative control the Operator shall:
a.     Prepare and maintain comprehensive monthly records and reports for management
control and regulatory reporting;
b.     Meet with the Contract Monitoring Unit at least weekly, or as necessary, to review
operations and financial performance and the forward plan for the upcoming period;
c.     Meet the Executive Committee monthly, or as necessary, to review strategic and policy
matters of operations and financial performance.
Project Component 2 - US$13.76 million
Investment Fund
17.   This fund will provide the Operator and the Ministry of Territorial Adjustment and Tourism with
funds to be directed to support essential short-term and operating investments to improve O&M
and support in the rehabilitation of the water and sewerage system.
a.     The Operator's Plan for use of the Operating Investment Fund shall generally comply
with the categories of expenditures listed in Table 0.
Table 0: Categories of Expenditure and Funding Allocations
CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURES                                       US$
Technical and administrative support systems                    4,425,000
Asset management studies                                          975,000
Revenue metering                                                1,520,000
Network rehabilitation - Water                                  2,240,000
Network rehabilitation - Wastewater                             1,560,000
Network extensions - Water                                      1,810,000
Operating equipment                                               710,000
Administrative operations                                         520,000
TOTAL                                                          13,760,000
b.     The total funding allocation of the Operating Investment Fund and the funding allocation
to each category of expenditure are preliminary estimates that will be adjusted by the
Water Companies during the term of the Contract with advice from the Operator and
contingent on approval by the IDA.
c.     The cost estimates in Table 0 include the related costs for design, construction
supervision and associated technical services
d.    The cost estimates in Table 0 are exclusive of all duties and taxes.
-42 -



18.    Water/Wastewater Technical and Administrative Support Systems
This category includes any technical and administrative equipment necessary to effectively
support the operations of the water/wastewater system. This includes but is not limited to
maintenance and construction equipment, computer hardware and software, copy machines,
office furniture, communications equipment, other administrative equipment and structural
rehabilitation required for the efficient administration of the water/wastewater systems.
Specifically included in this category is the development and installation of two administrative
systems:
- a computerized accounting system in accordance with international standards and including a
utility chart of accounts
- a computerized facilities asset database including all physical elements of the water and
wastewater system under the control of the Water Companies.
19.    Asset management studies
This category includes technical assistance and specialist studies to assess operating performance
and capacity, serviceability and condition of assets to enable a reliable asset management plan
and investment plan to be prepared. This includes but is not limited to asset condition and
serviceability surveys, water resources study, raw and treated water study, computer modelling of
water and wastewater networks, water demand study, environmental water quality study and
industrial effluent surveys.
20.    Revenue metering
This category includes the purchase and installation of revenue meters for domestic, industrial
and institutional customers.
21.    Rehabilitation of the Water/Wastewater Networks
This category includes piping and apparatus, and various items generally identified with a water
piping system including but not limited to water pipe, wastewater pipe, valves, fittings, service
connection assemblies, air release valves, and blow-off assemblies water meters necessary to
rehabilitate the piping network. This category shall also include the purchase and installation of
meters, pressure control equipment and ancillary apparatus to measure water production and
flows in the distribution network, and to control pressures in the network. This category is
directed to an intensive program of work to remedy the backlog of leaks and structural failures in
the water mains and sewer networks, and to improve the accounting of water production and
leakage, and to assist the leakage detection and repair programs.
22.    Extension of the Water Network
This category includes pipe networks and pumping systems to extend the water services to new
customers, including the reinforcement of existing parts of the network to augment the hydraulic
capacity.
-43 -



23.    Water/wastewater Operating equipment
This category includes all of the various items of equipment generally identified with collecting,
transporting, and treating of water and sewerage from the source through to the ultimate disposal.
This includes but is not limited to pumping equipment, spare parts, mechanical and electrical
parts, controls and control systems, wells and parts of well systems, chlorination equipment,
wastewater treatment equipment, and structural rehabilitation relating to the operating
equipment.
24.    Administrative Operations
This category includes the items that are used to support effective operation, maintenance, and
administration of the water/wastewater systems and could include different services such as e.g.
transport and dispose of waste material from cleaning the sewer network, and those parts of the
land drainage canal network that are critical to conveying discharges from the sewer network.
25.    The Operator shall be responsible to develop the Operating Investment Fund Program and to
obtain the approval of the Water Companies for its implementation.
26.    The Operator shall develop the Operating Investment Program in accordance with:
a.    the funding limit specified (see Table 0);
b.    the Water Companies' rules for the distribution of funds between Durres, Fier, Lezhe
and Saranda;
c.    the requirements of the IDA regarding any proposed investment project.
27.    The Operator shall advise the Water Companies if any proposed investment is potentially not
affordable to the Water Companies, and to recommend how the affordability position might be
improved.
28.    The Operating Investment Fund is intended to provide funds for the Operator to use for the
immediate improvement of operation, maintenance, administration, and rehabilitation of the
water and wastewater systems. During the term of the Contract, changes in the needs and
priorities may require adjustment of the categories and/or amounts available in each category in
order to meet Performance Standards and system objectives. It is therefore intended that the
administration of the Operating Investment Fund be flexible in order to meet the objectives of the
project.
29.    An Indicative Operating Investment Fund Program for each Water Company is presented in the
following tables:
a.     Table I - Durres
b.     Table 2 - Fier
c.     Table 3 - Lezhe
d.     Table 4 - Saranda
30.    The Operator may use the Indicative Operating Investment Fund Program as a guide for its
Proposal, but the Operator shall be responsible to apply his expert knowledge and experience to
make his own independent assessment of the investment needs and priorities of the Facilities.
-44 -



TABLE I INDICATIVE OPERATING INVESTMENT FUND PROGRAM - DURRES
All investments in USD thousand
Yearl    Year2     Year3    Year4   | YearS     Total
WATER SERVICE                                                  I         I        I         I
O& NI E QU [PM ENT and SYSTEMS                        W ;                                -W.,  * i: 1-  ! )   &4 o__
DW I    Mains repair equipment                            75       280                                  355
DW2     Leakage detection equipment                       70                                             70
DW3     Transport for O&M personnel                      100       100                                  200
DW4     Maintenance workshop & tools                      60                                             60
DW5     Safety equipment                                  30                                             30
DW6     Stores & stock of spares/repair materials         55       55                                    110
DW7     Communication system                                                100       100      100      300
DW8     Computer facilities                               40                                             40
TECH,NICAL      SrSISTA   CE 't1J   ,..4*,;*                -.             4     ;3':       ; *  *
DW 18 Asset management studies                            50       50        50       40        40      230
REVENUE METERING-., 4 ,              1              . ..,
DWI9    Revenuemeters                                    100       150      150       150      150      700
WATER QUALITY                          I - TAM-' 7  E                T._ . .-                      Tr
DW20 Disinfection equipment                                        90                                    90
LEAKAGE NMANAGEMENTE, -           ;ii                         .,.i. L             -  ;. -, -      S.
DW21    Production/zone meters                                     150      150                          300
DW22    Pressure control                                           50        50                          100
DW23    Water conservation study                                   20                                    20
REHABILIfrATION-NETWORK               -..   -  K         . ...' 5 3 F L              *.
DW24    Priority leak repairs                             30       50        50                          130
DW25    Network mains & service connections                        220      140       140      140      640
DW26    Storage reservoirs                                                  100                100      200
REHABILITArIO N'-EI1ECTRoJKItCnwrfl              wwq     x     i    s 8F.i4 tjr           . -' -.If,  . ,   j,
DW27    Spring sources                                             50                                    50
DW 30   Distribution booster stations                                       110       110                220
EXTENSIONS & REINFORVI              1                              .NT.-..4 : -t.i.
DW32    Network mains & service connections                        210      120       115      115       560
SUB-TOTAL WATER SERVICE                                  610   1 1475    1 1020   1655     7     645    4405
SEWERAGE SERVICE
O     r                                                                      .     ..QU- F.j&N
DSI     Sewer & canal cleaning equipment                  80       220                                   300
DS2     Sewer repair equipment                            40       130                                   170
DS3     Transport for O&M personnel                       60                                             60
DS4     Maintenance workshop & tools                      60                                             60
DS5     Safety equipment                                  50                                             50
DS6     Stores & stock of spares/repair materials         30                                             30
DS7     Communication system                                                 50       50                 100
DS8     Computer facilities                               20                                             20
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE            :         , .'                       i     '.';    : .Y  'A':? .71: 7T
DS17    Asset management studies                          30       30       130       20        20       130
SEWER CLEANING             .   '   '. i                            - .  s S..i  *  . i-  .  41 tr .4; -.e4:X *,% ;
DS18    Transport & disposal of waste material            30       50        50                          130
DS19    Priority repairs                                  30                                             30
DS20    Network sewers & service connections              20       100      100       100      100      420
DS21    Storm overflows                                            50        50                          100
REHIABILITATION -ELECTRQMI_CANICAL                  ,    i j *,'  .                , * ** -  .       r-
DS22    Pump replacement                                           110      110                          220
DS23    Electricity supply upgrade                                 10        10                          20
EXTENSIONS& REINFORCEMENTS                    .                      S, T' rY     ;, J  7,   ~   4ZA _ i ,' Z -I
DS24    Network sewers & service connections              50       50        50       100      100       350
SUB-TOTAL SEWERAGE SERVICE                               500   1  750    1  450   |   270   I  220      2190
TOTAL WATER & SEWERAGE SERVICES                          1110 T   2225   |  1470      925      865      6595
-45-



TABLE 2 INDICATIVE OPERATING INVESTMENT FUND PROGRAM - FIER
All investments in USD thousand
Yearl    Year2 | Year3     Year4    Year     Total
WATER SERVICE
OSM EQUIPMENT and SYSTEMS ":J le                 I. .Ji       ,
FWI    Mains repair equipment                           50      130                                 180
FW2    Leakage detection equipment                                                                   0
FW3    Transport for O&M personnel                      50       50                                 100
FW4    Maintenance workshop & tools                    60                                           60
FW5    Safety equipment                                 20                                          20
FW6    Stores & stock of spares/repair materials        30       30                                 60
FW7    Communication system                                              100      100               200
FW8    Computer facilities                              30                                          30
TICNEICAL 'ASSIStANCE *           .aNCE_i                                          t
FWII   Assetmanagement                                  30      30       30       20       20       130
EVEN   BMKTERING1'r-            'i         .l;
FW12   Revenue meters                                  60       130      130      130      125      575
WIATIR QUALITY                                                  _ 0     .
O
BAKAGE     ANAGEMEhT;       '                      _________________________
FW 15  Production/zone meters                                    75      75                         150
FW 16  Pressure control                                         25       25                         50
KRH ABILITATION - lETWORK'-'.                           .. J       -. I, -;l
FW 18  Priority leak repairs                           45       40                                  85
FW24   Network mains & service connections                                        50       100      150
FW25   Storage reservoirs                                                50                         50
UHEIBILITATIONI     EL1E5TRO     NX                                                              IQ=
tI&ENSIO$S &. REFNFORCEXEr4'T         .      ,    -.  ;3_;__;       __      .__     _     .S__
FW3I   Network mains & service connections                      80       40       40       40       200
SUB-TOTAL WATER SERVICE                                375      590      450      340      285     2040
SEWERAGE SERVICE
FSI    Sewer cleaning equipment                                 220                                 220
FS2    Sewer repair equipment                          40       120                                 160
FS3    Transport for O&M personnel                     50                                           50
FS4    Maintenance workshop & tools                    20                                           20
FS5    Safety equipment                                30                                           30
FS6    Stores & stock of spares/repair materials       20                                           20
FS7    Communication system                                              20       20                40
FS8    Computer facilities                             20                                           20
7ECONICAL ASSISANCEJ.                        -. -
FSI0   Asset management studies                         15       15       15       15       10      70
tEWER CLEANING                     , -.-..-            ...
FSII   Transport & disposal of waste material          30       30       30                         90
!RRABILITATION-NETW        ORK .        i       .      __    __    __   __F    -________
FS12   Sewer upgrading                                 100      100      100                        300
FS13   Trunk sewer connection                                   50                                  50
FS14   Trunk sewer replacement                                  60       60                         120
FS15   Priority repairs                                20                                           20
FS16   Network sewers & service connections                                       50       50       100
REHABILITATION-ELE1;TROMECHANICA- ,                  __-p -inIBM       Von _r. _  - O
EITENSIONS& REKNFORCEME ?W            '.N  .-               _1_
FS17   Septage treatment                                        150      150                        300
FS18   Network sewers & service connections            20       20       20       20       20       100
SUB-TOTAL SEWERAGE SERVICE                             365  r   765  |   395   |  105  r   80      1710
TOTAL WATER & SEWERAGE SERVICES                        740  T 1355       845  |   445      365     3750
-46-



TABLE 3 INDICATIVE OPERATING INVESTMENT FUND PROGRAM - LEZHE
All investments in USD thousand
Yearl    Year2    Year3    Year4    Year5     Total
WATER SERVICE_ 
O&WM kQUff   MENi T gnd SYSTEMS             ._._.___._--_-___r_;
LWI    Mains repair equipment                           55       120                                 175
LW2    Leakage detection equipment                                                                    0
LW3    Transport for O&M personnel                      35       35                                   70
LW4    Maintenance workshop & tools                     60                                            60
LW5    Safety equipment                                 10                                            10
LW6     Stores & stock of spares/repair materials       40                                            40
LW7    Communication system                                               75       75                150
LW8    Computer facilities                              20                                            20
ELH,.i' .1. 1  ,SI.. TSN'E                   .
LW !!  Asset management studies                         20       20       20       20        20      100
HF   l't'4L  F  FT itEINC;              :_.                  _      ._ . _-    _.  _--  .
LW 12  Revenue meters                                   20       35       35       35        35      160
W ATERt  Q fJA ITY '                           .   .    _  __  __   _ - _._._.__          _.   _ .  __  _
LW 13 Disinfection equipment                                     115                                 115
LEAK!CG al   A NAGSEMENT' -         .                   -              - .   .:
LW 14 Production/zone meters                                     35       35                         .70
LW 15  Pressure control                                          20                                   20
Uv"A V(l j t rKlttq- WYTW   RK - .'-                                                              7- .' - -' - ..' .-.c-'s,
LW 17  Priority leak repairs                            30       30                                   60
LW24    Service connections                             20       20       20       20        20       100
LW25   Network mains                                             20       20       20        20       80
LW26   Storage reservoirs                                        20       20                          40
RFLL PF1l 'TAT ION -ELECTROMECHANICAL          "-'. :
EXTENSIOJNS & REINFORCEMEP(TS -..                     . .
LW 28 Network mains & service connections                0       40       20       20        20      100
SUB-TOTAL WATER SERVICE                                 310      510   1  245      190   1  115      1370
SEWERAGE SERVICE
O;&£t .X:51YMtT and SYSTEMS             .           --   :.       ,-                               -
LSI    Sewer & canal cleaning                                                                         0
LS2    Sewer repair equipment                                                                         0
LS3    Transport for O&M personnel                      30                                            30
LS4    Maintenance workshop & tools                     40                                            40
LS5    Safety equipment                                 20                                            20
LS6    Stores & stock of spares/repair materials        20                                            20
LS7    Communication system                                               20                          20
LS8    Computer facilities                              10                                            10
TfC]NICALA .SSISTANCE                    .       -.   - ,        - ',. '
LSIO   CCTV survey                                      45       45                                   90
LSII   Assetmanagement                                  15       15        10       10       10       60
SE    t RClF       - R C                   .: F  - .              . . . I
LS12   Transport & disposal of waste material           Is       15                                   30
t4EUA$iIAXTArI ?N .. NETWORK;          -              .fi    - '  -              .,         .      V-5
LS 13  Priority repair programme                        10                                            10
LS14   Network rehabilitation                                    200      200                        400
RPEBAH  1LYFA-TIQN - ELECTROMECHANICAL                                                    .___:
LS 15  Pump replacement                                                                               0
':TIlbl'i &S RE.INFORCEMENTS                          __._.     _-   _     -_-_-,_._-_._;:
LS16   Network & service connections                                               40        40       80
TOTAL SEWERAGE SERVICE                                  205      275      230   I   50       50      810
TOTAL WATER & SEWERAGE SERVICES                         515      785      475      240      165      2180
-47 -



TABLE 4 INDICATIVE OPERATING INVESTMENT FUND PROGRAM - SARANDA
All investments in USD thousand
Yearl | Year2 | Year3       Year4    Year5     Total
WATER SERVICE                                                           I        l        I
O&M EQIiIPNIENT and SSSTEMS                  -*    : . . ..._________________________.__
SW I    Mains repair equipment                           50       125                                  175
SW2    Leakage detection equipment                                                                      0
SW3    Transport for O&M personnel                       40       40                                   80
SW4     Maintenance workshop & tools                     60                                            60
SW5     Safety equipment                                 10                                            10
SW6    Stores & stock of spares/repair materials         30                                            30
SW7    Communication system                                                50        50                100
SW8    Computer facilities                               15                                            15
1 Ft *lNlCrv1 L AiSI51ANCE        -       ;                                                    .r   ".
SW II   Assel managemeni studies                         20        15       Is       15       15       80
I    .     NE lIETFRING                                   .-
SW12   Revenue meters                                             25       25        25       25       100
I It QU %.IITY             -                 ¶?j
O
I I     hIE MAN AAGEMENT     . 4     ;
SW 15   Production/zone meters                                    20        20                         40
REH 11 FIIIATION - NETU ORK- .:
SW17   Priority leak repairs                             15       15                                   30
SW22   Network mains & service connections                                           15       15       30
REHABII.ITA lION - ELECTROMECHANICAL%                    #r4A9, -
EX;TENSIONS & RE1NE0RCLMENTSi.1          i    ,'?
SW26   Network mains & service connections                                           40       40       80
SUB-TOTAL WATER SERVICE                                 240       240      110   |  145   |   95       830
SEWERAGE SERVICE
sj,g F Q(,IPMENTandSYSTEMS          t --.      R ',
SS2     Sewer repair equipment                                                                          0
SS3    Transport for O&M personnel                       30                                            30
SS4    Maintenance workshop & tools                      40                                            40
SS5    Safety equipment                                  20                                            20
SS6     Stores & stock of spares/repair materials        20                                            20
SS7    Communication system                                                20                          20
SS8    Computer facilities                               10                                            10
TE   INICAL ASSISTANCE               I.                                 . !  t
SSIO   Asset management studies                          15       15        15       15       10       70
Fr 4 1 R CI F ANING
SSI1    Transport & disposal of waste material           20       15                                   35
R F II   LBLITAiT ION - NETWORK   -                                -F
SS16   Network rehabilitation programme                                              40       40       80
Rr ti kBILITATION - ELECTROMEG          BAMI       l1                __F
EX1ENSI(NS& REINFORCEMENTS'                  -t,    .                       _       
SS19   Network mains & service connections                                           40       40       80
TOTAL SEWERAGE SERVICE                                   155      30    1  35    I   95   |   90       405
TOTAL WATER & SEWERAGE SERVICES                         395       270      145      240       185     1235
-48 -



Project Component 3 - US$ 3.27 million
Technical Assistance & PIU
31.    The component will strengthen project implementation by supporting the PIU including salaries,
training, vehicles, and incremental operating costs; and various consulting services for
supervision of the management contract and audits, studies and field investigations related to the
project, capacity building etc. In addition the component may finance services, goods and works
to support important elements of sector and institutional reform such as preparation of PSP
option after the termination of management contract, benchmarking of water utilities, support of
a public consultation program on water sector issues, support of the newly founded water utility
association, national vocational center for the sector, preparation of other proposed water sector
projects throughout Albania, etc.
32.    Part of the Technical Assistance will be provided for reform of the rural water and sanitation
sector and will assist, among others, in the establishing of the Rural Water and Sanitation Agency
(RWSA), developing a statute and operational manual for the RWSA, providing assistance to the RWSA
and to the Albania Development Fund (ADF), benchmarking the rural water and sanitation sector,
preparation of the Rural Water Project scheduled for FY05. etc.
- 49 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
ALBANIA: Municipal Water and Wastewater Project
, ,,  !- j L2T      - -    j_-+;-XC --       - ~Local- --Fordign-K        Total"
' _,''. >'e'  y'  nn,t'     ,------ US ' liFo'~ '- '    $'lDlion ':',, US $millon
Management Contract                                      0.88         3.52         4.40
Investment Fund                                          6.04         6.04        12.08
Technical Assistance and PIU                             0.59         2.36         2.95
PPF                                                      0.10         0.40         0.50
Total Baseline Cost                                      7.61        12.32        19.93
Physical Contingencies                                  0.37         0.38         0.75
Price Contingencies                                     0.53         0.72         1.25
Total Project Costs'             8.51        13.42        21.93
Total Financing Required             8.51         13.42       21.93
<~ ~                          TL    '   - <  i'Forelgn   TotaS $l1'on'
-    -. 'o9-dtJr-iR 1 UW96WS $million                             Us rnillli6n~--
Goods                                                     2.30          2.41         4.71
Works                                                     3.27          3.37         6.64
Services                                                  2.94          7.64        10.58
.________________________________________________  0.00        0.00         0.00
Total Project Costs      8.51         13.42       21.93
Total Financing Required     8.51         13.42        21.93
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 21.93 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 68.4%
of total project cost net of taxes.
- 50 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
ALBANIA: Municipal Water and Wastewater Project
A cost-benefit framework is used to assess the viability of the project and its sensitivity to key variables.
Given the expected life of the civil works under the project, the analysis is modeled over 20 years
(2003-2023). The cash flows are discounted using a discount rate of 10% which is assumed to be a proxy
of the opportunity cost of capital in Albania and is also the IDA's typical hurdle rate for water and
sanitation projects. Due to the relative openness of Albania's economy, no macroeconomic conversion
factors have been used. However, sectoral conversion factors have been applied, e.g. to make energy
prices reflect the full cost of energy. The only benefits measured in monetary terms are resource savings
(e.g., energy and materials savings) from improved operational efficiency and improved collections since
these are directly related to improvement targets in the Operator's service contract. Tariffs are assumed
to be the same in the with and without project scenarios, and therefore there is no impact on this score in
the analysis. Lack of data prevent a quantitative evaluation of other impacts mentioned below, so the
economic rate of return is likely an underestimate. A summary of the key benefits of the project is
provided in Table A4-1 below.
The analysis does not examine the project's components as separate exercises as the benefits of the
Investment Fund would not be obtained without the direction of the Operator under the service contract.
The most important resource-saving effect is the reduction in energy consumption associated with
improvement of the operational efficiency of the system (in terms of reduction of water losses and
wastage, and improvements in pumping operations). The main quantifiable benefit would come from the
increased collection rates. Other substantial economic benefits are non-quantifiable as indicated in Table
A4-1.
Table A4-1: Summary of Project's Benefits
Objectives                                      Benefits
Reducing technical water losses by rehabilitating  Input savings (energy, chemicals and other variable costs). In the
deteriorated network sections, and improving network  long-run, avoided cost of expanding or rehabilitating redundant
design and operations.                          production and conveyance facilities.
Reducing excessive water consumption and wastage.  Load reduction of wastewater collection and treatment systems.
Avoided damages to private and public property (apartments due to
water leaks, roads and foundations due to water-logging).
Improvement and sustainability of water service  Avoided mitigating/coping expenditures (fetching water, purchasing
(reliability, continuity of service).           water tanks, booster pumps, etc.).
Further increased willingness-to-pay for water.
Improvement and sustainability of water quality by  Reduction of risk of water-borne diseases.
rehabilitating key elements of the existing disinfection  Avoided private mitigating expenditures (filtering, boiling water,
facilities.                                     purchasing bottled water).
Further increased willingness-to-pay for water.
Network optimization and rehabilitation of      Energy savings.
energy-inefficient systems.                     Avoided damages to the system.
Prevention of further deterioration of systems.  Asset renewal savings.
Tariff adjustments.                            Increased revenues, but no differential impact in the with and without
.______________ _ p roject situations on account of tariff level increases.
Billings and collection rate increases.        Increased financial revenues; reduction of iniquitous impact on
population (reduction of the free-rider impact).
Improving managerial, commercial and financial systems Reduced financial costs. Improved efficiency leading to better service at
in the utilities.                              lower prices than would otherwise be possible.
-51 -



Summary of Benefits and Costs:
Table A4-2: Summary of Cost-Benefit Analysis - Base Case
Present Value of Flows                  Economic                         Financial
Net present value (NPV) in Lek million             780.0                           752.5
Intemal Rate of Return (IRR)                       15%                              15%
The difference between the present value of the financial and economic flows is due to the adjustments to
the financial price of electricity to reflect economic prices (Lek 6.9 per kWh).
Main Assumptions:
The main assumptions are given in Annex 5 (Tables 2 and 7).
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
Table A4-3: Sensitivity Analysis of Critical Items
Scenario        Description      Economic - NPV   Economic - IRR  Financial - NPV  Financial - IRR
Base case     See assumptions for   Lek 780.0 million     15%        Lek 752.5 million     15%
Base Case - base case
tariff profile applies for
both with and without
project altematives
Collection rates Operator achieves  (Lek 125 million)      9%           (Lek 146.1         9%
collection rates that are                                 rmillion)
lower by 10% from the
levels in base case
Energy savings Operator does not  Lek 364.3 million      13%       Lek 364.3 million     13%
achieve energy savings
-52 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
ALBANIA: Municipal Water and Wastewater Project
Ainsx5Table1:     JETCOSTAIRNAWNG
l     2003     2004      2005      2006     2007      28       Total
Total Flrnanng Pi red
PsCots
IrNesrrTt costs                                    1.38      3.44     3.44      206       206      1.38     13.76
Tedwncal assisanoe                                 0.38      0.94     0.94      0.57      0.57     0.38      3.7
Pairert costs (rdLnding mnrin   =*act)             02D       0.45     0.95      1.0      1.10     0.70      4.40
TOWa Project Cosb                                 1.96     4.83      533       3.63     3.73               21.9
Total Prject Rnacing                                 1.96     483       5.33      3.63     373       2        21.
Project rlnsidrg
IDA                                                1.5D     3.75      3.75      2.25     2.25      1.5t     15.0t
Cetral GoamTnert                                   0.46     1.08      1.58      1.38     1.48      0.        6.R
Total ProjectFlnaiclng                             1.96     4.83      533       363      3.73               21.:
- 53-



Am5,Table2 SUMARYCF RNALPER               4C 1  INZW.C   i
2D1               0m3     2004     2005     2006    207      201      2D09     21
Wmeic   'wta1ff l                          21.0    21.       35.0    4Q.6      45.1    49.1     54.6      M        57.9     59.
BElied re;um (Le milihn)                   205      211      325      441      514      61       768      8        846      88
Oolltedrvu  esPiArlwic                      70       7       127      216      304      428      607      67       753      8Z
Wllnmraio(Si                                34                39       49       59       69       79       8        89
Cash     brQg1ekrhrn)                      321      3S       412      454      517      557                        563
Opestirg pb  orwrd(kmillar                                  224      177      113       22        0                 0
Natinorre  ebsbdy(Lekrilfiln)             -314     44       -139     -15D     -408      -231    -130      -         41      1
VWbadrgrao                                 4.6      4.       32        Z1       1.7      1.3      1.0     0.        07       0
Omter   o                                   Q3       1.1     0.9       27       ao       a1     a3        4.        42       4
RVowcxIat   t Sk ruvm.e (nult)             9.4     10.       6.8      4.6       37      29       22        21       1.9      1.
P    e   sqi bgEffi    (m   E)             2E.6     6        2 0       1.8      1.6     1.6      1.5       1.6      1.6      1.
AisvfSErrFTl3)                             210     2D1       310      37.8     39.4     39.2    422       44.0     45.4     46.
BN  reies (Lekmiian)                        91               166      198      217      224      255      273      290      X1
CHh      erLie(Lemilbco)                    30       31       65       97      128      155      202      25       22       27
cdktin raio 0                               33                39       49       59       69       79       83       87       9
tC-hrgex   nes(   m    rii n)              149      1        126      140      171      188      199      19E      199      ZX
araszr(L            (Lk rrl lio                               44       25       13        1
NtmmbebesL        yQ1 Oio)                -136     -1         48      .61      -77       483     -51       4         -3       1
Vbhrgrabo,                                  4.9     4.        1.9      1A       1.3      12       1.0      0.       0.8      0.
CnTt rdo                                    0.9      0        25      2.5      2A       24       37       5        7.0      Q1
Rwav a*letaBduwm         (nutt)            16i      18.1      9.2      64       5.1      4.3      34       31       28       2
PaeblsehqxnAr'g xem       (fms)            4.0       .          1.7   1.7       1.6      1.7      1.6      1.7      1.7      17
rmsscvyateaiffe)                           150      15       282      39.5     424      46.3     5Z9      54!      561      57.
5Eilbdremui(LJekmlicni)                     19       1        40       68       88      102      124       13       144      1
WtEdresu(LekmilioO                           6                15       34       52       7        98       11       124      1
Collecbm ribo (S                            33                39       49       59       69       79                86
Cmh qw g    #e- OA mrrlrcn)              43                67       69       78       84       90        91       96      101
Orsige(L         redmLecn)                                    42       20       15        2        0                 0
Netimam bef.idyQ.mOrriUGn)                 -43      4        -29       -27     -4       -35       -16                2
Wabzrgrdio                                  6.9      6.       4.3      Z1       1.5      12       0.9               0.8      0
.ert ralio                                 0.6      0.        0 Q6     a8       Q9       1.0      25       4.1      5.5      7.1
P     b     em         s   )               a5       11.       6.9      5.8      3.3      Z6       21       1        1.6      1.
P      a qbs(mc OP&V  p-   w)               15       1.1      1.7      1.7      1.6      1.7      1.6      1.       1.7      1.
rucs8          nf   f                      15.0     15.      202      329      34.3     36.7     4a6      4S       46.7
ledreAmss(Lek rr1iIn)                       13       1        27       53       68       75       94      10        108      11
ced rL       ies(Lek riico                   4                11       26       40       52       75                93       1
(MIvecbn tabo (9                            33                39       49       68       68       79                86
CEEhq    ngers(Lekriicn)                   27                57      56        65       70       75                77
wafirasc~ reirud(L   erk MT)                 0                39       25       15        7        0                 0
Neiricrebef    tsiLkillcn)                -27      -        -51      -39      -34      -28      -12                 3       1
WahrgrSio                                   6.2     6.1       5.4      23       1.6      1.4      10       0.       0.8 
O.ntrio                                    06       0.        0.9      1.1      1.1      12       1.9      2. 7              51
Pacrwedollned         (mmaW  )             15.3     15.       7.8      18       29       25       1.9      1        1.7      1.
Ra     hldashop r   p  (m   E)             6.7      5.        5.4      Z0       Z0       20       1.6      1        1.7      1.
-54 -



Annex 8, Table 3: DWSC - FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(000 Lek)
2000     2001     2002     2003     2004      2005     2006     2007     2008     2009     2010
INCOME STATEMENTS
Revenues
Water -domestic metered                                   14802    15722    16324    37392    82184    196214   372745   582114   026000   687664   714947
Water domesglc- unmeetered                               128509   135944    140840  230626    245019   199384   133399    61674    51906    40637     28405
Water - Industry and Institutions                         37756    39940    39940    48347     66744    64270    61954    55246    57001    59485     62173
Water - bulk supply arnd other                            12762    13500    13500     2762     26931    15254
Sewerage - domestic                                                                   2218     14786    33671    46150    62225    66350    70753     78436
Sewerage - Inidustry and InstIutons                                                   4594      5232     5654     6335     7097     7281     7558      7844
Total bUiled reveinues                                  193889   205107   216804   325938   440898   514444   620582    768358   808538   846097   888808
Collection ratio (%)                                         33       34       35       39        49       59       69       79       84       89        93
Total collected revenues                                63983    69736    73711    127118   216039   303523   428202   607001   679172   753026    826589
Expenses
Electricity                                              142370   168500   177950    188679   196216   201223   216352   238153   232929   229591    226104
Paemonnel                                                 73583    92951    101539   82614     79181    81172    83020    85359    89740    94305     99050
Chemicals and materdals                                   28450    29871    32809    31165     32847    35757    30953    37589    35855     33598    32856
Repaira & maintenance                                     12024    13299    20259    27358     34625    43818    53226    53871    54515    55160     55894
Management fees                                                                       18700    42000    88700    93300   102700    70000    70000     70000
Severance payments                                                                   41933     18612    11281    13477    15425
Contingencies end other cash expenses                     14663    16000     17800   211120    50000    55000    80500    6655     73205    80526     88578
Total cash operatIng expenses                           271590   320621   350158   411568   453521   516951   558828    599847   556244   563177   872392
Depreciation                                              60000    60000    58000    62576     71574    84418    94686   102378   108800    111376  `111376
Provision for bad debt                                   228258   1126653   130048   188481   21136114  200377  182761   153287   122898    88417     59106
Total operating expenses                                559888   507275   544206   803025   738709   801748    834275   855312   787042   762970   742874
Interest and financial charges                            12180    12180    12180    25427     28882    33985    36825    43099    44610a   42576     40542
Non-operational Income                                     4103
Net Income before operational subsidy                  437404   4314348  4341782  .362514  4288675  .321285  -252518  -130055   -24014    40550    105390
Operational subsidy                                                                 223819    175869   11i3447   21849
Net Income after operational subsidy                   4374044  -31434   -341782  -138895  -149805  -207838  -230669   -130055   -24014    40880   105390
BALANCE SHEETS
Assets
Gross accounts receivable                                276398   409717   546610   745432    970289  1181212  1373593  1534948  1684314   1757384  1819601
Lass Provisions for bad debt                             228266   354919   484967   673849    887463  1087840  1270601  1423858  15467586  1835203  1694309
Not accounts receivable                                   48132    54798    618643   71584     82827    93373   102992   111059   117528    122181   125292
Inventories                                              11371865  141301   145840  149908    154403   159035   163806   168720   173782    178995   184385
Other current assets                                                                                                      79405    82189    88680    161697
Total current essats                                    185317   196099   207182   221489   237229   2524108  268798   359184    373498   389886   471354
Grass fixed assets                                      4126032  4126032  4126032  4280259   4630221  4985306  52`18432  5451831  5580631  5580631  5580631
Less Accumulated depreciation                           1375344  1435344  1495344   1557920  1629494  1713912  1808598  1910976  2019778  2131152   2242528
Net fixed assets                                       2750688  2690588  2630658  2722339   300727  3271394  3407834   3540855  3560855  3449479  3338103
Total assets                                          2936005  2886787  2837870  2948828   3237957  3823802  3674631  3900039  3934353  3839335   3809457
LIsbliftles and equity
conts payable                                         848430   184987   220789    68401    67792     69237    74025    75670    75428    75444     75715
Other current liabilities                                  8069    14705    '131119  12193     12085    12342    13196    13489    13446     13449    13497
Total current liabilities                               654499   179892   233909    80594    79877    81879     87221    89159    88874    88893    89212
Medium and long tenrm debt                              1824000  1624000  1636180  1779507   2097669  2467654  2747880  304`1779  3070792  2935205  2799018
Ttotl lIabilIltsa                                      2278499  1803692  1870089  1880101  21177548  2549234  2835100  3130938  3159666  3024098  2888830
Capitat and reserves                                    1031550  1771488  1997955  2252596  2379085   2501081  2596713  2656338  2685938  26185938  2685938
Retained eamnIngs                                        47?4044  4688392 -1030174 -1188869 -1318874 -1526512 -1757181 -1887237 -1911250 -11870700 -1765310
Total equIty                                           687508  1083094   967781   1083727  1060411   974569   839531   769101   774687   815238    920628
Total labilities and equtty                           2936005  2886787T 2837870  2943825   3237957  3523802  3674431  3900039  39U4353   3839335  3809457
SOURCES AND APPUCArFIONS OF FUNDS
Sources
Nat Income (before subsidy. megmt tees. 8ev pints. & interest)                     -278484   -237201  -187319  -106916    31169    90596
Ad Depreciation                                                                     62576     71574    84418    94886   102378   108800
Net Internal generation                                                           .213878  -185627  -102901   -12230    133547   199396
Onlending of IDA credIt                                                             117900    289300   336000   241400   280800   184600
IDC capitalization (add-back to sub-loan)                                            28427     28862    33985    38825    43099        0
Government contribution for~
-local oouniterpart financing (incl taexs & duties)                                29600    73800     73800    44200    44200    29800
-operational subsidy                                                              223819    176869   1113447   21849       .0        0
-severance payments                                                                41933     18612    11281    13477    18425        0
Total Government contribution for the project                                     298352    289281   198528    79826    59625    29600
Govt. contribution for settiement of past arreare                                   157680
Total sources                                                                     382481    421817   4856112  347521   487071   438206
Applications
Project investments (including taxes and duties)                                    128800    321100   321100   192300   192300   128800
[DC capltatzatlon                                                                    25427    28862    33985     39825    43099        0
Management fees                                                                      18700    42000     88700    93300   102700    70000
Severance peymerits                                                                  41933     18612    11281    13477    15425        0
Repayment of principal                                                                   0        0         0        0        0   135587
Changes In wo pig  apl'                                                             187621     11243    10546     9819   133547    59209
Total :pp =  gtln.                                     ____________                382451   421817   488612   347521    487071   438206  ________
-55 -



Arnnex 5, Table 4: FWSC - FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(000 Lek)
2000    2001     2002    2003    2004     2005    2006    2007     2008    2009    2010
INCOME STATEMENTS
Revenues
satar- domestic mnetered                                                         4567    38324   71933  107850   159025  182593   196955  212483
Water domestc - unmetered                               44837   75816    75816  114081   97948    71622   40902   14900     6278    4906     3413
Water -industry and lnstitutons                          8185   13840    13840   20804   21194    21418   21587   22155    21996   22011    22045
Water - bulik supply end other                                                   18062   22814    24898   25824   29239    31378   33356    35458
Sewerage - domestic                                                               2129   11458    20829   21887   23434    24430   25843    27338
Sewerege - Industry and mststullors                       852    1095     1595    1997    2125     2098    2081    2109     2154    2209     2256
Other revenues                                            365     818      618    4160    4200     4240    4280    4320     4380    4420     4460
Total billed revenues                                  54239   91389   91889   165881  198063  217038   224391  255182  273188   289700  307453
Collection rabio(%                                         32      33       34      39      49       59      69      79       83      87       90
Total collected revenues                              17356   30152    31235   64888   97051  1128051  154830M  201504  226748  252039   276708
Expenses
Eftencty                                                 4501    9970    10489   62110   62278    64170   65050   65002    62153   61261    60293
Personnel                                               24758   26284    27052   22781   20316    21332   22398   23518    24108   24709    25327
Purchased water                                         94482  112948   116336
Chemicals and matenats                                                           11187   15883    2148    22393   23152    23745   24583    25468
Management fees                                                                   5800   13000    27000   28000   30800    30800   30800    30800
Severance payments                                                               11803    5122     3178    3848    4443
Repairs & maintenance                                                             44112  14390    23500   32650   36483    38490   40545    42690
Contingenclies and oilher casth expenses                                          8000    9200    10580   13225   15209    15969   16768    17606
Total cash operetlng expen5ea                         1113719  149182  153857  125892  140188  171239   187565  1198808  195263  198880  202184
Depredation                                             11447   18759    18759   33020   48804    49456   52536   54844    56770   57542    57542
Provision for bad debt                                      0   59687    59118   98646   98487    86760   67822   52248    45281   38719    29977
Total operatIng expnenss                              125166  227628  231734   257557  284279  307455   307923  385700  297314   292927  289702
Interest end financiat charges                                                     266    1186     2611    3949    5115     5756    5799     5799
Not Income before operational subsidy                 -70927 .1362519 -139805  -9161197  -86215  -90419  -63532  .50516  -24125   -3227   17751
Operatonal subsidy                                                               43804   25015    13010     887       0        0
Nat Income after operational aubaldy                  -70927 .138259 -139865   .47893  461200   -77409  462645  -50518  -24125    .3227   17751
BALANCE SHEETS
Aata
Gross accounts receIvabl                                43980   105197  165631  267008   368018  457003  526584   580152  626594  684255   695000
Less Provisions for bad debt                                0    59687  118805  217450   315937  482697  470519   522768  568049  604768   634745
Net accounts reeitvable                                 43980   45510    47026   49556    52081   54306   56045    57384   58545   50487    60258
Inventories                                              2937     3400    3950    4500     9819   12366   14908    16354   17111    17934   18796
Other current assets                                                                               2029    5622    47281  102942   156171  230535
Total current essets                                   46917   48910   50976    54056   61900    88701   75975  121019   17859a  233992   309587
Gross fixed assets                                     925110 1074922 1074922 1443322 1540543 1638267 1697306 1758172 1789657 1789657 1789657
Less, Accumulated depreciation                         231939   250698  269457  302477   348080  397536  450072   504915  560913   616911  672909
Not fixed assets                                      693171  824224  805488 1140846 1192482 1240731 1247234 1251256 1227972 11i70430 11126888
Total aseeta                                         740068   873138  856441 11194901 125432 1309433 1323209 11372276 1486569 1404022 1422475
Uabillides and equIty
Aocounts payable                                       102452   49727   51286    18082   20344   23510    259-53  27227   27410    27978   28564
Other current liabilities                                4569    4320     4275    3567     4013    4838    5119     5371    5.407   5519     5635
Total cunrent lasbrdItls                              10702    54047   58561    21648   24357    28148   31072   32598    32817   33496    34198
Medium and tong tarnm debt                                                       35666   123651  227062  303411   383726  433126   433126  433126
Total lIabIlIides                                     107021   54047    555W1   5714   148009   255210  3344813  416325   85944  48623    487325
Capital and reserves                                   703994   955346  940745 1325345 1355312 1380590 1397738 1415481 1424281 1424261 1424281
Retained eamings                                        -70927 -136259 -13986   -187758 -248958 -326387 .409012 .459530 .483655 -486882   -469131
Total equity                                         633067   819087  800881 1137587 1106353 1054222   988726   955951  940626   937399  955150
Total Itebllftlas and equity                         748088   873134  656441 1194901 1254862 1309433 1323209 1372276 1406569 1404022 1422475
SOURCES AND APPUCATIONS OF FUNDS
Sources
Net income (before subsidy, mgnmt fees, say. pints, 6 Inteest)                  -.74028  466908  -57631   -47735  -10160   13203
Add: Depreciation                                                                33020    45604   49456   52536    54844   55998
Not Internal generadion                                                       .41009    -21304  .6175     4801   44884    69200
Onlending of IDA credIt                                                          35400    88800  160800   72400    75200   49400
IDC capitalization (add-bwac to cub4loan)                                          268     1186    2611    3949     5115       0
Government contribution for.,
locoal oounterpart financing (mnd. taxes & duties)                              8800    22100   22100   13300    13300    8800
*opemetonal subsidy                                                            43804    25015   13010     887        0       0
-severance payments                                                            11803     5122    3178    3848     4443       0
Total government contribution for proJect                                      64407    52237   38288   18035    17743    8800
Govt coDntribution for settement of past arreasr                                 34197
Total scources                                                                 93260   118919  133524   99185  1142742  127400
Apilcatlons
Project investments (inducing taxes end duties)                                  38800   96300    96300   57700    57700   38600
IDC capitltizaton                                                                  268    1186    2611     3949    5115        0
Management fees                                                                   5600    13000   27000   28090   30800    30800
Severance payments                                                               11803    5122     3178    3848    4443        0
Changes m working capital                                                        392      3311     4435    5688   44684    580
Total applications                                   ____________               93260  118919   133524   99188  142742   12740  ______
-56 -



Annex 5, Table 5: LWSC - FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(000 Lek)
2000    2001     2002     2003    2004     2005    2000     2007    2008     2009     2010
INCOME STATEMENTS
Revenues
Water - domestic metered                                                             1232   15627    35866   59860    94559   108387  116935   126474
Water domestlc-nmmetered                                  11597    10940   10940    23186   33244    29899   19760     7415     3115    2436     1703
Water - Industry and lnstitutions                         7895     7448    7448    12586   14083    13545   12439    10786    11038   11502    11904
Water -bulkasupply and other                                232      219     219     1489    1551     1634    1715     1794     1 808   1835     1864
Sewerage - domestic                                                                   399    2921     5754    6914     8512     9028    9581    10159
Sewerage- industry and Institutons                                                    735    1030     1071    1183     1343     1364    1425     1482
Total billed revenues                                    19724   18607    186807  39828    6845    87707   101871  124409   134756   143713   153587
Coldloon ra8o (%)                                           32       33      34       39      49       59      69       79       83      86       90
Total collected revenues                                 6312     6140    6327    15455   33543    51783   70291    98283   1111847  123593  138228
Expenses
Etetrcity                                                 17142    21450   22828    30960   32384    33608   34985    36324    39168   42721    48594
Personnel                                                 15872    16700   17321    14683   13345    14012   14713    15449    16221   17032    17884
Chemicals anid masterials                                  1019     1720    1933     2789    3867     3928    4009     4068     4127    4207     4264
Repaira & maintenance                                       400      440     490     1018    3119     4500    6000     6633     6765    6897     7029
Managemeont fees                                                                     1900    4200     8900    9300    10300    10300    10300   10300
Severance payments                                                                   7756    3313     2187    2738     3229
Contingencies and ofthr cash expense                                                 8000    9200    10580   12167    13992    14412    14844   15289
Total cash operating expenses                            34433   42809    42572   87187    89427   7771     83912    89995   90992    96002   1011360
Depreciation                                               8735     7415   19842    20100   21000    22284   23310    24078    24720   24978    24978
Provision for bad debt                                        0    11844   11687    22964   33186    34185   30001    24820    21763    19114   17509
Total operating expenses                                 43168   61767    7408   110171   123594  134184   137223   138893  137475   140093   143847
Interest and commitment charges                                                        89     395      870     1316    1704     1918     1918    1918
Nat Income beform operational subsIdy                   -23444   -43160  .55473   -70632  -55534   -47286  -36868   -16186    .4637    1701     7822
Operational subsidy                                                                 41996   28372    14845     1583       0
Net Income after operational subsidy                    -23444   -43160_ -55473   -288316  -27182  432442  -38086   -1 616 88  4379    2217     8338
BALANCE SHEETS
Gross soounts recelvebe                                    5016    17483   29764    53937   88849   124833   156413  182539   205448   225567  243998
Less Provisions for bad debt                                  0    11844   23510    46475   79641   113826   1438127  168647  190410   209524  227033
Not accounts recelvebe                                     5016     5639    6253     7462    9208    11007   12586    13892    15038    16044   16965
Inventories                                                 223      339     381      571    1048     1180    1301     1284     1307     1333    1355
Other current assets                                                                                                  22362    50424    77071  109996
Total current assets                                      8239    5979     6634    8033    10286    12187   13687    37538   60768    94448   128317
Gross fixed assets                                       170021   268058  558410   571399  60385    636380   658026  675014   68681    686810  686810
Less Accumultetd depredation                              340034   41419   81261    81381  102361   124845   147955  172033   196753   221731  246709
Net'fixed assets                                        138017  226637   497149  490038   501444  511735   508071   503581  490057   485079   440101
Total aesets                                           141256   232161  503783   498071  511700   523921   821956  8411119  556825   559527  568418
Uabtltttes end equity
Ac iute payable                                          6309    7789     7095    9575    10319    11105   11979    12744    13449   14284    15177
Olther cuffent lsablftiles                                 1953     2411    2415     2833    2714     2556     2363    2514     2653     2818    2994
Total current lebltities                                  6262   10200    '9510    12408   13033   113660   14342    15258    161102  17101    18170
Medium and tonig term debt                                                          11869   41184    75653   101069  127873   144373   144373  144373
Total Uiabllrtes                                          626    10200     9510   24297    84217   68314   118411   143131   160475  161474   162544
Capital and reserves                                     156438   289020  616350   668482  705725   730137   738743  746372   749372   749372  749372
Retlsned esmlngs                                         -23444   466604  -122077  -192708 -248243 -295529 -332197  -348385  -353022 -351320   -343498
Total equity                                           132994   222416  494273   473774  457483   434608   406547  397988   396351   398052  405874
Total IlabDlIets and equity                            141286   232616  803783   496071  511700   523921   521956  841`119  55625    559527  566418
SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
Sources
Net Income (before subsidy. mgmt fees. say. pints. & Intemset)                     -60887   -47828  -35330   -23314     -954    7839
Ad-Depreciation                                                                   20100   21000    22284   23310    24078    24462
Not Internal generation                                                           -40787  -26826   -13048      -4    23124    32301
Onlending of IDA credit                                                             11600   289000   3360     24100   25100    16500
IDC capitalization (add-beck to sub-loan)                                              89     395      870     1316    1704        0
Government contribution for:
- ocal counterpart finanding (cin. towms & duties)                                 3000    7400     7400     4400    4400     3000
-operational subsidy                                                              41996   28372    14845     1583       0        0
-severance payments                                                                7756    3313     2187     2736    3229        0
Total govemnment contributioin for proJect                                        52762   39085    24432     8721    7629     3000
Total sources                                                                     23883   41784    45656    34133   57887    51801
Applications
Project investrmets (indcluing taxes and duties)                                    12900   32100    32100    19200   19200    12900
IDC capitatsation                                                                      89     395      870    1316     1704        0
Management fees                                                                      1900    4200     8900     9300   10300    10300
Severance payments                                                                   7756    3313     2187     2736    3229        0
Changes in working capItal                                                           1209     1746    1799     1579   23124    28601
Total applications                                    ____________                23853    41754   45856    3.4133   575     510
-57 -



Annex 5, Table 6: SWSC - FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(000 Lek)
2000    2001    2002   2003    2004    2005    2006   2007    2008    2009   -2010
INCOME STATEMENTS
Revenues
Water - domestbc metered                                                         792   11021  26373   42650   69402   79693   85897  92766
Water domestic -unmetered                                6538   6731    6731   17702   28259  25148   16262    6392    2689    2099    1464
Water - Industry and institutions                       3494    3450    3450    5669    7507   6293    5562    6400    6589    6889   7117
Water - bulk supply and othe                             2600   3099    3099    1972    2048   2154    2256    2353    2397    2425   2478
Sewerage - domestic                                                              416    3781   6955    7475    9009    9281    955    9853
Sewerage - industry and InstItutons                                              512     683    844     806     687     687     687    901
Total billed revenues                                 12632   13280   13280  27063   53500   67768   75011  94443 101535 107749 114577
Collecti1on ratio (%)                                     32      33      34      39     49      59      69      79      83     86      90
Total collected revenues                              4042    4382    4615   10586   26215  39983   51757   74810   84274  92664 103120
Expenses
Electrcity                                              5926    8081    8081   21285   22124  23328   24512   25474   25980   26411  26844
Personnel                                               10880  17406   17406   16415   14877  15215   15976   16775   17613   16494   19419
Chemnicals and materials                                2082    1889    1689    5417    5483   5526    5615    5679    5791    5968   6125
Repairs & maintenance                                                            671   2207    3224    4415    5712    6066    6426   6804
Management fees                                                                 1900   4200    8900    9300   10300   10300   10300   10300
Severance payments                                                              5277    3875   1972    2175    2353
Contingencies and other cash expenses                                           6000   6800    7280    7988    8785    8960    9139   9322
Total cash operating expanses                         16888   27376  27376   56965   59165   65425   69979  75076   74710   76739   78814
Depreciatin                                             4700    4700    4700    4958    5656   7142    8168    8938    9578    9838   9836
Provtsion for bad debt                                     0    8452    8326   15683   25921  26395   22091   16841   16398   14331   10685
Total operating expenses                              23588   40529  40402   77606   90944   98962 100237 102854 100636 100905      99535
Interest and financial charges                                                    89     395    870    1316    1704    1918    1918   1918
Net Income before operatIonal subsidy                -10057  -27249  .27123  -50631  -37839  -32064  -26542  -10115  -1069   4926   13124
Operational subsidy                                                            39233  25075   14570    6748       0
Nat Income after operational subsidy                 -10957  -27248  -27123  -11398  -12764  .17495  -19796  -10115  .1069   4826   13124
BALANCE SHEETS
Assets
Gross accounts receivable                               5157   14054   22619   39327   66612  94397 117650 137483 154744     169829 181287
Less Provisionfor bad debit                                     8452   16779   32462   58382  84778 106869   125710 142108   155438  167323
Net accounts receivable                                 5157    5602    6040    6866    8230   9619   10782   111773  12636   13391   13963
Inventores                                               550    1446    1446    3044    3845   4375    5015    5695    5928    6197    6465
Other currfent assets                                                                                         12079   27727   4`1649  64360
Total cufrent assets                                   5707    7048    7488   9910   12074   13994   15797   29548  48292   61436   84788
Gross fixed assets                                     198306 198306 198306 211295 243701 276276 295922 315-510 326708 326706 326708
Less, Accumulated depreciatin                          39661   44361   49061   54019   59877  67019   75187   64123   93701  103537  113373
Net fixed assets                                     158645 153945 149245 157276 183824 209257 220735 231367 233005 223169 213333
Total assets                                         184352 160993 156731 167165 195898 223251 236531 260935 279297 28460          298121
LIabliftIes and equity
Acowunts payable                                        10528  11370   12280    9494    93861  10904  11663   12513   12452   12790   13136
Other currenlt ratNlltls                                6451     630     604    1257    1305    1443   1544    1658    1648    1693    1739
Total current labllfties                             118979  112000  112864  10751   11166  112348   13207   14169   14100  14483   14875
Medium and long term debt                                                      11889   41164  75653 101069 127873    144373  144373  144373
Total liabIlIlIes                                     18979   12000   12884  22639   52350   88001 114276 142042 158473 15885      159248
Capital and reserves                                   158330 187199 209176 260506 _297348    32113 334661 341414 344414 344414 344414
Retained eamings                                       -10957  -38206  465329 -115960 -153799 -185863 -212406 -222521 -223590 -218664 -205540
Totai equity                                         145373  148993 143847 1445-46 143549 135250 122255 116893     120824  125749  136874
Total lIabilitIes and equttY                        164352  160993 150731 167185 195898 223251 236531 260935 279297 284805         298121
SOURCES AND APPUCATIONS CF FUNDS
Sources
Net Income (before subsIdy. mgmt fees., sev. pints, & Interest)              -43878   -30631  -21930  -15594   2208    9307
Add Depredation                                                                 5270    6920   8750   10010   10970   11420
Not Intemnal generation                                                      -38408  -23711  -13188  -5584   13178  20727
Onlending of IDA credit                                                        11800   28900  33600   241100  25100   16500
IDC capkItIzatIon (add-beck to sub4loan)                                          89     395    870    13116   1704       0
Government contrIbution for
l ocal counterpart financing (Ind. taxes & duties)                            3000    7400   7400    4400    4400    3000
-operatinal subsidy                                                          39233   25075  14570    6746       0       0
-severance payments                                                           5277    3675   1972    2175    2353       0
Total government contribution                                                47510   36150  23942   13321    6753    3000
Govt corntrbution for settiement of past arreara                                3731
Total sources                                                                24722   41734  45231   331153  46735   40227
Aplcations
Project investments (Inucludng taxes and duties)                               12900   32100  32100   19200   19200   12900
IDC capitalIzaton                                                                89     395     870    1316    1704      0
Management fees                                                                 1900   4200    8900    9300   10300   10300
Severance payments                                                              5277    3675   1972    2175    2353       0
Changes In workinig capital                                                     4556    1364   1389    1163   13178   17027
Total applIcations                                 I__________               24722   41734   45231   33153   46735  40227 ___.1__
-58 -



Annex 5, Table 7: VOLUME/PHYSICAL ASSUMPTIONS IN FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Durres             Fler            Lezha           Saranda
Item                        Unit        2001     2007    2001     2007    2001     2007    2001    2007
Population (growth at 1% p a)                   No.      2665512   281846   91102   96707    34066    36162   42723   45351
Average household size                          No.          4.51    4 51     4 39    4 39    4 64     4 64    4 41     4.41
No of households                                No         59186    62287   20776   22054     7365     7741    9750   10350
Total number of connections - domestic          No         37488    61664                     3039     7655    2337    9136
Percentage of metered connections                %            20       90       0       88       0       86       0      90
Total billed connections                        No.        38621    63098   18000    21707    3361     8060    2562   10431
Percentage of billed connections                 %            63       99      87       99      44       99      24      99
Non-domestic conneWions                         No.          1132    1434     543      687     322      406     226     281
Per capita consumption - metered               lpcd           60      140      na      140      na      152      na     140
Per capita consumption - unmetered             Ipcd           120     140     140      140     154      154     120     140
Water sales - metered                         000 m3         749    12782       0     4394       0     1767       0    2064
Water sales - pnvate and Inshtutions          000 m3          658     645     328      297     134      127      83       78
Water sales - bulk                            000 m3         900        0     679      930       0        0       0        0
Share of illegal consumption                     %             14       1        5       1
Share of technical and administrative losses     %            59       40      54       40      61       23      63       20
Share of non-revenue water                       %            73       41      59       41      61       23      63      20
Water production                                 %         30367    25887     302    10876    2400     2800    1450    3068
Water purchase                                000 m3                        12080        0       0        0       0        0
Sewerage - population in service area (Durres)  No.       168700   179085   84840    89168   13237    13912   14914   15519
Service coverage                                 %            60       60      70       70      44       44      35       35
Sewerage connections                            No         23706    25164   13652    14349    2995     3148            3519
Percentage billed                                %             0       99       0       99       0       99       0      99
Sewage volume as % of water supply               %            60       80      80       80      80       80      80      80
Sewage volume per connection                  m3lyear         105     184     179      185      na      205      na     181
Billed sewage volume                          000 m3         645     5060     262     2870       0      741      na     692
No of managers                                  No             15       9        8       5       3        2       2        2
No of employees                                 No.          387      239     156       96      91       56      94      62
No of employees per 000 connections             No.          10.4     3 9      8.8     4 5     28 0      7.2   37.5      6 1
Electriity consumption per m3                 kWh/m3         1.45    1.26     0.16    085      1 92     1.75   1.24     1 13
Electncity pnce                               lak/kWh         4.5     72       4.5     7.2      4.5      7.2    4 5      7 2
Chemicals consumption                          lek/m3        0 96    1.0i      na     0 46     0 31     0.34     na     0 92
Repairs & maintenance (as % of MEA)                           12      3.0      0 5     3.0      0 5      3 0    0 5      3 0
-59 -



Annex 5, Table 8: FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN ESTIMATES
2003       2004        2005       2006        2007 2008-2023
With project case
Billings                                                     576923     767347      888136    1023188     1236709
Collection ratio (%)                                             39         49          59         69          79
Collected revenues                                           225000   376000 03     524000     706000      977000
Electricity expense                                          303034     313002      322319     340899      364953
Personnel expense                                            136493     127719      131731     136107      141101
Severance payments expense                                    66769      30722       18618      22238       25450
Total personnel expense                                      203262      158441     150349     158345      166551
Without project case
Billings                                                     576923     767347      888136    1023188     1236709
Collection ratio (%)                                             35         38          41         45          50
Collected revenues                                           201923     291592      364136     460435      618355
Electncity expense                                           303034     325616      348491     382727      425097
Personnel expense                                            163318      168218     173264     178462      183816
Severance payments expense                                        0          0           0          0           0
Total personnel expense                                      163318      168218     173264     178462      183816
BASE CASE
Project expenditures                                         -528000    -755000    -629000     -494000    -461000
Incremental collected revenues                                23077      84408      159864     245565      358646     358646
Incremental electncity expense savings                            0       12614      26172      41828       60144      60144
Incremental personnel expense savings                        -39944       9777       22915      20117       17265      42715
Net Incremental benefits                                   -544867  -648201.29 -420048.454 -186489 892    -24946     461504
FRR =                                                          15%
NPV =                                                   Letk 752.5 million
COLLECTION RATE 10% LOWER
Project expenditures                                         -528000    -755000    -629000     -494000    -461000
Incremental collected revenues                                    0       7673       71051     143246      234975     234975
Incremental electricity expense savings                           0       12614      26172      41828       60144      60144
Incremental personnelexpense savings                         -39944       9777       22915      20117       17265      42715
Net incremental benefits                                   -567944  -724935 99 -508862 054 -288808 692 -148616 442   337834
FRR =                                                            9%
NPV =                                                   (Lek 146.1 million)
ELECTRICITY SAVINGS NOT REALIZED
Project expenditures                                        -528000    -755000     429000      -494000    -461000
Incremental collected revenues                                23077       84408     159864     245565      358646     358646
Incremental electricity expense savings                           0           0          0           0          0          0
Incremental personnel expense savings                        -39944       9777       22915      20117       17265      42715
Net Incremental benefits                                   -544867    -660815     -446220    -228318      -85090     401360
FRR =                                                           13%
NPV =                                                   Lek 364.3 million
PERSONNEL EXPENSE SAVINGS NOT REALIZED
Project expenditures                                         -528000    -755000    -629000    -494000     -461000
Incremental collected revenues                                23077      84408      159864     245565      358646     358646
Incremental electricity expense savings                           0       12614      26172      41828       60144      60144
Incremental personnel expense savings                             0           0          0          0           0          0
Net incremental benefits                                   -504923    -657978     -442964    -206607      -42210     418790
FRR =                                                           14%
NPV =                                                   Lek 531.5 million
-60-



Annex 5, Table 9: AFFORDABILITY IMPACTS
2003        2004       2005        2006        2007
Durres
monthly bill at 150 Ipcd                       726         835        928        1010        1123
monthly bill at 100 Ipcd                       484         557        619         674         749
average household affordability limit         1000        1020        1040       1061        1082
monthly bill at 40 Ipcd                        194         223        247         269         300
poor household affordability lim it            300         300        300         300         300
Fier
monthly bill at 150 Ipcd                       644         747        755         755         765
monthly bill at 100 lpcd                       429         498        503         503         510
average household affordability limit          900         918        936         955         974
monthly bill at 40 lpcd                        172         199        201         201         204
poor household affordability limit             300         300        300         300         300
Lezha
monthly bill at 150 Ipcd                       580         813        872         953        1089
monthly bill at 100 lpcd                       387         542        582         635         726
average household affordability limit         1000        1020        1040       1061        1082
monthly bill at 40 lpcd                        155         217         233        254         290
poor household affordability limit             300         300         300        300         300
Saranda
monthly bill at 150 lpcd                       502         648        658         669         770
monthly bill at 100 lpcd                       335         432        439         446         513
average household affordability limit          900         918        936         955         974
monthly bill at 40 lpcd                        134         173         176        178         205
poor household affordability lim it
-61-



Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
ALBANIA: Municipal Water and Wastewater Project
Procurement
The components of the proposed project, their estimated cost and procurement methods are summarized
in Table A of this annex. The procurement methods and prior review thresholds are presented in Table B
of this annex. Table B 1 summarizes the capacity of the CMU in procurement at the time of preparation of
this PAD and the proposed arrangements for procurement and monitoring. Table B2 presents a
procurement plan detailing the packaging and estimated schedule of the major procurement actions.
The project will be financed from the proceeds of the proposed US$15.00 million equivalent credit and
the local expenditure contributions from the Government. The total cost of the project would be
US$21.93 million. A general procurement notice has been published on the Development Business of the
UN on October 31, 2001.
The Operator, as part of the Services to be provided under the management contract, shall have the
responsibility to carry out, on behalf of the Borrower, the procurement activities and contract signature,
of all goods, works and services financed under the Investment Fund (IF), in accordance with the World
Bank Guidelines: Procurement under the IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (issued in January 1995, revised
January and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999). Consulting Services, technical assistance
and training would be procured in accordance with the Guidelines - Selection and Employment of
consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997, revised September 1997, January 1999 and May
2002. The Bank's Standard Bidding Documents, Request for Proposals and Forms of Consultants'
Contract will be used. In order to ensure adequate procurement capacity, the Operator will be required in
the Staff Appendix of the Management Contract to provide international staff with adequate procurement
qualifications.
The establishment of the CMU was initiated on May 25, 2001 by all the participating Municipalities of
Durres, Fier, Lezhe and Saranda and the Ministry of Public Works and Tourism and the Ministry of
Public Economy and Privatization. The responsibilities of the CMU will be: (i) the overall coordination
of the project; and (ii) the supervision of the Operator's performance. The director of the CMU directly
reports to the Executive Committee. The CMU will be assisted by international technical and financial
auditors. The CMU has been working for the on going Bank financing project (Water Supply Urgent
Rehabilitation Project), therefore, the CMU is familiar with the Bank procurement procedures. The CMU
has one full time Procurement and Contract Coordination Officer (PCO) under the supervision of CMU
Director who is also quite familiar with the Bank procurement procedures. Although all procurement
activities for goods and works financed under the IF will be the responsibility of the Operator, the CMU
will be responsible for procuring the technical assistance component (US$2.40 million) including the
selection of the international technical and financial auditors.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Component 1 - Investment Fund
As described in Annex 2, the specific works, goods, and services to be financed during each year of
project implementation through the Investment Fund (IF) will be determined by the operator working
jointly with the four water utilities. An annual procurement plan will be prepared for review by the
Government and the Bank. This plan will include a description of the proposed investments,
estimated costs and expenses, implementation plan, procurement schedule, priority analysis, and any
- 62 -



environmental, social or financial issues of relevance. The procurement plan will be based on the
hands-on knowledge gained by the operator during the implementation of the management contract.
The activities to be financed by the IF will be designed to achieve the operational improvement
targets that will translate into service improvements to the population and that will serve as a basis to
determine the incentive fee to the operator. As the specific works, goods, and services to be financed
by the IF will be determined only during implementation, it is impossible to determine ex-ante the
specific procurement activities. Therefore, aggregate ceiling amounts for each procurement method
are not predetermined under the project, but types of procurement to be used under the project are
specifically described below.
The Bank Procurement Assessment indicates that the Operator and the CMU will operate in a
high-risk environment. It is recommended that for the proposed project the following thresholds for
each contract be used:
Procurement of Works. Civil works contracts estimated to cost more than US$500,000 will be
financed under ICB. Civil works contracts estimated to cost less than US$500,000 may be
procured using National Competitive Bidding procedures (NCB). Given the state of repair of the
water supply distribution system, it is expected that a limited number of emergencies may occur
each year that can not be handled with the water utilities' equipment. Minor works contracts for
urgent repair works associated with unexpected operational emergencies estimated to cost each
less than US$100,000 may be procured using three quotations. The provision for Minor Works
contracts is designed to facilitate the response of the Operator to these emergencies so as to be
able to restore services to the population.
Procurement of Goods. Contracts for the supply of goods valued at more than US$100,000
will be procured under ICB. Intemational Shopping (IS) may be used for goods valued at
US$100,000 or less per contract. National Shopping (NS) may be used for goods valued at
US$50,000 or less per contract. The provision for Shopping is designed to allow the Operator to
purchase equipment for rapid response to emergency breakdowns in the system and other
activities that require rapid response. The Operator will have annual procurement plans for
strategic purchase of much needed equipment in a continuous program.
Procurement of Consulting Services. Recruitment of consulting firms to assist in construction
supervision, feasibility evaluations and other consulting services estimated to cost more than
US$100,000 will be carried out normally under the Quality and Cost-Based Selection method
(QCBS) in accordance with the Bank Guidelines. Services for surveys and studies related to
public awareness, community relations, or similar activities may be procured based on
qualifications of consultants (CQ) for estimated contract value of less than US$100,000. The
short list may comprise entirely national consultants if the estimated cost of the assignment is
below US$100,000.
Component 2 - Management Contract
The selection of the intemational utility operator has been carried out under ICB with
prequalification. Completion of contract negotiations and initialing of the management contract will
be carried out soon. This component will be initially financed under the on-going Water Supply
Urgent Rehabilitation Project until this credit becomes effective. The amendment to the DCA of the
on-going project will become effective before the management contract is signed. A budget of
SDR365,000 is allocated to the management contract in the amendment, which is equivalent of
about 6 months payment to the operator.
-63 -



Component 3 - Technical Assistance
Technical assistance program includes: Individual Consultants for assistance to the CMU staff will
be selected based on qualifications in accordance with the Guidelines of the Bank (Section V-IC). It
also includes auditing of the management contract (LCS); the capacity building program; and the
preparation of GoA sector and institutional reform etc. The details of the program would be
gradually defined in accordance with the progress made in the project implementation.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
- -~ -  :                         Procurement_Method .
-Expenditure-Category  -      ICB        NCB      Other     N.B.F.  Total Cost
1. Investment Fund                          13.76                0.00      13.76
(7.66)              (0.00)     (7.66)
2. Management Contract             4.40       0.00      0.00     0.00       4.40
(3.96)     (0.00)   (0.00)    (0.00)     (3.96)
3. Technical Assistance            0.00       0.00     2.87      0.00       2.87
(0.00)     (0.00)   (2.58)    (0.00)     (2.58)
4. Incremental Operating Costs     0.00       0.00      0.40     0.00       0.40
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.30)    (0.00)     (0.30)
5. PPF                             0.00       0.00      0.50     0.00       0.50
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.50)    (0.00)     (0.50)
Total                           4.40       13.76     3.77      0.00      21.93
(3.96)     (7.66)   (3.38)    (0.00)    (15.00)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
DJ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related
to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to the utilities and local government units.
All contracts awarded through ICB will be subject to prior review by the Bank. For works, the first
two NCB and the first three minor works packages will be subject to prior review. For goods, the
first two IS packages will be subject to prior review. With respect to services, prior Bank review will
be required of all terms of reference, irrespective of the contract value. The management contract
operator has been selected through a prequalification and bidding process with prior review by the
Bank. For each contract with a consulting firn estimated to cost US$100,000 or more, the technical
evaluation report will be submitted to the Bank for its review prior to the opening of the priced
proposals. For contracts with individual consultants costing US$50,000 or more the qualifications,
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment shall be fumished to the Bank for review
prior to contract signature. All other contracts will be subject to ex-post review by the Bank.
-64-



Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
OTHER
CATEGORY          ICB                NCB                IS                 NS                METHODS
Civil Works
Procurement      >$500,000          <$500,000         N/A                N/A                <$100,000
Thresholds
Prior Review     All contracts      First two         N/A                N/A                First three
Goods
Procurement      >$100,000          N/A               <$100,000          <$50,000           N/A
Thresholds
Prior Review     All contracts      N/A               First two          First two          N/A
Management         1 contract of
Contract           US$3.4 m -
base fee and
up to US$1.5 m
incentive fee
Prior Review     Prequalification   N/A               N/A                N/A                N/A
and bidding
Consultants        QCBS              CQ                 Individuals       LCS
Prior Review     >$100,000          TOR               >$50,000           >$100,000
lotherwise TOR    I      _lotherwise TOR                otherwise TOR     I
Ex-post Review will be conducted on one in five contracts during supervision mission.
Table BI: Capacity of the Project Coordination Unit in Procurement
A Capacity Assessment of the Borrower was carned out in June 2001, and the following action plan has been prepared taking
nto account the experience gained in simular projects financed by the Bank. During project implementation, the Operator will
3rocure, on behalf of all four water utilities and with their involvement, goods, works and services in accordance with Bank's
Procurement Guidelines. No procurement activity of goods, works or services financed by the Investment Fund component will
take place before the Operator is mobilized.
rhe establishment of the CMU was initiated on May 25, 2001 by all the participating Municipalities of Durres, Fier, Lezhe and
Saranda and the Ministry of Territonal Adjustment and Tourism and the Ministry of Public Economy and Pnvatization. The
responsibilities of the CMU will be (i) the overall coordination of the project; and (ii) the supervision of the Operator's
performance. The CMU will be assisted by international technical and financial auditors. The CMU has been working for the on
oing Bank financing project (Water Supply Urgent Rehabilitation Project), therefore, CMU is familiar with the Bank
rocurement procedures. CMU has one full time Procurement and Contract Coordination Officer (PCO) under the supervision of
CMU Director who is also familiar with the Bank procurement procedures. All procurement activities for goods and works under
he IF will be carried out by the Operator. The CMU will be responsible for procuring the technical assistance component
US$2.40 million) including the selection of the international technical and financial auditors, etc. The major investment
components have been procured and no major procurement activities are anticipated under the Urgent Rehabilitation project. The
'MU will soon have one additional staff. In view of above it is expected that the CMU would be able to carry out the additional
urocuement tasks under this project without any difficulty.
e overall nsk assessment is rated as "high risk" although the CMU has been working in the ongoing Urgent rehabilitation
Project, taking into account the overall nsky environment for procurement in the country. Therefore, the pnor review thresholds
were conservatively established as indicated in Table B.
- 65 -



rbe Operator will prepare and submit to the Executive Committee an annual procurement plan (indicating specific procuremen
methods in a format acceptable to the Bank) to procure goods, works and services. The Bank will also closely review this annual
procurement plan. Once this procurement plan is approved, the Operator will implement it and will sign the contracts on behal
)f the client. The Operator will use funds from the Investment Funds (IF) only for those activities listed in the IF Appendix of the
ervice contract. The Operator's independence and incentives to improve performance will reduce the risks of undue pressure to
eviate from the Bank's Procurement Guidelines. Specific provisions to avoid potential conflict of interest situations has bee
ncorporated in the service contract with the Operator. Bank's support and supervision during implementation will be key to
educe these risks. The successful operator was identified and Notification of Award was issued. The contract will be signed
oon. The proposed procurement staff of the successful operator has 20 years expenence in management of the privatized firms.
However, his Bank procurement experience seems to be not so strong. The Bank will review at the beginning of the projec
mplementation the capacity of the Operator's management team to conduct procurement in accordance with Bank guidelines an
provide adequate trainig.
Country Procurement Assessment Report status:       Are the bidding documentsfor the procurement actionsfor
thefirstyear ready by negotiations:
A Country Procurement Assessment Report has been    Procurement actions related to the Investment Fund will be the
conducted for Albania in June 2001.                 responsibility of the Operator and will only be initiated after
mobilization. However, draft bidding documents for works
contract amounting of USDI.7 million have already been
prepared by the PIU under the on-going project..
TRAINING INFORMATION AND DEVELOPMENT ON PROCUREMENT
Estimated Date of    Date of publication of  Indicate if there is  Domestic Preference  Domestic Preference
Project Launch       General Procurement  procurement subject to for Goods:         for Works, if
Workshop:            Notice:              mandatory SPN in                          applicable:
Development Business: Yes
04/03                October 31, 2001     Yes                                       No
Retroactive Financing: No  Project Preparation Facility: No              Advance Procurement: Yes -
Management Services Contract
Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System:
The Opeator, under the obligations of the Management Contract, will have the responsibility, on behalf and with full
nvolvement of four participating water utilities and members of the CMU, for all procurement activities and contract signatures,
d for installation and management of the procurement monitoring system under the investment fund. The CMU that reports to
he Executive Committee, will have a supervisory role and will be supported by technical and financial auditors that will monitor
he Operator's performance in its obligations under the Management Contract. All project documentation which requires pnor
eview will be cleared by a PAS and the relevant technical staff. Procurement information will be collected and recorded by the
)perator, transmitted to the CMU that will submit to the Bank in the quarterly progress reports. Thls information would include:
a) revised cost estimates for individual contracts; and (b) revised timing of procurement actions including advertising , bidding,
ntract award and completion time for individual contracts.
Cofinancing: Explain briefly the Procurement arrangements under co-financing:
/A
SECTION 4: PROCUREMENT STAFFING
'ndicate name of Procurement Staff or Bank's staffpart of Task Team responsiblefor the procurement in the Project:
aine: Takao Ikegami (PAS), Sr. Sanitary Engineer, (202) 473-2334; tikegami@worldbank.org
Fxplain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in Procurement:
No procurement service support is currently envisioned from the Resident Mission.
-66 -



Table 52: Procurement Plan
EstiMated
Nunber of Esmtd        Prcurement InvMttion     Contract   Contract       Contract
Component                Type       Conracts  Cost USSMM Methods        to Did     Award       Effectiveness  Compleion
A. Investment Fund
Investnent Fund
acbvities with Bank
finandng and
corresponding loOL       CW/Goods                                       To be procred under different schedules between
counterpart funds        /Servioss  Mlbe      Total 13.77  ICB/NCB/Other Aprl 03 and Jan 08 based onyearly prourement plan
Annual Procuremrent      CW/Goods                                       Procurement plan for te remarnrng 9 mnonths
Plan Year 1 for          /Senvices  Multie                ICB3NCB/Other (4/03-12103) of Year 1 of MC subditted for rewew to the
Bank-financed portion                                                   Bank withn 3 months of Operator mobilizabon
Annual PnjwrJert                                                        Annual prourement plan submitted by the Operator and
Plan Year 2 for          CW/Goods                                       and Executve Committee (EC) to the Bank fbr review
Bank-financed porbon     Iservices  Muiple                ICBINCB/Other by end of Year 1 of MC for implementation during Year 2
Annual Prcurement                                                       Annual pmruement plan submitted by the Operator
Plan Year 3 for Bank-    CW/Goods                                       and EC to the Bank for review by end of Year 2 of MC
financed porbon          /services  Mldbple               ICDNCB1Other for Implementabon dunng Year 3.
Annua Prcrewnent                                                        Anmual procuwmrt plan submitted by the Opeor
Plan Year 4 for Bank-    CW/Goods                                       and EC to the Bank for rewew by end of Year 3 of MC
financed porbon          /Services  MF  pipe              ICBI/NCFOther for Implementation dunng Year 4
Annual Prosrement                                                       Annual proowement plan submitted by the the Operator
Plan Year 5 for Bank-    CW/Goods                                       and EC to the Bank for review by end of Year 4 of MC
financed porbon          /Servces   Muiple                ICBNCB/Other for implementabon during Year 5
B. Marngement Contract              1 contract Total 49   ICB                Feb-02     Jun-02         Jan-03        Jun-08
C. Technical Assistuce   Samices    Multple   Total Z4    OCDSSA   IC/ To be procured on an as-needed basis for MC
Other         management and sector reform
D. Incremental Operatng  Inrementai
Coat                     Operating
Costs      Muiple    Total 0.8   Other
IF= Investment Fund
CWCvil Works; SCManagen       Contract
ICB=lntemabonal Conmpetve Bidding IS=1nternational Shopirng, NS=Nabonal Shopplng, NBF=Not Bank-financed
QCBS=Qality and Cost-Based Seledbon; 00Consultent Ouabfications; IC=lndvivduarl Consultarts
QBSOuality Based Selection
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment "High"
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 67 -



Annex 6(B) Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
ALBANIA: Municipal Water and Wastewater Project
Financial Management
1. Summary of the Financial Management Assessment
Country Issues: The latest Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) from May 2002
confirms that improvement is required in the management of public expenditures, including cash
management in Treasury and better internal control throughout the public sector. Absence of a solid legal
basis for internal audit further hampers the solidness of the internal control. Thus, CMU has developed
policies and procedures that operate in addition to those of the current public expenditure management
framework to minimize project financial management risks.
Strengths and Weaknesses: The significant strengths that provide a basis of reliance on the project
financial management system include: (i) the experience of CMU and its accountant of implementing
Bank-financed projects and satisfying Bank financial management requirements; and (ii) the unqualified
audit reports and positive management letters issued by CMU's project auditors.
There are no significant weaknesses of the project financial management system.
Implementing Entity: The Water PIU (now called the CMU) was established in 1994. The PIU was
created specifically to implement Bank-financed projects and has already established a successful track
record in its implementation of these projects. In addition to this new MWWP, it is implementing the
IDA financed Water Supply Urgent Rehabilitation Project and the GEF financed Integrated Water &
Ecosystem Management Project. Before these projects the PIU implemented the IDA funded Durres
Water Supply Project. The Water PIU reports to the Ministry of Finance and to the Ministry of
Territorial Adjustment and Tourism.
All financial management activities will be carried out by the CMU. For component 3 this is stated
directly in the Credit Development Agreement and for component 1 and 2 the CMU will handle the
financial management on behalf of the four WWCs as indicated in the Project Agreements. One of the
roles of the Private Operator will be the procurement for the investment fund (part A), but the CMU will
make the payments to the suppliers and account for these payments. The CMU will include these
transactions in the reporting comparing actual expenditures with the budgets in its quarterly reporting.
For the four WWCs the development of proper financial reporting is part of the project activities and
information on the performance of the project will be directly linked to this financial reporting. The
project agreements consequently include a financial covenant of acceptable financial management of the
WWCs and of furnishing audited financial statements to the Bank.
Funds Flow: Project funds will flow from: (i) the Bank, either via a single Special Account which will
be replenished on the basis of SOEs or by direct payment on the basis of direct payment withdrawal
applications; or (ii) the Government, via the Treasury at the Ministry of Finance (MOF) on the basis of
payment requests approved by the Treasury Department of the MOF directly to the local supplier for
VAT and other taxes.
Staffing: CMU staffing includes one accountant with considerable experience of implementing
Bank-financed projects. Terms of Reference for the CMU with detailed descriptions of duties and
staffing has been finalized. The CMU has demonstrated that it is fully capable of fulfilling the accounting
-68 -



and reporting needs of the projects it has been implementing earlier.
Accounting Policies and Procedures: The accounting books and records are maintained on a cash basis
and project financial statements are presented in United States dollars and the local currency Lek. CMU
has instituted a set of appropriate accounting procedures and internal controls including authorization and
segregation of duties as far as possible. The risk relating to the lacking segregation of accounting duties
and handling of cash and bank transactions, because there is only one accountant, has been mitigated
through increased control involvement in these areas by the Director.
The policies and procedures are further elaborated in the Financial Management Manual and in section
4.13 of the Financial Management Assessment (FMA). See Annex C of the FMA for a flow of funds
diagram which also contains a brief description of CMU's accounting procedures and internal controls.
Reporting and Monitoring: CMU produces all financial reports and SOEs for the Bank with the project
accounting software, Alpha. CMU has demonstrated in its previous projects that it is able to report
satisfactorily on project expenditures with this system.
Project management-oriented Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) will be used for project monitoring
and supervision and the indicative formats of these are included in the CMU Financial Management
Manual, see below. CMU will produce a full set of FMRs every three months throughout the life of the
project. Draft formats of these FMRs were agreed upon after negotiations and prior to Board
presentation.
The four WWCs will produce half-yearly financial reports to assess the operations and to determine
revisions in the subsidy from Govermment of Albania. Further, the WWCs will produce annual accounts
that will be audited by an auditor acceptable to the Bank. The four WWCs will include in their accounts
the investments made on their behalf through the credit.
Information Systems: The accounting system for the MWWP has been fully computerized, adopting a
locally developed software that is able to produce the reports required by the Bank (FMRs). The system
has been tailored to the project documents with the assistance of a consulting firm.
The consultants assisted the accounting office in establishing the financial management system. In their
assignment, the consultants also assisted in the preparation of a comprehensive Financial Management
Manual for the project. The Manual set out the financial management and internal controls policies and
procedures and is intended to guide staff and minimize the risk of errors and omissions, as well as delays
in transactions, recording and reporting. These written standards also clarify responsibilities, including
level of authority, clear control over assets, cash and bank accounts and timely and accurate financial
reporting. In addition to the Financial Management Manual, the CMU will have to follow the procedures
set out in the Project Implementation Manual. The accounting for the project is cash basis.
Disbursement Arrangements: Bank funds will be disbursed under the Bank's traditional procedures
including SOEs and direct payments. Supporting documentation for SOEs, including completion reports
and certificates, will be retained by the Borrower and made available to the Bank during project
supervision.  Disbursements for expenditures above the SOE thresholds will be made against
presentation of full documentation relating to those expenditures. There is no plan to move to periodic
disbursements.
As soon as the project becomes effective the CMU will open and manage a Special Account specifically
for this project, in the Bank of Albania to which the IDA funds will be transferred. Since the Bank of
- 69 -



Albania does not execute commercial transactions with third parties, the CMU will transfer the funds
from the Special Account to a second-level account opened by the project in a commercial bank
acceptable to the Bank from which it pays eligible expenses related to the project. Counterpart funds are
transferred, in Lek, to a specific bank account. Withdrawal applications for the replenishments of the SA
will be sent to the Bank at least every three months, or when the balance of the SA is equal to about half
of the initial deposit or the authorized allocation, whichever comes first.
Action Plan: As noted earlier, the financial management arrangements of the project are adequate.
Supervision Plan: During project implementation, the Bank will supervise the project's financial
management arrangements in three main ways: (i) review the project's quarterly financial management
reports as well as the project's and the four WWCs' annual audited financial statements and auditor's
management letter; (ii) during the Bank's supervision missions, review the project's financial
management and disbursement arrangements (including a review of a sample of SOEs and movements on
the Special Account) to ensure compliance with the Bank's minimum requirements; and (iii) review the
progress made in the improvement of the four WWCs' financial management. As required, a
Bank-accredited Financial Management Specialist will assist in the supervision process.
2. Audit Arrangements
Internal Audit: CMU has no intemal audit function and none is considered necessary given the size of
the organization.
External Audit: No significant issues have arisen in the audits of previous Bank-financed projects
implemented by CMU.
CMU's previous and current auditing arrangements and findings are satisfactory to the Bank and it has
thus been agreed that similar audit arrangements will be adopted for the MWWP, to include the
MWWP's project financial statements, SOEs and Special Account. The auditor will be appointed by the
Ministry of Finance as part of an overall agreement for the audit of the non-revenue earning
IDA-financed portfolio in Albania. Specific terms of reference are used for the projects covered by this
agreement. Despite the MOF's arrangements, the CMU is responsible for delivering to the Bank, within
six months of the closing of each fiscal year, the audited financial statements.
The annual cost of the audits will be covered by the Government of Albania.
For the Water and Wastewater Companies the cost of the audits will be covered by the project during the
project period. The audit terms of reference will be included in the Project Implementation Plan.
- 70 -



The following chart identifies the audit reports that will be required to be submitted by the project
implementation agency together with the due date for submission.
Audit Report                               Due Date
Water and Wastewater Companies of Durres, Within six months of the end of each fiscal
Lezhe, Fier, and Saranda                 year and also at the closing of the project
Project                                  Within six months of the end of each fiscal year
land also at the closing of the project
SOE                                     Within six months of the end of each fiscal year
and also at the closing of the project
Special Account      .Within six months of the end of each fiscal year
and also at the closing of the project
In addition the country's supreme audit institution, performs ad hoc external audits of the CMU and the
WWCs.
3. Disbursement Arrangements
The proposed credit would be disbursed against project components as shown in Table C. The proposed
credit would be disbursed over a period of six years, and the project would be completed by December
31, 2008.
-71 -



Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
-" Expenture atogory           .Amount in US$million  .      FinancingfPercentage.
Management Contract Services               3.96                         90
INVESTMENT FUND
Works                                      2.72                        85%
Goods                                      3.76          100% of foreign expenditures and 100%
of local expenditures (ex. factory
cost) and 50% of local expenditures for
other items procured locally
Consultants' Services                      0.80                        90%
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Consultants' Services                      0.97                        90%
Works                                      0.16                        85%
Goods                                      0.38         100% of foreign expenditures and 100%
of local expenditures (ex. factory cost)
and 50% of local expenditures for other
items procured locally
Incremental Operating Costs                0.30                        75%
PPF                                        0.50                         100
Unallocated                                1.45
Total Project Costs                       15.00
Total                                     15.00
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Project funds will be initially disbursed under the Bank's established procedures, including SOEs.
Disbursements made on the basis of SOEs will be as follows for each expenditure category: (a) goods
under contracts costing less than US$100,000 each; (b) works under contracts costing less than US$
500,000 each; (c) services under contracts less than US$100,000 each for consulting firms, and less than
US$50,000 each for individual consultants; and (d) recurrent costs, under such terms and conditions as
the Bank shall specify. Supporting documentation for SOEs will be retained by the Borrower, be made
available to the Bank during project supervision, and be audited annually by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank. Disbursements for expenditures above these thresholds will be made against
presentation of full documentation relating to those expenditures.
The Operator, as part of the services to be provided under the management contract, will consolidate
project infornation for all components and prepare quarterly PMRs including financial report, project
progress report and procurement management report, for project monitoring and reporting for submission
to the Bank through the CMU. The reporting system would support the application of the PMR-based
disbursements, to be made at the mutual agreement of the Government and the Bank.
Special account:
To facilitate disbursements against eligible expenditures, a Special Accounts (SA) will be established in
-72-



the National Banks to be maintained and operated by the PIU under terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank.
The IDA would, upon request, make authorized allocations of US$0.5 million into the SAs. Applications
for the replenishment of the SA would be submitted on a monthly basis, or when about 20 percent of the
initial deposit has been used, whichever comes first. The replenishment applications will be supported
by the necessary documentation, in accordance with Bank guidelines, including the SA bank statements
and a reconciliation of the bank statements to the project's accounting records. The PIU, with the support
of the Operator, will be responsible for the appropriate accounting of project funds provided under the
Credit, for reporting on the use of these funds, and for ensuring that audits of the financial statements are
submitted to the Bank. Accounting for Special Account transactions and for all other project-related
accounts will be maintained in accordance with the World Bank Financial Accounting Reporting and
Auditing Handbook, January 1995. The SA would be audited annually by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank.
- 73 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
ALBANIA: Municipal Water and Wastewater Project
Project Schedule                        - -    - Planned-    77   P    ~     Actua- -
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identiflcation)            09/01/1996
iAppraisal mission departure                   09/23/2002                  09/23/2002
Negotiations                                   11/11/2002                  11/06/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  06/12/2003
Prepared by:
Project Implementation Unit under the Ministry of Territorial Adjustment and Tourism.
Preparation assistance:
PPF for USD 500,000
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Nare       -                            Speciality
Andreas Rohde, ECSEE              Task Team Leader/Sanitary Engineer
Kishore Nadkarni, ECSEE           Financial Analyst
Takao Ikegami, ECSIE             Procurement Specialist
Sandro Michiei, ECCAL            Financial Management Specialist
Junko Funahashi, LEGEC            Counsel
Rohit Mehta, LOAGI                Finance Officer
Manuel Marinio, ECSIE             Sanitary Engineer, Water PSP Specialist
Marie-Marguerite Bourbigot, ECSIE  Water PSP Specialist
Rita Cestti, ECSSD               Environmental Specialist
Hermine De Soto, ECSSD            Social Scientist
Arben Bakllamaja, ECSEE           Project Officer
Claudio Purificato, ECSEE         Sanitary Engineer
Olav Christensen, ECSPS          Financial Management Specialist
Xavier Chauvot de Beauchene, ECSEE  Consultant
Maria Teresa R. Lim, ECSEE        Team Assistant
Suhail J.S. Jme'An, MNSIF        Peer Reviewer
Ahmed Jehani, LEGEC               Lead Counsel
Salman Salman, LEGEN             Lead Counsel
* It is misleading to assume that this project was prepared since 1996. In 1996 the Bank was preparing a
conventional investment loan type project under the name Municipal Water and Wastewater Project,
which included seven cities including Lezhe, Fier and Saranda. Private sector participation was not
foreseen under this project. In 1999 this project was merged with the Albania - Tirana/Durres
Privatization Project by keeping the name and ID number of the Albania - Municipal Water and
Wastewater Project. The merging with the Tirana/Durres Privatization project became necessary
-74 -



because the Italian Cooperation, which was supposed to co-finance the Tirana/Durres Privatization
Project was not prepared to financed a proposed management contract for Tirana and Durres at that time.
It was decided that the Italian Cooperation should proceed without the Bank in Tirana and that the Bank
would finance a management contract in the cities now included in the Municipal Water and Wastewater
Project. Therefore, it should be considered that actually atarted at this time.
-75 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
ALBANIA: Municipal Water and Wastewater Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Albania - Municipal Water and Wastewater Project, Draft Project Implementation Plan - September 2002
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Project Concept Document - February 2002
Aide-Memoire Pre-Appraisal Mission - March, April and August 2002
Economic Analysis *
Financial Analysis *
C. Other
Project Information Document as part of the Bidding Documents for the Management Contract, February
2002 (includes Investment Needs Assessment), February 2002
Draft Management Contract, July 2002 (includes Water Company Agreement and Performance
Indicators)
Social Assessment: Albania - Municipal Water and Wastewater Project, March 2001
EMPF - Environmental Management Plan Framework, July 2002
Private Sector Participation in the Durres, Saranda, Fier and Lezha Water Supply and Sewerage
Enterprises - Phase 1 Report, KPMG, January 2000
Municipal Water and Wastewater Project- Review and Update of Existing Feasibility Studies,
Final Report + Supplement, AWT, April 1999
Municipal Water Supply and Wastewater Project Fier - Feasibility Report, CH2MHill,
December 1997
Municipal Water Supply and Wastewater Project Lezhe - Wastewater Collection and Disposal,
Final Report, ALLPLAN & ILF, July 1997
Saranda Water Supply and Sanitation Feasibility Study - Final Report, May 1997
*Including electronic files
- 76-



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
ALBANIA: Municipal Water and Wastewater Project
02-Jan-2003
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount In US$ Millions                          disbursements
Project ID   FY   Purpose                                    IBRD       IDA                        Cancel.   Undisb      Orig   Frmn Rev'd
P074905       2002 PWR SECT REHAB/RESTRCrG                       0 00     29 90                         0 00     31 51      0 00      0 00
P069479       2002 FISHERY DEVT                                  0 00      5 60                         0 00      5 37      0 02      0 00
P066260      2002 ROAD MAINT                                     000      1700                          000      1757      -050       000
P057818       2002 FSAC                                          000      1500                          000       794       -794      000
P070078      2001 TRADE & TRANS FACIL IN SE EUR                  0.00      810                          000       5 11      343       0 00
P055383       2001 SOC SERV OEVT                                 000      10 00                         0 00     10 00      -0 39     0 00
P054736       2001 AG SERVICES                                   0 00      9 90                         000       9 08      079       0 00
P069120       2000 EDUCREF                                       000      1200                          000      1043       285       000
P069079      2000 FIN SEC IBTA                                   0 00      6.50                         0 00      3 31      1 94      0.00
P068853       2000 EMG ROAD REPAIR                               0 00     1365                          000       1 87      1 55      1 29
P066491       2000 WSURGREHAS                                    000      10.00                         000       585       608       000
P069939       2000 PUHADM REF                                    0.00      850                          000       752       513       000
P057182      2000 LEG/JUD REF                                    000       9 00                         0 00      7 37      2 79      0 00
P043178       1999 IRRIG&DRAINII                                 000      24.00                         000       546       -123      000
P051310       1999 MICROCREDIT                                   0 00     12.00                          000      1 02      -3 44     0 00
P051309       1999 COMMUNITYWORKS                                000       900                          000       015       -447      000
P051602       1998 PRIV IND REC                                  0 00     10.25                         0 00      5 45      5 76      a 00
P045312       1998 HEALTH RECOVERY                               000      17.00                          000      1203     1233       000
P040818       1998 DURRESPORT                                    0O0      1699                           000      349       333       230
P040975       1998 LANDIDEVT                                     000      1000                           000      605       558       000
P008271       1996 FORESTRY                                      000       800                           000      132       197       021
P034491       1996 POWERTRNSM&DIST                               0.00     2950                           449      441      1234       694
P036060       1996 NATL ROADS                                    0.00     25.00                          0 00     0 04      1 64      0 00
Total:       0 00    316.89                         4 49     162 35     49 56     10 73
- 77 -



ALBANIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jun 30 - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                       Loan   Equity  Quasi    Partic  Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1998               AAP                           0.00   28.50    0.00     0.00    0.00    9.54    0.00    0.00
2000               NCBank                        0.00    2.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00
1999               SEF Eurotech                  0.80    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.80    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999               SEF FEFAD Bank                0.00    0.98    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.98    0.00    0.00
2001               Seament                       15.00   0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:        15.80   31.48    0.00     0.00    0.80   12.52    0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Comrumtment
FY Approval        Company                         Loan     Equity    Quasi     Partic
1998              Patos Marinza                    30.00     0.00      0.00    50.00
2001               Patos Mannza In                 10.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
2002               Savings Bank                     0.00     0.00     15.00      0.00
2002              INSIG                             0.00     0.00      8.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:       40.00      0.00     23.00    50.00
- 78 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
ALBANIA: Municipal Water and Wastewater Project
Europe &    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            Central   middle-
Albania      Asia    Income      Development dlamond-
2001
Populatlon, mid-year (millions)                        3.4       475     2,164                  L8e expectancy
GNI per capitt (Atlas method, US$J                   1,230      1,960     1,240
GNI (At/as method, USS billions)                       4.2       930      2,671
Average annual growth, 1995.01
Population I(%)                                        0.9        01        1.0
Labor force(ff                                         1.3        0.6       1.2     GNI                              Gross
per                            prlmary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 199-01)                               capita                       enrollment
Poverty (% of population below natlonal poverty line)
Urban population (% of total population)                43        63        46
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        72        69        69
Infant mortality (per 1, 000 lhe bMits)                 21        20        33
Child malnutriton (% of children under 5)               14                  11           Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source -S of populatlon)     .        90        80
flilterecy(% ofpopulatlonage 15+)                       15         3        15
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population) 1/         102       107         -Albanla
Male                                                 95        103       107               Lower-rniddleincorne group
Female                                               97        101       107
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1981     1991       2000      2001
Economic ratlos
GDP (US$ bIllions)                                     1.1        3.8       4.1
Gross domestic investmenVGDP                                     18.6      19.4
Exports of goods and services/GDP                                18.9      19.2                    Trade
Gross domestic savings/GOP                                       -2.9      -3.0
Gross national savings/GDP                                       11.6      13.8
Current account balance/GDP                                      -7.2      -6.3     Domestic                    Ie      n
Interest payments/GDP                                             0.2       0.3     savings                     Investment
Total debVGDP                                                    21.6      20.4
Total debt servioe/exports                                        2 2       2 5
Present value of debt/GDP                                        12.9
Present value of debt/exports                                    38.5
Indebtedness
1981-91  1991401     2000       2001   200145
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 -0.5      5.4      7.8        6.5       6.5            Albanla
GDP per capita                      -2A       4.6      7.2        5.3       6.1               Lower-rndd/e-/ncore gn-up
Exports of goods and services                11.3      5.8       14.1       5.5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1981     1991       2000      2001     Growth of Investrmnt and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)
Agricuiture                                  32.4     39 3       35.9      34.2
Industry                                     43 0     42 7       22.7      234 14
Manufacturing                                       36.5       13 2      13.2
Services                                     24.6     18.0       414      424        0
Private consumption                          54.9     90.9       92.0      92.1    -1
General govemment consumpton                  85      22.1       10.9      10.9                    GD      -   -GDP
Imports of goods and services                21.5     27.6      40.4       417
(average annual growth)                   1981-91  199141       2000      2001      Growth of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                   1.0      6.1        4.0       1.4     ro
Industry                                     -0.5      5.0       11.4      10.7    40
Manufacturing                                        -0.8       5.0       6.5     20
Services                                     -3.0      5.1       13 3      13.6     o
Private consumption                                    5.4        2.8       6 3    -20     Od               go   00    01
General govemment consumpUon                           2.8        7.4       6 7    x0
Gross domestc lnvestment                     -1.0     20.1       17.9      10 9                  -xports     CIExoros
Imports of goods and services                         10.3        6.5       7.4
Note: 2001 data are piralninary estimates
The diamonds show four key Indicators in Si county (in bold) coopared with its income-group average If data are rnsing the diamond will be Inormplte.
- 79 -



Albania
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1981     1991      2000     2001     Inflation (%)
Domestlcpr7ces
(% change)                                                                      45
Consumer prices                                     49.4       0.1      3.1     30
Implicit GDP deflator                      -2.2    34.5       -1.2      2.82..:
Government flnance _
(% of GDP, Includes current grants)                                             O      9S    97    98   99    W
Current revenue                                     34.3      22.4     23.0     1 .-
Current budget balance                       ..    -21.7      -2.7     -1.7                 GDP deflator  O  CPI
Overall surplus/deflct                       ..   -27.8      -9.1     -8.5
TRADE
(USS millions)                             1981    1981      2000     2001      Export and Import levls (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                         419      73       255      305     1 sr
Agriculture and food                        ..      14        28       28
Energy/mineral and eccty                    ..      19         7        6
Manufactures                                ..       3       175      215
Total Imports (cif)                         384     280      1,076    1.332
Food                                        ..      49       238      256      sw
Fuel and energy                             ..      10       147      184
Captal goods                                ..      25       463      602       o
Export price Index (1995=000)                ..95                                         9    97   9    99   W    01
Import price Index (1995100)                  ..      ..        ..       ..               * Exports     a Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                    ..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ milions)                              1981    11        200      2001      Cuffent account balnce to GOP (%)
Exports of goods and servicas               431      82       705      840       o 
Imports of goods and services               403     314      1,520    1,791
Resource balance                             28     -232      -815    -951
-6
Net income                                   11     -22       106       149
Net current transfers                        ..       8       439      543                  I     l
Current account balance                      45     -246      -270     -259     I.
Financing items (net)                       -19      24       381      390
Changes in net reserves                     -26     221      -111      -131    --
Memo:
Reserves Including gold (USS millins)        ..       ..      608       737
Conversion rate (DEC, locaIUSS)              ..    14.4     143.7    143.5
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1981     191       2000     2001
(USS mni/ions)                                                                  Composition of 2001 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         ..     512       812       838
IBRD                                                0         0        0                     G 31
IDA                                         ..      0       346       366               F. 32
Total debt service                            ..      4        27        38
IBRO                                        .       0         0        0                     \l \
IDA                                         ..      0         2        3         E 251                      8.366
Composibon of net resource fOWs
Otfflcalgrants                             ..     320       161       119
Offiial creditors                          ..      20       112       88
Private creditors                          ..      28         0         0
Foreign direct investment                  ..       0       143      204
Portfolio equlty                           ..       0         0        0                0 75
c: 83
World Bank program
Commitments                                ..       0        54       20      A - IBRD                   E - Bilateral
Disbursements                              ..       0        64       34      8- IDA   D- Other rriulliateral  P - Private
Pnncipal repayments                        ..       0         0        0      C - IMF                   G - Short-term
Net flows                                   ..      0        64       34
Interest payments                          ..       0         2        3
Net transfers                              ..       0        62       32
ueveiopment tconomcs                                                                                            VI I iuz
-80-



MAP SECTION






31803'  J     19°00'       19-30         2000         20            21'000
't -_!                               <     FED.    REP.    0    YUGOSLAVIA
CR TIA~ M                           .SER(SERBIA / MO TENEGRO)
4230                                              (\a                            42'30'
an i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
ALBANIA                                k '    A
-42-00'                                                                          42
o  SELECTED CITIES                 H
*  DISTRICT CENTERS         ShgA4IRDI .1
6  NATIONAL CAPITAL           Loz a *      Kurbn, /
NATIONAL ROADS                 *.
----RAILROADS                                      Psk
-l-- -'  RIVERS            Fu  Kug
_ ..  DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
4-,3  _   . .  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES        T
41-30'  ~ ELEVATIONS IN METERSFY413-
m                                                   C.B.LQIZ. D ulMACEDONIA
1200
W 200                  Dre     U-
i ~~Adriatic 
4100,~~~~~
0 O, 0l  20  30  40  50           ;v
saaoons fl,mmpdomlnjfilffy oefhapaantaWr&lfffanra  Kafar  * Bll Ish  i % ; t > t7 rr;t  ihs
an*nnwa or acceoaanca of acA baaa,darlaa~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~r  R
D tu NM  SWEEpC- ' ATVIA\ UKAIED%              b    \
[~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ rrb             X      REEEa
Sea Sea
a-, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~rm
* ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~uv
~~~~~~ )  REP~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A 
~~o  ~ ~ ~   ROMANIA~"ISIA
iD          ufa  BLGARVIA  FEDnd
ITALY  AdnaUe  ~L  -
.4)  Al NI<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tM         :\XL
Il  ryrrhfla.aa~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
GERMANREEYoea~        UKE                                ~2j
POLAND ~ ~ Sa 
,tx  Y" CZECH~~~~~~~~~~
UKRAINE ~ ~ ~ ~ 9~0       20            23           20









Report No.:       24826  ALB
Type:     PAD



