Report No. 23775
Report No: I041442 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 02/27/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: ALBANIA         Project ID: P041442
Global Supplemental ID: P075156
Project: Municipal Water and Wastewater          Task Team Leader: Andreas Rohde
Authorized to Appraise Date: May 8, 2002          IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: November 14, 2002         IDA Amount ($m): 15.00
Global Supplemental Amount ($m): 4.30
Managing Unit: ECSIE     Sector: WS - Sewerage; WU - Urban Water Supply
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)        Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The overall development objective of this project is to assist the
Government of Albania in testing and developing important aspects of the
water sector reform. The reforms the project will support are (i) testing
the introduction of private sector participation in the sector through the
use of a management contract; (ii) piloting the Government's newly adopted
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Strategy; and (iii) integrate wastewater
management into overall ecosystem management to protect globally important
biodiversity.
I.A.3. Project Description:
The project includes the following components:
1. Management Contract Component
(a) Management Contract (USD 5.0 million)
This sub-component would finance the costs related to the management
contract for the water utilities of Durres, Fier, Lezhe and Saranda.
These costs include a base fee and a performance-based fee to be paid to
the private Operator based on achievement of targets defined in the
contract. The Operator would be given full responsibility for managing
the investment program, operating the water supply and sanitation systems,
and developing and implementing the demand management program and the
commercial (billing and collection) and financial management departments.
(b) Investment Fund including goods, works and consultants services (USD
13.7 million)
This sub-component would finance technical and administrative support
systems, asset management studies, revenue metering, network
rehabilitation and extension, operating equipment and maintenance (e.g.,
sewer and water main cleaning and disinfection etc.), aimed at improving
the operation of the water supply and sanitation systems and the services



to the population by achieving the performance improvement targets in the
management contract.
(c) Incremental Operating Cost (USD 0.4 million)
2. Rural Pilot Component
(a) Investment (USD 1.0 million)
This sub-component would provide Grant and credit facilities to set-up
5-10 community owned and managed water and sanitation schemes within a
region yet to be identified.
(b) Incremental Operating Cost (USD 0.2 million)
3. GEF Component "Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management"
(a) Wetland and Habitat Improvement (USD 4.5 million)
The component, to which the GEF would contribute, aims to capture global
benefits by reducing land-based pollution from the four cities of
Shengjin, Lezhe, Durres, and Saranda and protect, restore and enlarge
endangered coastal and marine habitats by introducing low cost
ecologically based wastewater treatment technologies. The project will
help promote and eventually expand the use of man made wetlands for
wastewater treatment in areas where existing pollution loads are
threatening natural wetlands or coastal areas critical for biodiversity.
Strengthening of the management, monitoring and enforcement capacity in
wetland and coastal area protection in the participating areas: The
Ministry of Environment, the Ministry of Food and Agriculture, or other
entities to be identified, will be supported in enhancing the management
of the wetlands and coastal areas effected by the improvements under the
GEF-component. The sub-component will finance the assistance in
establishing long-term operations, maintenance, monitoring and funding
plan, and required goods, works and services.
(b) Replication (USD 0.13 million)
This component will fund the dissemination of the project's findings in
other cities of the region. This project design will have a high potential
for replication in Albania and other developing countries of the
Mediterranean region. Natural wastewater treatment using constructed
wetlands may become a demonstration area for the similar projects in
Croatia, Bosnia, Montenegro, and other countries.
(c) Incremental Operating Cost (USD 0.1 million)
4. TA for project implementation and sector reform (USD1.3 million)
This sub-component would finance:
(i) For the Management Contract Component: Independent technical and
financial auditors that would monitor the Private Operator's performance
and prepare the financial projections and water utility audits, studies
-2 -



related to the project as well as consulting services to support the
Executive Committee and PMU in the supervision of the management contract.
(ii) For the Rural Pilot Component: Technical assistance for policy
setting by the GoA, an operational manual, financial management and
procurement system for the Rural Water and Sanitation Agency. Technical
assistance for training seminars for the private sector and NGOs operating
in the rural water and sanitation sector.
(iii) For the GEF Component: Consultants' and monitoring services to
assist in improving the management of CTWs and natural areas affected by
them, especially the Kune-Vaine wetland.
(iv) In addition, TA will be needed for important elements of overall
water sector and institutional reform e.g., benchmarking of water
utilities, support of the newly founded water utility association,
national staff training center, strengthening of the Ministry of
Environment to supervise the compliance with the Environmental Management
Plan Framework (EMPF), etc.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The project will be located in the following Albanian cities, most of them
close to the Adriatic Sea: Durres, Fier, Lezhe, Shengjin, Saranda and
surrounding areas.    The project area is inhabited by about 350,000
people. There are no protected areas close to the project area. However,
the area proposed for the constructed wetland in Durres is located about
three kilometers away from the proposed Managed Nature Reserve,
Rrushkull-Erzeni River Outlet. The city of Saranda is adjacent to Ksimili
Bay, which has been proposed to become a Strict Nature Reserve. Similarly,
the cities of Lezhe and Shengjin are adjacent to the Kune and Vaine tidal
marshland, which has been proposed to become a Managed Nature Reserve.
B. Check Environmental Classification: F (Financial Intermediary
Assessment)
Comments: The project is expected to finance rehabilitation of the
existing water supply and sanitation infrastructure, construction of
wetlands for wastewater treatment along the Adriatic Sea and expenditures
to improve management and operations of water supply/wastewater companies,
which should contribute to improve the quality of life and the
environment. Apart from the constructed wetlands, which will address past
environmental degradation, no additional structures of significant size
are envisaged under the project. Specific physical investments will be
defined only during the course of the project by the private operator.
Nonetheless, potential negative environmental impacts are expected to be
localized or able to be mitigated. It is not expected that the project
will require land acquisition or result in involuntary resettlement, since
most of the work will be done in properties owned by water/wastewater
companies, municipal land or rights-of-way assigned to municipal
infrastructure. The environmental category for the project is proposed to
be FI. The GEF component is classified as environmental category B, as
works related to constructed wetlands are considered to generate limited
negative environmental impacts. This will be confirmed by the
environmental assessment. The already predefined sub-project under the
management contract component for rehabilitation of wells and pumping
station in Fier which most likely will be selected for financing under the
-3 -



investment fund would be of environmental category B nature. Therefore it
was agreed to include its EA in the EMPF as an example.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)         Yes
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    TBD
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)    TBD
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)      No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)        No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)    No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)     TBD
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)      No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*         TBD
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)       No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
No potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impact expected.
Environmental Assessment: An Environmental Management Plan Framework
(EMPF) will be prepared prior to appraisal. The EMPF will provide
water/wastewater companies with an overall framework to guide the
preparation and implementation of their annual work program. The EMPF
will reflect the environmental guidelines and standards of IDA for water
supply and sanitation project since such standards are not well developed
in Albania. No detailed legislation for Environmental Impact Assessment
has been enacted yet, but draft regulations were prepared in 1994. The
EMPF will describe procedures for deciding on whether environmental
assessment categories A, B or C are appropriate for each sub-project.
Only environmental categories B and C sub-projects are expected.
Therefore the EMPF will only develop procedures for categories B and C,
stating that the procedures for any category A sub-project would be
developed on a case by case basis, in consultation with IDA. Procedures
and requirements to be followed for each category will include
requirements for public information and disclosure; and will set
implementation arrangements for ensuring full consideration of
environmental concerns in accordance with the 1993 Law on Environmental
Protection and OP 4.01. During project preparation, a partial
environmental assessment will be carried out for the constructed wetlands
to be financed by GEF, including an Environmental Management Plan (EMP).
This EMP will be an integral part of the EMPF for the overall project.
Public disclosure of the EMPF to the Bank's Infoshop and in the country is
expected before project appraisal.
International Waters: The project is situated close to the Adriatic Sea,
which is an international waterway. The project team will consult with the
- 4 -



Bank's Legal and Environmental Department if OP 7.50 including the
notification requirement is trigger by the project activities. The project
will mainly rehabilitate existing infrastructure and use the currently
used, national aquifers, without increasing the quantity withdrawn; and
will also not increase the quantity of wastewater discharged directly and
indirectly into the Adriatic Sea. It will decrease the pollution of the
Adriatic Sea.
Natural Habitats: To be decided during environmental assessment of
constructed wetlands.
Forestry: To be decided during environmental assessment of constructed
wetlands.
Involuntary Resettlement:    No involuntary resettlement is expected.
However, because the exact locations of the constructed treatment wetlands
have not yet been determined, this issue will be revisited during
appraisal.
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
N/A
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
N/A
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
Constructed wetlands alternative to address wastewater pollution into
environmentally sensitive ecosystems is the only viable alternative from a
financial, economic and environmental points of view.
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
The Government of Albania will implement the Environmental Management Plan
Framework. Its implementation will be monitored by the PIU. It is also
expected that the Bank will review each annual work program and monitor
environmental conditions during project implementation.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
The key stakeholders are the residents who will benefit from the project,
the local water supply companies, and the Ministry of Public Works and
Tourism. The resident beneficiaries have participated in the conduct of a
Rapid Needs Assessment (February 2000), the SA (May - August 2000), as
well as workshops to discuss the SA's findings. In addition, they will
participate in implementing the project via Community Water Associations
(CWA), which will determine the type and design of water service; provide
labor for construction, rehabilitation and procurement; and own and manage
the water facilities. In addition, resident beneficiaries will help
monitor and evaluate the project. Further, the project will sponsor the
establishment of a Consumer Panel (CP) to enable those who use water to
interact directly with management about problems and opportunities.
- 5-



Minutes of the CP meetings will be provided to the general public and to
the Bank's supervision teams. Finally, SAs will be organized in every
community that seeks to participate in the pilot project.
The rural pilot project's goal is to create demand-driven development of
water supply and sanitation in 5-10 pilot communities. Consequently,
stakeholders will participate in implementation of the project in several
ways. Communities will determine the type of water service they want and
participate in the technical design of that service. They will also
provide labor for construction/rehabilitation and be involved in
procurement of certain types of goods and services that support the
project. Communities will also own and manage their water facilities via
Community Water Associations (CWA). CWA will be responsible for setting
and collecting water tariffs, debt servicing, operation and maintenance,
etc.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
I S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
I S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
I S3. - No safeguard issues
[XI SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      5/6/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure 5/31/2002
Date of submission to InfoShop   5/8/2002
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)       Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Pest Management Plan:    Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Dam Safety Management Plan:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
- 6 -



If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
Signed and submitted by          Name    Date
Task Team Leader:        Andreas Rohde   1-10-02
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:        Rita E. Cestti/Person/World Bank         1-10-02
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:     Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         Bernard Baratz   02-05-02
Sector Manager/Director:         Motoo Konishi    02/27/02
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
- 7 -



