Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3730-ALB 
 
Saranda Project Agreement 
 
(Municipal Water and Wastewater Project) 
 
among 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
THE MUNICIPALITY OF SARANDA 
 
and 
 
WATER AND WASTEWATER COMPANY OF SARANDA 
 
Dated  March 20, 2003 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3730-ALB 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated March 20, 2003, among INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and WATER AND 
WASTEWATER COMPANY OF SARANDA (WWCS) and the MUNICIPALITY OF 
SARANDA. 
 
WHEREAS (A)  by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith 
between ALBANIA (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to 
make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to eleven 
million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 11,400,000), on the terms 
and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on conditions 
that WWCS and the Municipality of Saranda agree to undertake such obligations toward 
the Association as are set forth in this Agreement; 
 
(B) 
by a Saranda Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and WWCS, the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development 
Credit Agreement will be made available to WWCS on the terms and conditions set forth 
in said Saranda Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS WWCS and the Municipality of Saranda, in consideration of the 
Association’s entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, have 
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 2.01. (a) WWCS and the Municipality of Saranda declare their 
commitment to the objective of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development 
Credit Agreement, and, to this end, WWCS shall carry out Parts A(4) and B(4) of the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering and environmental practices, and WWCS and the 
Municipality of Saranda shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association, WWCS and the Municipality of Saranda shall otherwise 
agree, WWCS shall carry out Parts A(4) and B(4) of the Project in accordance with the 
Management Contract, PIP and the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement.  
 
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods and consultants’ services required for Parts A(4) and B(4) of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. (a) WWCS shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of 
goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, WWCS shall: 
 
(i) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after 
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Association and WWCS, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and 
 
(ii) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with WWCS on said plan. 
Page  4
-
3
-
Section 2.04. WWCS shall duly perform all its obligations under the Saranda 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, WWCS 
shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, 
abrogating, assigning or waiving the Saranda Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any 
provision thereof. 
 
Section 2.05. (a) WWCS and the Municipality of Saranda shall, at the request of 
the Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of the 
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Saranda 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit. 
 
(b)  
WWCS and the Municipality of Saranda shall promptly inform the 
Association of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress 
of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by 
WWCS of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Saranda Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Management and Operations of WWCS 
 
Section 3.01. WWCS shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, engineering, financial and environmental practices 
under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent 
staff in adequate numbers. 
 
Section 3.02. WWCS shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, 
financial and technical practices. 
 
Section 3.03. WWCS shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and 
in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a)  WWCS shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance with 
Page  5
-
4
-
accounting standards acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, adequate to 
reflect its operations and financial condition and to register separately the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to Parts A(4) and B(4) of the Project. 
(b) WWCS 
shall: 
(i) 
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, for such year as so audited, and (B) 
an opinion on such statements and report of such audit, by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records, accounts and financial statements, and the audit 
thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, WWCS shall 
not incur any debt, unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues and expenditures of 
WWCS, shows that its estimated net revenues for each fiscal year during the term of the 
debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.5 times its estimated debt service requirements in 
such year on all of its debt including the debt to be incurred. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
 (i) 
The term “debt” means any indebtedness maturing by its terms 
more than one year after the date on which it is originally 
incurred. 
(ii) 
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement, 
Page  6
-
5
-
on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been 
entered into. 
(iii) 
The term “net revenues” means the difference between: 
(A) 
the sum of collected revenues from all sources related to 
operations and net non-operating income; and 
(B) 
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and 
payments in lieu of taxes, but excluding provision for 
depreciation, other non-cash operating charges and 
interest and other charges on debt. 
(iv) 
The term “net non-operating income” means the difference 
between: 
(A) 
collected revenues from all sources other than those 
related to operations; and 
(B) 
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in the generation of revenues in (A) above. 
(v) 
The term “debt service requirements” means the aggregate 
amount of repayments (including sinking fund payment if any) 
of, and interest and other charges on, debt. 
(vi) 
The term “reasonable forecast” means a forecast prepared by 
WWCS not earlier than twelve months prior to the incurrence of 
the debt in question, which both the Association and WWCS 
accept as reasonable and as to which the Association has notified 
WWCS of its acceptability, provided that no event has occurred 
since such notification which has, or may reasonably be expected 
in the future to have, a material adverse effect on the financial 
condition or future operating results of WWCS. 
(vii) 
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of 
the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other 
currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the 
Page  7
-
6
-
purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, 
on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Association. 
Section 4.03. The Municipality of Saranda shall review, in accordance with 
established procedures, the periodic proposals for tariff adjustments submitted by WWCS 
annually and, thereafter, shall promptly take action to adjust said tariffs so that WWCS 
can meet its obligations by collecting sufficient revenues to increase coverage of 
operation and maintenance costs and other expenses. 
Section 4.04. The Municipality of Saranda shall: (a) enable WWCS to collect 
water fees from its customers, including but not limited to assisting WWCS to disconnect 
non-paying customers; and (b) assist WWCS in the implementation of said collection of 
water fees. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension 
 
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective. 
 
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
WWCS thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates: 
(i) 
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms; or 
(ii) 
the date twenty years after the date of this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall 
promptly notify WWCS and the Municipality of Saranda of this event. 
 
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
Page  8
-
7
-
ARTICLE VI 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly 
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telex or facsimile to the 
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request.  Deliveries made by 
facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail.  The addresses so specified are: 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 
  Telex: 
  
Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145 (MCI) 
 
For WWCS 
 
SHA Ujesjelles Kanalizime 
 
Sarande 
 
Albania 
 
Facsimile: 
 
355 852 2412 
 
For the Municipality of Saranda 
 
Bashkia Sarande 
 
Sarande 
 
Albania 
 
Facsimile: 
 
355
852
2390 
Page  9
-
8
-
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of: (a) WWCS may 
be taken or executed by the Director of WWCS or such other person or persons as its 
Director shall designate in writing; and (b) the Municipality of Saranda may be taken or 
executed by its Mayor or such other person or persons as the Mayor shall designate in 
writing, and WWCS and the Municipality of Saranda shall furnish to the Association 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person. 
 
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By: /s/ Simon Gray 
Authorized Representative 
 
WATER AND WASTEWATER COMPANY OF SARANDA 
 
By: /s/ Fatos Tarifa 
Authorized Representative 
 
MUNICIPALITY OF SARANDA 
 
By: /s/ Fatos Tarifa 
Authorized Representative 
Page  11
-
10 -
SCHEDULE 1
 
Procurement 
Section I
.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section 
I
of
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by 
the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999  (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a) Prequalification
Bidders for the Service Contract shall be prequalified in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines. 
(b) 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
Page  12
-
11 -
2. International 
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3. National 
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
4. 
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations 
obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. 
The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic 
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the 
Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be made to the 
contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the 
experience and resources to complete the contract successfully. 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the 
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to: (i) each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$500,000 or more; and (ii) the first two contracts under Part C.1 of this Schedule, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Page  13
-
12 -
(b) 
With respect to: (i) the first two contracts under Parts C.2 and 3 of this 
Schedule; and (ii) the first three contracts under Part C.4 of this Schedule, the following 
procedures shall apply: 
(i) 
prior to the execution of any contract under shopping procedures, 
the Borrower shall provide to the Association a report on the 
comparison and evaluation of quotations received; 
(ii) 
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Association a copy 
of the specifications and the draft contract; and 
(iii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of Section II of 
this Section. 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
Page  14
-
13 -
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1. Least-cost 
Selection
Services for technical and financial audits estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for public awareness, community relations and similar activities 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
4. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Association for its review and approval prior to the issuance to 
consultants of any requests for proposals.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan (as updated from time to time) as shall 
have been approved by the Association. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
Page  15
-
14 -
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the report on the 
comparison of the qualifications and experience of candidates, terms of reference and 
terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior 
review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall 
have been given.  The provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall also apply to such contracts. 
(c) 
With respect to each contract for employment of consulting firms or 
individual consultants, irrespective of the value of the contract, the terms of reference 
shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall 
be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  16
-
15 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Implementation Program 
1. WWCS 
shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about April 30, 2005, a report integrating the results of 
the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date; and 
(c) 
review with the Association, by July 31, 2005, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations 
of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter. 
2. 
WWCS shall take or cause to be taken, all measures necessary for the carrying 
out of the EMPF in a timely manner. 
3. 
For any activity under Part A of the Project that may result in land acquisition, 
the Management Contract shall, inter alia, specify that a resettlement plan, satisfactory to 
the Association, shall be furnished to the Association prior to the financing of such 
activities. 
4. 
WWCS shall maintain the CMU until completion of the Project, with staff, 
resources and terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and assign to it 
responsibility for overall Project coordination, including: 
(a) 
preparation of disbursement applications under the Credit; 
(b) 
management of the Special Accounts referred to in Schedule 4 to the 
Development Credit Agreement; 
Page  17
-
16 -
(c) 
maintenance of records and accounts related to the Project and arranging 
for the audit thereof; 
(d) 
participation in administration of bidding procedures and of contracts 
under the Project; and 
(e) 
preparation of quarterly progress reports and submission thereof to the 
Borrower and the Association not later than 30 days after the end of each quarter, the first 
such report to be furnished to the Association not later than July 31, 2005. 
5. 
The Municipality of Saranda shall cause the Executive Committee to: (a) ensure 
that technical and financial audits of the Operator’s performance will be carried out 
annually, the first such audit to be completed by June 30, 2004, or such later date as may 
be agreed upon with the Association, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association, under terms of reference acceptable to the Association; and (b) thereafter, 
submit the results of said audits to the Association for its review.
 
