                                     Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                   Report No: ICR0000931



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA-37300)



                                        ON A

                                      CREDIT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 11.4 MILLION
                       (US$15.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                         TO

                                     ALBANIA

                                       FOR A

             MUNICIPAL WATER AND WASTEWATER PROJECT



                                 June 10, 2010




Sustainable Development Department
Southeast Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                (Exchange Rate Effective January 2010)

                     Currency Unit   =   Albanian Lek
                          Lek 1.00   =   US$0.01
                          US$1.00    =   Lek 97.67
                         SDR 1.00    =   US$1.54

                             FISCAL YEAR

                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADF      Albanian Development Fund
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CMU      Contract Monitoring Unit
CP       Consumer Panel
DCA      Development Credit Agreement
EC       Executive Committee
EMPF     Environmental Management Plan Framework
GPRS     Albania - Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy
HRP      Human Resources Plan
IF       Investment Fund
ITR      Independent Technical Reviewer
KfW      Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (Germany)
MC       Management Contract
MoE      Ministry of Economy
MoF      Ministry of Finance
MoTAT    Ministry of Territorial Adjustment and Tourism
MoPWTT   Ministry of Public Works, Transportation and Telecommunications
NWRC     National Water Regulatory Commission
NWSS     National Water Supply and Sanitation Strategy
O&M      Operations & Maintenance
PIU      Project Implementation Unit
PO       Private Operator
PPIAF    Public Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility
PSP      Private Sector Participation
RWSA     Rural Water and Sanitation Agency
RWSS     Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Strategy
UFW      Unaccounted for Water

                    Vice President: Philippe Le Houerou
                  Country Director: Jane Armitage
                   Sector Manager: Wael Zakout
              Project Team Leader: Michael John Webster
                 ICR Team Leader: Sanyu Lutalo
                                           ALBANIA
                              Municipal Water and Wastewater Project




                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................ 9
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 13
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 13
  6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 15
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 16
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 17
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component.................................................................................. 18
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 21
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 24
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 26
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 27
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 29
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 47
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 48
  MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Municipal Water &
Country:                Albania                 Project Name:
                                                                          Wastewater Project
Project ID:             P041442                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-37300
ICR Date:               06/10/2010              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                          ALBANIA
Original Total
                        XDR 11.4M               Disbursed Amount:         XDR 11.3M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 11.4M
Environmental Category: F
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Public Works, Transportation and Telecommunications
 Water PIU/CMU
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process             Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       04/23/1996     Effectiveness:                               09/04/2003
Appraisal:            09/23/2002     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             01/28/2003     Mid-term Review:          06/20/2006         12/09/2005
                                     Closing:                  12/31/2009         12/31/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Substantial
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower         Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                             Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Sanitation                                                            20                   5
Water supply                                                          80                  95


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Access to urban services and housing                                  40                  40
Infrastructure services for private sector development                40                  40
Other human development                                               20                  20

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Philippe H. Le Houerou               Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:          Jane Armitage                        Christiaan J. Poortman
Sector Manager:            Wael Zakout                          Motoo Konishi
Project Team Leader:       Michael John Webster                 Andreas Rohde
ICR Team Leader:           Sanyu Sarah Senkatuka Lutalo
ICR Primary Author:        Sanyu Sarah Senkatuka Lutalo


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
To improve water and sanitation services in four participating cities and achieve financial
viability in their water utilities, by introducing a new incentive-based multi-city
management contract approach.*

  (*There was a discrepancy between the description of the Project Appraisal Document
and that in the Development Credit Agreement. This is explained in Section 1.2 of the
main text.)


                                                ii
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
Not applicable.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                                Original Target     Formally        Actual Value
                                                 Values (from        Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value
                                                   approval           Target       Completion or
                                                  documents)          Values        Target Years
                  Participating water utilities engage private operator through management
Indicator 1 :
                  contract to take over operation and maintenance (O&M) of existing facilities.
Value             To be achieved before
quantitative or   Credit Agreement            Achieved                           Achieved
Qualitative)      Effectiveness
Date achieved     05/30/2003                   06/06/2003                        08/05/2003
Comments          A private operator was successfully engaged through a 5-year performance-based
(incl. %          Management Contract to take over O&M of existing facilities. The contract
achievement)      closed in August 2008.
Indicator 2 :     Average hours of supply per day (hours):
                                              Fifth-year contract
                                                                                 Fifth-year contract:
                                              Target: Durres-6
Value             Durres-2.1 hours; Fier-6.2                                     Durres-3.3 hours;
                                              hours; Fier-13
quantitative or   hours; Lezha-20 hours;                                         Fier-17.9 hours;
                                              hours; Lezha-23.8
Qualitative)      Saranda-1.8 hours                                              Lezhe-20.5 hours;
                                              hours; Saranda-12
                                                                                 Saranda-6.3 hours
                                              hours
Date achieved     08/04/2003                   08/05/2008                        08/05/2008
Comments
(incl. %        Only Fier met the target number of hours, and Durres and Saranda improved.
achievement)
                Percentage of total connected population in service area receiving at minimum 2
Indicator 3 :
                hours of water supply per day: Durres, Fier, Lezha, Saranda
                                            Fifth-year contract
                                                                              Fifth-year contract:
Value                                       Target: Durres-
                Durres-38%; Fier-88%;                                         Durres-100%; Fier-
quantitative or                             76%; Fier-98%;
                Lezha-95%; Saranda-46%                                        100%; Lezhe-92%;
Qualitative)                                Lezha-99.3%;
                                                                              Saranda-100%
                                            Saranda-93%
Date achieved 08/04/2003                    08/05/2008                        08/05/2008
Comments
                All cities with the exception of Lezhe met and exceeded the targeted minimum
(incl. %
                hours of supply.
achievement)
                Percentage of samples complying with faecal coliform standard: Durres, Fier,
Indicator 4 :
                Lezha, Saranda
                                            Fifth-year contract
                                                                              Fifth-year contract:
                                            Target: Durres-
Value                                                                         Durres-98.9%;
                Durres-96%; Fier-98%; 98.5%; Fier-
quantitative or                                                               Fier-99.9%; Lezhe-
                Lezha-55%; Saranda-88% 98.5%; Lezha-
Qualitative)                                                                  99.7%; Saranda-
                                            98.5%; Saranda-
                                                                              100%
                                            98.5%


                                                  iii
Date achieved 08/04/2003                      08/05/2008                       08/05/2008
Comments
(incl. %        All cities met the target for water quality compliance.
achievement)
                Improvements of financial viability - Working Ratio: Durres, Fier, Lezha,
Indicator 5 :
                Saranda
                                              Fifth-year contract
                                                                               Fifth-year contract:
Value                                         Target:
                Durres-4.80; Fier-4.90;                                        Durres-1.7; Fier-
quantitative or                               Durres-1.1; Fier-
                Lezha-6.70; Saranda-6.10                                       1.5; Lezhe-1.6;
Qualitative)                                  1.1; Lezha-1.1;
                                                                               Saranda-1.9
                                              Saranda-1.1
Date achieved 08/04/2003                      08/05/2008                       08/05/2008
Comments
                All four cities registered significant improvement with respect to this indicator
(incl. %
                but did not fully meet the target for working ratio.
achievement)
Indicator 6 : Collection rate (%): Durres, Fier, Lezha, Saranda
                                              Fifth year contract
                                                                               Fifth-year contract:
Value                                         Target:
                Durres-39%; Fier-33%;                                          Durres-56%; Fier-
quantitative or                               Durres-79%; Fier-
                Lezha-33%; Saranda-33%                                         81%; Lezhe-64%;
Qualitative)                                  79%; Lezha-79%;
                                                                               Saranda-73%
                                              Saranda-79%
Date achieved 08/04/2003                      08/05/2008                       08/05/2008
Comments
(incl. %        All cities' collection rates improved although only Fier fully met the target.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target                  Actual Value
                                                               Formally
                                              Values (from                    Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                            Revised
                                                approval                    Completion or
                                                            Target Values
                                               documents)                    Target Years
                Investment Component: Priority investment program completed successfully--
Indicator 1 :
                Satisfactory disbursement rate.
Value                                      100% of project                100% of investment
                To be monitored during
(quantitative                              (IF) funds                     funds disbursed at
                project implementation
or Qualitative)                            disbursed                      completion.
Date achieved 08/30/2003                   12/31/2009                     12/31/2009
Comments
                The priority investment program was implemented successfully, although part of
(incl. %
                it was completed after the Management Contract closed.
achievement)
Indicator 2 : Wastage and over consumption of water reduced.
                                           Wastage and over
Value
                To be monitored during consumption of
(quantitative
                project implementation water reduced
or Qualitative)
                                           satisfactorily.
Date achieved 08/30/2003                   12/31/2009
Comments        This was not a key performance indicator under the Management Contract and



                                                iv
(incl. %        no specific target for levels of consumption. Consumption of water reduced in
achievement)    Fier by 5%, in Lezhe by 6% and in Saranda by 3%. Data for Durres was not
                available.
Indicator 3 : Savings in O&M costs achieved.
                                                                               Besides Lezhe, the
Value                                       Savings in O&M
                To be monitored during                                         three other utilities
(quantitative                               costs achieved
                project implementation                                         resulted with higher
or Qualitative)                             satisfactorily.
                                                                               O&M costs.
Date achieved 08/30/2003                    12/31/2009                         12/31/2009
Comments
                Besides Lezhe, the three other utilities resulted with higher O&M costs, hence
(incl. %
                this indicator was not achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 4 : Monitoring and Benchmarking of the water sector
                                            All 54 utilities are
                                                                               Benchmarking
Value                                       regularly
                                                                               system successfully
(quantitative   No systematic monitoring monitored and
                                                                               introduced and
or Qualitative)                             performance is
                                                                               functional.
                                            benchmarked.
Date achieved 08/03/2003                    12/31/2009                         12/31/2009
Comments
                A monitoring and benchmarking system involving all 54 utilities in Albania was
(incl. %
                established through the project and is functioning effectively.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                    Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                              DO                            IP              Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                (USD millions)
  1     06/19/2003          Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     0.00
  2     09/08/2003          Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     0.00
  3     04/02/2004          Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     0.88
  4     09/14/2004          Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     1.43
  5     01/07/2005          Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     2.03
  6     05/28/2005          Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     2.96
  7     01/02/2006          Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     5.03
  8     02/21/2007          Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     8.56
  9     11/26/2007      Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory            12.06
 10     04/30/2008      Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory            13.40
 11     12/24/2008      Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory            15.26
 12     06/17/2009      Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory            16.08
 13     11/07/2009      Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory            16.50


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                                  v
I. Disbursement Profile




                          vi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Country Background: After the collapse of communism in the early 1990s Albania, like
several other countries in the Region, underwent a political and economic transition,
moving from a centrally planned to a market based economy. The Bank's Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS), approved in 1993, focused on addressing the emergency
situation in Albania during the first years of transition, supporting critical imports and
physical rehabilitation of infrastructure. As a result of several factors, including a
combination of private sector activities especially in agriculture spurred by on-going
reforms at the time, external financing, and workers' remittances from abroad, the
country experienced steady macroeconomic growth and its GNI per capita rose from
US$610 in 1994 to US$2,930 in 2006. However, it was still among the poorest countries
in Europe at the time the project was appraised, with one-third of its population
characterized as poor and even a higher share lacking access to adequate basic services
such as water supply and sanitation (WSS).

The Project supported Albania's Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper approved in
November 2001, known as the Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy (GPRS), which
underpinned the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for 2002-2005. The GPRS
rested on two pillars: (a) governance and (b) strong economic growth, and emphasized
policy interventions to improve services. One of its goals was to make tangible
improvements in infrastructure services, such as water supply and sewerage, and to
increase access for the poor. The CAS emphasized poverty alleviation in connection with
economic growth, improving governance, building capacity in institutions, and improving
natural resource management. The remaining reform agenda was focused on tackling
weak governance and institutions and infrastructure deficiencies. The project supported
the CAS in promoting efficient WSS services in connection with natural resource
management. In addition, in line with the Government's decentralization strategy
defined in the CAS and the GPRS it was expected to promote management of water
supply and wastewater at the local level by setting up transparent and inclusive
mechanisms at the level of local government for decision-making, implementation and
management of natural resources and public services.

Sectoral Issues: The main issues facing Albania's water sector at the time of project
appraisal included: (i) ageing and deteriorating physical infrastructure much of which
was approaching the end of its design life making it inefficient and uneconomical to
operate and maintain; (ii) a weak institutional and governance framework; (iii) poor
demand management, with consumption levels of up to 500 litres per capita per day not
being uncommon; and (iv) lack of financial viability due to low tariffs and weak revenue
collection systems. Utilities were largely dependent on insufficient allocations from
central government transfers to compensate for their shortfalls. In light of all the above
constraints, service quality was poor, non-revenue water was high, and utilities provided
service only 2-4 hours a day in many cities.



                                            1
Project History: The Municipal Water and Wastewater Project (MWWP) was not the
first Bank-financed project in Durres, Fier, Lezhe and Saranda, the four cities that
participated in the MWWP. It followed two earlier projects: (i) Durres Water Supply
Rehabilitation Project (DWSRP), approved in May 1994 (total cost US$17.6 million, of
which US$11.6 million was financed by IDA and US$5.5 million by the Government);
and (ii) Albania Water Supply Urgent Rehabilitation Project (WSURP), approved in
February 2000 (total cost US$14.6 million of which US$10 million was financed by
IDA). The concept review for the MWWP was initially carried out in April 1996.
However preparation was stopped mainly due to the Kosovo crisis. The MWWP as
defined during the concept stage in fact ended up being prepared and implemented as two
operations (WSURP and MWWP) in response to the strain on the system caused by the
refugee influx from Kosovo. The project was subsequently separated into two operations,
the forerunner being the WSURP which set the stage for the MWWP. Project records
indicate the revised date for beginning preparation as February 2002 when activities
relating to preparation of the MWWP resumed.

Project cities: Durres is a coastal city with high tourism value and a population of about
220,000 people that swells to about 300,000 during the summer. Fier is an industrial city
with a population of 93,000, while Saranda and Lezhe also located at the Ionian and
Adriatic coasts respectively, have populations of 30,000 swelling to up to 80,000 in the
summer, and 22,000, respectively. The cities are spread over a total distance of about
250 km along Albania's western side.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The PDO as defined in the PAD was to improve water and sanitation services in the four
participating cities and achieve financial viability in their water utilities, by introducing
a new incentive-based multi-city Management Contract (MC) approach. The PDO, as
defined in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA), was to improve the safety,
reliability, efficiency, quality and financial viability of the water supply and sanitation
services in Durres, Fier, Lezhe and Saranda. The wording of the PDOs is largely
identical with the exception of the financial viability that the PDOs, according to the
wording in the PAD, specify should be achieved. The difference is likely due to
imprecise wording since the performance target set for the Working Ratio under the
Management Contract was 1.1. A working ratio, defined as the ratio between cash
operating and maintenance costs and cash operating revenue, must be less than unity in
order for financial viability to be achieved. For purposes of the ICR therefore, the PDO
wording in the DCA is retained.

Performance Indicators: Key performance indicators for the project were: (i) Safety and
Quality ­ measured by percentage of water quality analyses meeting faecal coliform
standards; (ii) Reliability ­ measured by (daily) number of hours of water supply;
(iii) Financial Viability, Efficiency and Sustainability ­ measured by collection rates and
financial working ratios; and (iv) Service to the poor and needy ­ measured by increase
in the percentage of the total population in the service area with a minimum of two hours
of daily water supply. The extent of progress towards achieving the performance targets


                                              2
was to be directly related to the annual Performance-based Incentive Compensation (PIC)
payment to the Operator, which was to be annually reviewed and verified by an
Independent Technical Reviewer (ITR).

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

The project's development objective was not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,

The primary beneficiaries of the project were the population in the service areas of the
Durres, Fier, Lezhe and Saranda Utilities, totaling about 350,000 people, who were
expected to benefit from improved WSS services in terms of safety and quality as well as
hours of supply. In addition to direct benefits such as increased convenience and
consumer satisfaction with improved water supply, improvements in water quality are
deemed to contribute to public health benefits by reducing the risk of waterborne diseases
in the project areas. Indirect beneficiaries of the project included the Durres, Fier, Lezhe
and Saranda utilities and Central and local governments. The strategic choice to use an
experienced international water utility Operator under a MC was seen as a means of
overcoming the existing utilities' weak managerial and technical capacity in the short-
term with direct and long-lasting benefits for their financial and technical performance.
Central government also benefitted from the project's direct support to its development
agenda for the infrastructure sector to improve service delivery in the four economically
important cities. Technical Assistance provided to support establishment of a
Benchmarking system for the WSS utilities also benefitted Central Government's
monitoring capacity for the entire sector. Finally, in supporting the government's
decentralization agenda promoting management of WSS services by setting up
transparent and inclusive mechanisms at the level of local government for decision-
making, implementation, and management of WSS services, the project was designed to
empower local governments to eventually manage these services in a more efficient
manner.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The components of the project were as follows:

Component 1 ­ Management Contract (estimated cost US$4.40 million, or 20.5% of
total project costs): This component financed the costs of a five-year MC. These costs
included a base fee and a performance-based fee to be paid to the Operator based on the
achievement of targets defined in the contract. The Operator was to be given full
responsibility for managing an investment program; operating the water supply and
sewerage systems; developing and implementing a demand management program,
including a public awareness campaign; and implementing improved commercial (billing
and collection) and financial management systems.




                                             3
Component 2 ­ Investment Fund (Estimated cost US$ 13.76 million, or 64.2% of total
project costs): The Investment Fund (IF) financed works, goods, and services aimed at
improving the operation of the water supply and sanitation services in the four cities and
achieving the performance targets in the MC. The Operator would propose an annual
investment plan and propose revisions, if necessary. The investment plan, including any
revision to it, was subject to clearance by the Executive Committee1 (EC) which was in
charge of the project on behalf of the Government, and the Bank.

Component 3 ­ Technical Assistance (TA) and PIU (estimated cost US$3.27 million, or
15.3% of total project costs): This component was to strengthen project implementation
by supporting the Project Implementation Unit (PIU), including salaries, training,
vehicles, and incremental operating costs; and various consulting services for supervision
of the MC and audits, studies, and field investigations related to the Project. In addition,
the component was to possibly finance services, goods, and works to support important
elements of sector and institutional reform, such as preparation of PSP options after the
termination of the MC, benchmarking of water utilities, support for a public consultation
program on water sector issues, support for the newly-founded water utility association
and a national vocational center for the sector, and preparation of other proposed water
sector projects throughout Albania. Part of the TA would be provided for reform of the
rural water and sanitation sector, and would include assistance for establishing the Rural
Water and Sanitation Agency (RWSA); developing a statute and operational manual for
the RWSA; providing assistance to the RWSA and to the Albanian Development Fund
(ADF); benchmarking the rural water and sanitation sector, and preparing a Rural Water
Project scheduled for FY05.

1.6 Revised Components

While the project components were not officially revised, the original scope of TA
activities was reduced during the course of implementation due to changing government
priorities. In particular, TA activities related to reform of the rural water and sanitation
sector and preparation of a Rural Water Project that had been scheduled for FY05 were
not carried out although an official restructuring was not done for the project. The
project however leveraged other resources to carry out some of the activities. For
instance, some of the reforms were addressed within the context of a Development Policy
Loan (DPL) which was prepared in parallel with the project between 2007 and 2009, with
the Bank's support. The DPL was eventually dropped, but also failed to achieve
significant movement on the issue of reducing subsidies which was to have further
incentivized better management of the utilities. Additionally, activities such as the public
consultation program on water sector issues were addressed through a separate Public
Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility (PPIAF) grant which financed, in addition to a study
on local private sector participation in water supply, a public communications campaign.




1
  The Executive Committee comprising representatives from the line Ministries and local governments was
responsible for supervising the MC on behalf of the Government.


                                                  4
1.7 Other significant changes

Scope of Investment Fund: Some investments originally envisaged to be financed
through the Investment Fund were ultimately cancelled due to escalating costs and
exchange rate losses experienced after delays in preparation of the investment plans by
the PO. Some of these activities were later financed through government grants after
termination of the MC. Investments specifically targeting sanitation that were envisaged
at appraisal, such as: implementation of a Septage Management program; development
and implementation of a sewer and drainage canal network cleaning program; preparation
of maps of the sewer network and development of a computer model of the network were
eventually not implemented by the Operator with agreement by the Executive Committee
and the Bank.

Reallocation of Credit Proceeds: During project implementation two reallocations of the
credit proceeds occurred, first in May 2007 and second in July 2008, totalling an SDR
984,000 increase in the Works category of the disbursement schedule. The reallocation
was requested because of the: (i) exchange rate changes between the SDR (which was the
currency of the Credit) and the Euro and Albanian Lek, (ii) additional investments
requested during the implementation, and (iii) increase of the prices of the construction
materials. The second reallocation involved the increase of the Government contribution
to 50% of the construction works in order to keep all payment commitments to ongoing
contracts and finance additional investments.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

The project was the first water project in Albania involving PSP through a MC and
project preparation and implementation involved a learning process for stakeholders at all
levels. Moreover, during the project preparation period the water sector in Albania was in
a state of flux, with significant reforms being undertaken as prerequisites for
implementing the new approach. Set within this context, specific factors during project
preparation and design that affected implementation and outcomes both positively and
negatively are analyzed below.

(a) Soundness of background analysis and reforms: The objectives were clear and
responsive to Albania's development priorities and the Bank's assistance strategy. Project
preparation and design were shaped by the Bank's experience and lessons learned in the
preparation and implementation of water projects in Albania, projects involving PSP
through Management Contracts in the Region and elsewhere, and Economic and Sector
Work (ESW) in the water and energy sectors. The advancement of key sector reforms
and stakeholder involvement during project preparation indicated central and local
government commitment to the project. Sector reforms were initiated early in project
preparation and participating utilities were transformed into commercial companies
before the project started. To allow the four utilities to enter into a single contract with
the Operator, a water company agreement was signed among the companies, which
regulated the relationships between them and with the Operator. The decentralization of


                                             5
responsibilities for water and wastewater services to local governments, which was
officially launched in January 2002 (although in fact it has taken much longer to transfer
almost all utilities to the local government units, until 2008) provided utilities together
with the local governments with the right to make all operation and investment decisions
as well as to set tariffs.

Critical risks to the project successfully meeting its objectives were identified upfront and
although measures to mitigate them were identified, in reality actual achievements were
dependent on the presence of a set of exogenous factors such as: the level of political
support at all levels for proposed measures such as tariff increases; the quality,
experience and interpersonal skills of the Operator's staff and not just the reputation of
the firm; and most importantly the misalignment between the existing legal and
regulatory framework and the Management Contract with respect to authority and
responsibilities of the utilities' Supervisory Board and the Operator. Another critical risk
not addressed during preparation concerning issues relating to the potential need for staff
reductions. Overall, in hindsight there appears to have been somewhat overstated
optimism during preparation and design with respect to the potential benefits of the
Management Contract in terms of performance improvements. Although there was no
formal Quality at Entry assessment carried out for the project by QAG, the ICR rates the
quality at entry as Moderately Satisfactory, given the close attention paid to relevant
lessons and good practice in design of Management Contracts, the effective policy
dialogue between the Bank and the Government which resulted in significant reforms,
and the stakeholder involvement in the project, as well as the shortcomings in assessing
some of the risks and the legal and regulatory framework for supporting the Management
Contract.

(b) Shortcomings in Design of the Management Contract: These included:
    (i) The geographic spread and diversity of participating cities:              The four
             participating cities combined under the single Management Contract are
             spread over a total distance of 250 km and vary in size and customer structure.
    (ii) Governance Framework: There was a misalignment between the existing legal
             and regulatory framework governing responsibilities for managing water and
             sanitation services in Albania and the Management Contract. Consequently
             there was a conflict in competencies between the Operator and the
             Supervisory Boards of the utilities which had ultimate authority for key
             decisions such as staffing, ultimately limiting the control of the former over
             key decisions. This problem was raised on several occasions by the Bank
             team, but was not resolved.
    (iii)Institutional arrangements: The government set up an Executive Committee
             comprising seven officials representing key stakeholders, three from central
             government and one from each local government, to oversee the project. The
             Committee was supposed to meet three or four times a year. However,
             meetings were not held regularly and attendance was often poor.




                                             6
2.2 Implementation

(a) Global economic situation: The global escalation in the cost of oil and the credit
crisis which caused extraordinary inflationary pressures on commodities and energy costs
affected the financial performance of the utilities as well as implementation of some
investment and consultancy contracts.

(b) Staffing issues for both Implementing Agencies and the Operator: The Contract
Monitoring Unit (CMU), which was also the acting project implementation unit (PIU) for
other projects in the sector in Albania, was understaffed especially at the start of the
Contract, had a high staff turnover, and at one point between 2006-07 the unit lacked key
personnel. This affected its effectiveness as Government's overseer of the Operator's
activities, leading to slow response time for decision-making and delays in processing of
payments. The turnover of utility directors and mayors in some cities was also high and
resulted in frequent loss of institutional memory and changing priorities and levels of
commitment to the project. In addition, there was a high turnover in the Operator's key
personnel especially at the commencement of the Management Contract and key staff
were changed three times at the request of the Bank and the Government due to sub-
optimal performance.

(c) Implementation delays: The Operator submitted most of the investment and
operational improvement programs with more than 8 months delay. Delays in
procurement necessitated abandoning of some planned contracts envisaged in earlier
procurement plans including civil works investments under the Investment Fund due to
cost escalation and exchange rate losses. Delays in providing approvals by the EC and
MWPTT also resulted in delayed payments to the Operator and other contractors at
various times during implementation, impacting project implementation.

(d) Investment budget vis-à-vis needs: In the MWWP the IF was spread out too thin
compared to the investment needs of the cities, so that the impact especially in the larger
cities such as Durres which had significant investment needs (to the tune of Euro 100
million) was very limited.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The CMU with the support of an independent technical and financial auditor (the
Independent Technical Reviewer (ITR)) was responsible for monitoring progress against
the performance indicators agreed in the Management Contract. The Contract required
the Operator to provide information on a monthly, quarterly and annual basis regarding
all operations and maintenance activities, financial operations, progress towards
implementing other deliverables under the technical assistance components. The ITR,
who was supposed to visit the project two times a year, verified the improvements
achieved on an annual basis over the term of the Contract and the Operator's
Performance Incentive Compensation (PIC) was paid on his recommendation. The
performance indicators for the project were set on the basis of the targets for earning the
highest Performance Incentive Compensation under the Management Contract. In
hindsight, in light of the dire state of sector infrastructure and the huge investment needs


                                             7
prior to the project particularly in cities such as Durres and Fier, it was unrealistic to
expect very significant improvements in services from the Management Contract, and the
targets for the project could have been more realistic.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Environmental Assessment: Project design took into account the Bank's safeguards
policies and included procedures and implementation arrangements to ensure full
consideration of environmental safeguards in accordance with OP 4.01. The project was
rated Financial Intermediary (FI) given that specific physical investments to be financed
through the Investment Fund were to be defined by the Operator during the course of the
project. There were no major issues related to environmental management under the
project thus the ICR rates it satisfactory.

Social Assessment: A social assessment was carried out as part of project preparation.
However it appears to have focused more on as water users as the main stakeholders and
not enough on other important stakeholders to the Management Contract, such as utility
staff who could be affected by the Contract, or parliamentarians and other political
leaders who impacted implementation.

Involuntary Resettlement: OP 4.12 was not triggered since no land acquisition was
anticipated under the project. Nonetheless a clause was included in the Contract
requiring the Operator to identify and address in collaboration with government any
potential resettlement issues in the annual investment plan. There were no issues relating
to land acquisition during implementation.

Procurement: Overall procurement of most contracts, which was carried out by the
Operator under the Management Contract and later by the CMU, was undertaken in a
satisfactory manner with moderate problems such as delays. There was an additional
problem relating to the transfer of the procurement function from the Operator to the
CMU. A post-review conducted in November 2008 after the Contract closed revealed
that the Operator had not returned important procurement records such as bids, bidding
documents, bank guarantees, signed copies of contracts, advertisements, and the Bank's
no-objections to the Borrower as was required under the Contract. The Bank raised the
issue with the Government and most of the documents were eventually returned, with the
exception of some of the documentation relating to nine (4 prior and 5 post review) of the
69 contracts procured. The Operator finally returned the documents several months later
after the Bank threatened misprocurement. The ICR rates management of the
procurement function moderately unsatisfactory.

Financial Management: The Bank Financial Management supervision team regularly
reviewed the systems and provided timely advice to the CMU to strengthen them.
Financial management of the project was carried out in compliance with provisions of the
legal agreements with minor shortcomings, and was assessed by the Bank Financial
Management specialists to be satisfactory.




                                            8
2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

After completion of the Management Contract in August 2008, responsibility for
operations and maintenance (O&M) of the facilities was supposed to revert to the utilities
whose ownership in line with the Government's decentralization policy has in principle
been transferred to the respective local governments. The transition process to the local
governments has faced some obstacles in the case of Lezhe and Durres which have
refused to assume the responsibility for managing their respective systems. The conflict
between the central Government and the respective cities appears to be about the role
played by each mayor in the oversight of the utility. As a result the governance of at least
the Durres and Lezhe utilities can best be described as uncertain. There is need for
continued government oversight and support to ensure that the transfer is complete and
adequate arrangements including budget and staffing are in place to continue to operate
and maintain the systems in a sustainable manner. Dialogue is still ongoing to improve
the enabling framework and sustain sector reforms as well as on development of future
programs to be financed by the Bank, the Government and other donors in Albania. In
September 2009, the Municipality of Fier received a soft loan of Euro 10 million from
KfW to finance reconstruction and modernization of the water supply systems to provide
24-hour water supply. Lehze and Saranda have also received loans from KfW.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
Rating: High

The relevance of the project development objective of improving the safety, reliability,
efficiency, quality and financial viability of the water supply and sanitation services in
Durres, Fier, Lezhe and Saranda is rated high. This objective is aligned with the second
pillar of the joint Bank-IFC CAS for Albania for FY06-09 which focused on improving
public service delivery particularly in the social sectors, with outcomes including
improved public infrastructure and access to safe rural water supply and sanitation.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The project aimed at improving the safety, reliability, efficiency, quality and financial
viability of the water supply and sanitation services in Durres, Fier, Lezhe and Saranda
by introducing an incentive-based multi city Management Contract with an
internationally experienced private utility operator. In order to achieve the objective, the
Operator was responsible for: operating the water supply and sewerage services in the
four utilities; managing the priority Investment Program to rehabilitate water supply and
sewerage systems in each city; developing and implementing a demand management
program; and developing and implementing improved commercial (billing and
collection) and financial management systems. Table 1 below provides a summary of the
results in the four cities at the end of the Management Contract based on achievement of
the key performance indicators for the project. From the results, 19 out of 20
performance indicators measuring the safety, quality, reliability and efficiency of water


                                             9
supply services improved overall as a result of the Project, albeit to varying extents in
different cities. Specific outcomes included improvements in water supply services, in
particular: (i) increased continuity of supply in all four cities; (ii) increased number of
customers with at least two hours a day in all cities; (iii) improved water quality in all
cities; and (iv) improved collection rates in all cities. In some instances however the
performance targets set in the Management Contract were only partially achieved. The
project was also able to contribute to strengthening of the utilities to manage water supply
and sanitation services in a more efficient and effective manner through some of the
operational improvement programs established through the Management Contract.
Notable outcomes included: (i) improvements in efficiency of billing operations as a
result of installation of Billing software in all four cities; (ii) improvements in financial
management transparency, accountability and reporting through introduction of new
Accounts software in all utilities except Durres which was unwilling to adopt the new
systems; and (iii) increase in metering from about 16% to 43% of customers over the
course of the project, resulting in improved demand management.

Table 1: Summary of the Performance Indicators at the end of the Management Contract
                                  Service Area     Water Quality
                Continuity of                                              Collection    Working
                                    with 2hrs       compliance
                Supply (hrs)                                               rate (%)       Ratio
                                   supply (%)          (%)
Durres
  Base Year           2.1              38                96                   39            4.8
  Year 5              3.3              100              98.9                  56            1.7
  Target               6               76               98.5                  79            1.1
Fier
  Base Year          6.2               88                98                   33            4.9
  Year 5             17.9              100              99.9                  81            1.5
  Target              13               98               98.5                  79            1.1
Lehze
  Base Year           20               95                55                   33            6.7
  Year 5             20.5              922              99.7                  64            1.6
  Target             23.8              99               98.5                  79            1.1
Saranda
  Base Year           1.8              46                88                   33            6.1
  Year 5              6.3              100              100                   73            2.6
  Target              12               93               98.5                  79            1.1
Legend                           Fully                         Partially                     Not
                                Achieved                       achieved                    achieved

In addition to improvements in quality and efficiency of services there were significant
improvements in the collection rates and overall financial position in all four utilities
which were in dire financial shape at the start of the project. All four utilities' Working
Ratios had improved by the end of the Management Contract although they did not meet
the performance target of 1.1 Working Ratio and remained unable to fully recover their
operating costs. The main reasons for the financial outcome were tariffs below operating
costs and high operating costs. Factors such as increases in energy costs which almost

2
  In the Case of Lehze, the size of service area increased as a result of extension of the water supply
network to a new area, distorting the achievement of this indicator.


                                                  10
doubled over the course of the project and failure to fully implement the Human
Resources Plan which recommended reductions in utility staff, contributed to the high
operating costs. The governance in the Albanian water supply and sanitation sector is still
dysfunctional in many aspects, including the setting and enforcement of financial and
tariff policies, and there is practically no water utility in Albania that is close to achieving
a financial working ratio below unity. Moreover, considering the ready availability of
operating subsidies it is unrealistic to expect any one utility to exert itself to reduce the
financial working ratio below unity and the utilities continue to rely on central
government operating subsidies and grants. Nonetheless at the macro level it may be
inferred that the Project helped contribute to reducing the overall fiscal burden by
improving the financial position of the utilities thereby reducing the level of subsidy
required.

Monitoring and benchmarking of the performance of water utilities across Albania was
also improved through establishment of a Sector Monitoring and Benchmarking program
within the MoPWT. In light of the above improvements in the safety, reliability,
efficiency, quality and financial viability overall in the four cities, and the full or partial
achievement of 19 out of the 20 targets, the efficacy of the PDO is rated moderately
satisfactory.

3.3 Efficiency

An economic and financial analysis was conducted at project appraisal, and the internal
rate of return and NPV were calculated. Apart from the financial analysis of the
performance of the four utilities under the project (see Annex 3), an ex-post calculation
of the internal rate of return and NPV at project closing is presented below (Table 2).

                 Table 2: Results of Cost-Benefit Analysis at Project Completion
                                          Economic                        Financial
                                 At appraisal At completion     At appraisal    At completion
NPV in Lek million                  780.0         (1,484)          752.5            (1,854)
Internal Rate of Return (IRR)        15%            N/A             15%               N/A

The economic and financial rates of return were both 15% and the NPVs are Lek 780 and
752.5 million respectively at appraisal. The discount rate used is 10%, which is IDA's
generally accepted and used hurdle rate for water supply projects. The quantifiable
benefits of the projects measured in monetary terms were resource savings (energy and
personnel cost savings). The main quantifiable benefit was assumed to come from the
increased collection rates. At project closing the four utilities improved their financial
positions but did not hit the target of turning around to a self-financed operation, and to
generate positive cash flow. This outcome affected the NPV of economic and financial
analysis that resulted negative, and therefore, the IRR could not be calculated. The
collected revenues with project did not show net increase, while the cost of electricity and
of the personnel had a steady net increase during 2003­2009. Detailed analysis is
presented in Annex 3. Nonetheless, because of the service improvements there is
confidence regarding the non-quantifiable economic benefits resulting from the Project at



                                               11
the sector and macro levels. In the Project areas, improved water supply services is
expected to have achieved benefits such as reducing the risk of water-related diseases and
reducing the coping expenditures due to better water quality and more equitable water
allocations. At the macro level, the Project helped contribute to reducing the overall
fiscal burden by improving the financial position of the utilities thereby reducing the
level of subsidy, which is a major concern of the Government in the sector. Overall the
ICR rates efficiency as moderate considering the total investment per capita
(approximately US$40 per capita) under this project vis-à-vis the results achieved.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The overall outcome rating for the project is moderately satisfactory as a composite
rating of its high relevance, moderately satisfactory efficacy, and moderate efficiency.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
The project design specifically took into account the poor in the service area by providing
incentives to the Operator to deliver water to the entire population for at least two hours a
day, which would satisfy at a minimum the basic needs of the poor, a large number of
whom live in neighborhoods that received less than two hours a day. This was achieved
in all cities with the exception of Lezhe.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
At the central government level, one of the main sector-wide benefits of the project is the
development of the Monitoring and Benchmarking Program which has improved overall
performance monitoring of the water sector. In addition, at the utility level there were
marked improvements in staff capacity with regard to commercial and financial
management through installation of the new billing and accounting systems and training
in their use. The transfer of technical skills from the Operator to utility staff appears to
have been limited however with regard to some intended aspects such as management
and technical functions due to an apparent failure on the part of some utilities to second
their staff to attend several of the planned training. Overall, the ICR rates impacts on
institutional strengthening as moderately satisfactory.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
There were no other significant unintended outcomes or impacts that can be attributed to
the project.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

A stakeholder workshop to discuss the results and the lessons learned from the MWWP
was held on July 2, 2008. The workshop concluded that the Management Contract was
in essence implemented satisfactorily by the Operator, although there were difficulties,
and that any future project in Albania involving such a Management Contract concept
would require some revisions, particularly with respect to legal provisions, delegation of


                                              12
powers, procedures and responsibilities. It further concluded that the ultimate goal is
potentially achievable if utilities adhere to the principles of good governance and
implement the recommendations from the Human Resources Plan, improve billing
collection and consider raising tariffs to the recommended levels. Details on the
workshop are provided in Annex 6.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Substantial

There is a substantial risk that development outcomes achieved under the project in terms
of service quality improvements and financial viability of the utilities may not be
maintained. The first risk to the development outcomes relates to the utilities in the
participating cities not only failing to generate sufficient revenues to achieve financial
viability, which in fact they were not able to do under the project, but also to maintain
those improvements achieved. The utilities need to be able to lower their operating costs,
adjust tariffs as needed, and to maintain high collection rates if they are to improve their
financial viability. Throughout implementation raising of tariffs was a contentious
political issue that affected the financial outcomes. The second risk, related to the first, is
the increased risk that physical investments made through the project and the associated
service improvements and operational standards attained would not be sustained due to
inadequate resources for proper operations and maintenance leave alone capital
investments for upgrading systems. The ICR recommends an evaluation of the indicators
at a later date, say three to five years after the closing the MC, to assess whether the
results have been sustained. The third risk relates to governance of the institutions if the
institutional support provided through the new structures is not adequate to provide the
required support to the utilities to sustain the development outcomes. Completion of the
transfer of utilities to local governments will require strong political support and local
government ownership and commitment. Sustainability of the project outcomes will
depend on the utilities' adherence to the principles of good governance and implementing
the actions to achieve financial viability. KfW is taking over assistance to Saranda,
Lehze and Fier, as a result of renewed coordination among donors on the municipal water
sector.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
Bank performance is rated moderately satisfactory for quality at entry of the project. The
rating reflects the assessment that although sufficient resources were devoted to preparing
the project and that the background analysis and design duly considered most of the
relevant issues; inadequate attention appears to have been paid to ensuring that the
Management Contract was fully aligned with the legal and regulatory framework for the
water sector in Albania at the time.




                                              13
(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory
Overall, the quality of Bank supervision is rated satisfactory. Again, the rating reflects
the fact that adequate budget and staff resources with an appropriate skill mix were
allocated for supervision throughout the project implementation period, and supervision
missions were carried out at least twice a year by the team, including for fiduciary and
safeguards aspects. Although there was an issue related to inadequate transfer of
procurement records by the Operator after the Management Contract closed, the Bank
team was instrumental in following up with the relevant parties to ensure that the
documents were returned by the Operator. Although not party to the Management
Contract, the supervision team made efforts to bring key issues that needed to be
addressed to the attention of the Government and to mediate between the parties to help
solve potential disagreements.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The ICR rates the overall Bank performance as moderately satisfactory combining the
moderately satisfactory performance for quality at entry of the project and satisfactory
performance during implementation.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The rating combines the performance of the Government during preparation and
implementation of the project. The Government worked closely with the Bank team
during preparation of the Project and demonstrated its commitment by carrying out
significant sector reforms including transformation of the WSS utilities in the four cities
participating in the project into joint stock companies owned by the municipalities, and
adoption of a series of resolutions and decrees to strengthen PSP. It established the
Executive Committee (EC) comprising representatives from the line Ministries and local
governments with responsibility for supervising the Management Contract. It did not
however do enough to support timely resolution of some of the regulatory and
governance issues on a policy level that hindered implementation progress in spite of the
issues being raised by the Bank. The involvement of local government during
implementation was limited given that the process of transferring the utilities to the
municipalities, a process outside of the project, was not completed in a timely manner.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
Assessment of implementing agency performance is based on the aggregated assessment
of the performance of the individual agencies/institutions involved in managing the
project. The Executive Committee and Contract Monitoring Unit performance are rated
moderately unsatisfactory and moderately satisfactory, respectively. While overall both
institutions supervised and supported the Project amidst the existing governance
constraints, there were shortcomings in their performance such as delayed processing of
payments and slow response times to submissions from the Operator. The Executive
Committee met only sporadically and meetings were not always well attended. The


                                            14
utilities' performance is also rated moderately satisfactory. Generally the utilities worked
with the Operator within the structure of the Contract to implement the project, with
some more responsive than others. In particular for instance, there is evidence of
inadequate responsiveness to the Operator in some cities such as Durres where the
Operator was denied full access to records and facilities required to fulfill some of their
duties or where the utility failed to delegate staff to attend training offered by the
Operator. The other cities were more responsive.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The rating for Borrower performance combines the ratings for the Government's and the
aggregated rating of the implementing agencies' performance during preparation and
implementation as well as consideration of the overall outcomes rating for the project in
general.

6. Lessons Learned

   (i) Performance-based Management Contracts can be effective for improving WSS
           systems, but they cannot be expected to be fully effective if the sector's
           governance framework does not adequately support key elements of the
           concept such as full delegation to the private operator of decision-making
           responsibilities concerning management of utility operations. Adequate
           attention must be paid during design of Management Contracts to ensure that
           they are fully aligned to the existing legal and regulatory framework to avoid
           any issues that could potentially undermine the effectiveness of the Contract.
   (ii) Investment budgets under Management Contracts should be sufficient in relation
           to existing needs if they are to have an impact on the quality of service in line
           with expectations of the clients.
   (iii)Risks associated with staffing reductions need to be highlighted upfront in PADs,
           especially where project outcomes are partly dependent on the reductions.
           Moreover, where such reductions are recommended in a project, staff should
           be recognized as key stakeholders and their concerns considered in the social
           analysis.
   (iv) Technical reviewers for Performance-based Management Contracts should be
           appointed prior to commencement of the Contracts to allow their involvement
           in collection of the baseline data on sector performance and input on reporting
           requirements in order to improve the M&E function for the MC. In this case,
           the IR only came on board several months after the Management Contract
           commenced and took issue with the reporting arrangements and some of the
           baseline indicators.
   (v) The quality of the Operator's individual staff is of paramount importance to the
           success of Management Contracts. While originally offered staff appeared to
           possess the required qualifications, the Operator changed the expatriate staff
           of its management team three times. The frequent changes increased the
           difficulties of Operator staff to become knowledgeable of the systems and of
           the sector governance and in the end reduced their effectiveness.



                                            15
   (vi) Performance indicators should be properly aligned with the development
            objectives if they are to be effective in monitoring and evaluation of not just
            the Management Contract but also the project outcomes.
   (vii) Performance indicators should be designed to capture all critical elements of
            service performance more effectively in order to encourage Operators to focus
            on improving services in all key areas. Unaccounted-for water was not a
            performance indicator in this Management Contract, hence although it was
            high (more than 70%), it was not considered a priority by the Operator and did
            not improve significantly.
   (viii) Design of project implementation schedules should be realistic in order to
            maintain realistic expectations on the part of clients and allow contractors to
            deliver quality programs. In this case about 50% of the programs were due
            within 90 days after the Start Date, which was deemed insufficient time for
            the Operator to fully understand the country and local environment and the
            issues on the ground, collect data, and complete procurement of urgent
            investments and development of meaningful operational improvement
            programs.
   (ix) Preparatory work for Management Contracts should involve thorough assessment
            of the political economy of the sector to assess the level of commitment of key
            stakeholders and participating utilities. The commitment of utilities could
            have been better assessed during preparation, for instance by requiring them to
            meet higher pre-project hurdles to demonstrate local ownership of the project.
   (x) The Bank needs to give adequate attention to strengthening support for contract
            management during implementation and not just for procurement of contracts.
            Much effort was put in preparation and procurement of the Management
            Contract to ensure that the Borrower got value for money. However less effort
            seems to have been put on contract management during implementation to
            address arising problems in order to be able to deliver the desired results.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

(b) Cofinanciers
Not applicable.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
Not applicable.




                                           16
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                     Actual/Latest
                               Appraisal Estimate                                         Percentage of
          Components                                Estimate (USD
                                 (USD millions)3                                           Appraisal
                                                       millions)4
 MANAGEMENT CONTRACT                    4.40                4.97                                113
 INVESTMENT FUND                       12.08               17.95                                149
 TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
AND PROJECT                             2.95                1.96                                 66
IMPLEMENTATION UNIT
 PPF REFINANCING                        0.50                0.50                                100

            Total Baseline Cost                    19.93                  25.38
Physical Contingencies                              0.75
Price Contingencies                                 1.25
             Total Project Costs                   21.93                  25.38
Front-end fee PPF                                   0.00                   0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                                  0.00                   0.00
      Total Financing Required                     21.93                  25.38                 116


(b) Financing
                                                               Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                                Type of        Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
              Source of Funds
                                              Cofinancing       (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                               millions)  millions)5
                                             Government
Borrower                                     counterpart           6.93            7.21             104
                                             funds
                                                              15.00 Credit  17.03
International Development
Association (IDA)
                                             Credit            (SDR 11.4 (SDR 11.28                   99
                                                              equivalent) equivalent)




3
    This cost was net of taxes.
4
    There are discrepancies between the appraisal and actual costs due mainly to exchange rate fluctuations.

5
 There is a discrepancy between the total financing amounts provided and the final project costs provided
by the Borrower, partly due to factors such as the exchange rate fluctuations and consideration of taxes and
duties.



                                                       17
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1 ­ Management Contract: The project successfully implemented a five-
year incentive-based, multi-city Management Contract with an internationally
experienced private utility operator in accordance with the project design. The Operator
under the Management Contract was responsible for implementing the Investment Fund
to support short-term and operating investments to improve operations and maintenance
(O&M) and support in the rehabilitation of WSS systems in addition to a number of
Operational Improvement Programs to improve utility performance. The following
section summarizes the key outputs resulting from the Management Contract with respect
to these outputs.

Notable outcomes of the Operational Improvement Programs implemented by the
Operator as part of the Management Contract include:
   · Improvements in efficiency of billing operations as a result of installation of
       billing software in all four cities.
   · Improvements in financial management transparency, accountability and
       reporting through introduction of new accounts software in all utilities except
       Durres which was unwilling to adopt the new systems.
   · Improvements in demand management. Meter installation has resulted in a
       reduction of consumption and therefore a reduction in billing. 43% of domestic
       customers were metered by the end of the MC, up from 16% at the beginning of
       the project.

Several outcomes from the Operational Improvement Programs envisaged at appraisal
were however not achieved by the Operator. For instance reductions in operation and
maintenance costs by reducing the high utility staffing levels were not achieved due to
failure to adopt the Human Resources Plans (HRPs) developed by the Operator to
gradually cut staff in all utilities. Although the HRP was finally approved towards the
end of the second Contract year, it encountered a lot of resistance from the individual
Utilities (except Lezhe) and the respective supervisory boards for realization of the Plan.
After five years of operations, the resulting staff levels in all four cities were higher than
the target levels set on the HRP. This is particularly the case for Durres and Fier with
respective levels 60% and 41% more than target. The situation in Saranda and Lezhe is
less pronounced, where targets have been exceeded by 11% and 7.5% respectively.
Furthermore, in failing to ensure that their staff attended some of the targeted trainings
carried out by the Operator, the potential institutional strengthening impact through
transfer of skills and capacity was reduced. In addition no systematic leak detection
program was carried out and unaccounted for water (UFW), though not officially a
performance indicator, remained at unacceptably high levels in all cities.




                                              18
                         Table A2.1: Trend in Staffing levels in the Utilities
                                         End Year       End Year       End Year         End Year   End Year
                         Base Year
                                             1              2              3                4          5
Durres Actual                342           419            419            425              444        460
Durres HRP                   342           329            316            303              300        286
Fier Actual                  227           227            227            227              221        235
Fier HRP                     227           214            201            200              200        166
Lezhe Actual                  94            96             96             91               90         86
Lezhe HRP                     94            91             88             85               88         80
Saranda Actual                73            75             74             73               73         68
Saranda HRP                   73            71             68             66               67         63
Total Actual                 736           817            816            816              828        849
Total Planned                736           705            673            654              655        595

Component 2 ­ Investment Fund: The Investment Fund (IF) through which short-term
and operating investments were made in the four cities was managed by the Private
Operator (PO). A summary of key investments is presented below. About 93% of the IF
which financed works, goods and services aimed at improving the operation of WSS
services was disbursed. Due to delays by the Operator in procuring and implementing
some contracts, they were implemented directly by the CMU and respective utilities after
the closing of the Management Contract.

            Table A2.2: Summary of Activities financed under the investment Fund
                             Agreed            Latest Best
                                                                                    Potential      Percent
     Contract               Contract           Completion          Percent
                                                                                    Overrun        Overrun
    Description           Amount into           Estimate            (%)
                                                                                     (US$)          (%)
                               US$                US$
Civil Works Durres         2,478,998.68        2,568,323.17          15.97%           89,324        3.60%
Civil Works Fier           4,575,272.19        4,743,637.26          29.49%          168,365        3.68%
Civil Works Lezhe          1,550,745.04        1,555,408.36           9.67%            4,663        0.30%
Civil Works Saranda        1,220,665.42        1,268,442.80           7.89%           47,777        3.91%
        Civil Works        9,825,681.33       10,135,811.59          63.01%          310,130        3.16%
     Supply of Good        3,537,956.92        3,721,918.20          23.14%          183,961        5.20%
 Consulting Services       1,419,562.20        2,227,108.91          13.85%          807,547       56.89%
               Total      14,783,200.45       16,084,838.70         100.00%        1,301,638.25     8.80%
Source: Spreadsheets of the Private Operator. US$ = United States Dollar. % = percent

The impact of the investments may be directly linked to achievement of some of the
project's performance targets. Impacts of the investments in larger cities such as Durres
and Fier were limited because of the magnitude of investment needs compared to the
funds available for the cities under the MWWP. Investments specifically targeting
sanitation such as the sewer cleaning and sewer network development program and the
septage management program, were not implemented hence impacts on sanitation were
not met.

Component 3 - Technical Assistance Program: Apart from project management, the
main successful outcome of the TA program relates to the introduction of a Monitoring
and Benchmarking Program for the entire water sector within the General Directorate of
Water and Sanitation (GDWS). The Program has been successful at improving the


                                                        19
quality of the data from the 54 water utilities in Albania. Other TA activities, such as
those relating to reforms in the rural water and sanitation sector, support for a public
consultation program on water sector issues, and preparation of PSP options after the
termination of the Management Contract, were not financed through the loan. It should
however be noted that some of the reforms were addressed within the context of a
Development Policy Loan (DPL) which was implemented in parallel with the project
between 2007 and 2009, with the Bank's support. This DPL was eventually dropped.
Activities such as the public consultation program on water sector issues were addressed
through a separate PPIAF grant which financed, in addition to a study on local private
sector participation in water supply.




                                           20
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Net Present Value/Economic rate of return. An economic and financial analysis was
conducted at project appraisal, and the internal rate of return and NPV were calculated.
An ex-post calculation of the internal rate of return and NPV at project closing was
performed.

Table A3.1 below shows the negative results of the economic NPV at project closing,
which explained also why the IRR could not to be calculated. A cost-benefit framework
was utilized at appraisal to assess the financial and economic viability, based on with and
without project scenarios. The economic rate of return was 15% and the NPV 780 Lek
million at appraisal. The discount rate used is 10%, which is IDA's generally accepted
and used hurdle rate for water supply projects. The quantifiable benefits of the projects
measured in monetary terms were resource savings (energy and personnel cost savings).
The main quantifiable benefit was assumed to come from the increased collection rates.

               Table A3.1: Results of Cost-Benefit Analysis at Project closing
                                                            Economic
                                             At appraisal              At completion
    NPV in Lek million                          780.0                      (1,484)
    Internal Rate of Return (IRR)                15%                         N/A

At project closing the four utilities improved their financial positions, but did not hit the
target of turning around to a self-financed operation, and generate positive cash flow.
Because of the efficiency improvements expected from the Private Operator under the
Management Contract, the assumption at appraisal was a net decrease in O&M expenses
(savings in energy and labor expenses). The collected revenues with project did not show
net increase. The collected revenues during the project implementation were about 55%
lower than anticipated at appraisal. As to the cost of electricity and of the personnel,
those resulted from 23% in 2003 to 76% in 2009, higher than anticipated at appraisal.

The improvements of the services from the four water utilities have contributed, however,
to the economic benefits, which are not quantifiable at the sector and macro levels, such
as: (a) reducing the risk of water related diseases, and (b) reducing the coping
expenditures due to better quality water and more equitable water allocations. At the
macro level, the Project affected positively on the overall fiscal burden by reducing the
level of subsidy, which is of major concern of the Government in the sector.

Financial rate of return. One of the main project objectives was to lead those four
facilities within the five-year project period (2003-2008) to financial independence.
According to the financial projections all four utilities were projected to break even in
2007, i.e. their collected revenues would cover 100% operating expenses.

The financial position of the four utilities after five years of the Management Contract
(2008) improved substantially from the base year (2002). However, the Private Operator
was not able to turn the four utilities into financially viable autonomous entities that
would be able to recover the increasing operation and maintenance costs of water and


                                             21
sanitation services, and repay their loans for investments. Actually, the four utilities are
incurring annual cash shortages which are being covered through Government operating
subsidy (see Table A3.2 on Financial Performance Indicators below).

                   Table A3.2 Summary of Financial Performance Indicators
                                                                        Project
                                                     2002                                      2008
                                                                       Appraisal
                                                  (Base Year)                                 Actual
                                                                       Document
 DURRES
   Domestic water tariff (Lek m3)                     21.1                56.2                 38.0
   Billed revenues (Lek million)                      211                 809                  447
   Collected revenues (Lek million)                    74                 679                  264
   Collection ratio (%)                                35                  84                   59
   Working ratio                                      4.8                  0.8                 2.3
   Current ratio                                      1.1                  4.0                 5.7
 FIER
   Domestic water tariff (Lek m3)                     20.0                44.0                 35.0
   Billed revenues (Lek million)                       92                 273                  169
   Collected revenues (Lek million)                    31                 227                  112
   Collection ratio (%)                                34                  83                   66
   Working ratio                                      4.9                  0.9                 2.4
   Current ratio                                      0.9                  5.4                 7.7
 LEZHE
   Domestic water tariff (Lek m3)                     15.0                54.5                 43.0
   Billed revenues (Lek million)                       19                 135                   62
   Collected revenues (Lek million)                     6                 112                   41
   Collection ratio (%)                                34                  83                   66
   Working ratio                                      6.7                  0.8                  2.1
   Current ratio                                      0.7                  4.1                 35.3
 SARANDE
   Domestic water tariff (Lek m3)                     15.0                45.3                 40.0
   Billed revenues (Lek million)                       13                 102                   71
   Collected revenues (Lek million)                     5                  84                   53
   Collection ratio (%)                                34                  83                   75
   Working ratio                                      6.1                  0.9                  1.3
   Current ratio                                      0.6                  2.7                 27.5
Source: MWWP, PAD, pg. 55, PICC Review, October 2008, IR, pg.26, 29, and KPMG Audit Reports

The ex-post calculation of the financial rate of return and NPV presented in Table A3.3
below reflects the failure of the four utilities to achieve the financial targets, i.e. the
incremental collected revenues and energy and personnel cost savings as a proxy for
project benefits, which were explained in the preceding paragraphs.

                Table A3.3: Results of financial rate of return at Project closing
                                                                       Financial
                                                        At appraisal               At completion
     NPV in Lek million                                    752.5                       (1,854)
     Internal Rate of Return (IRR)                          15%                          N/A




                                                   22
Loan repayment capability. The assumption taken in the PAD was that the IDA credit
would be on-lent to the four utilities from the Ministry of Finance for the same grace and
maturity periods (10/20 years) but at a higher interest rate of 1.5% per annum. As per the
sub-loan agreement, the four utilities will begin paying in full the interest on the sub-
loans (including the capitalized interest) starting from 2008. Because none of the four
utilities was able to reach the financial target, the Ministry of Finance and the boards of
the four utilities will have to review the sub-loan agreements to determine what change in
the terms (e.g., reschedule the loan repayment terms) is feasible and measures necessary
to be taken.




                                            23
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                             Responsibility/
           Names                           Title                 Unit
                                                                               Specialty
Lending
                              Task Team Leader/Sanitary
Andreas Rohde,                                                  ECSEE   Task Team Leader
                              Engineer
Kishore Nadkarni              Senior Financial Analyst              Financial Analyst
                                                                ECSEE
Takao Ikegami                 Senior Sanitary Engineer              Procurement Specialist
                                                                ECSEE
                                                                    Financial Management
Sandro Michiei                Financial Management Specialist ECCAL
                                                                    Specialist
Junko Funahashi               Counsel                         LEGEC Counsel
Rohit Mehta                   Finance Officer                 LOAGI Finance Officer
                              Senior Sanitary Engineer, Water       Sanitary Engineer, Water
Manuel Marino                                                 ECSEE
                              PSP Specialist                        PSP Specialist
                                                                    Financial Management
Olav Christensen              Financial Management Specialist ECSPS
                                                                    Specialist
                              Senior Water and Sanitation
Marie-Marguerite Bourbigot                                    ECSIE Water PSP Specialist
                              Specialist
Ahmed Jehani                  Lead Counsel                    LEGEC Lead Counsel
Salman Salman                 Lead Counsel                    LEGEN Lead Counsel
Rita Cestti                   Senior Environmental Specialist ECSSD Environmental Specialist
Hermine De Soto               Senior Social Scientist         ECSSD Social Scientist
Arben Bakllamaja              Project Officer                 ECSEE Project Officer
Claudio Purificato            Sanitary Engineer               ECSEE Sanitary Engineer
Xavier Chauvot de Beauchene   Consultant                      ECSEE Consultant
Maria Teresa R. Lim           Team Assistant                  ECSEE Team Assistant
Suhail J.S. Jme'An,           Peer Reviewer                   MNSIF Peer Reviewer
Supervision/ICR
                              Senior Water and Sanitation
Michael John Webster                                            ECSS6   Task Team Leader
                              Specialist
Amelita Velasco               Procurement Assistant             ECSC2   Procurement
Arben Bakllamaja              Consultant                        ECSSD   Financial Analyst
Artan Guxho                   Projects Officer                  ECSS5   Operations
Elda Hafizi                   Program Assistant                 ECCAL   Team Assistant
Elona Gjika                   Financial Management Specialist   ECSPS   Financial Management
                                                                        Institutional Advisor/ ICR
Klas B. Ringskog              Consultant                        ECSSD
                                                                        reviewer
Lynette Alemar                Senior Program Assistant          ECSSD   Team Assistant
Majed El-Bayya                Lead Procurement Specialist       ECSC2   Procurement
Maria Teresa R. Lim           Program Assistant                 ECSEE   Team Assistant
Sanyu Lutalo                  Environmental Engineer            ECSSD   ICR author




                                               24
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                               Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                                                              6
Stage of Project Cycle                                              USD Thousands (including
                                            No. of staff weeks
                                                                   travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY98                                           Not available                      156.54
  FY99                                           Not available                       75.08
  FY00                                              24.65                            94.89
  FY01                                              16.32                            52.19
  FY02                                              24.31                           136.26
  FY03                                              21.70                           131.61
  FY04                                                0.0                             0.01

                               Total:                                               646.58
Supervision/ICR
  FY95                                                                                0.00
  FY96                                                                                0.07
  FY97                                                                                0.00
  FY98                                          Not available                         0.16
  FY99                                          Not available                         0.09
  FY00                                               0.1                              0.53
  FY01                                          Not available                         0.00
  FY02                                          Not available                         0.11
  FY03                                              5.10                             54.76
  FY04                                             22.19                            143.56
  FY05                                             22.99                            111.30
  FY06                                             18.81                             81.64
  FY07                                             21.84                             94.79
  FY08                                             15.50                             75.84
 FY09                                              20.53                             88.04
 FY10                                              15.90                             56.64
                               Total:                                               707.46




6
  The SAP system of tracking staff weeks was not in place before 2000 hence accurate data on this is not
available.


                                                  25
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

A formal beneficiary survey was not carried out for the project.




                                            26
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

A workshop to discuss the results and the lessons learned from the Municipal Water and
Wastewater Project (MWWP) was held on July 2, 2008 at the Tirana International Hotel.
More than 30 delegates attended the workshop. Representation from the four cities was
lower than expected; only members of Lezhe and Fier Utilities attended; Saranda Utility
representative had to leave due to illness; and Durres Utility did not attend. Moreover,
none of the representatives of the municipalities from Durres, Fier, Lezhe and Saranda
attended.

PowerPoint presentations were given by the Independent Reviewer (IR), the Chairman of
the Executive Committee (EC) and the Private Operator (PO). Further orations were
provided from Lezhe and Fier utilities, the World Bank, the Ministry of Economy, Trade
and Energy, previous CMU Directors and from the Advisor on Water to the Prime
Minister's Office. The general inference was that the MWWP had been successful.

Main conclusions from the workshop. The basic development objective for
improvement to the water supply and sanitation services in the four participating cities
and to alleviate poverty by providing safe water access to all levels of society including
the poor had been achieved. Moreover, there have been general improvements in all
performance indicators since the commencement of the Project. This is especially the
case for the technical aspects, with continuity of water supply, water coverage within the
service area and water quality compliance improving markedly.

Financial indicators, although showing improvement, have failed to reach their intended
targets. This was particularly the case for the Working Ratio (cash operating
expenses/revenue collected) which needed to be less than 1 in order for the utilities to
have any chance of being financially sustainable. This ultimate goal is potentially
achievable if utilities adhere to the principles of good governance and implement the
recommendations from the Human Resources Plan, improve billing collection and
consider raising tariffs to the recommended levels.

The Management Contract (MC) was in essence implemented satisfactorily by the PO,
but there were difficulties, and any future project in Albania involving such a MC
concept needs revision, particularly regarding legal provisions, delegation of powers,
procedures and responsibilities.

Implementation constraints. The politicization of the sector has also been a hindrance in
the implementation of the MC and remains a key constraint to sustainability. High
turnover in senior staff from all stakeholders involved on the MWWP has also had a
negative influence on the results. All utilities continue to be too reliant on state subsidies
to cover energy costs, social insurance etc. Even though central government has
confirmed that such subsidies will eventually be phased out as part of the reform in the
water sector, there has been no concrete timeframe proposed for this.




                                             27
It is also apparent that the interest in the MWWP and its outcomes are not adequately
aligned, which can be partly corroborated by the disappointing turnout for the workshop
from the utilities, local government and municipalities. This is unfortunate, and also
quite surprising, as the ultimate responsibility for repayment of the IDA credit will
eventually fall upon the very same municipalities.

Concerns were also raised about the potential vacuum that could result by the sudden
departure of the PO on 4th August 2008 at the stipulated end of the MC. Although the PO
will be present (albeit in reduced numbers), until September 2008 in order to prepare the
Final Annual Report and the PIC Application for Year 5, the MC parties should consider
a more phased/tapered withdrawal of PO support from the cities (perhaps over a period of
6 months). This was in principle supported by the utility representatives that were
present. It was agreed that for the time remaining, the PO would concentrate efforts to
consolidate the gains made on the Project and would be diligent in ensuring that all
investments were handed over to the utilities in a correct and appropriate manner. It is
extremely important that the PO/EC-CMU together with the utilities communicate
regularly and use all their available resources to achieve this.




                                           28
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR




Development Objectives

The overall development objective of the MWWP was to introduce into Albania a new
incentive-based multi-city management contract approach to improve the water supply
and sanitation services and achieve financial viability in the participating water utilities of
Durres, Fier, Lezhe and Saranda. The positive outcome from the MWWP would be
improved water quality, quantity, and overall better environmental conditions within the
four towns. Moreover, the specific objectives of the MC implemented by the PO are:

   ·   Improve the standard and efficiency of the water and wastewater services of the
       Water Companies, with particular regard to improving the duration, reliability and
       disinfection quality of the water supply services
   ·   Increase consumer willingness to pay for water and wastewater services through a
       higher quality and more consumer responsive service




                                              29
   ·   Improve the financial performance of the Water Companies and achieve a
       financially sustainable operation
   ·   Train and develop the Water Companies staff to enable the improvements
       achieved by the Operator in management, operation and financial performance to
       be sustained beyond the term of the Contract,
   ·   Procure operations and maintenance equipment and repair and rehabilitate the
       infrastructure of the Water Companies under the Operation Investment Fund
       Program
   ·   Prepare and maintain investment plans for the application of capital funds during
       the term of the contract and assess the longer term investment needs

Design and Project Components

Design of the project took into consideration lessons learned in previous projects
including the DWSRP and WSURP Albania, as well as other projects in the region
(Georgia, Tajikistan, Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, Armenia and Kosovo), where management
contracts had been used for WSS services and positive results achieved. The MWWP
comprised of three components, namely:

Management Contract: This component financed the costs related to the five-year MC.
These costs included a base fee (paid monthly) and a performance-based fee (paid
annually) to be paid to the PO according to the achievement of targets defined in the MC.
The PO was given full responsibility for managing the investment program; operating the
water supply and sewerage systems; developing and implementing the demand
management program, including a public awareness campaign; and implementing
improved commercial (billing and collection) and financial management systems.

Investment Fund: The Investment Fund (IF) financed works, goods, and services aimed
at improving the operation of the water supply and sanitation services and achieving the
performance targets in the MC. The PO proposed investments that were required in an
annual investment plan and revisions, if necessary. The investment plan, including any
revisions was subject to clearance by the EC and the WB. The PO's plan for use of the
Operating Investment Fund (OIF) needed to comply with the categories of expenditures
listed in the WB Project Appraisal Document (PAD).

Technical Assistance and PIU: This component strengthened project implementation by
supporting the CMU, including salaries, training, vehicles, and incremental operating
costs; and various consulting services for supervision of the MC, audits, studies, and field
investigations related to the MWWP. In addition, the component financed services,
goods, and works to support important elements of sector and institutional reform, such
as:
    · preparation of PSP options after the termination of the MC;
    · benchmarking of water utilities;
    · support for a public consultation program on water sector issues;
    · support for the newly-founded water utility association and a national vocational
        centre for the sector,


                                            30
   ·   the Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Agency (RWSA) and
   ·   Preparation of other proposed water sector projects throughout Albania.

The allocated budgets are shown in Table A7.1 below.

                          Table A7.1: Allocated Budget of MWWP
                                Indicative
                                                  % of      WB financing         % of
         Component                Costs
                                                  Total       (US$M              Total
                                 (US$M)
Management Contract                4.90            22.3         4.40              29.3
Investment Fund                   13.76            62.7         7.78              51.9
Technical Assistance and CMU       3.12           14.2          2.67             17.4
Total Project Costs               21.93           100.0         15.00            100.0

An innovative part of the design of MWWP was to introduce an incentive based multi-
city management contract that measured the success of the project against specific
indicators, which are also the objects under which the incentive-based fee is measured.
The indicators proposed under such a management contract were as follows:
    · Reliability: Number of hours of water supply
    · Service to the Poor and Needy: Increase in the percentage of the total population
        in the service area with a minimum of two hours of daily water supply
    · Safety and Quality: Percentage of water quality analysis meeting faecal coliform
        standards
    · Financial Viability, Efficiency and Sustainability: Improvement of collection rate
        and working ratio

In order to address and improve the indicators the whole range of fields of operation of a
water utility as well as the attitude and response of customers were covered by the MC.
Under the assumption that a professional Utility operator knows best how to change and
improve the operations, the MC was designed such that in an initial phase the PO
prepares his own interlinked plans and programs with associated implementation
schedules for the duration of the MC. These plans and programs, subject to consent of the
EC, were then supposed to guide the gradual improvement of services.

Achievements of Objectives and Outputs

Obligations under the Management Contract. Services to be provided by the PO and
hence obligations under the Management Contract are described in the General
Conditions (GC) and in the Appendices, with the most relevant Appendices as regards
PO performance and attainment being:
   - Appendix 2: Description of the Services
   - Appendix 6: Performance Standards
   - Appendix 9: Performance Incentive Compensation
   - Appendix 12: Operating Investment Fund

The specific activities to be monitored by the EC and the CMU are listed in Article 5
(App.2) of the MC. The Performance Standards Appendix (App. 6) supplements the


                                             31
Services Appendix (App.2) and provides, through the Performance Standards Chart, time
limits for submission of plans and programs and their implementation.

Monitoring Provision. In order to help ensure the objectives and outputs of the
MWWP, the MC contained provisions for monitoring with an Independent Reviewer
(IR), who would perform duties in an impartial and independent manner to determine the
improvements the PO had achieved periodically over the term of the Contract, and agree
the value of any Performance Incentive Compensation (PIC) payments due. Following
an international pre-qualification process, the MPWTT entered into a Contract with an
Independent Reviewer (IR) in August 2004. 7 This Contract was timed to coincide with a
review on the first year of operational performance by the PO; the MC commencing in
August 2003. The IR was to undertake 10 visits to the MWWP project area during the 5
years duration of the MC; at approximately 6-monthly intervals.

General Performance Review. In order to effectively monitor the PO's obligations,
performance and achievements with respect to the MC, a total of 29 activities comprising
obligations and deliverables were included as part of the General Performance Review
Process. These were taken from Article 5, Appendix 2 of the MC and are summarised in
the following Table A7.2




7
  A Contract for Consultancy Services of the Independent Reviewer for the MWWP was signed on 5th August 2004
between MPWTT (formerly Ministry of Territory Adjustment and Tourism) and COWI AS (formerly Interconsult
International AS) of Norway as lead firm in the IR Consortium.


                                                    32
         Table A7.2: Summary of Main PO Obligations and Deliverables under the MC
Activi     Clause Ref.
 ty         No. From                    Description of PO Obligations under the MC
 No.      Art 5. App.2
          5.2            Activities Monitored by EC
  1       5.2 (1)        Prepare and Implement Human Resources Plan
  2       5.2 (2)        Propose and Implement Tariff Scheme
  3       5.2(3)(a)      Prepare and maintain Operating Investment Fund Annual Plan
  4       5.2(3)(b)      Prepare and maintain Master Investment Plan
  5       5.2(4)         Prepare Annual Report
          5.3            Activities Monitored by CMU
          5.3.1          Management/Administration
  6       5.3.1(1)       Prepare Base Year Data Report
  7       5.3.1(2)(a)    Develop and Implement Information System for Customer Services
  8       5.3.1(2)(b)    Develop and Implement Information System for Financial Accounting
  9       5.3.1(3)(a)    Develop and Implement Illegal Connections Program
 10       5.3.1(3)(b)    Develop and Implement Customer Meter Program
 11       5.3.1(4)(a)    Improve collection of Revenues (PIC Indicator)
 12       5.3.1(5)(a)    Develop and Implement Customer Services Improvement Program
 13       5.3.1(5)(b)    Develop and Implement Customer Services Training Program
 14       5.3.1(5)(c)    Develop and Implement Public Information Program
 15       5.3.1(5)(d)    Develop and Implement Customer Survey Program
          5.3.2          Operation and Maintenance
 16       5.3.2(1)(a)    Develop and Implement Minimum Water Supply Service Program (PIC
                         Indicator)
 17       5.3.2(1)(b)    Develop and Implement Continuity of Water Supply Service Program (PIC
                         Indicator)
 18       5.3.2(2)(a)    Develop and Implement Water Quality Monitoring Program (PIC Indicator)
 19       5.3.2(3)       Develop and Implement Leakage Reduction Program
 20       5.3.2(4)       Develop and Implement Septage Management Program
 21       5.3.2(5)       Develop, Implement and Maintain Mapping and Hydraulic Models Program
 22       5.3.2(6)(a)    Develop, Implement and Maintain Facilities Data Base
 23       5.3.2(6)(b)    Prepare Final Condition Survey
 24       5.3.2(7)       Prepare and Implement Corrective Maintenance Program
 25       5.3.2(8)       Prepare and Implement Preventive Maintenance Program
 26       5.3.2(9)       Prepare and Implement Safety Program
 27       5.3.2(10)(b)   Develop and Implement Procurement Guidelines
          5.3.3          Training
 28       5.3.3.(1)      Develop, Implement and Maintain Training and Development Program
          5.3.4          Monthly and Quarterly Reporting
 29       5.3.4(1)       Prepare Monthly and Quarterly Reports


Nomenclature for Achievements. The IR catalogued these achievements of the PO
under the General Review Reports. The IR during each review evaluated progress in all
categories and developed a standardized nomenclature describing the performance of the
PO against the obligations mentioned in Table A7.2 above. These are:




                                                33
   ·   Achieved: defining that the specified task or target has been substantially
       completed as stipulated within the MC.
   ·   Partially achieved: Activities for completion of the specified task or target have
       started or are in progress, even if it is not measurable, and are thus within the
       respective Performance Standards.
   ·   Delayed achieved: If the respective Performance Standard has been achieved or a
       deliverable submitted, but with considerable delay.
   ·   Not achieved: No activity has been undertaken to reach the respective
       Performance Standard or respective deliverable.
   ·   Objected: Introduced in the final contract year of the MC which defined that the
       PO had fulfilled his obligations but implementation had been objected or delayed
       by the utility or the respective supervisory board.

Achievements Obtained. A full description of the assessed progress and achievements
obtained throughout the MC with respect to the above activities is shown in Appendix 1.
Due to the requirement for this report to be submitted prior to the completion of the MC,
the final assessment of activities from the 10th visit has not been included. However, a
consolidated assessment on the likely achievements and results at closure of the MC is
indicated. The PO has basically failed to satisfy the initial requirement of the obligations,
which was to prepare within the first half year of the MC, implementation programs with
associated time schedules and implementation time frames. Most of the programs were
submitted with more than 8 months of delay, well into the 2nd Year of the Contract.
Subsequent requests by the EC/CMU and the WB to amend the programmes have been
ignored. This resulted in the fact that none of the fields of intervention described in the
MC had a valid implementation schedule until the end of the MC. Activities were done
on an ad hoc basis and along internal plans. The first OIF plan along with procurement
rules was finally presented after 18 months from the MC commencement, instead of the
required 3 months. This resulted in significant delays of contract implementation and
cancellation of important parts of the investment due to cost escalation and exchange rate
losses.

Furthermore, other parts of the PO's obligations, such as modelling, mapping, and
customer surveys were also victims of the financial limitations. This threatens to
potentially undermine the overall improved operational sustainability of the investment.
In an attempt to partly redress this shortfall, the PO has conducted some training seminars
in the closing months of the MC, together with some small customer surveys, but it is
widely believed this is "too little ­ too late"!

One exception to the above activities is the Human Resource Plan (HRP) which was
finally approved towards the end of the 2nd Contract year. Unfortunately, the HRP
encountered a lot of resistance from the individual Utilities (except Lezhe) and the
respective supervisory boards for realisation of the Plan. After five years of operations,
the resulting staff levels in all four towns are higher than the target levels set on the HRP
(see Source: PO's HRP and Progress Reports, HRP = Human Resources Plan figure
below). This is particularly the case for Durres and Fier with respective levels 60% and
41% more than target. The situation is less pronounced in Saranda and Lezhe where


                                             34
targets have been exceeded by 11% and 7.5% respectively. Figure 3 also shows a marked
increase in staffing levels in Durres during the Base Year prior to the appointment of the
PO. The analysis of the data infers that all attempts to re-structure the staffing; including
along the lines of personnel qualifications for specific duties; has failed, Lezhe being an
exception to this statement, although even here, recruitment of a suitable engineer has
taken an excessively long period of time.

                    Comparison of Actual and HRP Staffing Levels




Unfortunately, from midterm on the MC into Contract year 4, the CMU had been defunct
and issues were handled irregularly by the head of EC on a low key basis. During this
period, requests for decisions to be taken by EC/CMU were largely ignored, which forced
the PO to operate at a significantly lower intensity. The results of the obligations of the
MC can be summarized using the categories stated in the section on "nomenclature for
achievements." Many of the obligations do not have targets so judgement was made
comparing the MC´s output with structures, manuals, operating procedures and
guidelines used by successful operating utilities elsewhere.

Delayed Achieved:
   · Billing and collection (electronic processing, customer metering increased from
      11% to 32%)
   · Financial accounting (except Durrres: electronic processing, asset register, annual
      balance)
   · Human resources (Job descriptions, required staff structures, HR department;
      structures existing, targets failed)
   · Minimum Water Supply
   · Water Quality
   · Reporting




                                             35
Partially achieved
    · Customer relations (except from infrastructure improvements no difference in
        operations to time prior MC can be noted, procedures missing or not followed)
    · Continuity of supply (improvements not achieving targets, except Fier where
        target was achieved prior to MC)
    · Improve collection of revenues
    · Hydraulic Models program (only Hard and Software, no working model,
        sewerage completely missing)
    · Mapping (Maps date back to prior MC, status of update unclear)
    · Illegal connections reduction
    · Training
    · Procurement under OIF

Objected
   · Human resources (Number of staff)
   · Tariffs

Not Achieved
   · Corrective and preventive maintenance (no procedures, no schedules, no
      handbooks), no difference to situation prior to MC
   · Develop, implement and maintain facilities data base (No activity at all)
   · Leakage reduction
   · Septage management
   · Customer survey

The above refers to the verbal stipulations of the MC. Nevertheless, general
improvements in the Utilities´ operations can be seen from the Base year until the end of
the MC. Table A7.3 below compares a selection of indicators from the Base Year with
Year 5.

        Table A7.3 Comparison of Indicators: Base Year (2002) with Year 5 (2008)




The comparison of indicators show positive changes that occur are not consistent within
the towns, which largely depends upon the size of the town. In smaller towns (i.e. Lezhe),
changes of operations have a more immediate impact. It is also notable that factors
outside the control of the MC (such as increased staff numbers, instructed by the
supervisory board, electricity etc) have a negative impact on operations.


                                           36
PIC Targets. The MC contained no specific targets to enable the MWWP to be classified
as a success or a failure. However the PAD's Project Design Summary (Annex 1)
interpreted the "Good" PIC criterion rating as the target value which can be considered as
part of the achievement of the MWWP objectives. The only anomaly to this was the
Working Ratio values in the PAD design summary, which gave spurious target values of
"Excellent" or even better, at the end of the MC which are not considered realistic. For
the purposes of assessment in this report, the IR has inferred that a "Good" rating
achieved for the PIC parameters can be construed that performance targets and hence part
of the overall objectives of the MWWP have been attained.

PO Achievements for PIC. The IR has detailed the PO's achievements in the PIC review
reports that have been prepared at the end of each contract year. A total of 4 PIC review
reports have been prepared to date, covering the first 4 contract years. The 5th and final
PIC review report is due in August/September 2008. As this ICR had to be prepared
prior to the completion of the MC on 4th August 2008, the PO achievements for the final
contract year (Year 5) have been estimated using the 9 months of data provided (up until
April 2008). This may not necessarily represent the actual PIC values for Year 5, which
can only be obtained once the final monthly report for July 2008 has been provided by
the PO. A summary of the PIC values obtained for the 20 performance indicators spread
throughout the four towns are shown in Table A7.4 below. These PIC values are
compared against the relevant target "good" rating for the specific year of the MC.
Table A7.4 shows where a specific PIC value obtained has matched or exceeded the
target rating (Cells have been shaded green when the target has been reached or
exceeded).




                                           37
                      Table A7.4: Comparison of PIC Targets and Achievements
                                            Year 1               Year 2          Year 3          Year 4            Year 5
                               Base         2003/49              2004/5          2005/6          2006/7            2007/8
Performance Indicators         year8                                                                                    PIC
                              2002/3              PIC                 PIC              PIC              PIC
                                        target              target           target           target           target value
                                                 value               value            value            value            10

Durres
 1. Continuity (hr)             2.1      3       Nm11        3.5     3.9      4       2.2       5      2.6      6     5.3
 2. Min. Supply (%)             38       36       27          46      53      56       59      66       84      76    90.4
 3. Quality (%)                 96       92      93.5         94     95.8     96      99.2     98      98.7    98.5   98.5
 4. Collection Rate (%)         39       39       64          49      53      59       58      69       59      79    55.3
 5. Working Ratio               4.8     2.92      2.1        1.99    2.5     1.54     1.9      1.3     1.5     1.1    2.2

Fier
 1. Continuity (hr)             6.2      8           Nm       10     11.3     11      19.3     12      15.1     13     21
 2. Min. Supply (%)             88       91           96      94      99      96      100      97      100      98    99.9
 3. Quality (%)                 98       92          97.6     94     97.2     96      96.6     98      99.7    98.5   100
 4. Collection Rate (%)12       33       39           46      49      56      59       74      69       84      79    79.9
 5. Working Ratio               4.9     1.82         1.5     1.55    1.6     1.36     1.2     1.22     0.9     1.1    1.88

Lezhe
 1. Continuity (hr)             20       22          Nm       23     18.3    23.6     Nm      23.7     21.0    23.8   21.1
 2. Min. Supply (%)             95       97           57      98      66     99.3     Nm      99.3      87     99.3   100
 3. Quality (%)                 55       80          85.7     92     72.2     95      78.6     98      95.6    98.5   99.3
 4. Collection Rate (%)         33       39           50      49      54      59       55      69       58      79    65.5
 5. Working Ratio               6.7     3.65         2.0     2.43    1.9     1.83     1.9     1.38     1.7     1.1    1.81

Sarande
 1. Continuity (hr)             1.8      7           Nm       9      11.4     10      Nm       11      7.4      12    10.2
 2. Min. Supply (%)             46       56           33      68      57      78      Nm       88      100      93    100
 3. Quality (%)                 88       92          96.4     94     99.6     96      100      98      100     98.5   100
 4. Collection Rate (%)         33       39           64      49      71      59      77       69      80       79    75.7
 5. Working Ratio               6.1     4.38         2.2     2.18    2.3     1.56     2.0     1.22     2.1     1.1    1.71
Source: IR PIC Reviews and PAD from World Bank. Nm = not measurable

    96    Target ­ defined as "Good" PIC Criterion
    1.6   PIC Value equals or exceeds target


An assessment of Table A7.4 can provide the following statements:
   · There have been overall improvements in all performance indicators from Project
       commencement (Base Year) until the end of Year 5.
   · All towns have managed to reach their target in the final contract year for
       minimum hours of water supply and water quality compliance.
   · Fier appears to have performed the best in terms of consistently reaching target
       for many of the performance indicators for each consecutive year of the MC,
       which suggests that the PIC criteria were too relaxed.



8
  According to base year figures recorded in the World Bank PAD
9
  Contract years run from August to July. Year 5 will end on August 4, 2008.
10
   Indicators from Year 5 are up to April 2008 (9 months)
11
   Not measurable (due to insufficient pressure and flow meters ­ as judged by the Independent Reviewer)
12
   As per the draft amendment to the Management Contract, the collection rate in Fier has been adjusted assuming
100% payment by state-owned utilities (particularly ARMO and TEC).


                                                            38
   ·   Lezhe appears to have performed the worst in terms of consistently not reaching
       target for many of the performance indicators for each consecutive year, which
       suggests that the PIC criteria were too stringent.
   ·   Fier has also managed to reach target for continuity of supply and for collection
       rate in the final contract year, however the collection rate is artificially adjusted
       due to the assumption that bills from ARMO and TEC are paid
   ·   None of the towns managed to achieve their required target for the working ratio
       in the final contract year.

The MC (Article 2.2 (2) of Appendix 9) contained a provision for adjustment of the PIC
criteria by the IR at the end of Contract Year 2 that could then be applied in subsequent
Contract Years 3, 4 and 5. The IR undertook the necessary review of the PIC criteria and
made some minor recommendations for slight adjustments to the criterion values, but
they were never implemented by the EC/CMU. The above PIC results generally imply
that water and sanitation services have improved in the four towns, which was part of the
overall original development objective of the MWWP. However the results on working
ratio raise concerns on the financial sustainability for the towns in the future and this
point is discussed in more details in the section on Sustainability.

Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

The MWWP has, for Albania, the innovative approach of having a Private Operator
managing the four utilities for a considerable time and at the same time providing
financial resources to the PO in order to improve the Utilities' infrastructure.
Additionally, the MC incorporates four utilities with a geographically spread over a
distance of 250 kms, with completely different customer structures (i.e. seasonal increase
of customers by 50% due to tourism in Saranda and Durres, an industrial town in Fier,
and a rural centre in Lezhe), and different numbers of population.

As there has been no precedence the MC had to make a lot of assumptions and stipulate
conditions that were mainly based on theoretical considerations. It seems therefore
necessary at closure to evaluate a feed back on the structure of the MC itself as well as
the stakeholders and actual player in during the implementation period. The following
attempts to provide such a feed back. It is reflects the independent observations of the IR
during the MC period. The individual components of the MC have been structured for
this exercise as follows:
        1. Legal Frame
        2. Contract
        3. Contract Monitoring Unit (CMU)/ Executive Committee
        4. Utilities
        5. Private Operator
        6. Independent Reviewer

Legal Frame
(a) A MC must be prepared with due regard for current or impending laws and
    regulations. This was not respected and proved to be a critical issue. The current



                                            39
    legislation provides that the only body that can issue instructions regarding personnel
    of a Utility is the supervisory board while the MC stipulated that all staff of the utility
    shall be under the supervisory control of the PO. As the supervisory board of a utility
    was not a party to the contract and relinquishing its rights to the PO is not foreseen in
    the law, conflicts with regard to appendix 8 were inevitable to the extent that the PO
    basically could not exercise any of the rights vested to him by the MC.
(b) During the duration of the MC legislation has been enacted to change the ownership
    of utilities. While basically this is a formal act it still affects the operations which a
    PO cannot foresee and provide any contingencies for. Any legislation affecting status
    of the utilities should exempt utilities of a running MC. Otherwise, a MC should
    contain provisions for change in legislation.

Contract
(a) The four cities were to heterogeneous in client and operation structure to be
    represented by one EC. 4 individual contracts with each city would have been more
    appropriate..
(b) The Contract is regarding deliverables too complicated, which makes it difficult to
    follow up implementation and decision making by EC/CMU
(c) The Contract provides apart from the 5 performance criteria no quantifiable target or
    target description of measurement, which leaves it to the PO to set his own targets
    and if he fails to do so leaves performance undetermined.
(d) The Performance indicators do not really reflect comprehensive performance and
    allow the PO to concentrate on improving indicators without really improving
    services. Unaccounted-for water not addressed in MC and therefore not tackled by
    PO.
(e) order to improve the Utilities' infrastructure. Additionally, the MC incorporates four
    utilities with a geographically spread over a distance of 250 kms, with completely
    different customer structures (i.e. seasonal increase of customers by 50% due to
    tourism in Saranda and Durres, an industrial town in Fier, and a rural centre in
    Lezhe), and different numbers of population.
(f) Contractual sanctions are missing in case of non-performance of Operator with regard
    to deliverables and their implementation. It allows the PO just to ignore complete
    parts of his obligations.
(g) Remuneration is set on a constant fee and incentive payment. This does not reflect
    periods of special activities as required by MC and has led to a situation where the PO
    claimed that he cannot perform in special field of interventions because he has no
    funding left. A better structure would have been to separate cost-wise
         - Regular operations
         - Preparing programs and implementations schedule
         - Special implementation activities
         - Incentive payment
(h) Approval procedure and default acceptance unclear, especially in cases where PO
    does not remind CMU/EC of a pending approval, actions and consequences in case of
    default approvals should be described.




                                              40
(i) Service area, population figures are static in the MC and do not reflecting significant
    growth or legal change of service area. There should be a provision to update these in
    regular intervals.
(j) EC/CMU have little influence to rectify defaults of PO. There should be a provision
    in the MC that if the PO defaults on his obligations, the EC/CMU have the right to
    charge a third party on cost of PO.
(k) There should be a provision in the Contract covering the case that EC/CMU/Utilities
    do not follow their obligations and stall decisions essential for performance of the
    contract.
(l) There should be a time frame for individual procurements. A deadline for
    procurement plans is not sufficient.
(m) Procurement rules are only clear as far as the WB is concerned. The MC should also
    contain clear instructions regarding local procurement (composition of procurement
    commission etc)
(n) Performance indicators not really reflecting performance, allow PO to concentrate on
    improving indicators without really improving services. Unaccounted-for water not
    addressed in MC and therefore not tackled by PO
(o) Reporting requirements are not clear enough defined with the result of not
    informative and poor reports over long period of the MC
(p) The Contract does not consider outside influence such as Ministries and regulatory
    bodies on MC performance. There should be a provision covering these issues (e.g.
    Regulatory Entity)
(q) The MC only allows one chance to change PIC criteria thresholds (after Year 2), the
    procedure with a contract addendum is too complicated and time consuming.
(r) The MC provides for no facility to change PIC parameters during the Contract.

Contract Monitoring Unit (CMU)/ Executive Committee
(a) CMU was understaffed especially in startup of MC and had limited resources to
    evaluate and follow up all programs of PO, at later stage it was understaffed because
    acting as PIU for other projects.
(b) CMU/EC was completely defunct during project year 3.
(c) Response time to submissions by PO was too slow
(d) Limited response by CMU to written communication by PO
(e) The EC meetings were held only sporadically resulting in delayed decisions. EC
    members have been changing with resulting loss of information. Some EC decisions
    were overridden by Utility supervisory board.
(f) Processing of payments was delayed up to one year
(g) The payment of the Albanian portion of procurement was constantly delayed.
(h) CMU/EC partly fail to implement recommendations by WB
(i) EC was not implementing Quorum facility available under MC to push through
    decisions

Utilities
(a) Maintained independent status as opposite to MC. MC Clause 3.12 (Equipment,
    Materials) and 31.14 (Revenue) and 4.4&5.3 (operating staff) clearly ignored.
(b) Utilities refuse access to records and facilities



                                            41
(c) Utilities do not delegate staff to training offered by PO
(d) Utilities refuse to implement plans provided by PO

Private Operator
(a) PO fails to show consistency (in contractual terms) with his operating staff and their
    qualifications, exchanges staff too often in initial phase
(b) PO Staff turnover at commencement of MC unacceptable leading to confusion on
    responsibility and loss of Project knowledge
(c) PO fails to submit all deliverables in time or at all
(d) PO does not respond to requirements by EC/CMU regarding deliverables
(e) PO does not provide implementation schedules and annual targets
(f) Reports are delivered with more than 2 months delay
(g) Reports are inconsistent, incomplete and partly with false information
(h) Presence of PO staff at utilities is limited and not sufficient
(i) Incompetence and delay in procurement results in reduced investments
(j) Incompetence and delay in procurement results in incomplete contracts at end of MC
    creating additional cost for EC/CMU

Independent reviewer
(a) IR Contract too restrictive, only allows two x fortnightly visits each year
(b) IR Contract foresees activity on request of CMU only. This has led to a gap in review
    of more than 1.5 years
(c) IR's influence is impeded because not truly independent when hired by one party (i.e.
    CMU)
(d) IR engaged too late at start of the MC

Sustainability

The overall objectives of the MWWP are directed towards achieving; financial and
operational sustainability. As Chapter 3 has shown, there have been some noticeable
improvements in the operation of the water supply and sanitation services since the start
of the MC, however there are some concerns especially regarding sustainability which
will be addressed below.

Financial Sustainability. New billing and accounting computer systems have been
successfully installed in the 4 towns. Billing systems are fully operational and there is no
doubt that this activity will continue to be sustainable on the closure of the MC.
Preparations of trial balances using the supplied software have encountered problems,
and the supplier "Komtel" was brought in by the PO to solve these issues. Thus Fier
utility has become the first town to produce financial statements for 2007. Efforts are
now being made to undertake similar work with the supplier in Lezhe and Saranda and
there is high probability that this activity will be sustained after MC completion in these
three towns. However, the obdurate attitude of Durres utility and their outright refusal to
use the accounting software provided, implies that will not be a sustainable activity.




                                             42
The computerised accounting information system also contains a fixed asset register, but
transfer of the old hand written data from the utilities into the system is a problem as the
old data does not contain detailed background information or there is no information in
existence. Hence only the detailed information on the new assets provided under the MC
can be entered into the asset register.

For the utilities in the 4 towns to be financially viable, it is important to reduce the
working ratio to less than 1 and to improve the billing collection rate. Unfortunately, the
targets for working ratio and for billing collection have not been achieved by the end of
the MC (except Fier where billing collection reached target). However linear regression
analysis of the monthly data provided by the PO indicates an overall "positive" trend for
these indicators in Fier, Lezhe and Saranda. However for Durres the trend is "negative"
for collection rate and "flat" for the working ratio.

There are two decisions that the utilities/supervisory boards could make which could go a
long way to improving the working ratios and collections rates. A reduction in staff in
accordance with the HRP and an increase in tariffs in accordance with the
recommendations of the PAD would substantially improve financial performance.

Another important factor that was not foreseen at the time of preparation of the PAD was
the recent global escalation in the cost of oil and the credit crisis which are causing
extraordinary inflationary pressures on daily commodities. The effects of these crises are
far reaching and are only beginning to take effect i.e. electricity tariffs in Albania have
increased around 50% since the beginning of 2008 alone. With these impending financial
pressures on the utilities there is urgent need for increased revenue collection.

One essential factor for financial sustainability would be to increase the volume of
production being sold. As it is, only a fraction of the actual production is being sold and
billed. The resulting Unaccounted-for-Water volumes have remained nearly constant over
the MC with 70% in Durres, 25% in Fier, 20% in Saranda and 50% in Lezhe. All systems
rely on pumped production and electricity cost for production exceed all other operation
cost of the utilities significantly.

Most of the UAF is not caused by technical losses as significant investments have been
done into the networks and pipe systems but by other factors.

Operational Sustainability. The delays at the outset in getting procurement underway
and the budgetary restrictions that are now in force have necessitated the abandonment of
some planned contracts that were envisaged in earlier procurement plans. In addition,
some US$5.8 million worth of contracts have been cancelled in civil works and supply of
goods under the OIF. Furthermore, cancelled consultancy contracts such as
implementation of customer surveys and to provide training in network modelling and
other technical operations have undermined the potential for effective operational
sustainability. To counteract this, the PO has resorted to undertaking some in-house
customer surveys on a very limited sample base in the 4 towns and provided some in-
house training, but there is a potential danger that this is "too little ­ too late"



                                             43
Lessons Learned

Temporary Notes: Better organisation of procurement matters at project commencement
would have enabled all planned contracts to be realised and implemented in good time.
The resulting delays have necessitated the cancelation of some contracts such as
independent customer surveys, training using consultancy and network modelling, which
threaten to varying degrees the operational sustainability of the utilities.

Earlier appointment of the IR during the Base Year could have ensured the provision of a
more reliable baseline data report from the PO that could have been acceptable to the
WB. Furthermore, consideration should have been given by the CMU to making better
use of the IR for providing extraordinary services throughout the MC by implementing
contract Addendums (such as is being used for the preparation of this report)

A greater array of important, yet easy to measure PIC indicators, should have been used
to monitor PO performance and hence the calculation of the PIC. For example, PIC
Monitoring should have been extended to include UFW, residual chlorination and O&M
issues relating to operational sustainability.

Conclusions and Recommendations

Temporary Notes:
The MWWP has not obtained full sustainability - .
The decentralisation of control of the water companies to the respective municipalities
within the four towns came too late (Year 4).




                                            44
Appendix 1 to Borrower's ICR ­
Assessment of achievement of contractual obligations

PO Achievements

Except for a 1.5 year gap from March 2006 to August 2007 (during this period the CMU
was mainly in operational), the IR visited and reviewed the PO´s achievements with
regard to the MC in regular intervals.

The PO had nearly for none of the service standards prepared time schedules that had
been in force. Repeated requests by WB and CMU to provide such schedules with targets
the PO intended to achieve each year had been completely ignored. Only in the last 2
years of the MC the PO had submitted so-called "Action Plans" but even those did not
define targets and timelines, against which measurement of the progress was possible.

The IR was aware that in many of the service standard field activities were undertaken by
the PO but their evaluation within the context of a development process proved to be
extremely difficult.

The assessment followed therefore a category system of four categories of achievements,
in the absence of approved time schedules which had been needed to measure the
progress:
    · Achieved: defining that the specified task or target has been substantially
        completed as stipulated by the MC.
    · Partially achieved: Activities for completion of the specified task or target have
        started and progress, even if it is not measurable, within the respective
        Performance Standards has been made.
    · Delayed achieved: If the respective Performance Standard has been achieved or
        deliverable submitted, but with considerable delay.
    · Not achieved: No activity to reach the respective Performance Standard or
        respective deliverable.

These ratings had been given as a measure against the stipulations of the MC and did not
consider whether activities had been blocked by other parties.

Therefore, in the last year it seemed to be necessary to introduce a new category defining
that the PO has fulfilled his obligations but implementation has been objected or delayed
by the utility, the supervisory board or other Government Authorities, who basically had
no part in the MC.

   ·   Objected

The following tables provide a summary of the PO´s achievements throughout the MC
compiled from the individual General Review reports.




                                            45
It can be clearly seen that until 4th review, taking place after 2 years of operations, the
PO has completely failed to satisfy his obligations under the MC. Not only had the time
for submission of the initial plans and programmes passed, but also the required
amendments by WB and CMU either had been ignored or submitted with one year of
delay. The result was that until MC completion, the PO has been running his operations
and improvements in a very fragmented way. The only exception is the human resource
plan (HRP) that had been approved after 2 years. However the HRP faced difficulties for
implementation by the utilities.

A procurement plan for the OIF was finally available after 18 months into the MC. This
has affected the foreseen procurement very negatively. Due to price increases and
exchange rate losses the foreseen investments had to be cut drastically.

One of the main reasons for this low performance was that the operator's management
staff had been changed frequently. The first 1.5 years has seen three resident managers.
This period was followed for several months with only one of PO´s expatriate staff as
temporary manager, who even did not have the required qualifications for such a
position.




                                            46
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Comments from the Private Operator (PO), Berlinwasser International AG


General Comment to the development and implementation of the Human Resources
Plans: This report states in several paragraphs that the desired cut of staff in all utilities
was not achieved, in the opposite, staff numbers increased towards the end of the
Management Contract. We deem it necessary to explicitly and positively mention that
the specific staff numbers (staff per 1,000 connections) have decreased greatly during the
project term (in average by minus 30%).


Add Section 6, Lessons learned

Operational Improvement Programs: This report sufficiently describes the achievements
and difficulties in the preparation and implementation of Improvement Programs. It is
the Private Operators view, that for future Management Contracts, it would be beneficial
to stretch the timing of program preparation in order to be able to produce high quality
programs suited to the actual project and situation. In this particular Management
Contract, about 50% of the programs were due within 90 days after Starting Date. This
time frame is not sufficient to do the data collection, fully understand the situation and
develop tailor made suggestions in order to produce a meaningful program being a
guideline for the duration of the Management Contract. We would suggest to straighten
out the programs over a period of 6-12 months.




                                              47
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

·   Country Assistance Strategy for Albania for FY02-05, June 20, 2002
·   Country Assistance Strategy for Albania for FY06-09, January 10, 2006
·   Project Information Document
·   Project Appraisal Document, Report No. 24826, December 30, 2002
·   Project Social Assessment Report
·   Credit Agreement:
·   Feasibility studies and Consultants reports (Various)
·   Environmental Management Plan Framework, July 23, 2002
·   Financial Management Supervision Reports
·   Investment Plans (Various)
·   Project Management and Audit Reports (Various)
·   PIC Review Reports
·   Aide memoires
·   Implementation Status Reports
·   Annual Benchmarking Project Reports
·   Monthly and Quarterly Project Progress Reports
·   Implementation Completion Report produced by Independent Reviewer, COWI
    Consult.




                                       48
                                                                                                                                                                                                          IBRD 33359R1
                                          19°E                                                                    20°E                                                                         21°E
                                                 MONTENEGRO


                                                                                     Maja Jezercë
                                                                                        (2693 m)              Valbon
                                                                                                              Valbona
                                                                                                                                                                                    KOSOVO
                                                                             MALSI E            lps
                                                                                       banian A
        ALBANIA                                                               North Al      TROPOJË
                                                         To
                                                  Podgorica
                                                                             MADHE                  Bajram
                                                                          Han i Hoti                                        Curri
                                                                          Koplik                                            Dri
                                                                                                                  Fierzë       n
                                                                                                                                             HAS                          To
                                                         Lake                     SHKODËR                                                                                 Prizren
                                                        Scutari                                                                                    Krumë
                                                                                                              PUKË
                                                                             Shkodër                     Koman
                                                                             (Scutari)
                                                                                                            Pukë           Fush                            Kukës
                                                                                                                           Arrëz        Kalimash
42°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                    42°N
                                                                                                                                          KUKËS
                                                         Bunë

                                                                                       LEZHË                                         Zall-Rec
                                                                                                         MIRDITË
                                                                          Shëngjin
                                                                   Drinit Bay                     Rubik




                                                                                                                                           Drin i Zi
                                                                                                                     Kurbneshi
                                                                              Lezhë                         Rrëshen
                                                                                                                    Lake                Peshkopi
                                                                                                Shkopet             Ulzës
                                                                  Fushë Kuge           Laç                 Ulëz
                                                                                                                    Burrel
                                                                   Rodonit Bay
                                                                                     LAÇ                                                DIBRA
                                                                                             Mamurasi             M AT
                                                                                                   Krujë
                                                                   Lalëzit
                      Adriatic                                      Bay                     KRUJË                                                                                        FY R
                                                                    DURRËS
                                                                                             Fushë
                                                                                             Krujë
                                                                                                                            Bulquizë
                                                                                                                                     BULQIZË
                                                                                                                                                                                     MA CEDON I A
                               Sea                        Durrës                        Vo rë
                                                                                        Vorë
                                                                                                         TIRANË
                                                                                                         (TIRANA)
                                                                                   Shijak
                                                                  Durrësit                      TIRANË
                                                                   Bay                                         Ibë
                                                                                                                                              Librazhd                    To
                                                                    Kavajë                                           Krrabë                                             Struga
                                                                                                                                          LIBRAZHD
                                                                   KAVAJË                                                    Elbasan
                                                                                                PEQIN                                                                            Lake
                                                                                                                    Vidhës
                                                                                                                    Vid hës                            Perrenjas
41°N                                                                                             Peqin                                                                           Ohrid
                                                                                                                     ELBASAN                                                                                            41°N
                                                         Karavastasë            LUSHNJË                            Cërrik
                                                            Bay
                                                                                  Lushnjë                                                                 POGRADEC                                   Lake
                                                                                                          Kajan                                                                                     Prespa
                                                                                                                                       Gramsh                 Pogradec

                                                                                                   KUÇOVË                         GRAMSH
                                                                     FIER                                   Kuçovë
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Little
                                                                           Fier                                   Berat                                                                                       Lake Prespa
                                                                                         Marinzë
                                                                                      Patos                                                                              Maliq            DEVOLL
                                                                                                           B E R AT                                         K O R Ç Ë Korçë
                                                                Kafaraj
                                                                                                Ballsh                                                                                        Bilisht
                                                                                   Vjosë
                                                                                             MALLA-                                      A PA R
                                                                                                                                   S K R APAR
 0     10        20    30      40 Kilometers
                                                                                             KASTER
                                                                                                                                        Çorovodë
                                                                                     Selenice
 0          10            20         30 Miles                    Vlorës      Vlorë                   TE
                                                                                                     TE P E L E N Ë
                                                                  Bay
                                                                                                     Krahës                                                                  Ersekë
                                        19°E                                        Mavrovë
                                                                                                                                     PËRMET
                                                                             VLORË                                                                                KOLONJË
                                                                                                         Tepelenë Kelcyrë
                                                                                                                                                       Përmet
        ALBA N I A
                                                                                                                                                                  P




                                                                                                                                                                                           GREE CE
                                                                                                                                                          Vjo


                                                                                                                                                                   ii n
                                                                                                                                                              s


                                                                                                                                                                      n
                                                                                                                                                            ë



                                                                                                                                                                        d
                                                                                                                                                                        du




                                                                                                                             OKASTË
                                                                                                                     G J I R OK AS TË R
                 SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                                                                                                                            s




                                                                                                                                    Gjirokastër
                                                                                                                                                                                 M




                 DISTRICT CAPITALS
                                                      40°N                                                   DELVINË                                                                                                    40°N
                                                                                                                                                                                    ou
                                                                                                                                                                                    ou




                 NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                 Delvinë
                                                                                                                                                                                      n
                                                                                                                                                                                      nt




                                                                                                                                                                 To
                 RIVERS                                                                                                                                       Ioánina
                                                                                                                                                                                         ai
                                                                                                                                                                                         a




                                                                                                         Sarandë
                 MAIN ROADS                                                                                                            Kakavija
                                                                                                                                                                                           n
                                                                                                                                                                                           n




                                                                             GREECE
                                                                                                                                                                                             s




                 RAILROADS                                                                                                 SARANDË
                                                                                                                                                            This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                 DISTRICT BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                        The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                            shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                            Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                 INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                   endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                                  20°E                                                                             21°E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                     JULY 2009
