Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P- 7257 - BH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 37.6 MILLION
TO
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
FOR AN
ENTERPRISE AND BANK PRIVATIZATION
ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
June 1, 1999
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS/EXCHANGE RATES
(as of May 28, 1999)
Unit of currency
Convertible Mark (KM), equivalent 1:1 to Deutsche Mark
1KM=US$0.533
WEIG]HTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
Vice President:      Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:    Christiaan J. Poortman
Sector Director:     Lajos Bokros
Task Team Leader:   Saumya Mitra



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BH             Bosnia and Herzegovina
BPU           Bank Privatization Unit
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CPA            Cantonal Privatization Agency
EBPAC         Enterprise and Bank Privatization Adjustment Credit
EBRD           European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EU             European Union
FBA            Federation Banking Agency
FIB            Federation Investment Bank
FPA           Federation Privatization Agency
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
IDA            International Development Association
IGA            Investment Guarantee Agency
IMF           International Monetary Fund
KfW            Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
KM             Convertible Mark
MFTER         Ministry for Foreign Trade and Economic Relations
MoF            Ministry of Finance (of each Bosnian Entity)
OHR           Office of the High Representative
PFSAC         Public Finance Structural Adjustment Credit
PHRD           Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
PIC            Peace Implementation Conference
PIF            Private Investment Funds
RS             Republika Srpska
SBA           Stand-by Arrangement
TAC            Transition Assistance Credit
USAID          United States Agency for International Development
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contenits may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
ENTERPRISE AND BANK PRIVATIZATION
ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Loan Summary ......................................................................i
I. INTRODUCTION   .............I.........................................................I
II. MACROECONOMIC SETTING AND FINANCING REQUIREMENTS ......................................2
A. MACROECONOMIC PERFORMANCE AND POLICY FRAMEWORK ...............................2
B. MACROECONOMIC   PROSPECTS  ...................................................................... 
C. EXTERNAL  FINANCING   REQUIREMENTS   ......................................................................4
111. STRENGTHENING THE FRAMEWORK FOR PRIVATE MARKET DEVELOPMENT ...........6
A. BACKGROUND                                                               .............................................6
B. REFORM  STRATEGY  AND  PROGRESS ......................................................................                                                         7
IV. STRENGTHENING  THE BANKING  SECTOR ......................................................................                                                            9
A. BACKGROUND .                               .....................................................................9
B. REFORM     STRATEGY    ..................................................................... 10
Actions to  be SupportedhY  EBPAC' ............................................................................................ 14
V. KEY POLICY QUESTIONS IN PRIVATIZATION                                                                  ............................................ 16
Actions  to  be Supported  bY  EBPAC ................................................................ 17
VI. PRIVATIZATION  OF ENTERPRISES ...............................................................                                                                      20
A. BACKGROUND   ...............................................................                                                                                 20
B. PRIVATIZING  ENTERPRISES IN THE FEDERATION .                                                                      ...................................................... 20
Actions to  he supported  bY  EBPAC ................................................................ 24
C. PRIVATIZING ENTERPRISES IN REPUBLIKA SRPSKA .                                                                        .................................................. 24
Actions  to  he supported  hy  EBPAC                                                      .............................................................. 28
D. LARGE-SCALE ENTERPRISES AND UTILITIES: FEDERATION AND RS                                                                                         ..................... 28
Actions to  he su          pporied  hY  the EBPA4( .................. ........ .                                             ........................................................... 29
VIl. PRIVATIZATION OF BANKS ......................................                                                                                                     31
A,ctions to he supported hb the EBPA(' ...................................... 35
VIII. THE PROPOSED CREDIT ......................................                                                                                                        37
A. RATIONALE FOR BANK INVOLVEMENT ......................................                                                                                        37
B. CREDIT AMOUNT, BORROWER AND COFINANCING .................................................... 37
C. CREDIT DESIGN ..................................................................                                                                             37
D. ADMINISTRATIVE ARRANGEMENTS ..................................................................                                                                 38
E. DISBURSEMENT ...................................................................     38
F. MONITORING ARRANGEMENTS AND TRANCHE RELEASE CONDITIONS    ............... 38
G. ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT REQUIREMENTS                                                                       ........... .................................... 41
H. BENEFITS AND RISKS ..................................................................                                                                        41
IX. RECOMMENDATION ..................................................................                                                                                   42
ANNEX I                       Letter of Development Policy
ANNEX 11                      Policy Matrix
ANNEX III    Issues Relating to the Success of Privatization
ANNEX IV                      Key Economic Indicators



BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
ENTERPRISE AND BANK PRIVATIZATION
ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Credit and Operation Summary
Borrower:          Bosnia and Herzegovina
Beneficiaries:     Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Republika Srpska
Amount:            SDR37.6 million (US$50 million equivalent)
Terms:             35 years, including a 1 0-year grace period
Credit Objectives:  To support the privatization of enterprises and banks and implementation
of policy reforms at the Entity level. Specifically, the Credit will support:
(i) development of the design, legal framework and regulations, and
building up of institutional capacity and implementation of the program
for the privatization of solvent publicly-owned commercial banks and
liquidation of insolvent ones: (ii) financial sector reforms to improve bank
supervision, strengthen banking laws, establish deposit insurance systems,
and limit public intervention in credit markets; and (iii) completion of the
institutional and legal framework for enterprise privatization, to include
rapid initiation of small enterprise privatization, and preparation for
privatization of larger enterprises, holding companies and utilities. In
addition, the Credit will provide support to reforms of the legal and
institutional framework necessary for private sector development.
Credit Description: The Credit will be extended to the State of Bosnia and Herzegovina,
which will in turn onlenid it in the amounit of SDR22.56 million to the
Federation and SDR 15.04 millioni to Republika Srpska, at the same terms
of the IDA Credit. Thle Credit will be disbursed in two tranches for
budgetary and balance of paymenits support to the two Entities of Bosnia
and Herzegovina.   Releasc of tranches will be linked to policy
conditionality as agreed during the negotiation of the Credit.
Benefits:          The proposed operation will support measures that are crucial to furthering
the development of a market-based and internationally competitive
economy in both Bosnian Entities. A pre-condition for private sector-led
economic growth in post-war Bosnia is the rapid transfer of public
ownership in enterprises and banks into private hands. By assisting in the
implementation of the privatization agenda, the project will expedite this
process and help resolve the issue of pre-war debt and war-related citizen
claims. By pursuing essential reforms in the financial sector, the operation
will help restore confidence in the banking system and mobilize domestic
savings resources that are urgently required to finance investments in the
economy. By supporting the development of a suitable framework for
i



private business activity, the operation will also contribute to attracting
additional domestic and foreign investment, creating employment and
reducing poverty.
Risks:      There may be a legal risk associated with the process of privatization. Even
though a first tranche condition for both Entities is deemed to have been met
by the promulgation of the State Privatization Law, it poses a certain risk
because this Law has been promulgated by the High Representative using
his powers under Annex X of the Dayton Agreement and powers given to
him by the Bonn Peace Implementation Council. The exercise of this
power may be viewed as an imposition and hence could be challenged.
This risk is mitigated by the fact that the Government has represented in its
letter of development policy that the State Parliament is expected to enact
the State Privatization Law under normal legislative procedures in 1999.
There is at present a challenge pending in the Constitutional Court of BH
against the ongoing process of privatization. However, we do not expect
that this challenge will materially or adversely affect the implementation of
this project in any substantive way.
Quite apart from the general risks of operating in a post-conflict economy
such as that of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the potential risks faced by the
proposed Credit are political unwillingness or lack of capacity on the part of
the authorities to undertake agreed policies and reversal of reform measures.
To mitigate the risk of non-implementation of agreed policies and reversal
of reform measures, the Bank has been conducting an intensive dialogue,
and has mobilised the support of other donor partners to jointly promote the
implementation of the reform agenda. There has been steady progress on
the part of the political authorities to agree on solutions to implementation
difficulties. Moreover, the strong support for privatization among the
general public is an important factor mitigating risk.
Poverty Category:  Not Applicable
Rate of Return:    Not Applicable
Map:              IBRD 27708-R
Project ID Number: BA-PE-48461
ii



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED
ENTERPRISE AND BANK PRIVATIZATION
ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO
SDR 37.6 MILLION
TO BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendationi on a proposed
Credit to Bosnia and Herzegovina (BH), Enterprise and Bank Privatization Adjustment
Credit (EBPAC). in the amount of SDR 37.6 million (US$50 million equivalent) to help
finance a privatisation operation.  The proposed Credit would be on International
Development Association (IDA) terms, with a 35-year maturity, including a 10-year grace
period. This operation follows a structural adjustment operation in 1996 and a Public
Finance Structural Adjustment Credit (PFSAC) in 1998, and it is the first of two planned
operations that focus on privatization. The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) was
discussed by the Board of Executive Directors in August 1997, and a CAS Progress Report
was discussed in August 1998. The most recent economic report on BH (Bosnia and
Herzegovina: From Recovery 1o Sustainable Groitih) was published in May 1997.
1. INTRODUCTION
2.     The proposed Credit builds on BH's achievements to date in establishing the
required legal and institutional framework for privatization of enterprises and banks, and
supports further progress in institution-building and policy reforms in private sector
development. It aims to achieve this objective by focusing on the following areas: (i)
development of the design, legal framework and regulations, and building up of
institutional capacity and implementation of the program for the privatization of solvent
publicly-owned commercial banks and liquidation of insolvent ones; (ii) financial sector
reforms to improve bank supervision, strengthen banking laws, establish deposit
insurance systems, and limit public intervention in credit markets; and (iii) completion of
the institutional and legal framework for enterprise privatization, to include rapid
initiation of small enterprise privatization, and preparation for privatization of larger
enterprises, holding companies and utilities. In addition, the Credit provides support to
reforms of the legal and institutional framework necessary for private sector
development.
I



II. ECONOMIC OUTLOOK AND FINANCING REQUIREMENTS
A. Macroeconomic Performance and Policy Framework
3.    Macroeconomic Performance. The combination of prudent economic policies and
large-scale donor assistance has yielded impressive results in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Economic growth has averaged about 40 percent in real terms each year since 1995.
Inflation has fallen progressively, and is currently running at single digit rates on a country-
wide basis. There has been a significant increase in real per capita consumption for most
households. Many schools and health clinics have reopened. and the main infrastructure
networks have been largely rehabilitated. Commerce and production are picking up with
the help of donor-financed lines of credit. External debt rescheduling has been successfully
completed with both London Club and Paris Club creditors, significantly reducing the debt
inherited from the formner SFRY. The London Club agreement provided for a 73 percent
reduction in the net present value of outstanidinig debt, including arrears: and the Paris Club
agreement provides for debt rescheduling on Naples temis or a 67 percent reduction in the
present value of the debt. Regularization of relations with remaining creditors, including
the resolution of issues related to outstanding foreign claims on non-government creditors.
is expected to be completed by the end of this year.
4.    Despite the rapid economic recovery, reflecting the extremely depressed level of
post-war economic activity. GDP is still only at about 40 percent of its prewar level and
living standards for many Bosnian families remain low. Measured unemployment, which
fell sharply during the initial years of economic recovery, appears to have stagnated at
around 35 percent--very high even by the standards of transition economies. Due to the
later start to donor assistance and economic recovery, and limited integration with the
international economy, incomes are lower in Republika Srpska than in the Federation.
Although aid flows to Republika Srpska accelerated following the election of a moderate
government in January 1998, its close economic integration with the Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia makes it particularly vulnerable to the ongoing conflict there (see para. 8
below).
5.    The Macroeconomic Policy Framework.  Maintaining the macroeconomic
stability that has been achieved to date requires sustained prudent fiscal management by the
authorities, further progress in institution building and transition reforms, and continued
international financial and technical assistance. The basic underpinnings for this policy
framework are provided by an IMF Stand-by Arrangement (SBA) that was approved in
June 1998.
6.    The principal elements of the SBA program are: (i) use of a fixed exchange rate
as a nominal anchor through the currency board arrangement; (ii) limiting the fiscal
deficit of the consolidated public sector to levels compatible with available sources of
foreign financing and avoiding borrowing by all levels of government from the domestic
banking system and non-bank public; (iii) avoiding any significant accumulation of new
domestic arrears, especially in wage and social security payments; and (iv) continuation
of large scale external assistance on concessional terms. Structural elements of the
program include customs tariff reform and trade liberalization, consolidation of the fiscal
2



institutions of the State and the Entities, and reform of the payments system. The
program also contains important elements of the agenda for banking reform and
enterprise privatization and restructuring. The first review of the SBA has been delayed
but is now expected to be successfully concluded shortly. The authorities have recently
requested that the SBA be converted later this year into an Enhanced Structural
Adjustment Facility (ESAF) arrangement, which would provide a medium-term
framework for macroeconomic policies and continued IMF assistance.
7.   The govemment's reform  efforts have also been supported through adjustment
lending by the World Bank. The Bank's first non-emergency adjustment operation, the
PFSAC (SDR 46.2 million, approved in June 1998) assisted the Bosnian authorities in
implementing key public finance reforms in 1998. These reforms were instrumental in
improving the consistency betweeni State and Entity budgets. establishing a transparent and
predictable funding meclhanismii for the State budget. setting the legislative framework for
budget management. establishing a legal and institutional framework for debt management,
initiating the harmonization and reform of Entity tax systems, and initiating reform and re-
organization of Entity pension systems. The PFSAC was fully implemented and disbursed
in less than a year providing a sound basis for the proposed follow-up operation to broaden
public finance reforms. The EBPAC would support the government's efforts in initiating
bank and enterprise privatization through privatization of small and medium-sized
enterprises, bank restructuring and support for a deposit insurance scheme.
B. Macroeconomic Prospects
8.    Prospects for Growthi. Continued stabilization, institution-building and reform
efforts are essential in the coming years to ensure sustainable recovery and growth.
However, the fluid political environment adds a certain degree of unpredictability, and risk,
to Bosnia's future economic performance. The ongoing conflict in the Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia (FRY) is having an important impact on economic developments in Bosnia and
Herzegovina. notably Republika Srpska.  The main channels for this impact include
reduced trade, investment and economic activity, and higher unemployment. The fiscal
positioni of both Entities has come under pressure from lower tax revenues and higher
public spending to deal with increased domestic social needs and new refugees.
9.    Despite the disruptions from the crisis in FRY, the Bosnian authorities have
pledged themselves to press forward with their economic reform programs. Under a
scenario of continued policy reform, and assuming that the crisis in FRY stops in the
coming months, simulations indicate that after 1999 GDP growth would return to its
gradual path of deceleration from the very high postwar rates to rates more normally
associated with open and dynamic economies (see Table 1). As in the recent past, growth
and employment generation in the next few years would be stimulated, to a large extent, by
donor-financed activities. Subsequently, however, consistent with anticipated declines in
donor assistance for the reconstruction program, achieving balance of payments viability
and creditworthiness will require a sizable reduction in domestic absorption.  This
reduction will have to come from public sector investment in light of the current very
considerable reconstruction-driven levels of public investment. At the same time, an effort
will be required to offset this reduction in public investment by completing structural
3



reforms, in particular, to attract private capital and increase investment efficiency.
Recurrent public expenditures would actually be expected to increase modestly, in line with
the need to strengthen social safety nets and to make appropriate provision for the operation
and maintenance of new investments. Consequently, enhanced revenue performance
would be critical to ensure medium-term fiscal sustainability. With these assumptions,
Bosnia and Herzegovina's GDP should reach about two-thirds of its prewar level by the
mid-2000s, bringing living standards in Bosnia much closer to the average of transition
countries in Central and Eastern Europe.
Table 1: Selected Key Economic Indicators'. 1996-2005
hAIm,oaled                               P'rolecied
1996        1997        1998        1999         2(1N)       2001        2002       2N1O5
(Cross Domestic Pro(luct
(DI' hISS nmillion)                               2741        3423         4(082       45 33       533         6262         709(10      9(8(
Real (11)'growxth (')                               69           .3          18            8          14          14           ()s
In esimnt i° ,of GIP)                               41           42    *      K8                                 3.           28          2 5
Public                                           24          24          2O           16           13          11           7           2
P'riv ale                                        17           1           18          17          2)          21           2 1         23
Consumption )O. of6I)IO)                            118        I1)           99          92           87          84          82           78
Public Sector Balances
Expenditures (0, of(dl)P)                           78           56          52          48          48           47          44          4(0
Recenucs (  oOl'ofGD)                               SI           31          32          31           35          36          37          38
Dclicit 1-) (  of' GiP)                            -27         -"2         .2(         -1 7         -13         -I t         -7           -2
External Financing (00 ofG(11)1')                   27           23          2)1          17          13          11           7            2
Balance of Pavmcnts
'manting Rlequirenrnm.s (I '" ,nillion;           2333        20((6        1683        1423         1289        1247        1022         587
o %Current Account Deficit                        1528         17101       1397        1079        1035         990          743         361
o w D)eht Service (scheduled)                      575          386         227          195         204         207         229          175
ow%k Increase in Foreign lExchange Reserxes        230          -9(1         59          150          50          5(1         50           50
Inalin -    v,gSorr,e (i 5Ss  illihon)              2333        2()06       1683        1362         1188        1196         972          587
o V Unlrequited Current Official 'I'ransltrs       558         422          19()         94           45          45          20            7
o. w l)onor Financing                             1707          750         983         968          711         700         500         200
o   P:1D and Other Private l owvs                     1)          0         101)         60          162         185         230         280
o.(v Arrears Clearance and l)ebt Relief           -125          306         172          63           47          38          25           11
o.%% Others                                         194         528         238         178         224          228         197           88
Remain,imng hlnncinLg( G     (i NSs ,illw)             0) ()                   0           61         101          50          50            0
External Debt
Total ExternalDebt' (in 0o ofGDP)                   137          127          71          72          68          64           60          55
)ebt scrrice (in '. of'total exports)                66          35            9           8           8            7           6           5
1/  Data refers to estimates for all Bosnia attd Hcrzcgovinia unless otherwise stated.
2/  Excludintg itttercst atnd oft'icial transfers.
3/ litcludittg use of IMF resources, other budgetary/balance of payments support. and financing for reconstruction.
4 Reduction ot'debt stock in 1998 reflects debt rescheduling wNith London Club and Paris Club creditors.
SSource: Otficial data. Bank and IMF staff estiiates.
C. External Financing Requirements
10.  Exceptional external financial assistance has made a major contribution to Bosnia
and Herzegovina's balance of payments.  In addition to generous humanitarian
assistance, the international community made commitments during 1996-98 of
US$4.2 billion, mainly on a grant basis, for Bosnia's reconstruction and peace
implementation activities. As of end-1998, total disbursements of grants and loan aid
were estimated at about US$2.8 billion. The Donor Conference held in May 1999, which
was the last to be held in support of the Priority Reconstruction Program, produced total
4



pledges of US$1.05 billion. With the commitment of these pledges, the external financing
requirement of the US$5.1 million Priority Reconstruction Program would be met. Over
the next several years. disbursements of donor funds committed for the Priority
Reconstruction Program will provide a substantial share ,f Bosnia's external financing.
11.   Allowing for the impact of the crisis in FRY. Bosnia and Herzegovina's total
external financing requirement in 1999 is estimated at US$1.4 billion. As in recent years,
this financing requirement consists mostly of reconstruction costs and debt service
obligations. After taking into account anticipated reconstruction assistance and other
identified official and private flows (including planned disbursements from the proposed
PFSAC 11 and EBPAC). there would be a residual financing gap of about US$60 million in
1999 which is expected to be closed within the next few months.
5



III. STRENGTHENING THE FRAMEWORK FOR PRIVATE MARKET
DEVELOPMENT
A. Background
12.   The challenge faced by BH in the economic field after the Dayton Accords was not
confined to reconstruction alone. To lay the foundations for high rates of self-sustaining
growth, it was necessary to begin the transition to a private sector-based economy. The
economy consisted of socially owned or state-owned enterprises and banks.  Social
ownership meant control of enterprises by management. workers and other enterprises; and
banks were owned by major enterprises. With no clear set of incentives for corporate or
management behaviour, and, indeed, with severe conflicts of interests, both enterprises and
banks suffered from serious weaknesses. Management and workers had few incentives to
preserve capital or to ensure healthy profits; rather, incentives worked towards maximising
wages and company indebtedness. As banks were founded by enterprises and as laws on
insider lending and lending to connected parties were weak, banks typically lent heavily to
their owners. Banks were insufficiently motivated by maximising returns to capital and
were poor channels for the optimal allocation of investible funds.
13.  Corporate and banking behaviour of the above-mentioned kind were facilitated by an
absence of laws enforcing adequate corporate governance and shielding enterprises and
banks from political interference. The accountancy standards fell short of those in most
industrial countries; entry and exit from economic activities was heavily regulated;
investment was directed by non-market considerations and credits were subsidised by
administrative decisions; and state trading played a significant role.   All these
characteristics were inconsistent with the development of a market economy.
14. Enterprise Sector. A relatively small number of large- and medium-scale publicly-
owned enterprises have long dominated the economy of BH, complemented by a large
number of small-scale private businesses that were allowed to operate in the former
Yugoslav economic system. In the Federation, less than 9 percent of the nearly 26,000
registered enterprises are in public ownership. but more than half of these 2,300 publicly-
owned enterprises are classified as large-scale businesses. In the RS, only about 700 of the
11.000 enterprises registered as of 1996 are publicly owned, yet they accounted for 80
percent of pre-war enterprise output. Publicly owned enterprises dominated the energy,
metal fabrication, wood products, food processing, construction and engineering, light
manufacturing, trade, services and utility sectors.
15. There is broad consensus within BH that a market-based economy and a vibrant
private sector are preconditions to lasting growth and for preparing the country for
participation in Europe's economic and political institutions. There is also growing
awareness that private business activity requires an appropriate legal and institutional
framework to operate and grow. While BH has made some considerable progress since the
end of the conflict in late 1995 to establish such a framework, the country is still behind
some other former Yugoslav republics that were not paralyzed by war after they gained
independence and started their economic reforms. Private businesses in BH today face a
complex legal and regulatory framework, a heavy public administrative system (including
the high-cost, public monopoly represented by the payments bureau), and a weak judicial
6



structure that does not sufficiently ensure enforceability of contracts. These issues are
being addressed in the context of comprehensive reforms.
B. Reform Strategy And Progress
16.    Establishing the architecture for a private, market-based economy is essential not
only for the long-term future of the BH economy, but also in order to maximise the
prospects for successful sales of publicly owned enterprises and banks. Since the end of
the war, several key legal and institutional reforms conducive to private business activity
have been implemented, notably the introduction of a common currency, passage of a State
Law on foreign investment, and introduction of uniform trade and customs policies across
the Entities. The major items in the agenda now being addressed are: clarification of
property rights, strengthening of corporate governance, enforcement of commercial
contracts, adherence to fair market practices, introduction of capital market instruments,
institution of a privately owned competitive payments and clearing system. enforcement
and simplification of taxes, improvements to accounting and auditing standards, and reform
of regulations on dependent labor and social welfare. While the establishment of the policy,
legislative and institutional framework for supporting private sector growth is the
responsibility of each Entity, Entity governments seek to harmonize policy reforms and
new legislation to the extent possible. In all the areas outlined above where policy and
institutional development is needed, the Entities are cooperating closely with specialist
assistance teams from international donors (notably USAID and the UK Know-How Fund)
to put in place solutions that will facilitate private sector development and the success of
the privatization programs.
17.    Commercial Law. The existing legal basis for commercial business activity in the
Entities is actively being strengthened. Laws have been passed by the Federation and RS
parliaments that secure the rights of shareholders; standardize the reporting activities of
enterprises; specify the duties and obligations of officers of a company; and provide for
better enterprise registration and streamlined regulation of business activity. In addition to
improved corporate behavior, investors require certainty about their rights and obligations
when entering into contracts. Existing laws on obligations at the Entity level require
harnonization and streamlining.  Further reforms are needed to allow  for secured
transactions and collateral-based lending. These include the establishment of an official
registry of collateral security interests as well as procedures and mechanisms for the rapid
disposal of pledged items. Each Entity has made good progress in these reform areas,
aided by international technical assistance, and the remaining aspects of the commercial
law framework are expected to be in place this year.
18.   A new Bankruptcy Law was passed in the Federation, allowing investors in the
Federation to enter into agreements and alliances with Bosnian businesses by ensuring
adequate procedures for dealing with failed companies and limiting risk to the size of the
investment. Regarding real and personal property rights, efforts are under way to clarify
the ownership of all forms of property, including "internal shares" in state-owned
enterprises prior to privatization. There is also donor-supported activity to develop an
adequate registration system covering all types of property, including shares and real
property.
7



19.   Accounting and Auditing.  Supported by considerable technical assistance, the
Federation has passed a law requiring that Federation enterprises adopt certain key
international accounting standards beginning January 1, 1998. By adhering to such
standards, domestic enterprises will generate auditable, accurate and timely financial
statements that are of use to both foreign and local investors, to local banks and the
government. Enterprises will also be better equipped to understand and manage their own
financial position and operations. Simnilar reforms in the RS laws are expected in mid-
1999.
20.   Capital Market Development. With the issuance of privatization claims in the
Federation and vouchers' in the RS and the divestiture of publicly owned enterprises,
mechanisms are required to allow citizens to transfer and trade their claims and vouchers
through an organized capital market. With donor assistance, a comprehensive set of capital
market laws has been passed by parliaments in both Entities, to address this requirement.
These include the Law on Securities, the Law on Security Commissions; the Law on
Registrar of Securities; and the Law on Management Companies and Investment Funds.
21.   The Law on Foreign Investment was passed at the State level in mid-1998. With its
highly liberal provisions and a clear level playing field for potential foreign investors it
offers an attractive environment for investment in all sectors.
22.   A suitable set of laws is a necessary pre-condition of success in building a private
market, but ultimate success will depend on light, but effective, regulation, vigilant
protection of shareholder and investor rights, and clean corporate governance ensured by
surveillance bodies. Much donor effort centers on assisting the institutions that will be
responsible for the enforcement of these laws. Progress in setting up the appropriate
architecture for fostering private markets has greatly outpaced developments in other
transition economies, and Bosnia. having suffered the severe retrogression brought about
by the war, is now poised to advance rapidly.
For the definition of claims and vouchers, see Boxes 1 and 2.
8



IV. STRENGTHENING THE BANKING SECTOR
A. Background
23.   There are 55 banks operating in the Federation, 13 of which are majority owned by
the public sector. These publicly owned banks hold over DM5 billion in assets (at current
book value, unadjusted for potential losses) or about 77 percent of total banking assets in
the Federation. In the RS, there are 15 banks, II of which are majority owned by public
enterprises. The four largest of these control two-thirds of all RS bank assets. Private
banks in both Entities were generally created during or after the war and are generally very
small in capital or asset size. While BH is over-banked in terms of the number of banks
registered, the level of banking and, in particular, lending services available is highly
inadequate to support the recovery of the economy after the war.
24.   Prior to the war, BH banks, as in the rest of Yugoslavia, served as captive finance
companies, lending to their publicly owned enterprise owners and providing deposit
services, pension payment services, and other basic safe-keeping functions.  Banks
followed a non-commercial orientation characterized by connected lending, excess
concentration, distorted loan classification, and a passive administrative role in disbursing
credits to their owners. On the asset and revenue side, little to no financial analysis was
involved in assessing risk. Principal when due was frequently rolled over without evidence
of debtors' ability to repay. Interest was often capitalized. When enterprises needed
further funds, they were often able to obtain them from those banks that they commonly
owned. Banks took out mortgages and liens on borrowers, but collateral values were of
dubious quality due to problems of collateral perfection and inability to control
collateralized properties. The judicial structure was not set up to enforce contracts or
resolve disputes in favor of creditors. These factors led to a passive banking system in
which banks neither lent according to commercial criteria, nor monitored for risk once
loans were made.
25.   On the liability side, as elsewhere in former Yugoslavia, foreign currency deposits
were subject to nearly 100 percent reserve requirements at the National Bank of Yugoslavia
in Belgrade. With the breakup of Yugoslavia, these liabilities were not honored by
Belgrade; in turn, Bosnian banks were compelled to freeze foreign exchange deposits
placed within them. Liabilities with respect to foreign creditors are being substantially
reduced through the London and Paris Clubs.
26.   The result of bank behaviour on both the asset and liability side described above led
to a significant incidence of insolvency amongst public banks. In BH, the poor quality of
lending eroded asset values massively and the effects of the war led to further non-
performance of loans. On the liability side, deposits could not be honoured as the reserve
requirements were not released by the central bank in Belgrade.
27.   Hyperinflation from the late 1980s into the 1990s erased local currency values, and
with it the savings and confidence of the public. The subsequent conflict led to a
curtailment of international lending flows that had been routinely passed through the
domestic banking system to finance large enterprise projects. By the end of the war in late
1995, these general trends, combined with the imposition of sanctions, led to a loss of
9



liquidity, evaporation of confidence, and a virtual halt to banking operations in the country.
Today, banks are illiquid and generally unable to perform significant lending services,
other than those refinanced through donor-provided credit lines. There are no active
interbank or domestic capital markets. Market interest rates of up to 3 percent per month
on DM-based short-term loans from banks reflect this shortage of credit. Meanwhile, high
cost structures of socially owned banks relative to volume of banking activity impose very
substantial operational inefficiencies.
B. Reform Strategy
28.   The reform strategy being pursued by both Entities of BH is intended to enhance
public confidence in the privatised banking system through (i) strengthened banking
supervision. aided by the powers of a modem commercial bank law, (ii) the liquidation of
all insolvent banks, (iii) institutioni of a deposit insurance scheme; (iv) promoting the entry
of foreign banks: and (v) securing long tern funding for commercial banks. It is the policy
of both Entities that all solvent publicly-owned banks would be rapidly privatised.
29.   Banking Supervisiont. After the war, each Entity proceeded to establish its own
banking supervision agency. In the Federation, the Federation Banking Agency (FBA) was
created in mid-I 996 to assume the mandate of carrying out the Entity's bank licensing and
supervision function: it has made an impressive start, assisted by foreign technical
assistance. The agency has begun to actively examine and monitor banks, and implement
the system of supervision. Resident advisors and agency staff have participated jointly in a
series of enhanced supervisory reviews of the Federation's publicly-owned and private-
owned banks. Recent amendments to the FBA Law have further strengthened the mandate
and independence of the agency. In the RS. the corresponding banking supervision agency
was established by Law in early 1993 and has made progress since then, assisted by
considerable technical assistance provided by USAID (United States Agency for
International Development), and using qualified local staff from the former National Bank
of RS.
30.   To date, the majority of technical assistance to both banking supervision agencies
has focused on the on-site supervision function. The agencies have begun to conduct risk-
focused safety and soundness examinations as opposed to the more compliance-based
reviews. New examination report formats have been adopted, and the overall examination
process has been strengthened. A system for monitoring the banking sector on an offsite
basis has also been introduced.
31.   The Federation agency is now  well established and is steadily raising its
professional standards but will continue to require technical assistance. In the RS, the task
ahead is much greater. The most significant needed enhancement in the RS includes the
resolution of the agency's funding structure and implementation of a plan that provides for
financial independence. In both Entities, a clarification of conservatorship powers and
problem bank enforcement authority remains to be done, particularly in the context of the
expected institution of deposit insurance agencies later this year (see below). The deposit
insurance legislation currently under discussion would embody this required clarification.
Other areas warranting attention in both Entities include offsite supervision capabilities,
bank accounting standards, establishment of an integrated supervisory approach, licensing
10



procedures, and agency enforcement authority.  These issues are being addressed in the
context of continuing technical assistance to the Entity banking agencies. notably by
USAID.
32.   Commercial Bank Law. Assisted by the donors, both Entities have prepared their
new commercial bank laws. These new laws define the authority of the Entities banking
supervision agencies to supervise, rehabilitate and liquidate banks. The laws establish
general operational requirements for banks, defining permissible activities, prohibited
transactions, prudential standards and insider relationships.  They include insolvency
definitions, the conditions under which a provisional administrator may be appointed by the
banking supervision agencies, the powers and duties of that administrator, and a defined
receivership role, but, as noted above, certain clarifications are required. Liquidation
powers by the banking supervision agency include receivership appointment and oversight,
and institutional resolution. The law also permnits deposit and investment banking and
establishes a priority of claims in the liquidation process. Finally, the laws establish
general criteria for the disposition of assets and liabilities of banks, and for bank sales or
mergers. The law in the Federation was passed at end- 1 998, and the RS law is expected to
be adopted in mid-1999.
33.   Liquidating Insolvent Banks. The liquidation of insolvent banks is particularly
vital if confidence in the banking system is to be restored and if appropriate incentives are
to be felt by banks as to prudent banking behavior. Existing and proposed legislation
clearly requires this and gives appropriate powers to the banking agencies. It would be
inadvisable to attempt to rehabilitate or recapitalize insolvent banks as such a course of
action would not constitute a prudent use of  scarce fiscal resources.  The Entity
governments have committed themselves to avoiding such a measure. As a first step,
insolvent banks will be closed immediately upon determination of insolvency by the
banking agency. Thereafter, they will be liquidated in an orderly manner.
34.   The Federation authorities had set a deadline of March 8, 1999 for the
determination of the solvency position of all publicly-owned banks. This deadline was
respected with regard to three public banks, and the authorities are providing further time
for the remaining banks. In 1998, the Federation Banking Agency had established that the
largest publicly owned bank in the Federation was insolvent by a large margin and had
recommended its closure to be followed by liquidation to the Federation government. As a
result of recent legal proceedings involving this bank and several other publicly-owned
banks as to the allocation of certain liabilities of these banks and ongoing negotiations
between these banks and certain of their foreign commercial creditors, the final solvency
position of these banks would not be determnined for several more weeks or, possibly,
months. If, as expected, the largest publicly-owned bank in the Federation is confirmed as
being insolvent, the Federation government is expected to close this bank and institute
liquidation proceedings.
35.   Careful audits and examinations of banks based on new legislation has been
initiated in Republika Srpska. Insolvent banks will be treated in the same fashion.
36.   Deposit Insurance. As of end-i 997, Federation banks attracted only a very modest
volume of demand deposits of about DM350 million, with practically no savings and term
11



deposits (less than DM60 million) and virtually no deposits held by individual households.
As a result, banks have very limited resources for new lending. The same situation applies
in the RS. The war and a reduced level of economic activity have undoubtedly contributed
to dissavings by many households. In addition, savings were wiped out as a result of
inflation and the freezing of foreign currency deposits. The latter involves nominal claims
of about DM3 billion from depositors in Federation banks and about DMI.2 billion from
depositors in RS banks.
37.   There are additional reasons for public reluctance to place deposits in banks. While
many publicly-owned banks are tainted by their inability to honour frozen foreign
exchange deposits, many of the (new) private banks offer limited financial information.
depriving prospective depositors of a sound basis for evaluating their financial strength.
The enforcement of the strengthened Commercial Bank Law will raise inforrnation and
disclosure standards and help generate new confidence. Another factor is the lack of
services provided by most banks. Apart from exchanging currency, handling remittances
from abroad and providing other minimal services -- all at high fees -- banks offer few
useful banking services to households or enterprises. Lending transactions as well as
sophisticated payment services (credit cards. ATMs) are largely unavailable. A broader
range of services is expected to emerge with privatization and, particularly, entry of foreign
banks. The existence of the payments bureaux that enjoy monopoly in making payments
and clearing payments is an important factor stultifying the development of a healthy
banking industry. The comprehensive reform of the payments bureaux that is planned for
implementation by the Entity governments from mid-1999 onwards will eradicate this
market-inhibiting barrier.
38.   An appropriately structured deposit insurance system would contribute importantly
toward restoring depositor confidence in Bosnia and bringing depositors back to banks in
both Entities. The purpose of establishing deposit insurance systems would be to: (i)
protect small depositors from loss in the event of failure of an insured bank; (ii) discourage
bank runs that might lead to system-wide financial problems that are associated with
monetary contraction; and (iii) provide an efficient mechanism for disposing of insolvent
banks, including a system for disposing of failed bank assets and distributing collection
proceeds to creditors. All European Union (EU) countries are by now required to have
deposit insurance systems.
39.   There are two potential problems frequently ascribed to deposit insurance: (i) it
may discourage or eliminate depositor discipline, thereby encouraging banks to take
additional, and possibly excessive, risk (moral hazard problem); and (ii) it can prove to be
expensive and place a substantial financial burden on healthy banks or taxpayers. The
market discipline issue can best be addressed by providing a modest level of insurance
coverage for each depositor. At the outset coverage would be set at DM5,000 per
depositor, or over five times the current GDP per head of BH.
40.   A modest level of insurance coverage would also reduce the cost of the deposit
insurance system. So, too, would several other features of the proposed system: (i) deposit
insurance would be restricted to deposits in private banks that meet capital requirements;
publicly-owned banks would be excluded; participation of foreign banks operating in the
country would be compulsory; (ii) insured banks that subsequently fail to meet capital
12



requirements would be subject to restrictions on their expansion of insured deposits; and
(iii) insured depositor preference in the event of bank failure would allow the deposit
insurer to recover most or all of its outlay to insured depositors in most instances.
41.   The deposit insurance scheme to be established under Bosnia's financial sector
reform program would be funded by an initial seed capital contribution which is estimated
at DM14 million for the Federation and DM6 million for RS. In addition, there would be a
levy on deposits in insured banks of some 0.25 percent per year. Financial projections
demonstrate the viability of a scheme run along these lines. As the credibility of the
depositor insurer (both domestically and internationally) is a prerequisite if depositors are
to retumn to banks, the deposit insurer would enjoy substantial independence. Under the
program, a small. permanent Deposit Insurance Agency would be established in each
Entity as an autonomous agency accountable directly to parliament to administer the
scheme. The institution would be appointed receiver for closed insured banks and would
have responsibility for collecting on failed bank assets and distributing the proceeds to
creditors.
42.   Entry of Foreign Banks. Attracting foreign banks will be a necessary complement
to strengthen competition and revitalize the banking sector in both Entities. Since the end
of the war, two foreign banks have set up green-field operations in the Federation. Further
foreign bank entries are hoped for in the form of strategic investments during the bank
privatization process. A number of international banks have begun to explore the prospects
of entry into BH and one bank has carried out a detailed feasibility study. The privatization
of the Federation Investment Bank (FIB), (see paragraph below), offers one prospect for
foreign entry. The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) has taken
an equity position in two banks in the Federation and has encouraged twinning programs.
43.   Finance for Investment - the Federation Investment Bank.  Investment capital
has been scarce in Bosnia since the end of the conflict. Limited short- and medium-term
capital needs have been met by donor lines of credit and local businesses, but there remains
a complete absence of longer-term investment capital. This is despite the fact that capital
demand is strong and potential profitable projects are numerous. In response to this issue,
the Federation government created, in late 1997, the Federation Investment Bank (FIB).
Using reflows of donor lines of credit and other donor funds, FIB is expected to support the
long-term investment finance needs of the Federation economy.
44.   In preparation for the proposed IDA Credit, the Bank has been in discussions with
the Federation government on the structure and operations of the FIB. These discussions
produced an agreement in June 1998, intended to bring FIB's charter and business
orientation into line with the objectives of the government's bank privatization program.
This agreement sets out the types of assets and liabilities the bank can hold and eliminates
the role of the government in determining final beneficiaries of credit. FIB will extend
credits only indirectly, as a second-tier bank, to final beneficiaries through the commercial
banking sector. While FIB may require local banks to allocate a limited amount of credits
for specific purposes (i.e. projects that will support exports), FIB will make no evaluation
of individual loan decisions which will be taken by the participating first-tier banks. First-
tier banks will extend credits financed from FIB resources only for long-term investment
projects.
13



45.   The agreement also specifies that FIB will have the right to accept deposits from
the Federation Govemment (but only until end-1999), and not from any other source. FIB
will have to pay competitive fees for the advantage of holding government deposits.
Finally, FIB will pursue majority private owvnership and management in the near fiuture.
46.   The Federation government has announced its policy of privatising the FIB rapidly
and has invited the assistance of the World Bank Group and the German Kreditanstalt fur
Wiederaufbau (KfW) to this end. Private investors could be other banks. foreign and local,
and multilateral banks. Work is underway to structure the balance sheet of the FIB in a
way that would be of interest to potential buyers. The shareholding of the Federation
government would be limited to 10-15 percent of the total share capital of FIB.
47.   Finance for Investment - Otlier Activities. With the assistance of international
donors, a number of other initiatives have been taken in both Entities to provide finance for
investment.  Under an IDA project - the Industrial Restart Project - an Investment
Guarantee Agency (IGA) has been established to provide guarantees against political risk
(war or civil disturbance, cancellation of licenses or restrictions on trade, expropriation,
foreign exchange inconvertibility, and certain other risks) to commercial lenders for
working capital. The International Finance Corporation (IFC) has participated in three key
activities to encourage finance for investment: a venture capital fund, a microenterprise
bank, and a credit line for medium-sized wood sector manufacturers. The EBRD is also
participating in the venture capital and the microcredit activities. Credit lines have been
extended by IDA to both Entities and also by USAID. IDA is assisting the Entity
authorities to prepare a line for the financing of inputs for exports that will leverage in
private sources of finance. This project is likely to include support for the issuance of
performance bonds by BH companies; the lack of such bonds is considered to be a major
impediment to exports by BH.
Actions to be Supported by the EBPAC
48.   The financial sector reform program, supported by the proposed operation, will
seek to further strengthen banking supervision capabilities in the Federation and their rapid
development in the RS. Given extensive technical assistance provided by USAID to both
Entities on a long-term basis, progress in all areas of banking supervision is expected to
remain quick and substantial. The RS will also pass a new Commercial Bank Law. In
order to create deposit insurance systems, first tranche release for the Federation would be
conditioned on the Government 's submission to Parliament of a Deposit Insurance Law
that is satisfactory to IDA. For second tranche release, the Deposit Insurance Agency is to
have started finctioning in the Federation.  Second tranche release for the RS is
conditioned upon the passage of a Deposit Insurance Law and the setting up of the Deposit
Insurance Agency, (the functioning of which is expected to require a few months beyond
second tranche r elease).
49.   First and second tranche release conditions of the proposed Credit for the
Federation are that it shall not establish or extend any credit lines using budget resources
outside the FIB, similarly for the RS that it shall not establish or extend any credit lines
using budget resources. Also, neither Entity shall establish any new bank or increase
capital subscription in any existing bank.
14



50.   Further first tranche release conditions for the Federation are that (i) the
operations of the FIB are to be based solely on market principles, and (ii) the Federation
shall initiate efforts to privatize the FIB. By second tranche release, the Federation is to
have taken actions satisfactory to IDA on reaching agreement with private investors on the
privatization of the FIB. (As the RS has not established a specialised development bank
like the FIB, there are no similar conditions for the RS. The RS has a development banking
unit within its payments bureau, and this unit will be privatised in line with its bank
privatization program.)
15



V. KEY POLICY QUESTIONS IN PRIVATIZATION
51.   Competence to Privatize Resides with thze Entities. The Dayton Accords provide
the framework for building the governance structure in BH. Under the Accords, BH is a
sovereign state consisting of two multi-ethnic Entities, the Federation of Bosnia and
Herzegovina and Republika Srpska, with a State government responsible for international
relations and certain other specific functions identified in the Dayton Accords. Key
economic institutions and policies envisaged at the State level include a central bank
(organized as a currency board for a period of at least six years) and a new currency,
customs and trade policies (but not administration -- an Entity responsibility), international
financial relations (including servicing of international debts and debt management) and
international and common aspects of telecommunication and transport.
52.   The Entity governments, in contrast, have exclusive responsibility in their
respective territories over defense, internal affairs and police, justice, environmental
policies, economic and social sector policies (such as agriculture, industry, education and
health), refugees and displaced persons, public investment and reconstruction programs and
tax and customs administration.  They are responsible for the administration and
implementation of all economic policies (even those assigned to the state at the policy
level, e.g., customs, trade). with the central bank being responsible for the currency board
function. To carry out their responsibilities, each Entity has ownership of the taxes
collected in its territory.
53.   However, the constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina does not deal explicitly with
the ownership of public property in post-war Bosnia and Herzegovina. Public property in
the former Yugoslavia was not generally state owned, but was owned by enterprises and
worker-management councils. After considerable debate among the State and Entity
governments and in close consultation with the international community, the principle was
established that the competence to privatise will reside with the Entities, and the Entities
will have the sole right of enjoying the proceeds. Each Entity will be responsible for
privatising assets located only in its territory and will also acquire corresponding liabilities.
Cross-Entity claims will be settled by arlbitration.
54.   Through a State-level Privatization Law -- that was promulgated by the High
Representative in August 1998 using hiis powers under the Dayton Agreement and Peace
Implementation Conference (PIC) decisions -- the State recognizes and reaffirms the right
of the Entities to carry out privatization of publicly-owned assets and to dispose of the
resulting proceeds. The Law requires Entities to ensure that privatization recognises the
rights of all citizens, including displaced persons and refugees. The Law furthermore
provides for an audit of the balance sheet and the ownership of companies that have been
irregularly privatised since the onset of the war. The responsibility for carrying out these
provisions of the State Law rests with the Entity governments and privatization institutions.
In order to monitor Entity performance in these regards, the High Representative has
established a monitoring commission reporting to him. It is expected that the State
parliament will pass this Law through normal legislative process in 1999.
16



Action to be Supported by the EBPAC
55.    The first tranche release of any portion of the credit is conditioned upon the
promulgation of the State Privatization Law. (This condition is deemed to have been met.)
56.   Privatization Methlod. As in other countries. BH had a choice of approaches to
carry out enterprise and bank privatization. In light of the vast amount of some DM15
billion that is owed to the citizens of the Federation by the Federation Government and a
further estimated DM2 billion in similar obligations of the RS Government towards its
citizens, it was decided to permit room for a voucher-based approach (called claims in the
Federation, and claims or vouchers or coupons in the RS) in parallel with cash and other
approaches in order to compensate as many claims as possible through the enterprise (and
apartment) privatization process. Bank privatization is allowed through cash purchases
only.
57.   In the Federation, claims will be issued in exchange for certain liabilities owed to
citizens by the Entity. The four categories of such specific claims relate to frozen foreign
currency deposits in Federation banks, unpaid wages of soldiers, unpaid pensions, and
restitution. In addition, a general claim for all citizens based on number of years of
working life will be issued. In the RS, the specific obligations of the Entity towards its
citizens that will be honored relate to frozen foreign currency deposits in RS banks and
veterans and families of fallen soldiers. In addition, a general voucher for all citizens will
be issued in a uniform amount per citizen. In the RS, vouchers related to veterans and
soldiers and the general voucher will be identical in character and usage; frozen foreign
currency deposits will be compensated for by the issuance of coupons that will be eligible
to be used in cash sale privatization. For this reason, coupons are also called "cash
equivalents"'.
58.   As the Entities lack the fiscal resources -- either cash or capacity to contract debt --
to satisfy such claims, vouchers or coupons, the exchange of Entity assets offers the
optimal solution. Claims are being carefully checked, and a number of implementation
difficulties are being addressed at present. It is expected that claims will be issued in the
Federation in the third quarter of 1999 and in the RS coupons will be issued by autumn
1999 and vouchers some months thereafter. A final category of specific claims in the
Federation is planned to compensate holders of restitution claims on the Federation
government. Such claims related to restitution are expected to be issued in late 1999. The
RS plans to provide for restitution not through the issuance of vouchers but by establishing
a special Restitution Fund late in 1999.
59.   In the Federation, claims will be used by holders (who may trade them freely) to
purchase shares in enterprises being privatised (especially small scale privatizations) or in
investment funds, and, importantly, they will also be used to buy apartments. The
Federation has passed a law on privatization of apartments. It is estimated that a significant
share of claims will be absorbed via purchases of property; this will help to buoy up the
value of claims, whilst making greater room for cash privatization under the programs. In
the RS, vouchers will be used in privatizations of medium and large enterprises, where at
least 55 percent of the value of the company has to be put up for purchase through claims.
A further 10 percent of shares in large enterprises will be allocated to the RS Pension Fund
17



and a further 5 percent to the Restitution Fund. Cash or coupons will be used for small
enterprise privatizations and for the purchase of apartments.
60.     Mass privatization using claims or vouchers has shown mixed results in other
countries and the privatization prograims in the Entities has been designed with these
lessons in mind. In order to address the weaknesses of corporate governance, the lack of
fresh capital injection, and insufficient development of capital markets that have been
associated with voucher programs in other countries, the schemes in both Entities have
been tailored to providing scope for cash and strategic invesment by limiting voucher
privatization of small firms to 65 percent in the Federation, with the outstanding balance to
be paid in cash. In the RS. only cash or cash equivalents are allowed to be used in small-
scale privatization. For large enterprise privatization. the Federation will make room on a
case by case basis for the use of claims; in the RS the main use of vouchers is expected to
be in the context of large enterprise privatization. but a strategic stake of up to 30 percent of
the company could be provided for.  In each Entity, large enterprises will prepare
privatization plans with due attention being given to need for increased capitalization of the
enterprise and for foreign strategic investment. The establishment of a trading system that
makes possible transparent and low cost trading of both claims and shares bought through
them and other measures to promote capital market development, such as the institution of
investment funds, are vital features of the programs. The trading systems are being
developed with donor technical assistance in both Entities.
61.   As experience in other countries has shown, investment funds could be easily prone
to abuses. The laws of the Entities provide for strict regulation on the conduct and
governance of such funds, for dealing with potential conflict of interests and for appropriate
disclosure in the interests of stringent shareholder protection. By these means, it will be
possible to cancel the claims against Entities through vouchers without suffering the
weaknesses associated with voucher privatizations of the past.
62.    Eligibility to Participate in General Claims Privatization.  Participation in
priva.ization needs to be broad to ensure public acceptance of the program and to provide
compensation of all eligible citizen claims in the process. While all citizens of BH are
considered eligible to participate in all privatization transactions, a specific question of
eligibility relates to the entitlement to obtain the Entity-issued general claims for use in
enterprise privatization in both Entities and also for apartment privatization in the
Federation. The State Privatization Law requires that all BH citizens resident in the
territory of an Entity as of end-March 1991 (the date of the final pre-war census) be entitled
to receive general claims from that Entity, regardless of their current residency. Legislation
of each Entity (together with supporting regulation) is consistent with the State Law and
provides for the equal treatment of all citizens and, in particular, safeguards the rights of
displaced persons and refugees in the issuance of general claims. General claims may be
issued by each Entity to other groups of BH citizens. Thus, Entity Laws and regulations
have given clear importance to the principles of non-discrimination, transparency in the
privatization process, and to accountability.
63.   Assets Covered by Privatization. The privatization laws of the Entities relate to the
publicly-owned assets of enterprises and banks, including public corporations and utilities,
that are located within the territory of the Entity. Assets of enterprises and banks located in
18



the other Entity or abroad and which are not under the control of the Entity in question will
not be subject to privatization by that Entity. These claims and cross-claims are either
included within an inter-Entity arbitration procedure as set out under Annex 5 of the
Dayton Accords, or they will need to be dealt with by other bodies charged with resolution
of ownership claims among the former Yugoslav republics. The majority of publicly-
owned BH enterprise and bank assets are located within the territory of BH and are
included in the privatization program of each Entity. The remaining assets under dispute
will be resolved and, if applicable, privatized at a later stage.
64.   Speed of Privatization. A broad consensus has been reached among both Entities
and the international community that speedy privatization is of utmost importance in the
specific Bosnian context. Privatization must be rapid to prevent further deterioration of
war-damaged assets, to minimize illegal or spontaneous privatizations in areas not
adequately under the control of the Entity authorities, and, above all, to rapidly create the
conditions for sustained, private sector-led growth while foreign-financed official
reconstruction assistance is being gradually phased out. Continued public ownership of
productive assets adds little value in light of the complete lack of budgetary resources to
finance public investments, and in view of the general inability of the Entity governments
to effectively control enterprise management prior to privatization. Removal of ownership
uncertainty through privatization is a pre-condition for attracting much needed direct
foreign investment. While rapid privatization bears risks of underestimating the value of
some assets, the benefits of speedy divestiture outweigh these risks in the BH context.
65.   Sequencing of Privatization.  The privatization strategy provides for rapid
privatization of small enterprises (during 1999-2000) with a flexible set of possibilities of
using a mix of cash and claims in the Federation and a mix of cash and cash equivalents in
the RS. Privatization of banks will be exclusively through cash sales and requirement by
the purchaser to inject further capital in banks, with the first major transactions expected to
take place by end 1999. Larger enterprises, holding companies, and utilities will follow.
Prior to privatization, holding companies need to be disaggregated into privatizable
business units that are under the control of one Entity.  Utilities require the prior
establishment of adequate regulatory frameworks, to be harmonized between the Entities so
as to ensure BH-wide freedom of communication, transport and other services. In the areas
of telecommunications and electric power generation and distribution, work is proceeding
on developing the regulatory framework. The framework will provide for increased private
participation in these sectors. Progress is likely to be more rapid in telecommunications
than in electricity and privatization of existing telecom operators is envisaged for 2001.
Work on the regulatory framework for other sectors is being initiated with donor assistance.
19



VI. PRIVATIZ,ATION OF ENTERPRISES
A. Background
66.   The two Entities have adopted a comprehensive set of laws for the privatization of
enterprises and have, furthermore, established agencies to undertake the task. In the
Federation, Laws on Enterprise Privatization and on Opening Balance Sheets (that defines
the balance sheet of the enterprise to be privatised) have been adopted.  Privatization
agencies at the Federation level and in cantons have been established and their division of
responsibilites clarified. However, not all cantonal agencies are adequately staffed or
functioning; it is expected that full functioning of these agencies may yet take several
weeks. Republika Srpska legislation on enterprise privatization and opening balance sheets
was passed in July 1998, thereby annulling the earlier highly defective Privatization Law of
1996, and the privatization agency is functioning.
67.   The book value of privatizable assets in state-owned enterprises remains unknown
until opening balance sheets and privatization plans are established for all enterprises
concerned. Book values will provide guidance. but the market value of enterprises (and
shares in them) will be known only through the auctions or the tendering process or
through negotiated sales.
B. Privatizing Enterprises In The Federation
68.   Establishing Claisa. As early as in December 1995, the Federation adopted an
approach to enterprise privatization whereby publicly- or socially-owned assets (e.g., small
businesses, business assets, enterprise shares, and apartments) would be exchanged in
settlement of various citizen claims.  The approach also provided for restitution of
nationalized property -- which would create financial restitution claims in cases where
actual assets could not be returned -- and for general privatization claims, with the latter
based on years of prior employment.
69.   In adopting this approach, the intent was to compensate citizens claims and wartime
sacrifices without resorting to cash payments that could not be financed from the budget. It
is expected that many of the claims would be absorbed by citizens buying apartments. The
resulting full extinguishing of citizen claims was deemed the only practicable alternative to
cash payments.
70.   The approach chosen by the Federation relies on the Federation Privatization
Agency (FPA) being responsible for enterprises that are located in more than one canton
and the 10 canton-based privatization agencies for enterprises located within one canton.
The agencies will assess the privatization plan prepared by each enterprise, establish the
value of privatizable assets in their jurisdiction and carry out the matching of citizen claims
and enterprise assets. The FPA oversees the entire process and ensures compliance with
the applicable Laws. The FPA issues regulations and directives applicable for all canton-
based agencies, covering the methodology of preparing opening balance sheets of
enterprises and of carrying out auctions.
71.   The first step in the process is the creation of unique citizen claim accounts. These
will cover the following types of claims:
20



-   General claims.  All citizens of BH  and residents on the territory of the
Federation as of March 31st, 1991, who are 18 years or older, are eligible to
receive these claims. The amount of this claim will be based upon the number
of years of work according to data submitted by the pensions bureau and
Minister of the Interior to the payments bureau. The juvenile children of
deceased parents who are elegible for the general claim will inherit that claim.
- Frozen foreign currency claims. All citizens of BH and residents on the territory
of the Federation as of March 31 st, 1991, with foreign currency accounts with
Box 1: OVERVIEW OF MASS PRIVATIZATION IN THE FEDERATION
Liability                    Term      Can be used in    Can be used in   Can be used to
Small-scale       Large-scale      buy
Privatization*    Privatization   apartments
General: (Provided to all    Claim     Yes               Yes              Yes
citizens based on working
years)
Specific: (provided to certain
citizens)
Frozen Foreign Currency    Claim    Yes               Yes              Yes
Military Back Pay         Claim     Yes               Yes              Yes
Pension Arrears           Claim     Yes               Yes              Yes
Restitution               Claim     Yes               Yes              Yes
In the Federation Privatization system, each eligible participant will be provided an individual claim account at the
payment bureau. The Claim account represents the sum of five categories (general, foreign exchange, military
wages, pension arrears, and restitution) that are given value based on the liabilities the Federation has towards the
citizen in each of these areas. In the Federation, claims have a nominal face value and may be sold or traded.
*   For Small-scale Privatization, assets may be purchased for a minimum of 35% cash with the balance to be
made up in any combination of cash and claims.
*   For Large-scale Privatization, assets may be purchased for any combination of cash and claims.
* In the Federation, small-scale privatization is defined as enterprises with less than 15 employees or under
500,000 DM in assets, any non-core business unit of an enterprise undergoing mass-privatization, or any catering,
service, trade, or transport business as defined by the Ministry of Industry.
more than DM100 on the territory of the Federation as of March 31, 1992 are
eligible to receive claims. The information on frozen foreign currency accounts
is to be verified by account holders and then submitted by banks to the
payments bureau.
-   Armed forces members's claims. All members of the armies of BH and police
during the war are eligible to receive claims. These data will be submitted by
the Minstry of Defense to the payments bureau.
-   Pension arrears. Arrears in pension payments are to be eliminated through the
issuance of claims.
21



-   Restitution.  All persons who have a court decision on determined right to
restitution will be compensated through claims. A Law on restitution has not
yet been passed; no procedures for creating these claims have been established.
(This will, however, not hold up privatization as restitution claims will be
issued at a later stage and used for enterprises being privatised in the second
phase.)
-  Once the data has been submitted to the payments bureau, it will assemble an
account for all eligible individuals. The information on the account will then be
mailed to the recipients of the claim for verification. The claims will be
dematerialized and tradeable claims held in accounts at the payments bureau.
Enterprise Privatization Timeline in the Federation
Actions                                   1999                            2000
_UIMA MA          I | J JAI S 10 N  D  JI F MIAIMA     J I J Al S JOIN I)
Law on Enterprises adopted*           rT    TTrr               TTTTX    r             r     r
Naming of Security Commissionr_
Citizen claims statement mailed
Claims correction period
Enterprises prepare and submit OBS &
Privatization Plan
All Cantonal Agencies functioning
Securities Commission operational
OBS and Privatization Plan reviewed
Small-scale privatization
Share registry operational
Claims related to rcstitution issued
Management companies licensed
Private Investment Funds (PF                          _
)registered
Subscriptions to I'lI s
Large-scale l'rivatization
Prospectus for sale of'Felecom and
Electrical Power
72.    Implementation Timetable. All enterprises which are candidates for privatization,
except for a small number of strategic enterprises, were responsible for preparing opening
balance sheets by April 1999. Enterprises will also submit a proposed privatization plan
that will include its preferred method of sale (auction or tender). It will then be up to the
appropriate privatization agency (Federation or cantonal) to accept or reject the opening
balance sheet and adjust the privatization program as necessary. Publicity of firms to be
sold will take place in two stages, first the appropriate privatization agency will publish a
list of all privatizable assets, and then specific announcements for auctions and other sales
will be made in the media. For small scale privatization, the Law on Privatization of
Enterprises in the Federation requires at least 35 percent cash payment and the balance to
be made up in cash or claims. Any combination of cash and claims can be used to purchase
assets sold under mass privatization.
22



73.   Institutional Aspects.  The enterprise privatization program, as designed in the
Federation, requires the processing of a vast amount of information so as to assign claims
for liabilities. Data on citizen claims are difficult and time-consuming to collect in their
entirety and requires the establishment of specialized departments within the FPA. General
claims data is compiled by combining information from the pensions bureau and the
Ministry of Interior; frozen foreign currency data from banks, and army back pay data
from the Ministry of Defense.
74.   In addition to the legislation, the institutional structure has been built up over the
past year and a half. While the FPA in Sarajevo has been functioning since May 1997,
only in early 1999 has the tenth and final Cantonal Privatization Agency (CPA) been
established. Not all cantonal agencies have been fully staffed or are as yet operational. It is
expected that all would be fully operational by end-spring or early summer. The role of the
cantonal agencies is critical given the decentralized approach to privatization in the
Federation. According to the Federation Law on Privatization Agencies, each canton is
responsible for passing a separate cantonal Law to create its CPA, name a director and
deputy director, select the CPA management board and supervisory board, and finance its
CPA.  Various political and implementation difficulties have been responsible for slow
progress in this work, mainly the two ethnic groups have not cooperated successfullv in
those cantons with mixed populations  and enterprises in those cantons have also not
cooperated in providing data.
75.   Two major immediate operational tasks are required to be completed before
enterprise privatization can start in eamest in the Federation. First, eligible citizen claims
need to be identified, which requires gathering information on army back-pay, on frozen
foreign exchange deposits, and the determination of general claims based on years of prior
work. The FPA has made considerable progress in cooperation with banks and the national
payments bureau to identify citizen claims and establish citizen accounts, except for
restitution claims which will wait for a later stage of privatization. The two armies in the
Federation have reached agreement on army back pay. Second, CPAs need to carry out an
assessment of enterprises' opening balance sheets and privatizable asset values. Recent
progress in collecting and assembling these data indicate that these tasks would require
several more weeks for completion. A third, less immediate, task is the issuance of claims
related to restitution.
76.   All enterprises are required to draw up their opening balance sheets according to the
Law within tight deadlines and then to prepare a plan for privatization that wins the
approval of the privatization agency. Under the Law, enterprises are divested of their
foreign loan liabilities that have been subject to Paris and London Club deals. In preparing
their privatization plans, enterprises have considerable freedom, but protection is being
built in against insider transactions. The Laws of both Entities provide for a great deal of
flexibility in determing the shape of the individual sale, in particular the relationship
between cash and claims, subject to the approval of the final plan by the relevant
privatization agency.
23



Actions to be supported by the EBPAC
77.   Prior to first tranche release of the proposed Credit, the Federation would initiate
small enterprise privatization by conducting auctions or issuing tenders for at least 45
small companies. Payment may be for cash or claims. If not all citizen claims have been
formalized in the payment bureau accounts, the privatization authorities will allow
additional time for citizens to settle the claims portion of the puirchase pirice. A lso, all
cantonal privatization agencies would need to be filly staffed and operating. One area of
private sector development, the establishment of a capital market and particularly the
development of privatization investment funds, is considered crucial to the success of the
program. First tranche release of the proposed Credit will, therefore, he condilioned on
the passage of Lawo on Management Companies and Privatization Investmnent Funds
allowing citizens to invest their claims in enterprises through funds as well ais individually.
Finally, in light of the new State-level Privatization Law ancd its requiirements, as a
condition for first tranche release, the Federation is required to amend its Enterprise
Privatization Law, to ensure consistency wvith the non-discrinminairy principle of the statle
privatization Law.
78.   Before the second tranche release, the Federation will have conclulded and settled
privatization transactions for at least 500 small enterprises, excluding candidales for
natural restitution. Also by that time, the Federation will begin subscription fio shares in
at least 100 medium to large-scale enterprises. In the medium term, the FPA will need to
tackle the particular challenge of restructuring and privatizing the complex holding
companies that dominated the Bosnian economy prior to the war. Prior to second tranche
release, the prospectus for the sale of at least one holding company by its constituent parts
will have to be issued
C. Privatizing Enterprises in Republika Srpska
79.   Legislative Framwork. The legal framework for enterprise privatization in the RS
has changed considerably over the period since the end of conflict. The RS initially
decided to follow a very different approach than the Federation towards privatization that
relied heavily on a lottery system for the allocation of shares to its residents. Moreoever, a
large percentage of total shares were to be allocated to seven privatization funds which
would remain under public control.
80.   This initial approach to privatization in the RS raised a number of serious concerns.
Among other issues, it would not have been transparent nor equitable as citizens would
have had no choice in the composition of their initial share portfolio. Also, the opportunity
to compensate specific citizen claims through transfer of privatized assets would have been
lost. The incentives arising from private ownership would be highly blunted as the
publicly-owned privatization funds would exert heavy influence. Moreover, no reform of
corporate governance under these conditions could be expected to take place.
81.   Upon advice by the Bank, the RS government that took office in early 1998,
assisted by the British Know-How Fund and USAID, have rapidly put in place a set of
Laws and have strengthened institutions. In the summer 1998, the parliament passed:
24



* the Law on the Privatization of State Capital in Enterprises;
* the Law on Opening Balance sheets in the Course of Privatization of State Capital in
Enterprises; and
* the Laws on Securities, on Privatization Investment Funds, on Management
Companies, and on the Central Registry of shares.
82.   In the same package, the RS Parliament passed the Banking Laws (on Privatization
of State Capital in Banks and on Opening Balance Sheets in the Course of Privatization of
State Capital in Banks) as well as the Law on Enterprises. The latter ties in very closely
with the development of capital markets and addresses key areas such as the rights of
shareholders, the delineation of duties and obligations of corporate officers and directors,
the contents of founding documents (corporate charter) and the requirements for general
assemblies.
83.   With all required Laws in place. the RS now faces the same challenge as the
Federation to move quickly into implementation of enterprise privatization. The RS
privatization agency staff needs to be strengthened and equipped with technical skills - this
task is being undertaken by foreign technical assistance. The process of defining claims
and establishing enterprise opening balance sheets is expected to be completed in Summer
1999. Finally, a number of rules and regulations need to be drafted and adopted to
implement privatization.
25



Box 2: OVERVIEW OF MASS PRIVATIZATION IN THE RS
Liability             Term              Can be used in     Can be used in      Can be Used
Small-scale        Mass               to Buy
Privatization      Privatization      Apartments
General (all eligible    Voucher        No                 Yes                 No
citizens)
Specific: (provided
to certain citizens)
Frozen foreign        Coupon            Yes                Yes                 Yes*
currency
Families of killed    Voucher           No                 Yes                 No
soldiers
Veterans              Voucher           No                 Yes                 No
* Current Law states that apartments. when sold. mav be purchased using frozen foreign currency. I lo cvcer.
it does not specifically allow coupons to he used. When the l,awk is drafted, the use ol coupons w ill be regulated.
In the RS Privatization system. public capital in a single enterprise valued at less than 300,000 DM is
privatized for cash and coupons only. At the request of the citizen, a percentage of the value of frozen
currency on his/her account is transferred to the payment bureau where is it converted into coupons. This is a
one-way process - unused coupons cannot be converted back into a foreign currency liability.
Coupons have a nominal value and are tradable among local legal and physical Entities. Private
Investment Funds (PlFs) may not engage in the trade of coupons.
Interested eligible citizens register at the payment bureau for a voucher account. All eligible citizens may
receive vouchers in the categories indicated. While vouchers have no nominal value, they may be traded
through an exchange and by PIFs.
*   Where state capital is valued at less than 300,000 DM, assets maybe purchased by eligible citizens
with only cash or coupons, in any combination.
*   Where state capital is valued at 300,000 DM or greater, 10% of the sale of shares are transferred to the
RS pension fund and 5% to a restitution fund. A minimum of 55% of the capital must be offered by sale
in the vouchers program. The remaining balance 30% may be offered for sale by tender of the assets
may be purchased by strategic investors and with any combination of vouchers, cash, or coupons.
84.    Institutional Aspects.  The nature and use of vouchers in the RS is quite different
than the analogous use of claims in the Federation. While they are similar in that they will
be dematerialized and tradeable, they vvill not be bid alongside cash in sales. Vouchers will
have no face value, unlike in the Federation, and therefore cannot be used against cash in
sales. There will be an equal distribution of general vouchers per holder and an additional
distribution going to veterans and families of fallen soldiers. Frozen foreign currency
deposits will be compensated by the issuance of coupons. These coupons will have a face
value but can only be used in small-scale privatization and for purchase of apartments. The
privatization process will therefore follow two distinct tracks.
26



$   Small-scale enterprises (firms with less than DM300,000 in capital) will be
privatized through a combination of cash and coupon sales.
* Assets of large-scale enterprises privatizated will be sold as follows: at least 55
percent for vouchers, 15 percent for restitution and pension funds, and the remaining 30
percent to strategic investors for cash or investment tenders or through remaining vouchers.
cash, or coupons. The purpose behind this is that, in larger firms, vouchers will be used for
wide ownership, and cash will be associated with strategic investors who will recapitalize
enterprises.
85.   The RS Law is consistent with the requirements of the State Privatization Law.
General vouchers will be issued to the core group of the population (see Chapter V) and to
other groups, of which the most significant is individuals who have taken up RS residency
since 1991. This implies that the Federation-based approach of the government notifying
its citizens on the value of vouchers credited to their account will not be feasible in the RS.
Rather, individuals will be invited publicly to register for vouchers. Unlike in the
Federation, the RS would need to start an intensive public infornation campaign and
provide means of registration of citizen claims. The majority of citizens who have already
registered under the previous privatization attempt will not need to do so again.
86.   Other specific challenges to implement enterprise privatization in the RS relate to
the weak commercial court system, which promises to create a bottleneck for enterprise
registrations and re-registrations. There is also uncertainty as to the capacity of the RS
Clearing and Payments Office (SPP) to manage the xoucher privatization process with its
given staffing and technology. Substantial technical and financial assistance has been
secured from the British Know How Fund and USAID to address these issues.
87.   Implementation Timetable.  It is currently envisaged that the RS privatization
agency will staff itself adequately in the first months of 1999. The submission of enterprise
data regarding audited financial statements, opening balance sheets and ownership will take
place in mid-1999; with the review by the privatization agency of this information
following shortly thereafter. Cash sales for small privatization will begin in mid-1999.
The distribution of vouchers is expected to be completed in autumn 1999, thereby
permitting mass voucher privatization transactions thereafter.
27



Enterprise Privatization Timeline in the RS
Actions                                            1999                             2000
M__M  A M  JJA S O NID J FMIA M J J A S|  N D
on Directorate professionallv staffed
Nomination of Security Commission
Managers-
Enterprises prepare and submit OBS
Citizen registration for vouchers
Pilot cash auctions
Securities Commission Operational
Coupons issued
Small-scale privatization*
Review of validity of'the 013S by Privatization
Directorate
Finalize technical issues concerning voucher
distribution (IT)
Private Investment Funds registered
Vouchers issued
Share Registry Established
'I'rade of vouchers commences
Large-Scale Privatization
P'rospectus for sale ofTFelecom and Illectrical
Power
Actions to be Supported by the EBPAC
88.   C(onditions ffor first tranche release are that the RS Parliament adopt Laws on
enterprise privatization  which will insure transparency of the process and equlilable
treatment of the residents as well as provide a rapid and rigid timelinec/or privatization to
fbllowi. Prior to second tr anche release, the RS will have begun privatization of small-scale
enterprises and have privatized at least 30 percent of small-scale enterprises. For mediuim
and larger enterprises, by the time of second tranche release, the RS will have prepared
and execuled international tenders of the majority capital stake in at least three large-scale
enterprises. Prior to second tranche release, a prospectus for sale will be issued for parts
of the holding company by its constituent parts which will be tendered
D. Large-scale Enterprises and Utilities: Federation and RS
89.    The small-scale privatizations are expected to be completed within one year in each
Entity. Preparations have already begun, albeit in a preliminary way, for the sale of large
enterprises and conglomerates. These enterprises are outdated, with markets lost, and skills
dispersed. The strategy is to identify the centers of profitability that exist within some
enterprises of these conglomerates and to sell those to strategic investors under public
tender offerings. To implement the strategy, conglomerates will have to develop business
plans for the promising enterprises and a privatization plan with the opening balance sheet.
28



Parts of conglomerates that could not be privatizated will be closed. The task of completing
mass privatization will take up to two years.
90.   The enterprise privatization program in both Entities provides for utilities as well.
Public corporations such as utilities are covered by Annexes 4 and 9 of the Dayton accords
in relation to the respective rights of the State and the Entities and as to the organisation,
regulation, and operation of the utilities.  The rights of the State are confined to
international and common aspects of communications and transport. The Entities have
begun to cooperate fruitfully with each other to reorganize these sectors and will also work
with the State and with the Commission on Public Corporations (a Dayton body) to ensure
that constitutional requirements are fully implemented. It is equally vital to ensure that
these sectors are reorganised and regulated in such a way as to maximize the prospects of
privatization or concessioning in each of these sectors.
91.   The privatizations of two major utilities, telecommunications and electric power
generation and distribution, will be the forerunnlers in utility privatizations. The State
passed the Telecommunications Law in late 1998 so the regulatory regime is expected to be
established in 1999 in line with World Bank and EBRD technical assistance. The strategy
relies on introduction of privately provided services with the privatization of existing
operators occurring at a later stage. in 2001. The telecommunication privatization would
bring in significant cash for Entity budgets and much new investment to the benefit of
service standards.
92.   The electric power generation sector is considerably decentralized in the country,
which is an advantage for privatization. The same is true for distribution. There is a
common grid between the Entities and trade takes place, but is over-regulated at present.
Moreover, BH is expected to join the Union for the Coordination of Production and
Transmission of Electricity and to become a significant trader of electricity. The Entities
will reach a common understanding on policies and regulation in this sector in the near
future. This understanding, together with supporting Entity legislation, will create the
conditions for establishment of regulation.  Privatization is expected in both Entities
sometime in 2001.
93.   In privatizations in the utility sectors, the Entity governments will follow the
strategy of maximising prospects for investment commitments and new technology, whilst
attempting to provide for claims. Thus, the typical pattern will be to find one or a
consortium of strategic investors. Future program of private participation in utilities will
include sales or concessioning in railways, road transport, water, gas and all other sectors.
This will necessarily take a period of two to three years into the new century.
Action to be supported by the EBPAC
94.    Work has begun to examine the structure of the utility sectors. Significant progress
has been made in the telecom and power generation and distribution sectors/areas. These
two sectors are the closest to being ready for enhanced private sector participation and
eventual privatization and now need an appropriate regulatory structure designed and
implemented.  A  condition for second tranche release in the Federation is the
establishment of the regulatory framework necessary for privatization of telecom and
29



electric power generation and distribution. There is no similar condition for the RS in view
of the RS program being behind by several months with respect to that of the Federation.
30



VII. PRIVATIZATION OF BANKS
95.   Without relief from their pre-war international debts and from their liabilities
towards domestic citizens for frozen pre-war foreign currency deposits. Bosnia's publicly-
owned banks have no possibility of becoming solvent and, subsequently, privately-owned.
Pre-war loans to domestic enterprises have to be largely written off due to heavy war
damage and loss of markets for the borrowing enterprises. Also, banks' claims on the
forner National Bank of Yugoslavia for foreign exchange deposits are doubtful at best. In
order to resolve these issues of liabilities with foreign creditors and frozen foreign
exchange deposits-which combined account on average for some 90 percent of today's
bank assets-and to pave the way for subsequent bank privatization, a strategy for bank
restructuring and privatization has been developed with assistance from thle Bank and other
foreign donors. This strategy consists of two pieces of legislation: a Law on Opening
Balance Sheets, and a Law on the Privatization of Banks. Both Entities have passed these
Laws and started with their implementation.
96.   Opening Balance Slheets. The Law on Opening Balance Sheet determines which
of the end-1997 assets and liabilities will be removed from State-owned banks' balance
sheets at the time of privatization. Removable items are classified into: (i) ''neutral" assets.
consisting of apartments and other assets subject to restitution; and (ii) 'passive" assets and
liabilities that are not under the control of banks. The latter include: (a) pre-war, frozen
foreign currency deposits redeposited with the former National Bank of Yugoslavia, along
with banks' corresponding liabilities towards domestic households; (b) pre-war external
debt, including guarantees (covered by soverign guarantees). with corresponding and non-
performing loans to public enterprises, and (c) war-damaged physical bank assets, non-
performing assets and other assets and liabilities out of the banks' control, such as brancl
offices located in other former Yugoslav republics or in the other Bosnian Entity.
97.   The Entity Ministries of Finance (MoF) will take over these carved-out neutral and
passive assets and liabilities, after write-offs, while the opening balance sheets of the state-
owned banks will only show the remaining "active" items. Claims by the London Club
creditors were rescheduled in late 1997 and an agreement with the Paris Club was reaclhed
in June 1998.  Claims of other foreign creditors will be dealt with througlh debt
rescheduling at the State level and subsequent debt service by the Entity concenied.
Claims by households for lost foreign exchange savings will be compensated through a
provision to their individual claim accounts that may be used in the enterprise privatization
process.
31



Solvenr Banksntpo  Timva o  pn p raion and RSr
ions                                                    1999                                    2000
Mn   MMFIH111111_                   J IJ  A  s  o  N  D  J IFI M IA IM   J  J  AS  0   N  D
Sovency test for majority state-owned          ________                                          _       _        _
Liquidation of Insolvent Banks              _      -------
Solvent Banks' privatization plans prepared                                                  
Bank Privatization Unit provides comments___              ____r-                    ______ IIII
Deposit insurance scheme introduced
MoF decision on P. Plan. Banks wvith Plans
not approved begin liquidation process
Execution of P. Plan and sale of'solvent
banks
FIB fully privatized
1  W     _MA M1                                       .1  JA  S O    N I)  JI 1  M  A  M   J .1   A   S      IN 1)
RS Ministry of Finance issues instructions
Adtobanks performed
Banks submit OBS to Bank P'rivatization
Adoption of Commercial Bank Law
Bank Plriv. Lnit/Min. of Finance approves
0135
RS Banking Agency conducts solvency test
lDeposit insurance scheme introduced
Liquidation of'Insolvent Banks
Solvent banks Suibmit privatization programi
Governmienit decides on appropriateness
and applicability ot'privatization program
Sale of'privatized banks
If no sale of'bank. Gov. must make decision
lon liquidation of'solvent banks
98.     Bank Privatization.  Subsequent to these carve-outs, the Law  on Privatization of
Banks sets criteria by which publicly-owned banks will be selected for privatization or
liquidation, and it defines the roles of the Entity's banking supervision agency and the MoF
in that process. Through the enactment of the Laws on Bank Privatization in both Entities,
ownership of publicly-owned banks has been passed over to the MoF. The MoF and the
banking agency are now jointly monitoring and supervising the privatization procedure.
99.      In the Federation, the Bank Privatization Unit is preparing opening balance sheets
for the majority-publicly owned banks that have not submitted audited opening balance
sheets of the  required  quality.   The  opening  balance  sheets  for three  banks  were
submitted to the Federation Banking Agency for a solvency test in March 1999. For
32



other banks, the authorities have provided additional time, possibly until late summer
1999. At this time, banks considered insolvent will have their license revoked and will
be assigned a conservator. Banks determined to be solvent will proceed with the
privatization process and must be privatized by June 2000.
100.  In the RS, banks are in the process of preparing their opening balance sheets for
submission to .he RS Bank Privatization Agency. The RS Bank Privatization Agency
will review the Opening Balance Sheets and if accepted forward them to the RS Banking
Agency for a solvency test. As in the Federation. RS banks that are considered insolvent
will have their license revoked and those that are solvent will proceed with the
privatization process. Entity Bank Privatization Laws charges the MoF to carry out the
privatization of solvent banks but remains silent on the specific method of privatization.
There is broad consensus that finding strategic international investors from within the
banking industry will be the preferred solutioni. followed by sales to non-bank torei .n
investors or other domestic bank or non-bank investors. The intention is for the MoF to
launch international tender offers for these banks, to be complemented by direct
negotiated transactions. Interested investors will undergo a qualification process by the
banking supervision agency.
33



Proposed Organizational Relationships Between Deposit Insurance Agency, Asset and Liability
Workout Unit and Bank Privatization Group
Superivsory Role
Cooperative Role
Entity Parliament         l
Ministry of Finance
Deposit Insurance Agency        *                 Banking Agency               Bank Privatization Unit (temporary)
- Eligibility of Insurance        Cooperation    - On-site supervision         Carved Out Insolvent Bank:
- Management of insurance fund    on             - Off-site supervision         - Bank Marketing and Sales
- Paying depositor claims         insolvent      - Licensing                    - Advising FBA on various resolution transactions
- May act as a receiver for insured    insured    - Enforcement
private banks                    private        - Conservatorship             Asset and Liability Workout Sub-unit*
banks          - Appoints receiver for      Solvent Banks:
insolvent banks              - Closing/taking possession of banks
- Identification of all assets and liabilities
- Disposal of assets and settlement of liabilities
- Preparing regulatory reports
- H-landling requests from interested parties
- Investigating causes of bank failures
Foreign Banks      Insured Private          Uninsured Private    l
Entitv Banks            Entity Banks                          * Sub-unit to be Folded into the Deposit Insurance
Agency



113. The legal framework for bank privatization was put in place in early 1998 by the
Federation and in mid-1998 by the RS, and its timely implementation is now the challenge faced
by each Entity. As long as the government owns certain banks that it also regulates, there will be
a perceived and real conflict that will discourage private bank development. Most publicly-
owned banks can be expected to seek the maximum time possible to be privatized. They will
likely request more time, if only because they cannot identify acceptable investors, at least on
terms that best serve their own interests. Of concern is that the operation of publicly-owned
banks throughout the privatization period is left largely to the bank managers. The lack of active
ownership interest raises a moral hazard problem. It cannot be assumed that the best interest of
the managers matches that of its Entity owners.
114. To facilitate the bank privatization process. a dedicated Bank Privatization Unit (BPU), in
charge also of the worki-out of carved-out assets and liabilities, has been set up in each Entity MoF
and given a clear mandate to implement privatization of solvent banks and liquidation of insolvent
banks. Substantial. long-term  expatriate technical assistance has been secured by the Bank for
these units through financing by the Govemments of the Netherlands (for Federation MoF) and
Sweden (for RS MoF). The BPU will determine and carry out privatization actions for each
solvent publicly-owned bank, and will be charged with asset collection activities for either carved-
out balance sheets items or for insolvent public banks undergoing liquidation. Asset collection will
be complicated by inter-Entity and inter-former Yugoslav Republic claims.  The tasks of
receivership and bank liquidation should both be vested in this unit. Upon the abolition of the unit,
after some two years. receivership and bank liquidation will be subsequently devolved upon a
newly created Deposit Insurance Agency. (See chart for the relationships of responsibilities
between the various public bodies in this field.)
115. Getting strategic and qualified investors commited to invest in Bosnia's public banks is an
uncertain proposition. Legal uncertainty, a large bank labor force of mixed quality, excess fixed
assets, exposure risk to called letters of credit and guarantees and other contingent liabilities are
likely to pose obstacles to attracting foreign banks as investors. De novo entry could be the
approach an interested foreign bank would select in BH. However, if there is real interest, it
should take no more than several months to identify it and reach agreement on a privatization sale.
The legislation offers the MoF the latitude to initiate a bank privatization program for a specific
banlk at any time, even prior to obtaining the proposed privatization plan from a specific bank.
116. It may be advantageous to organize a consolidation or merger of public banks, involving the
largest public, solvent banks in each Entity and several of the smaller public banks, as a pre-
condition for successful privatization. Under all circumstances, rehabilitating banks by injecting
fresh capital or incurring any other form of cash, debt or contingent fiscal costs needs to be
avoided.  No forms of assisted transactions should be contemplated at all.  Strategies for
consideration for resolving insolvent and non-saleable banks should include purchase and
assumption transactions where deposits are transferred to another institution along with selected
assets. Essential to the use of such efficient, less disruptive resolution techniques is the passage of
a proposed depositor preference provision in the Commercial Bank Law (as discussed in the earlier
section on deposit insurance agencies).
Actions to be Supported by the EBPAC
117. The proposed operation will support the launching of the implementation of the bank
privatization process in each Entity. To ensure an expedient start, prior to first tranche release, the
35



Federation Government will close the largest insolvent bank as a first step toiward liquicdation. The
RS first tranche release condition is the adoption of the Law1 on Bank Privatization and the
passage of the Law on Opening Balance Sheets for Banks that provide for a secure basis for r apid
privatization of banks and enterprises. For both Entities, the M1oF is r equiired to establish a filly
staffed and functioning bank privatization unit by first tranche release.
I I 8. Before the second tIranche release, in the Fedeerction, the liquidation o 'the previously closed
largest insolvent bank in the Federation will he conmpleted. The solvency position of Central Profit
Bank and Union Bank wiill have been determined  and each will have been closed, wt'ith the
liquidation process hegun (i/ insolvent) or wvill hacve issuted a prospectus for sale (ifsolvent). In the
RS prior- to second tranche release, the BPU] will have established the solvency  f oJstate owned
banks and taken control and closed the largest insolvent bank plus one other insolvent hank.
Furthermore, the BPU wi'ill have issued the sales prospectae for the three largest solvent state
hanks in the RS
36



VIII. THE PROPOSED CREDIT
A. Rationale for Bank Involvement
119. The Bank Group's assistance strategy during FY98/99--as outlined in the Country
Assistance Strategy dated July 31. 1997. and a Progress Report of July 5, 1998 (discussed by the
Board on August 6, 1998)--aims at assisting BH in moving from immediate postwar
reconstruction towards sustainable recovery and growth. The key objectives of this strategy are:
(i) strengthening the institutions of macroeconomic management: (ii) initiating structural reform
measures, particularly in privatization and banking reforms. and (iii) carrying forward physical
reconstruction of the country.
120. Particular emphasis will be placed on support for structural reform measures aimed at putting
the economic system on a private-based, competitive footing. Key among these efforts are reforms
to transfer ownership of enterprises and banks into the private sector, strengthen the financial
sector, and improve the framework for private sector development. The proposed Enterprise and
Bank Privatization Credit is the main IDA instrument in the FY98/99 program to achieve these
objectives. It is complemented by ongoing economic sector work, including for post-privatization
assistance, payment system  reforn, and enterprise finance assistance, as well as ongoing
investment lending for commercial credit lines in both Bosnian Entities. A second possible
enterprise and bank privatization credit focusing on large-scale enterprise and utility privatizations
and on reform of the payments system is being considered for FY2000 so as to assist the Entity
governments complete the privatization process.
B. Credit Amount, Borrower and Cofinancing
121. The proposed IDA Credit, in an amount equivalent to US$50 million (SDR 37.6 million).
will be lent to Bosnia and Herzegovina (the State) for a period of 35 years, including a 10-year
grace period, on standard IDA terms. The State will onlend, through subsidiary agreements.
SDR22.56 million equivalent of the Credit proceeds to the Federation and SDR 15.04 million
equivalent of the Credit proceeds to Republika Srpska, on the same terms of the IDA Credit.
FIunding for technical assistance required for the preparation of this operation was provided
through a Japanese PHRD grant. Technical assistance for the implementation of the project has
been secured from a number of donors, including the governments of the Netherlands, Sweden, the
United Kingdomii and the United States.
C. Credit Design
122. The proposed Credit would provide quick-disbursing funds for fiscal and balance of
payments assistance in support of the government's efforts to privatize enterprise and banks and
further develop the private and financial sectors. It will support the first phase of the authorities'
multi-year overall privatization program. The main elements of the program supported by this
operation include: (i) development of the institutional capacity and implementation of the
program for restructuring and privatization of state-owned commercial banks; (ii) financial
sector reforms to improve bank supervision, strengthen banking Laws, establish deposit
insurance systems, and limit public intervention in credit markets; and (iii) completion of the
institutional and legal framework for enterprise privatization, rapid initiation of small enterprise
privatization, and preparation for privatization of larger enterprises and holding companies and
utilities. In addition, the Credit provides support to reforms of the legal and institutional
37



framework necessary for private sector development. Conditionality (as specified in section F) is
linked to institutional and legal reforms required to allow privatization to take place quickly and
efficiently. Other substantive reforms discussed in the previous sections are important for an
efficient and competitive private sector in the longer term. The Bank may decide to support these
reforms in the context of support for the next phase of the privatization program with a possible
follow-up operation.
D. Administrative Arrangements
123. The State Ministry for Foreign Trade and Economic Relations (MFTER) is responsible for
overall administration of the Credit on behalf of Bosnia and Herzegovina. the borrower. Each
Entity's Ministries of Finance is responsible for administering the pre-allocated amount of funds of
the Credit.  Based on the discussions with govemment authorities. it is understood that the
counterpart funds of the proposed Credit would be used to support fiscal expenditures of the Entity
governments, in particular. contributions of the Entities to the 1998/1999 State budget for debt
service obligations, essential social expenditures such as pension payments and minimum income
support, and costs related to institution-building efforts in the areas of privatization, debt
management, budget management and tax administration. Credit proceeds will allow the RS to
support wider use of the national currency. the convertible mark, within the Entity and to
encourage a move away from the use of the Yugoslav dinar.
E. Disbursement
124. The Credit will be disbursed in two tranches to the deposit account of the State at the Central
Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The first tranche amounts to US$25 million equivalent and
consists of a Federation share of US$15 million and a Republika Srpska share of US$10 million.
Each Entity would be eligible to obtain its share of the first tranche upon (i) Credit effectiveness;
and (ii) satisfaction by the Entity in question of its first tranche release conditions. The second
tranche amount and Entity-specific allocation is identical to that of the first tranche, and each
Entity would be able to obtain disbursement of its share of the second tranche upon: (i) review by
the IDA of the satisfactory implementation of the adjustment program as a whole; and (ii) the
fulfillment of the specific second tranche conditions by the Entity in question. Details of first and
second tranche release conditions are provided in the following section.
F. Monitoring Arrangements and Tranche Release Conditions
125. Implementation of the policy program will be monitored by a Committee composed of the
representatives of the State MFTER and t]he Entity Ministries of Finance. The Committee will
have responsibility for monitoring and evaluating progress under the various components of the
program  with  input from  participating  ministries and institutions.  IDA  will monitor
implementation with the help of the Committee's reports, and through supervision missions.
126. Specific conditions for first tranche release of the proposed Credit are as follows:
For the State of Bosnia and Herzegovina:
(a) Promulgation of the State Privaitization Law;
For the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina:
38



(a) Government closes the largest insolvent bank as a first step toward liquidation.
(b) The Entity shall not establish or extend any credit lines using budget resources
outside the Federation Investment Bank (FIB). The operations of the FIB to be based
solely on market principles. Government initiates efforts to privatize FIB. Nor shall the
Entity establish any new bank or increase capital subscription in any existing bank.
(c) The Government shall establish a fully staffed and functioning Bank Privatization
Unit (BPU).
(d) The Governmenit shall submit a Law on Deposit Insurance to Parliament that is
satisfactory to the World Bank.
(e) The Law on Managemiienit Companies and privatization investment funds allowing
citizens to invest their claims/vouchers in enterprises through funds as well as
individually shall be adopted.
(f) The Entity will amend the Enterprise Privatization Law to ensure consistency with the
non-discrimination principle of the State Privatization Law.
(g) The Government will initiate privatization, by conducting auctions or issuing tenders
for at least 45 small privatization objects. Payment may be for cash or claims. If not all
citizens claims have been formalized in Payment Bureau accounts, the privatization
authorities will allow additional time for citizens to settle claims portion of the purchase
price.
(h) Cantonal privatization agencies will be fully staffed and operating.
For the Republika Srpska:
(a) The Entity will pass a Law on Opening Balance Sheet that provides for a secure basis
for rapid privatization of banks and enterprises.
(b) The Entity shall not establish or extend any credit lines using budget resources. Nor
shall the Entity establish any new bank or increase capital subscription in any existing
bank.
(c) The Entity shall adopt a Law on Bank Privatization.
(d) The Government shall establish a fully staffed and functioning Bank Privatization
Unit (BPU).
(e) The Entity shall adopt Laws on Enterprise Privatization which will ensure
transparency of the process and equitable treatment of the residents, and which will
include a rapid and rigid timeline for privatization to follow.
127. Specific conditions for the second tranche release are as follows:
For the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina:
39



(a) The Entity will complete liquidation of largest insolvent bank.
(b) The Government will determine the solvency position of Union Bank. If Union has
been found solvent, the Government will issue a prospectus for sale for Union Bank. If
Union has been found insolvent. the Government will close Union and begin the process
of liquidation.
(c) The Government will determine the solvency positioin of Central Profit Bank. If
Central Profit Bank has been found solvent. the Government will issue a prospectus for
sale for it. If Central Profit Bank hlas been found insolvenit, the Government will close it
and begin process of liquidation.
(d) The Entity shall not establish or extend any credit lines usinlg budget resources
outside the FIB. Nor shall the Entity establish any new bank or increase capital
subscription in any existing bank.
(e) The Government will take actions satisfactory to IDA on reaching agreement with
private investors on privatization of FIB.
(f) The Deposit Insurance Agency will have started functioning.
(g) The Government will conclude and settle privatization transactions for at least 500
small enterprises. excluding candidlates for natural restitution.
(h) The Governmenit will begin public subscription for shares in at least 100 medium/
large enterprises.
(i) The Government will issue prospectus for sale for at least one holding company by its
constituent parts.
() The Entity will establish regulatory framework necessary for privatization of telecom
and electric power generation and distribution.
For the Republika Srpska:
(a)  The Government will establish the solvency of state owned banks, take control of
and close the largest insolvent bank plus one other insolvent bank.
(b) The Entity shall not establish or extend any credit lines using budget resources. Nor
shall the Entity establish any new bank or increase capital subscription in any existing
bank.
(c) The Government shall issue sales prospectae for the three largest solvent state-
owned banks.
(d) The Entity shall pass a Law on Deposit Insurance.
(e) The Government shall set up a Deposit Insurance Agency.
40



(f) The Government shall begin privatization of small scale enterprises and privatize at
least 30 percent of small scale enterprises.
(g) The Government shall prepare and execute international tenders of majority stake in
at least three large scale enterprises.
(h) The Government shall issue prospectae for sale for parts of the holding company by
its constituent parts which will be tendered.
128. Progress witlh Respect to First-Tranchle Release Coniditionts As noted in this report, both
Entities have made substantial accomplishmenits in the design and implementation of the
enterprise and bank privatization programs. A State Privatization Law has been promulgated that
sets out the fundamental criteria in privatization that have to be respected. The Federation has
fulfilled a number of its first tranche release conditions. The conditions outstanding are: (i) the
closure of the largest insolvent bank; (ii) submission of a Draft Law on Deposit Insurance
satisfactory to the Bank; (iii) initiation of small enterprise privatization, and (iv) the full
establishment and functioning of all cantoiial privatization agencies. Work is underway to
ensure the satisfaction of these conditions within a few weeks after approval of this Credit by the
Board. There has been steady progress in most of the areas mentioned above. Republika Srpska
has fulfilled all its first tranche release conditions.
G. Environmental Assessment Requirements
129. In accordance with the Bank's Operational Directive on Environmental Assessment
(OD 4.01, Annex E). the proposed operation has been placed in Category "C" and does not require
an environmental assessment.
H. Benefits and Risks
130. Benefits. The proposed operation will support measures that are crucial to furthering the
development of a market-based and intemationally competitive economy in both Bosnian Entities.
Private sector-led economic growth cannot gain momentum in post-war Bosnia without the rapid
transfer of public ownership in enterprises and banks into private hands. By assisting in the
implementation of the privatization agenda, the project will expedite this process and contribute to
the resolution of the issue of pre-war debt and war-related citizen claims. By pursuing essential
refonns in the financial sector, the operation will help restore confidence in the banking system and
mobilize domestic savings resources which are urgently required to finance investments in the
economv. By supporting the development of a suitable framework for private business activity,
the operation will also contribute to attracting additional domestic and foreign investment, creating
employment and reducing poverty.
131. Risks. There will be general project risks associated with BH's process of peace and
reconciliation in the framework of the Dayton Accords in December 1995. The continued
strengthening of the common institutions of the country, steady progress in cooperation between
the different national groups within state institutions, and greater inter-Entity cooperation are
highly encouraging factors. However, there may be a legal risk associated with the process of
privatization. Even though the first tranche condition for both Entities is deemed to have been met
by the promulgation of the State Privatization Law, it poses a certain risk because this Law has
been promulgated by the High Representative using his powers under Annex X of the Dayton
41



Agreement and powers given to him by the Bonn Peace Implementation Council (see para 48). The
exercise of this power may be viewed as an imposition and hence could be challenged. There is at
present a separate challenge pending in the Constitutional Court of BH against the ongoing process
of privatization, the outcome of which is unpredictable. This risk is mitigated bv the fact that the
Government has represented in its Letter of Development Policy that the State Parliament is
expected to enact the State Privatization Law under normal legislative procedures in 1999.
132. Quite apart from general political and implementation risks of operating in the BH economy,
the potential risks faced by the proposed Credit are unwillingness or inability of the authorities to
undertake agreed policies and reversal of refonr  measures. This may arise from political costs
(e.g.. of liquidating banks or selling companies to foreigners) or from lack of capacity to undertake
the ambitious program within agreed deadlines. There has been less thani satisfactory cooperation
between the two major national peoples in the Federation and delays have resulted. To mitigate
the risk of non-implementation of agreed policies and reversal of reform measures, the Bank has
been conducting an unusuallv intensive dialogue with donor partners and has mobilized the
assistance of the High Representative. other multilaterals and certain bilaterals with a view to
jointly promoting the implementation of the reform agenda. Technical assistance on a large scale
for banking and enterprise privatization provided in parallel to this Credit is expected to help
reduce any domestic tension over the reform program that may arise and remove potential
bottlenecks to program implementation. The strong support enjoyed by privatization among the
general public in BH and growing cooperation at the implementation level between national groups
are further mitigating factors to these risks.
IX. RECOMMENDATION
133. 1 am satisfied that the proposed Credit complies with the Articles of Agreement of the
Association. and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Sven Sandstrom
June 1, 1999
42



SCHEDULE A
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
PROPOSED ENTERPRISE AND BANK PRIVATIZATION ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
TIMETABLE OF KEI PROJECT PROCESSING EVENTS
1. Time taken to prepare:         sixteen months
2. Project prepared by:            Entity Governments with IDA assistance
3. Identification Mission:        November 1996
4. Preparation Mission             October 1997
5. Appraisal Mission:             March 1998
6. Negotiations:                  August 1998
7. Planned Board Presentation:    June 1999
8. Planned Effectiveness:         July 1999
9. Expected Project Completion:    June 2000
10. Relevant SAR:                 Not applicable
43



SCHEDULE B
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
PROPOSED ENTERPRISE AND BANK PRIVATIZATION
ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS a
(As of May 24. 1999)
US$ Millioni
Loan        Fiscal                                                                        (Less Cancellations)
No.         Year         Borrower                      Project                            Loan Undisbursed
Loans/Credits/Grants
IBRD "
4038-BOS    1996    Bosnia and Herzegovina    Consolidation Loan A                          28.6       0.0
4039-BOS    1996    Bosnia and Herzegovina    Consolidation Loan B                         284.9       0.0
4040-BOS    1996    Bosnia and Herzegovina    Consolidation Loan C                         307.1       0.0
Total                           620.6        0.0
Of Which: Repaid                  24.9
Total Now Held by the Bank:      595.7
TFBHc" (Under Disbursement)
TF-024030   1996    Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergenicy Recovery Credit                    45.0       0.0
TF-024031   1996    Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Farm Reconstruction                 20.0       0.0
TF-024032   1996    Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Water Supply                        20.0       0.0
TF-024033   1996    Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Transport                           35.0        1.8
TF-024034   1996    Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency District Heating                    20.0       0.0
TF-024035   1996    Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency War Victims Rehabilitation           5.0       0.0
TF-024040   1996    Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Education Reconstruction             5.0       0.0
Total                            150.0       1.8
IDA
2897-BOS    1996    Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Education Reconstruction             5.0       0.0
2896-BOS    1996    Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency War Victims Rehabilitation           5.0       2.6
2902-BOS    1997    Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Housing Repair                      15.0       0.0
2903-BOS    1997    Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Power Reconstruction                35.6       0.2
2904-BOS    1997    Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Public Works and Employment         10.0       0.8
2905-BOS    1997    Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Landmines Clearance                  7.5       0.0
2906-BOS    1997    Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration    7.5        0.5
2914-BOS    1997    Bosnia and Herzegovina    Transition Assistance Credit                  90.0       0.0
NOOI-BOS   1997    Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Industry Re-Start Guarantee          10.0       0.0
N002-BOS   1997    Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Microenterprise/Local Initiatives    7.0        0.4
N003-BOS   1997    Bosnia and Herzegovina    Essential Hospital Services                    15.0       3.7
The status of these proiects is described in a separate repon on all Bank/lDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
Consolidation Loans A. B. and C were approved on June 13. 1996 and became effective on June 14. 1996.
Trust Fund fbr Bosnia and Herzegovina.
44



N032-BOS   1998    Bosnia and Herzegovina    Transport Reconstruction 11                 39.0       6.7
N035-BOS   1998    Bosnia and Herzegovina    Education Reconstruction 11                  11.0      2.7
3028-BOS    1998    Bosnia and Herzegovina    Reconstruction Assistance Project           17.0      4.8
3029-BOS    1998    Bosnia and Herzegovina    Etnergencv Natural Gas                      10.0      0.4
3070-BOS    1998    Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Pilot Credit (RS)                  5.0      2.7
3071-BOS    1998    Bosnia and Herzegovina    Power 11                                   25.0      25.0
N040-BOS   1998    Bosnia and Herzegovina    Forestry                                      7.0      6.2
3090-BOS    1998    Bosnia and Herze,ovina    Public Finance I (Structural Adjustment)    63.0      0.0
3191-BOS    1999    Bosnia and Herzegovina    Local Development                           15.0      15.0
3020-BOS    1999    Bosnia and Herzegovina    Basic Health                                10.0     10.0
Total                           409.6      81.7
45



B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31. 1999)
Gross Commitments
US$ Million
Fiscal
Year   Obligor                             Type of Business                         Loan  Equity  Total
1977   Tvornica Kartona i Ambalaze Cazin    Timber. Pulp and Paper                 3.65    0.00    3.65
1985   Sour Energoinvest                   Industrial Equipment and Machinery      8.53    0.00    8.53
1997   Horizonte BiH Enterprise Fund       SME Investment                          0.00    1.93    1.93
1997   Microenterprise Bank                Microcredit                             0.00    0.57    0.57
1997   Sarajevska Pivara                   Beverage Manufacturing                  3.89    0.00    3.89
1998   SEF Akova                           Abbatoir. Meat Packing and Processing   2.08    0.00    2.08
1998   Wood Agency Credit Line             Furniture and Other Wood Products      13.69    0.00   13.69
1998   SEF Lignosper                       Furniture Manufacturing                 2.27    0.00    2.27
1999   SEF Kopex                          Industrial and Consumer Services         2.46    0.00    2.46
Total Gross Investments                                      36.57    2.50  36.57
Participations. Cancellations, Terminationis. Exchange Adjustments.
Repayments, and Arrears (Principal Only)                     13.01    0.00   13.01
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                            36.57    2.50   36.57
Total Undisbursed                                            14.20    1.54   14.20
Total Outstanding                                            22.37    0.96   22.37
46



SCHEDULE C
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
PROPOSED ENTERPRISE AND BANK PRIVATIZATION ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
COUNTRY AT A GLANCE
Bosnia and Herzegovina at a glance                                                                                  3/4/99
Bosnia  Europe &
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           and    Central        Low-
Herzegovina        Asia   income         Development diamond'
1998
Population. mid-year Iminl/ons)                               4 2        476      2,048                    Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method. USS)                                     2,320        350
GNP (Atlas method US$ b,ll,ons)                                        1.106        722
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Population 1%)                                                0.1        0 2         2 1
Labor force (%)                                               0D3        0 5         2 3      GNP                                 Gross
per                                primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1991-97)                                         capita                          enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty tine;
Urban population 1% of total population)                      42          67         28
Life expectancy at birth `years)                                          69         59
Infant mortality (per 1.000 live births)                      19          25         78
Child malnutrition 1/% of children under 5)                                                              Access to safe water
Access to safe water 1% of populationr                                               71
Illiteracy (% of population age 15-)                                                 47
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)                     92         91           - Bosnia and Herzegovina
Male                                                                              100                  Low-income group
Female                                                                             81
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976      1986       1997        1998
Economic ratios'
GDP /US$ billions)                                                       3 4        4 1
Gross domestic investment/GDP                                           41 9       38.3                         Trd
Exports of goods and serviceslGDP                                       29 3       33.5                         rade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                                               -6 3       4.8
Gross national savings/GDP                                               9 6       13.9
Current account balance/GDP                                            -32 3       -24.5      Domestc            L    I
Interest payments/GDP                                                    6 7        2 7          .                            Investment
Total debt/GDP                                                         128.3       70.6       Savings
Total debt service/exports                                                38          9
Present value of debt/GDP
Present value of debUexports
Indebtedness
1976-86   1987-97      1996        1997       1998
(average annual growth)
GDP                                                  ,       40 7       20 8        156             -     Bosnia and Herzegovina
GNP per capita                                                                         .                  Low-income group
Exports of goods and services                               67 7        47 8       32 4
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976      1986       1997        1998       Growth rates of output and investment I%)
(% of GDP)                                                                                   250
Agriculture                                                                                  200
Industry                                                                                     ,50
Manufacturing                                                                              icc
Services                                                                                      50
Private consumption                                                                                  92   93   94   95   96   97   98
General government consumption                                                                             0 GDl         - GDP
Imports of goods and services                                           77 4       67 1
1976-86  1987-97         1997       1998      Growth rates of exports and imports I%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                                                                  140
Industry                                                                                    1n0
Manufacturing                                                                               a\
Services                                                                   .s
40
Private consumption                                                        .                 20
General government consumption                                                         ,      o 0
Gross domestic investment                                               24.6        5 9              92   93   94   95  s9   97   o8
Imports of goods and services                                           12 9        0 2               -     Exports     0-imports
Gross national product
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country 1in bold) compared with its income-grouP average If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
47



PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                                1976     1986       1997      1998       Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                             2
Consumer prices
Implicit GDP deflator                              .
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                    o
Current revenue                                                                                92    93    94    95    96    97
Current budget balance                                                                          -     GDP deflator  -OCPI
Overall surplus/deficit
TRADE
(US$ millions)                                 1976     1986       1997      1998       Export and import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                                                 575        817     3000
Commodity 1                                                                          2 500
Commodity 2                                                                           2000
Manufactures
Total imports (cif)                                                2,371     2,460      .500
Food                                                                                 1¶000                                   I
Fuel and energy                                                                       ' °°°  9                  ]92 3   9
Capital goods                                   -
Export price index (1995=100)                                                    .                                                |
Import price index (1995=100)                                                                      Expons      I Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                                 1976     1986       1997       1998      Current account balance to GDP ratio I%)
Exports of goods and services                                      1.002     1,367       0
Imports of goods and services                                      2.650     2.735       5  91  92  93  54  95  96  97  Ss
Resource balance                                                  -1.648    -1.368      10
Net income                                                          -228      -109     .15
Net current transfers                                               772       480       20
Current account balance                                           -1104       -997     .25
Financing items (net)                                              1,061     1,021      30
Changes in net reserves                                               43       -24     -35
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)
Conversion rate (DEC. local/US$)
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986       1997      1998
(US$ millions)                                                                          Composition of total debt, 1998 (US$ mililons)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed               .        .      4,392     2,879
IBRD                                            .        .        596       581
IDA                                                               291       433                                  A 581
Total debt service                                                  385        123            E 822
IBRD                                                               35        35
IDA                                                                 2          3
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                                   612       612                                        B 433
Official creditors                                                443       328
Private creditors                                                -107        -75
Foreign direct investment                                           0       100                                     C77
Portfolio equity                                                    0         0                 0968
World Bank program
Commitments                                                        77       100      A - IBRD                       E - Bilaterai
Disbursements                                                      100      142      B - IDA    D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                                                o .              C - IMF                        G - Shon-term
Net flows                                                         100       142
Interest payments                                                  37        38
Net transfers                                                      63       104
Development Economics                                                                                                       3/4/99
48






ANNEX I
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Enterprise and Bank Privatization
February 25. 1999
Mr. James Wolfensohn
President
The World Bank
LETTER OIF PRIVATE SECTOR
DEVELOPMENT POLICIES
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn,
Infroduclion
The economic strategy of the governments of the state and the Entities of Bosnia and Herzegovina
is being increasingly focussed towards the development of policies and institutions that will ensure
continued high rates of economic growth in the post emergency reconstruction period. The
authorities are aware that the extraordinary external donor effort will be gradually wound down
from 1999-2000 and that much greater reliance will have to be made on domestic savings and
foreign private capital to finance the investment needs of a fast-growing economy. It is equally
apparent to us that the capacity and the financial resources of the public sector is dwarfed by the
investment requirements of the economy. These factors illustrate the urgent importance of
developing the private sector of our economy in transition and of creating conditions that give
confidence to savers and investors -- domestic and foreign alike.
For nearly two years now, the authorities of the Entities have been putting in place a series of
policy actions, with parallel development of institutions, that are intended to foster a private
market economy. The essential legislation for establishing a competitive market economy and
permitting privatization has been adopted, and agencies responsible for implementation are
functioning. It should be recalled that our economy, unlike that of the former Soviet Union
countries or some in eastern and central Europe, was never a command economy, but enjoyed
features of decentralization with self-management of enterprises. We believe that we are better
50



placed to achieve the transition to a market economy. but we recognize that many old institutions
and Laws will have to be changed to conform to the modern standards of European nations.
This letter is organized as follows. We first describe the commitments of the authorities to the
macro-economic program that is being supported by IDA adjustment credits and by a standby
arrangement with the Fund. The overall framework for private sector development policies and
the measures being taken to strengthen our banking system follow - these are essential pre-
conditions for the success of privatization and of the newly-privatized companies. The section that
follows outlines the overall privatization program phased over a period of about three years. The
two succeeding sections explain in detail the program covering enterprises and bantks and the
specific strategy being followed as well as the key policy or action commitments of the authorities.
These policies and actions will constitute the conditions underlying our request for an IDA
adjustment credit.
Kei, e/emenis en. Ohe  L7O-L'CrflOmt   setting
The authorities of the state and the Entities recognize fully the importance of a stable macro-
economic framework for the orderly and rapid development of private markets. Low inflation, a
stable currency, clear and efficiency-promoting rules are of the utmost importance in this context.
The introduction of the new currency -- the convertible mark -- and the operation of the central
bank as a currency board offers firm assurances of low inflation and a stable external value of the
currency. The budget of the state will be balanced and hence no recourse to deficit financing of
any kind will be necessary. The state budget relies on transfers from the Entities to meet all its
expenditures -- relating to administration and debt servicing obligations, and the Entities reaffirm
their commitment to making these transfers in adequate amounts and in a timely fashion and
automatically.
The budgets of the Entities will be in deficits strictly only to the amount that will be made
available through external financiig, thus, no domestic borrowing or accumulation of arrears in
budgetary payments will be made. Considerable fiscal relief to the budgets of the Entities has
been provided by the London Club agreement of 1997 covering commercial bank debt, which
reduced our extemal debt to these creditors by over two-thirds in net present value terms. A
similarly beneficial agreement with the Paris Club of bilateral creditors was reached in autumn
1998. The monetary. fiscal and external debt policies described above will provide sound
underpinning for the currency board arrangement and ensure a stable macroeconomic framework.
The Entity authorities intend to pursue structural reforms so as to increase the supply capacity of
the economy and to provide incentives for domestic savings and investment. The program of
reform of public finances centers on changes in Entity tax structures and administrations and
greater harmonization betweeni the Entities as well as on pension reforms. Other important goals
in this regard are the establishment of secure means to fund the state budget, in particular, the
external debt servicing mechanism, a clarification of inter-governmental finance and strengthening
of budget systems. These programs are being supported by a standby arrangement with the Fund
and adjustment lending from IDA.
Given the absence of a lender of last resort facility in our currency board arrangement,
macroeconomic stability and associated growth in confidence can be assured only with a profound
strengthening of our banking system.  Measures to strengthen our banks with a view to
51



privatization and to improve the system of bank regulation and supervision are outlined later in
this letter.
The framework for private sector development
In the architecture of supporting private markets, major changes will be made in each Entity in the
areas of corporate governance. contracts, competitive market practices. and property riglhts.
Moreover, standards in accounting and auditing will be raised. We summarize below the chief
elements of the policy, and legislative and institutional framework of our reform program.
To strengthen corporate governance, a Law on enterprises has been passed in one house of the
Federation parliament and is expected to be adopted by the full parliament in coming weeks. We
believe this Law will provide a corporate framework that is modern and consistent with the higi
standards of similar legislation in western European countries. A Law on enterprises has already
been adopted in the RS. These Entity Laws clearly establish the rights of shareholders as in other
European economies, place clear responsibilities on corporate governance on boards of companies.
and set up a system of company register and overall regulation system. Supporting legislation on
contracts, secured transactions and collaterized lending will provide the legal basis for such
transactions by establishing a register on liens, and procedures and mechanisms for enforcement.
The Law on bankruptcy will provide clear policies and mechanisms for exit to the benefit of
investors and lenders in companies.
Clarification of ownership rights to property will take place through proper recognition of
"internal shares" (i.e., shares to the private sector issued in the past) and the setting up of an assets
register that will also record land and real estate titles. Accounting and auditing reform will focus
on introducing internationally accepted standards (IAS/ISA). By adhering to such standards, our
enterprises will produce accurate and timely financial statements, useful for domestic and foreign
investors and to potential creditors.
In addition to the comprehensive framework of legislative and institutional changes described
above, the time is right for the orderly development of post-privatization capital markets. Such
markets are necessary initially for the trading of' claims, coupons and vouchers that are being
issued for privatization, and then for the secondary trading of shares and of investment funds, and
at a later stage as the mechanism for raising fresh capital for companies. An appropriate package
of legislation has been developed on securities, investment funds and mutual funds and
management companies and, on the regulation side. for a Securities Commission and Registrar.
This package of legislation was passed by the Republika Srpska parliament in July 1998 and by
the Federation parliament in October 1998. Work is now under way to identify appropriate
management for the new institutions and establish operational guidelines and by Laws that will
establish, govern, and strengthen these new institutions. Extensive donor technical support has
been made available to both the Entities to assist in these efforts.
The Law on foreign investment at the state level entered into force in July 1998 and with its highly
liberal provisions and a clear level playing field for potential foreign investors offers an attractive
environment for investment in all sectors.
52



The authorities of the Entities, who bear the burden of implementing legislation in these areas, are
fully conscious that a suitable set of Laws (as outlined above) is a necessary pre-condition of
success in building a private market. but ultimate success will depend on light, but effective,
regulation, vigilant protection of shareholder and investor rights, and clean corporate governance
ensured by surveillance bodies. These are now being carefully developed. Nominations for the
management team of the Share Registry and Securities Commission in the Federation are expected
to be finalized by April 1999. Once constituted, the Securities Commission could begin to work
immediately. Investment fund management companies. whose development is dependent on
regulations and guidelines established by the Securities Commission, will be .reated soon after. In
the RS, the process is similar to that in the Federation. but nominations for management of the
Share Registry and Securities Commission will take place only after the powers of the government
to make these nominations are legislated.
Our progress in setting up the appropriate architecture for fostering private markets has greatly
outpaced developments in other transition economies and we believe that, havinig suffered the
severe retrogression brought about by the war, we are now poised to catch up with our competitors
in eastern and central Europe.
Measures to strengthen the hanking system
The banking system within both the Entities is exceptionally weak. On the asset side, banks are
burdened with a large proportion of non-performing loans arising from poor, past lending
decisions during the period of self-management of enterprises and banks and ov-nership of banks
by enterprises that led to imprudent insider lending. Non-performing assets also arise from the
destruction caused by war. On the liability side, the volume of deposits in the system is extremely
low for reasons of lack of confidence.  The effective confiscation of past foreign-currency
denominated deposits through the imposition of 100 per cent reserve requirements by the central
bank in Belgrade that were not honored to banks when due and the hyperinflation of the early
period of the war that all but eliminated local currency deposits are the principal factors behind the
distrust of banks by the general public.
Given the importance of a well functioning banking system as a mobilizer of savings and
intermediator of funds, the authorities of the Entities intend to take action in four areas in order to
bolster confidence:  (i) strengthen banking supervision and liquidating insolvent banks; (ii)
institute a deposit insurance scheme; (iii) encourage the entry of foreign banks; and (iv) ensure
medium and long term funding for commercial banks on market criteria are in place.
Strengthening banking supervision cnd liquidating insolvent banks. In both Entities, measures
have been taken to create a framework for banking supervision in line with international standards
and implementation is at an advanced stage. A comprehensive Law on commercial banking was
passed in the Federation in October 1998 and is expected to be passed by the RS parliament in
coming weeks. This Law covers licensing, supervision, liquidation of banks and prescribes the
standards that banks must follow. It will help to eradicate the past abuses in the banking system
arising from lending to insiders, lending to connected parties, and ensure that fit and proper
persons are owners and managers of banks.
53



Laws on banking agencies were passed in both Entities in the spring 1998 and, with considerable
international technical assistance, strengthened standards of regulation and supervision. better
trained staff, and greater authority and respect of the banking agencies are already evident.
The licensing standards required for banks is much stricter than in the past and a gradual rise in the
minimum capital requirement is planned so as to rationalize the banking system. Much emphasis
has been placed so far on on-site supervision. with the institution of risk-focussed safety and
soundness examinations in contrast to compliance-based reviews of the past. Attention will now
shift towards reinforcing off-site capabilities, not least with a view to developing an early warning
system for detecting risk.
We consider as particularly vital the liquidation of insolvent banks.  Existing and proposed
legislation clearly requires this and gives appropriate powers to the banking agenicies. It is not the
policy of the Entity governments to attempt to rehabilitate or recapitalize such banks as such a
course of action would not constitute a prudent use of our highly scarce fiscal resources. As a first
step, insolvent banks will be closed immediately upon determination of insolvency by the banking
agency. Thereafter, they will be liquidated in an orderly manner. It is clear that the largest
publicly owned bank in the Federation is insolvent by a large margin. The Federation government
will close this bank and institute liquidation proceedings.
Careful audits and examinations of banks based on new legislation have been initiated in
Republika Srpska. Insolvent banks will be treated in the same fashion.
Deposit insurance. Whilst strengthened licensing and supervision standards will help to restore
public confidence in banks, we believe that a system  of insuring deposits is essential if this
recovery in confidence is to be rapid and forceful. The Entity authorities are firmly committed to
introducing a scheme to insure deposits from mid-1999 in each Entity directed at protecting small
depositors from loss in the event of bank failure, discouraging runs on banks, and providing an
efficient mechanism for disposing of insolvent banks. The scheme will be in line with those
required to be instituted in all European IJnion countries. To minimize the fiscal burden and to
encourage prudent bank behavior, the scheme will cover deposits only up to a proposed DM5,000
and would be open only to private banks that met all regulatory standards. Moreover, depositor
preference under banking legislation will also help to minimize costs of the scheme.
We hope that the seed capital for the fund -- estimated at DM20 million for both Entities -- would
be subscribed by donors. This is the initial reserve capital base corresponding to the stock of
deposits at the beginning of the scheme. As deposits grow, this fund will have to rise. The
viability of the fund would be ensured by appropriate levies (insurance premia) on banks related to
the volume of their deposits. The Deposit Insurance Agency responsible for the scheme would be
autonomous, reporting directly to Entity parliaments.
Entry of foreign hanks. We are anxious to see foreign banks enter the country. We see their entry
as being essential to the development of the barking system along efficient lines. Foreign banks
would do much to generate confidence for domestic savers and foreign investors and help raise
standards in the industry. The existing legislation creates an attractive environment for foreign
banks and we have requested the assistance of the World Bank Group ant other multilaterals in
promoting our country to foreign banks.
54



Finance Jor investment. The acute shortage of medium and long-term funds faced by banks
greatly limits the resources available for investment. Thus far. donors (chiefly World Bank and
USAID) have provided longer term funding. To ensure that these funds continue to revolve in the
most efficient way, the Federation government has established a purely second-tier bank, the
Federation Investment Bank (FIB), that would run exclusivelv on market principles as an
intermediator of funds to commercial banks.  It will not take deposits. except Federation
government deposits, and will not be able to lend to the government. The FIB will also channel
limited credit lines from the budget for certain priority sectors for a temporary period, i.e.. only up
to end-1999. The Federation government will not channel any lines of credit to the economy
outside the agreed framework of the FIB.
The Federation government wishes to privatize the FIB rapidly and has invited the assistance of
the World Bank Group. the EBRD and the German KfW to this end. Private investors could be
other banks, foreign and local. and multilateral banks. The shareholding of the Federation
government would be limited to 10-15 per cent of the total share capital of FIB and would be
disposed off completely to private investors by end-2000.
As the volume of credit lines to Republika Srpska grow. the authorities will develop a private
sector based solution to the management of these revolving funds conducted on pure market
principles. In particular, no lines of credit financed by the RS budget will be established, except
those funded through specific donor resources. Discussions with the World Bank will be held to
this end.
The final item on the unfinished agenda of financial sector reforms relates to the paymenIs .systemns
in the Entities. Our payments systems are complex. highly costly and inefficient arrangements
that enjoy a monopoly position and they constitute a significant barrier to the development of a
modern banking system. The Entity governments are committed to the establishment of a
privately-based payments and clearing systems and to a transfer of other functions currently
undertaken by the payments bureau to other institutions, such as the transfer of the treasury
functions to the Entity ministries of finance. in accordance with a plan that is being developed by
the Entity governments and international donors. Implementation of the reforms will begin in a
comprehensive and well planned manner from mid- 1999.
StSafe 17rivrtivationl lai!
A Law at the level of the state has come into effect clarifying the responsibilities of the Entities in
privatization of enterprises and banks and ensuring that equal rights of all citizens are upheld in
the process. The Law recognizes the sole competence of the Entities to privatize enterprises and
banks located in the territory of the Entity. In doing so. it removes certain uncertainties as to
ownership and authority and this will be entirely to the benefit of confidence on the part of
potential investors, domestic and foreign.  The Law also requires Entities to ensure that
privatization recognizes the rights of all citizens, including displaced persons and refugees.
The privatization program
The Entity authorities believe that an immediate start has to be made on a comprehensive
privatization program covering all publicly owned enterprises and banks. The groundwork for
55



such a program has been laid over the past eighteen months with the establishment of a clear
strategy and with Laws and agencies to implement the strategy. Considerable extemal technical
assistance, notably from the Bank. has been used in this process. We believe that the program will
span about three years, i.e., until late 2001.
Phase 1. In both the Federation and Republika Srpska. we expect to initiate the first phase of
privatization with small-scale enterprises. generally executed at the cantonal level (in the case of
the Federation) and by the central privatization agency (in the case of Republika Srpska). At the
same time, the large enterprises will be required to prepare business plans in support of eventual
privatization that will identify competitive and promising parts of enterprises that could be spuIn
off for sales. During this phase. the groundwork will be laid for setting up the regulatory
framework for privatization or concessioning in public utilities.
In the first phase, all banks will be asked to prepare their opening balance sheets with a view to
determining their net capital and sales prospects. In the Federation, focus will be placed on the
largest three banks, one of which will be liquidated and the other two prepared for sale if found to
be solvent and adequately capitalized. In Republika Srpska. sales prospectus for the three largest
banks will be issued if these banks are found solvent.
Phase 2. The second phase of the privatization program. spanninig the period to the second hall of
2000, will see the completion of the small-scale enterprise privatization in both Entities. During
this phase the privatization of larger companies will begin. Telecommunications and electric
power will begin to be privatized at this stage as we believe that rapid progress can be made in
preparing the sales plans for telecommunications and electric power. Preparatory work for the
regulatory regimes for other public utilities will be carried out.
This phase will also see the sales executed for all solvent public banks in both Entities, if
necessary by the implementation of merger or consolidation plans for some of the solvent banks,
and liquidation proceedings taking place for all insolvent banks. During this period, we shall
complete the radical reform of the payments systems in both Entities with the aim of establishing a
competitive, private clearing system for payments and a modern Treasury management system for
public finances.
Phase 3. In the final phase of the program (to late 2001). all enterprises in both Entities will be
sold or liquidated. At the same time, the public utilities will be fully privatized or concessions
awarded for private sector participation, with road transport in non-arterial areas being an
exception.
Bank support. Our current request for an adjustment credit in support of enterprise and bank
privatization covers the first phase of this tlhree-year program. We expect to qualify for a further
one or two adjustment credits or IBRD loans in this area, spaced twelve months apart, to support
each successive phase of this program.
Enterprise prilvatization
The two Entities have adopted a comprehensive set of Laws for the privatization of enterprises and
have. furthermore, established agencies to undertake the task.  In the Federation, Laws on
56



enterprise privatization and on opening balance sheets (that defines the balance sheet of the
enterprise to be privatized) were adopted several months ago, together with other supporting
legislation. Privatization agencies at the Federation and cantonal levels have been established and
their division of responsibilities clarified. Republika Srpska legislation was passed in July 1998.
thereby annulling the earlier highly defective privatization Law of 1996. and the privatization
agency is functioning.
Legislation of each Entity (together with supporting regulation) is consistent with the state
umbrella Law and provides for the equal treatment of all citizens and, in particular, safeguards the
rights of displaced persons and refugees. Cash sales will be open to all -- citizens of either Entity
and to foreigners. General vouchers (RS) or claims (Federation) will be issued by each Entity, in
accordance with its Law to those declared to be eligible by the state Law, and provided such
citizens wish to participate in voucher privatization of that Entity.
(a) The Federation
The Federation Law has been amended to make it consistent with the state Law. It will give
recognition to the core groups of the population Entitled to receive general claims, the amount of
these claims issued per individual will depend on number of years of working life.  In the
Federation, additional claim accounts are being established for certain specific liabilities held by
citizens against Entity organizations. The three major category of such specific claims relate to
frozen foreign currency deposits in Federation banks. unpaid wages of soldiers, and restitution
claims that cannot be satisfied by physical restitution. As we lack the fiscal resources -- either
cash or capacity to contract debt -- to satisfy such claims, we believe that the exchange of Entity
assets for such claims offers the optimal solution. It is expected that claims will be issued in early
1999.
Claims related to restitution are expected to be issued in late 1999. as the task of drawing up the
register of all eligible claims and then determining those that cannot be satisfied through physical
restitution is necessarily a highly time--consuming onle.
Claims will be used by holders (who may trade them  freely) to inter alia purchase shares in
enterprises being privatized or in investment or mutual funds and, importantly, they will also be
used to buy apartments.. The Federation has passed a Law on privatization of flats. It is estimated
that a significant share of claimis will be absorbed via purchases of property; this will help to buoy
up the value of claims.
(b) Republika Srpska
The Republika Srpska Law has the clear provision that the class of eligibles will include all
citizens or residents on the Entity in question as well as those who were resident in the Entity in
the immediate pre-war period, provided such citizens wish to participate in the voucher
privatization of that Entity. The Republika Srpska has given the highest importance to the
principles of non-discrimination, transparency in the privatization process, and to accountability as
we are enjoined to do under state legislation.
57



In the Republika Srpska. as noted general vouchers will be issued to all citizens. The major
specific obligations of the Entity towards its citizens relate to frozen foreign currency deposits in
RS banks and remuneration to veterans and to families of soldiers killed. With respect to frozen
foreign currency deposits, coupons will be issued to such deposit-holders and these coupons will
be treated as cash-equivalents in the privatization process; with respect to soldiers' related
remuneration, claims identical in form and usage to the general claim will be issued. Restitution
claims will not be satisfied through issuance of vouchers, but through a restitution fund that is
being established. The list of vouchers and coupons are being carefully checked; coupons will be
issued in coming weeks as they will be eligible to be used in cash sales for small privatizations.
but vouchers (both general and those related to soldiers') will be issued later in the year.
(c) Both Entities.
Voucher privatization has shown mixed results in other countries and we have learned from the
lessons of others. In order to address the weaknesses of corporate governance, the lack of fresh
capital injection, and insufficient development of capital markets that have been associated with
voucher programs in other countries, the voucher schemes in both Entities have been tailored to
providing scope for cash and strategic investment. In the Federation, a ceiling of 65 per cent of
voucher participation in the sale of any one enterprise has been established for small-scale
privatization. In the Republika Srpska, only cash or cash equivalents are allowed to be used in
small-scale privatizations; and there will be appropriate role for strategic investors in large
privatizations.
Furthermore, the establishment of a trading system that makes possible transparent and low cost
trading of both vouchers and shares bouglht througlh them and other measures to promote capital
market development, such as the institution of investment funds, are vital features of our
programs. Notably, there is no floor for voucher participation in individual enterprise sales in the
Federation: thus, enterprises in the Federation could be sold wholly for cash.
As experience in other countries has shown, investment or mutual funds could be easily prone to
abuses. Our Laws provide for strict regulation on the conduct and governance of such funds, for
dealing with potential conflict of interests and for appropriate disclosure in the interests of
stringent shareholder protection. Investment funds will be established as closed-end funds; mutual
funds as open-end funds. The capital requirements of these funds is high; strict diversification of
share holdings is required, funds are limited to a 20 percent stake in any one enterprise; and all
trading is electronic and highly transparent. Price determination is through auctions and all funds
are fully tradable. By these means, we are confident that we shall attain our important objective of
canceling claims against Entities through vouchers and claims and ensuring that the weaknesses
associated with voucher privatization are firmly dealt with.
All enterprises are required to draw up their opening balance sheets according to the Law within
tight deadlines and then to prepare a plan for privatization that wins the approval of the
privatization agency. Thus, enterprises have considerable freedom, which is appropriate, as they
know their business conditions best. But it is important to be mindful of the temptations for
insider transactions and the privatization agencies will be vigilant in this respect. The requirement
of approval of the privatization plan of each enterprise by the Entity privatization agency offers
protection against abuse.
58



In the Federation, certain enterprises have opened themselves to participation by private
shareholders over the past six years. This has usually taken place through fresh injection of capital
by private companies, domestic or foreign. Where such transactions have taken place on market
terms with transparent capital infusion, recognition will be given to the shareholders: in cases of
purely paper or ill-priced transactions. such sales will be considered null and void. The extent of
such transactions is still to be established in both Entities and will be done through the drawing up
of the register of all public companies. but is believed to be much smaller in the RS.
The privatization agencies have been building up their capability to undertake their challenging
tasks and have received much useful technical assistance from donors. We firmly believe that, in
the interests of building up our own capacities and skills and in order to secure firm ownership
over our own programs as well as maintain the high degree of public support for privatization,
authorized agencies should be allowed to perform tasks of sales. monitoring, investigation and
correction of alleged abuses. The commercial aspects of privatization will be a matter for Entity
privatization agencies to monitor. We welcome the privatization commission that has been set up
by the Office of the High Representative to monitor the process as it relates to aspects of non-
discrimination.
In both Entities, enterprise privatization will begin with sales of small-scale enterprises for claims
and cash in the Federation and or for cash and cash equivalents (coupons) in the RS. Small-scale
privatization is expected to begin in both Entities in mid-1999. The sale methods will encompass
public auctions (if the selling price is the primary consideration), public tender (if investment,
expertise or technology infusion are important), direct sales or a management contract/lease (if
public auctions or tender fail). Large-scale enterprises will be sold via public offering of shares or
tenders. In the preparation of privatization, the register of enterprises to be privatized with their
ownership structures has to be drawn up -- this is a major task. Federation and cantonal agencies
and the Privatization Directorate in the RS are now engaged in this work.
We believe that the small scale privatizations can be completed in a period of about one year, i.e.,
early 2000 for the Federation and mid-2000 for the RS. Preparations have already begun, albeit in
a preliminary way. for the sale of large enterprises and conglomerates. These enterprises were the
pride of Bosnia in the pre-war period as they embodied technological and managerial excellence
and were the major exporters. Our strategy is to identify the centers of profitability that exist
within some enterprises of these conglomerates and to sell those to strategic investors under public
tender offerings. Some portion could be reserved for cash or even voucher sales. To implement
the strategy, conglomerates will have to develop business plans for the promising enterprises and a
privatization plan with the opening balance sheet. Those parts of conglomerates that cannot be
successfully sold would be liquidated. We expect that the task of completing sales of these large
enterprises will taken up to two years.
The enterprise privatization program in both Entities provides for utilities as well. The respective
rights of the state and the Entities and the organization, regulation, and operation of the utilities are
covered by Annexes 4 and 9 of the Dayton accords. The rights of the state are confined to
international and common aspects of communications and transport. The Entities have begun to
cooperate fruitfully with each other to reorganize these sectors and will also work with the state
and with the Commission on Public Corporations (a Dayton body) to ensure that constitutional
requirements are fully implemented. It is equally vital to ensure that these sectors are reorganized
and regulated in such a way as to maximize the prospects of privatization or concessioning in each
of these sectors. The state will play a constructive role to this end.
59



We believe that the privatization of two major utilities. telecommuniicationis and electric power
generation and distribution. can be accomplished rapidly. The state passed the telecommunications
Law in late 1998 and now the regulatory regimes at the state and Entity levels will be established
in line with World Bank and EBRD technical assistance. This will permit us to prepare this sector
for privatization-- it is our hope that the prospectus for sale could be drawn up in later in 1999 or
2000 and the sale conducted in the following y ear.
We believe that telecommunications privatization will provide a highly visible signal to the
outside investors that Bosnia and I-lerzegovina is open foI business. It wvill bring in significant
cash for Entity budgets and much new investment to the benetit of service standards. We hope to
exceed the standards of the highly successful privatization of telecommunuLications in many other
countries.
The electric power generation sector is considerably decentralized in the country. which is an
advantage for privatization. The same is true for distribution. We have a common grid between
the Entities and trade takes place. but under very circumscribed conditiolls. Moreover, we expect
to rejoin the Union for the Coordination of Production and Transmission of Electricity (UCPTE)
and the country can expect to become a significant trader of electricity. The Entities will reach a
common understanding on policies and regulation in this sector in the near future.  This
understanding, together with supporting Entity legislation, will create the conditions for
establishment of regulation, in which task we invite the assistance of the World Bank.
Privatization could follow in 2001 in both Entities.
In privatization in the utility sectors, the Entity governments, through the terms for tender
contracts, will attempt to maximize prospects for investment commitments and new technology,
whilst attempting to raise cash to the extent possible for Entity budgets. Thus, the typical pattern
will be to find one or a consortium of strategic investors. Minority shares in the utility could be
sold for cash in an atomized way or even for vouchers (particularly for late issue of vouchers
relating to restitution), but recourse to such methods will take second place to the primary
considerations of fresh investment.
Future program of private participation in utilities will include sales or concessioning in railways,
road transport, water, gas and all other sectors. This will necessarily take a period of two years
into the new century.
Bank privatization
For reasons given earlier in this letter, we consider it vital to move in parallel with the
privatization of our banks. Only with private ownership, whether domestic or foreign, could the
conditions be created for a restoration of confidence in our banking system.
Public banks in the Federation are in the process of presenting their opening balance sheets to the
Federation bank privatization unit in accordance with the Law. Public banks in the RS are poised
to present their opening balance sheets but await instructions from the RS government. These
instructions are expected to be issued by April 1999. Banks are currently burdened by non-
performing assets and carry illiquid foreign currency deposits. Under the Law, non-performing
assets that were funded through foreign borrowing from commercial banks or bilaterals (i.e.,
associated with London and Paris Clubs) will be removed from the balance sheets of banks. In
60



parallel the foreign liabilities of banks from London or Paris Club-sourced borrowings will be
written off. Frozen foreign currency deposits will be transformed into privatization vouchers as
explained above. Thus, banks will be left with a clean, but vastly shrunk, balance sheet.
Banks that find themselves with negative capital or with inadequate capital will be closed
promptly and, thereafter, liquidated. The remaining banks will be sold individually or merged and
consolidated to improve sale prospects. A period of about one-year will be permitted for sale to
take place. Banks unsold within this period will be put under voluntary dissolution.
Both Entities have adopted legislation enabling the above strategy to be implemented and have
established bank privatization units under Entity ministries of finance that will undertake this task.
Generous external technical and financial support is being provided to these units by the Dutch
and the Swedish governments under World Bank supervision.
The results of recent bank examinations and audits for the Federation show clearly the large
negative equity position of the largest publicly-owned bank in the Federation. The net capital
position of other public banks will be known only after certain legal decisions. Some of the
smaller banks are expected to be candidates for liquidation, whereas others could be merged or
consolidated and then sale attempts made. In the RS. the opening balance sheet exercise has not
yet started and the final judgement is still out.
The bank privatization units in the ministries of finance face a major challenge in attempting to
sell our banks. Many investors, especially foreign. may prefer to enter our market through a
greenfield operation. It is clear that vouchers will play no part in bank privatization. The search
will begin for strategic investor or investors of high repute and banking experience. The primary
consideration will be fresh capital injection and know-how into banks rather than cash for the
Entity budgets. The strengthening of bank supervision, raising of minimum capital requirements.
institution of a deposit insurance scheme. and the financing being made available from the FIB in
the Federation are factors that will help attract potential investors into our banks.
61



Conclusion
In this letter, we have laid out a comprehensive strategy and set of measures that will be pursued
and implemented by the authorities of the state and the Entities of Bosnia and Herzegovina to
promote a market economy. Privatization is an essential element of this strategy for without a
change of ownership and the incentives that go with it no lasting reforms can be made. But the
transformations required in building an efficient market economy -- Laws, institutions, individual
and corporate behavior, even attitudes and mindsets -- are profoundly complex and challenging
and, despite the experiences built up in the post-cold war period, still not fully understood. Bosnia
and Herzegovina's programs are ambitious and rapid and they deserve international assistance.
We fully expect the World Bank to continue to undertake its lead responsibility in the provision of
technical knowledge and finance in this area.
Yours sincerely,
Edhem Bicakcic                          Milorad Dodik
Prime Minister                          Prime Minster
Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina              Republika Srpska
Dragan Covic                             Novak Kondic
Deputy Prime Minister and                    Finance Minister
Minister of Finance                      Republika Srpska
Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina
Mirsad Kurtovic
Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations
Bosnia and Herzegovina
62



ANNEX II
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA\
E:NTERPRISE AND BANK PRIVATIZATION CREDIT -- POLICVNSIATRIX
(Items in itblic hand bold are conditions for tranche release)
POLICY AREAS AND                  |ACHiEi'VEMENTrSIM1.ASURI.S   |SUPPORI'INGMESRS|MEASURES                                            PRIOR TO FiRST               |MEASllRES PRIOR TO TIIE SECOND                         |AGENDA FOR FOLLOW UP
OBJECTIVES                          Al.Rl:ADY INTRODUCI:D                  tJNDERWAY ( 1998 -MARCH 1999                 TRNH          1ISBURSEMI:,NT                  TRANCHE DISBURSEMENT                                   PRIVATIZAI'ION CREDIT
1. BANK RESTRt:CTt'RING AND PRIVATIZATION
The Federatlion                     4 Passed La. on Opening Balance                                                      o (ilfi etnmeni clo,e rthe largevt Ins l/1ent  * C {*-pleteliqlridatlon vsflurgevt inst)lh enr henb   Sale of Centtal and Union(if
A        Action./ 1'W1hwle         Sheet. 1 his L ar. compels                                                           bank as tt Isixtep l.,avrd liquidatim.      # Derermine .-b-Ieng- ps irion osf Jnion 11unk. If      solvent) completed
enterpriscs and banks which have                                                                                                 tUnhsn harhbeen fimad solve¢nt issue a prospectus      Othcrwise. voluntary
assets and liabdiiies either not                                                                                                 f,,r.,alef,r Vtnion Bank. IfUnion hats eenfiund,       dissolution and liquidation
perfonming or out of the                                                                                                          insolient. close Union and begin process of            completc
enterprise's Ibank's control to                                                                                                   liquidation.
remove these items from their                                                                                                   * Determine. solen:i pos.ition of' entrel Profi
balance sheets This ptocess moves                                                                                                 Baunk, 1f1Centrel P,fut Rank has been found
marty state owned banks and                                                                                                       .ah-ent. issue a prospetu.s for saler it IfCentral
enterprise ftotn insolency/                                                                                                       PreJit Rank has been band insolrent. chose it and
bankrupicy to solkency                                                                                                            begin prcexvs of liquidation.
# Passed Law on Btank Privatization                                                                                                  'TCepatc opcning balance sheets and praistiafiAon
plans for remaining state banks
* Bank Privatization usttt to review and approve or   * Take control of. close and
* rhe Entity shall not establish or extend      reject ptivatizatton plans for small banks            liquidate all state banks which
ant credit lines using budget resaurce.s   * Small banks to issue prospeciae for sale               have not been successful at
out.side ;he 1ederai-n investment Bank     * The Enritr shall nt establish or extend aunt credit    privatizatiot
ff718). The operations of the FIB tub be     lines using budget resources outside the Filt  Nor
busedsirletr on market principle,             *hall the Entity establish any new hunk or increase
fioernment initiates eff,,ris tr, pri,atize  capital subscription in antr existing hank
/I. Nor suall the Entilt establish anr    * Gir,ernment takes actions suatifator r to II)DA on
new bank or increase capital subscription     reaching agreement with prli-ute iniswranrso
in unY exrising bank.                        priatization of Fllt
1, lnsfiintumn,al Isevcpierucnt
IBank lPrivili  Uirt                                                                                             * Establishfut(e staffed and/untrioiag
Ort'l/I                                                                                                             1iank Priatttirtion Unit fBIPU).
IHlao XSurpc-ision               Estuhablishmeit of Fl'A hired staff  * Pass amendments to FBA las to establish                                                  4 Improve off-site capabilities                       * Step by step rise tn minimum
(ommrrchdl lMink Isis        and drafted regtilalions on            pertoanence and independence of FBA                                                      * Itpiv-me licensing practices                           capital requiremcnts
suiperisory functions               * Clarify powers of conservatorship.
Regnicriuwi,s s,n          * Successful motiutoring and             receivership and liquidation Define role of
-nrmecsdloihd   A            examination of banking industry        FBA as supervisor ofthese activities.
* Completed draft of loas on Batiks      rather than implementer. Includc
which defines FHA authority to         provisions for Dl role in handling
supeesise. rehabilitate and liquidate  insolvent or undercapitalized insured
banks. and regulatiotns on bank        banks
activity.                           * All existing banks to hase permanent
licenscs. increase minimum capital
requirenients
* Establish specific actions to deal with
insolsent banks
* Establish specific actions to deal with
capital of inadequate banks
I-epjsvl /lls rmn lr     (i)                                                                                      a Cabinet submils Ia., on dep,,sit            * Deposit Insurane Ageny 1t ha,re started             * P'repare DI Agency to assume
insurance to Parliament that is             fJunaci-ning.                                           all liquidation activities after
satisfacrtori to the World Bank.                                                                    closure of BPUJ
l/stsnirrris Ss.sii-m         * Linked the tno separate payments                                                                l                                                                                         Pass legislation that puts into
systems in the Federation. but not                                                                                                                                                       effect the plan to separate
unified                                                                                                                                                                                  P'ayments system from tax
o Established a clearing mechanisnl                                                                                                                                                        collection and financial onltrol
bel.cen tile Entities' payrnems                                                                                                                                                          system
sbste          nts                                                                                                                                                                       Pass legislation that puts into
effect the plan for a modenm
private, competitive payment
_________ _________ _________ _________ __   ______ _________ _________ ________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _________ __ssyste



BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
ENTERPRISE AND BANK PRIVATIZATION CREDIT -- POLICY NIATRIX
(Items in italic and bold are conditions for tranche release)
POLICY AREAS AND                     ACHIEVEMENTS / MEASURES    SUPPORTING MEASURES                                         I MEASURES PRIOR TO FIRST                         MEASURES I'RIOR 10 I'lI SECOND I                          A(-ENDA I-OR FOILIOW UP
OBJECTIVES                            ALREADY INTRODUCED                       UNDERWAY (1998 - MARCH 1999)                   TRANCHE DISBURSEMENT                            T'RANCHI. DISBUtRSlMlN'I                                 PRIVA'I'AlION CREIDIT
1. BANK RESTRUCTURING AND PRIVATIZATION
Republiks Srpska
A. A,ctins                                                                 * Issue terms of reference for external audits    * Pass Lau tin Opening Balance Sheet          * Extablish .sot-en,- t.lateoti,nned bun.s, take
of state banks                                  that prtridesfar a secure buaisJct                       and, /is. e the largc'st in.soDNent bank piu.,
* Appoint external auditors and prepare            rapid priatization qf banks and               one wther inliebank.
opening balance sheets                           enterprises.                                * The Anrit shall nit eslablish  -r c.stendt. ' credit
lines uasng, budge resources  '-r shall the E.nti
* The Entit .shall not establish or tstend      etablish a nt ne  bank tr incce.ase capital
ant credit lines using hudget res-ure.,       subscriptitn in any existing bank.
Na, s.hall the Entitt- establish uny ne,
hank Ir increa.se apital subscriprinn in
ant exi.sting hank.
* Banks to prepare pri%atization !                                                               ltank ttrisati7anttt   r,vt t-i. e-ics asd i 1l......t     I   pt  -apl l-tc slit tlehicc lkrg
consolidation plans                                                                            fipriati-ali ll .ittsiiltd;ttio  phavt        htsks it takc cattl, ofatd
* tegit elEfits at p,tiatiatlic, eo tsitlidlwo Is           close t       banks. iegin
SoNlseiv state havvks                                    liplvidlawnotitt cl-sed hauks
* Complete draft l.as on Bank Pri.atizatioo      * .dIdpt la.w tn Bank Priraization.           * I.s.ue sale. prvt.spe-t ae for three largest sivlvtnr sta
(include legislation for Bank Prisatization                                                    bank.s
I it)
B. InsNttivttl IDeeluehipmevt
Iivtavk Iiiisaii:tititt ibiji                                                                                           * F .stablihb/ullc staffedt andJunctvtining
Bank PrBeiatizati:n tnit (IIPL).
Icooik Ro,erv iitslon      * Pass law that establishes and    *        E:stablish agency, with ke- staff hired. office                    .C                             l ( tvpiclet litg it stallC ' .1-r estaliltsli lit tavi
independent RS Banking Agency            space rented and equipped.                                                                     rcstviurce futciuit
* Draft and initiate bank examination plan
Cotnt*ercial llvtik                                                                                                                                             *stalli,ht cic co-itt :siad a vf....itsc titk sit B   istott  C I iitttit al  stei hty step raisiitg
Lttvv                                                                                                                                                             actis11c tresi vinittivivvt caviital
* Istablislsp-citic  eguvlatiitvs ltfo havdtlinp il si.. cNt  reqtilenve ilt
Begutlitition, tn                                                                                                                                                 banks avtd uuid,i,a;lvthtv/d vatiks
cotmmercial hattks                                                                                                                                               bPass a ctivrvncicial thvk lts L ha i  ShclMl-it
possCes of -vvestv sltt.eceioc I bilt aId
liquidation. a,  ell a, auth itv 1i-t tic latcate ;ivvl
upers-ice banks
Dtevposit Insurtince                                                * Complete draft Las on Deposit Insuravce                                                         Pass tI a. onn Dteprs1it Inuane                            P el   e IN1 Agea;iy tov assurne
Secueni finvaociig tv capl,atv.  D)1 ivstvv                l liq1uidlatiton actisifies after
* Net up DI)eptpit In-urance Agen"t.                        clois,r vvfltIPUt
* 1cgin insvvrivv all fmrcigVv haviks avid all app.p.ecd
prisate duvmetic hatlks
Paymenis Syslem            * Established a clearing mechanvism                                                                                                                                                                C I'ass legislation that puts into
between the Entilies' payments                                                                                                                                                                     effect the plan to separate
systems.                                                                                                                                                                                           ttaymentts system from tax
collection and financial
control system,
' ass legislation that putt into
effect the plan for a modern,
private. compaetitive payment
system.



BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
ENr;ERPRISE AND BANK PRIVA'AIZATI0N ('REDIT -- POLKA NIA'ARIX
(hems in hialic and bold are condilions for iranche rclease)
POLICY AREAS AND                      ACHEVEMENTSIMEASURES    SUPPORTING MEASURES                                           I MEASURES 'RIOR TO FIRS                          Ml:ASlURIS P'RIOR DK  I('II Si.(')ON             AGiLND)A FOR FOLL,OW UP
OBJECTIVES                            ALREAD)YINTRODUC'ED)                    UNDER WAY(1A998   MARCH  1999)                | TRANCHED8ISBCURSEMI:N-I                         T ''RANCIB:L DIS31RSI-MSINI I                    PRIVATI'AHlONCREIDI'
13. ENTERPRISE ?SkMXvILkTI1ON
The Federation
A ,Aciir,n i'miltA ics
prec-andifrat,s fi,rpri-'zalusicaa,r
L egal                         * Passagc of l-ass on Prisaozation of    * Sel nethlod.log5 tor preparing opening          Pa.s Ian on Mn,agvr'mnt (mpani-e
Enterprises. Settlemeint of Citizen     balance sheels aod pass re-ulaition fie         andpri-atizalin in i',tc'nt  fulnds
Claims                                  sales methodolog-                               atof-ing citizens Is, in s-t their
E Establish valuationo of  oiche points           claim'iol,ucher. in  nterprisic  thr ogh
fund., as, .,ell as imli,ijdualls
* A'mend enterrri.ePri,ati:ctti-n tn- ts,
eni,l c.nutfI.tCe  vi  ith t11e n,n-
di.scrimitation principl-f th-state
Lnterprises                                                             * ('reate a ditectoislist of all prViatizabcl                                                   4 tllitiiii ins' ;ii,.ta  li.i..l.   liuc
state cotterprise, Separating eniterprises liy                                                 cocipl i..
small. largy  a-ii straegi, (.NtI I
* list of stiatcgLic eiteriprise apitoved b.
Parliament
Voucliers/ Claims                                                       * Gos emment issues instioctioos. diaited bs
the FVPA to Mlit, of' IWtlose. baitks antd
peiision fund to
. proside cai,-e,i access to recirds that
determine the amitountt of their claitit to
be exchanged for soahlies.
. provide these sante records to the
Pavtnents Bureau and give insinhctircis
to the Paxtoents Bureau to provide
final accounts to the public
Infontiation carilpaign                                                     Fminalfie ouicher accounts at ZPI'
* Embatk on ai exltensivc public education
camnpaign
truss's-s if l'riisitizitiiiiti
Small enterprise rltivali,atiotl                                               4 Develocp regulations for small                n / nitiate small pi,iati:itiiotn hy a-tind g   * (ttneludearndna'tilepriiateaissn
p.it atization                                 aucrions it issuing tender, f/r at lea.,t 4r    tranusaat,in -   r1- at lat   sgo,all
small pri,atiz:alion tubjeult. Paun-it nimai   enlprieitea, cx hludig   antdid/awt fi'r
belttr cash or claims. Ij nit all citiens      naturul rsltit1tiomn
claims hate heen formalized in Painntent
Bureau accounts, the pri,atizatihn
uuth,,,itie trill afloat additional tmiJe,ae
citizens tisettle claims portion of the
purhave price.



BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
E.NTERPRISE AND BANK PRIVATIZATION CREDIT -- POLICY.NIA1TRIX
(Items in itlaic and bold are conditions for tranche release)
POLICY AREAS AND                   |ACHIEVEMENTS /MEASURES   |SUPPORI-ING MEASURES                                       |MEASURES PRIOR TO FIRS-1 I                      MASIURES PRIORT10 1HESl:(C(NI)D                   AGENDA 17OR l:Ol.LOW  lJP
OBJECTIVES                         |ALREADYINTRODUCED                      |UNDERWAY (1998 -MARCHi1999)                  |TRANCHE DlSBURSEMEN1                          | TMRANIIE DISBURSEMENI F                          I'RIVAII/ATION CRI.D11-
11. ENTERPRISE PRIVATIZATIONS
Large enterprise Privazatiton                                                * Begin to identify likely candidates for                                                    * Re,iecs and scrif% Prisati-ation prlgrams
foreign investment.                                                                          from all largc errterpr sCs                       o    plete large scale
* Strategy! policy declaration and                                                           * legin publi- sub-ription fi srhare,'.s in t      prisatzatiot
methodologies (with time table) for                                                          le-ast 100 mediumn large ent rpripes          * P, i-u  all holding
pri-atizing large enterprises                                                              * I.se ervpectu u/e    Jl   r at leasa r,ns'       ceorpatnics  All sctarable
h.lding -mptanr h4 its --ntitn-nt parts.        tins t Itolditty costnpantics
,1hould Ire pInivoreied
,eparatelY
Strategic Sector I Utilities                                                 * Privatization plans and methodologies for                                                     E wstablish -egulal.  ramentrr  n-ce-urt      * lkploc 1rsOti,ati'mil of
the strategic sector approved by                                                            fur priratizatin -rr teeomand electri            tiei-t atid electric ,osc
Parliament                                                                                   p-,re genceaai- oa anahstihutifnifi-             yc,ne-io n ad distilmbutio
* IFstablish regolations t; , othce utilitics
B I-nstimtl-r,nl ltelehptenlt        * Establishment of Federation           * 1998 budget of FPA re,iewed! approved        * Cantnaalpri-aizati-t agenciesfidrli
Privatization Agency, with several                                                    wtafed uandte rpating
of the Cantonal agencies
established, but not yet fully
functional
Republika Srpska
A. Actionsl Poli,ie.s
P-ecunditirtsfiJr pi-rization
Citizen registry               * Registration of large portion of
citizens for privatization program
Enterprises                    * Valuation of many state owned         * Create and publish a directory of all
enterprises                             privatizable state enterprises
* Identify and publish a list of all likely
candidates for each wave of privatization.
foreign investment or special privatization
projects, or sale by auction.
Public lnformoation                                                    * Embark on an extensive public education
campaign
Legal nd ittstitutional        * Passage of Law on Privatization of    * Develop corporatization gauidelines with a  * Adopt Later tin enterprise pei-atiutiatn
requirements for                 Enterprises. (June 1996) and            standard set of articles of incorporation      nhich nill ensace transparencr f the
privutibation to he              amendments thereto (June 1997)          inventory of asuets and enterprise             pene-s and equitable treatment ufthe
successful                                                               registration.                                  residen en. Include u rapid and rigid
* Draft and adopt Securities Las and stock      timelinefar peieaiian tfilonn
market regulation
* Develop licensing procedures and training
for stock brokers/ dealers,
* Establish and train a securities and
exchange commission



BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
ENSTERPRISE AND BANK PRIVATIZATION CREDIT -- POLICY IATRIN.
(Items in italic and botd are conditions for tranche release)
POLICY AREAS AND                     ACHIEVEMENTS / MEASURES    SUPPORTING MEASURES                                         MEASURES PRIOR TO FIRST                       MEASURLS PRIOR 'O I'lil. SECOND    A(NiNDA F(R UOLLOW UP
OBJECTIVES                           ALREADY INTRODUCED                      UNDERWAY (1998 - MARCH 1999)                   TRANCHE DISBURSEMENT                          TRANCIIE D)ISBURSI MFNlI                         I'RIVA'I VA l'ION CRED)IT
Proce.- fllr,Jri,arirnt                                                   * Design and implement a share trading
system
Small scale privatizatton                                                                                           *..............                                0 Begin pirariwaioan  fs .mta// sale
Cnferplpre.s. ltrraiat N a.tedleu.d/tpcr,rsenm 
-mafl rcae enterp,ALe.
Privatition projects                                                   * Develop a plan for the privatizatton of                                                    * flepare and e.-eNle intrena,hnatl tender.s                           I lahIrli reerIattotrs tot
utilities and other special enterprises not                                                  of mnajrrin -taAe in at h/ast rhree larg. eludC
covered in the Law.                                                                          wale caentcrpie'.
* Develop plans for the prtvatization of                                                     * Prepale at least rtte hrrldrtar   npttn; ttt
holding companies. by their constituent                                                      pris attattt bts Osl ts,sttlctst patts  lt
pars ts tettde.r .t tstttssst
* Establish an auction process and                                                           *  Ar prorpea   - sa/e f,rs p.,ers o] the
infrastructure for preparing and esecotinty                                                  holding- prsna  ht its -nsritaentr paer.
international tenders for sclectcd                                                           nhih n.ill be tendered.
enterprses.
B Inrsttirtur,issi/ Id     a tpmc'metl  Establishment of RS Privatization
Agency



ANNEX III
ISSUES RELATING TO THE SUCCESS OF PRIVATIZATION
I. MACRO ECONOMIC STABILITY
1. Maistlaininas a Stable
Macrocwonomic Framework
The State of Bostis and
Heanegoina
AIrkl'ts/k x un we I'lkstr. ROt,
* Establishing institutional       * Approsed Central Bank I a                 *  Continued implementation of the Central Bank Law              * Continued implcienctuation of the Central Bank las
framework for morneita           * t raencs Board Fanetboorthe
management
* Issued the ncs curenc'
* Adoptim of plan for hqurdat.on of         * Complete liquidation on Narodna Bank
Narodna Banka i the old central bank                           o
* Liquidation of Narodna Banka
* Maintaining policies conducise   * las restored and maintained moneltr and    * Continued satisfactorx implementation of the nonetarx policies.    * Continued saisfactory itnpleritettatiio  of the  * Continued satisfactory
to monelars and exchange rate      exchangc rate stabilit, since late  It99    and maintenance of the estenral pee for the cotrvenible mark     monetoam policics aitd rttaimctrance of K\  peg       implementation of the monetary
stability                                                                      consistent with the Currenc%. 13oard anangement                                                                        policie s atid tmtaittenance ofKM
P''Y
The Federatirn
* Fiscal statce that aoids         * Maintained budgets thnt hose abstained    * Balance budgets lshtch abstain from botrosin, frota the norm-  * Balance budgets oHIclr abstait, lrorrr borrowing 1roa  * Balanrce budgets sslhich abstain
recourse to domestic borrowing     from borroming from the hkmestic            bank and barkina sector Present accumulatiotl of arrears.        tIre nrrn-bark attd branking sectior  Prcsent         frrm borro.mg4 fronm Itre non-
and thus supports monetary         banking sector                                                                                               accumulatirr ol arrears                               hatik and batrking sector. lPresent
policy                           * Ialanced budgets which abstainr from                                                                                                                               accrmt ionatort *sf arrears
borrowing from tlte nmo.haik and banking
setor Prevent accumulation of arears
The Republika Srpska
Ii.iscrl l'rr/hr
* Fiscal stance that aoids         * Mairtainred budgets that hawe ahbatined      B Balance budgets rshich abstain from horeorg from the non-   * lalance budgcis which arstains friror bon-owirrgr   * Balarcte budgets whiich abstain
recourse to domestic bonrowing     from boreowirr from the domcstic            bank and banking sector Present accumulation of anears.         the non-bank anrd batiking secto.  Present             frrrm brorss itrg filrm the non-
and thus supports nornetary        balrking sector                                                                                              accunmulation of arrcars                              bank and baorking sector. Prevent
policy                           * Balancc budgets nhich abstairn front                                                                                                                               acconwhition of ncars
borrosing frotn the norr-bank and banking
seCtor Irrseat uccumulatiorr of anears.



ISSUES RELATING TO THE SUCCESS OF PRIVATIZATION
II.THE ENABLING ENVIRONMENT FOR PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
ll. Ensuning the l egal anid.
Institutional Framewsork for Privatc
Seem,r Di veluoment
The Federation
f immevr-el lL,o                                                                   * Pass Las on Business C(ompanics so that it giVes                       *  m1e11nrent Lass on Business C(omparnes                    * Refonn the regulatory framework
* greater emphasis to shareholder rights.                                                                                           to stimulate effciency
-la r -n rtrerprir           tar  vii Itusin-ss (tioripanies drafted               . more precise delneation of corporate governance,                                                                                   p .ik trce Payments systems
* better definition of artiles for inclusion in fiunding                                                                            betiseen and within tilc Entities
documents lIe  corporate charlers).
* a registration system and oserall regulation of enterpi-ecs
Inn cchi Uhlgoriiirn                                                           *   'otking srlh CITY to drafi amendments to las  on Obligations         * Andopt arirer-dments to l.as  ott Obligatiorrs
ALninrini .S..rrcl..            I sarrrrnrig s ay, to develop a legal          * Rvising draft Law
liirswiisinmni iiiirvlliiPriiil  iegistfl                                      * Establih an official registry of collateral
1), VI)   I.aw Wrsuloc"                        * Implement procedures and mechanisms for enforccirricil
lhrnikrrrpiis Cciv           * ltarrktptcy lan  passed                         * Adopt amendmcnts to bankruptcy Lao  once lIax on ericiipises
is adopted
i.iiir WI uRni *?                                                              # Adopt amendtnents to clearly delire o- ncrship of all forirs of
leeriurird 1'ep,rnra                                                              propcirt. including  irriernal sharcs' in siatc-oss-ied erittv1rr cc
* Implemert an adequate registration systemn fir sharcs ii p,ogen,1N
artd rcal propcny
.4Z'X'}tia ig noezl . lscliiintg   * lirnetmatiosal accunltng anid adidting       * Adopt crlier necscsar, irternatiiral auditing principles arid          * ( Corfinuc training program to lring pIcicinces in linc
fe/scm                             stantdardsid  lASt legislated                     stailirds and beginetxc-sise training                                    s,ith intennatiroral standards
* Collected of rufoimatron oni gaps rctieen
crulrrl stalidards arid pracices arid IAS
*  Andopted iitenlaiional accounting
lanidards  to he eiifisrceable Jan I. 1999
' crpiirl  ,rciteil              * Passed las, oil Secin-iies Securities           * Pass necessars amendments to                                           * Create prirf,ssionalls staffed and operatirnal apital
Comrnissiori. Registrar of Securifiec. aid           Lna on SCcuTities                                                    narkel instilutions ori accordance siih capital market
I'riate lirsestincilI iinds and                      ILa.s
Mtariageitiei ( Conipanires                       * Lass oa  Registrar of Securities
Iore,gn rgi hira  eni t                                                               Pass Iais,  and adopt regulations oni
F Iorirgn investment, including regulations on indemnification
for crpiopi(ation and profit repuITiation
. The fonmationi. taxation and operation of foreign owned legal
Entities
I TeciI crrtinrkd I 'hiinins                                                       * Draft Lan to deal v ith extratenutorial claims (of the fourier         * Adopt lass to deal  ,rth extra temitorial claims
Yugoslavai).



ISSUES RELATING TO THE SUCCESS OF PRIVATIZATION
II.THE ENABLING ENVIRONMENT FOR PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
Republika Srpska
(rwminrsis Rl/a/.ir                                                                *   Adopt ne, lIaw or significantly rcvise old l.aw  on enterprise so                                                                 * Reforn tire retilone fiarntewrk
thiat it gives~                                                                                                                       tor stimulate efficieney.
/.na,, hntr*sy I   rpri s e s                                                      . adeqsuate emphasis to shareholder righs .                                                                                          productivity and profitability
of cnrporate                                                                    * ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l.ittk the PamnsSysteatis
.tCC~5C piccisc delilleafi  of  g  goserrtnttvv.                                                                                  between and within the lntities.
. proper definition nf arlicles fon inclusiom in fiounding
docrirrients li c corporatr charters).
. a reyitration sysem, atid -rverall tegulario.i of enterprises
L.a  s,, ()tligs,ri,rrs                                                                                                                                 * I)raft amenrrdmnents to stitplifr  ls    Obt I thligatiotns
I..,,  .esl wed                   tamining ways to develop a legal                                                                                      * (tor plete draft regtlations foe the establisltrent of
Iri,n.socliv,i                 registry                                                                                                                    att oflicial registry of collateral
C (complete draft prTocedics atid mechalnisris lon
enfortcemneni
* tstablis  ian official registry of collateral
*    plenienent procedurcs antd nrcitaiiisms fo,
erlofic'enit
ls k-ptur Lsai                                                                                                                                          *M arli of arntiedirents to existing  lvrkRniprs Laoss
* Adopt amentesnts to halikruptcv I.as
/.0(is }sir llsiil a{ri                                                         * liriliaft al-crdrerst, reiidltior,s to clear Is delfic (iss tciship ol all l   Adopt amenodmrents. implemnent reg,dalfioins definnitg
1'eroi,n/ I'Ir-prsrs                                                              fr nsrf ot propel , i-scIlnding  initerinal sOarts  ir satec--osstted    ms ne1rship
CtCl1l 5ev                                                            *I miplemenert tIre registrationi system  fir shates si
* Iiralie a Ilaot, sr dcevlopme an adequate registliho sssrerrl for        propenr and real property
shRarcr  h it r1ert> atsd real properlt
.s ss rrrlinrg  fr.! Irritrirsy    I assed lass osr, Audits                                                                                                 * Adopt ness I.ass on accouirntrog
/le/sorrsr                                                                                                                                                  * Adirpt iitenaiotiial acco-u,ting staidraids
* Adopt international atiditing principles anid
standards.
(  oirmi:rkrrs                   * Ilassed la. orr Scenritics arid Secunifies      * P1ss riceessays amendmtenits ios
Colmimnission. Iaw  on Registrar of                  .I as o  S-sities
Securitics. and l.ass or, Privatc Ilnrestmn.enr
Fuaids and Slanagercmnt Companies                  . Ias  Registrar of Securities
l,ass orr Private Investment [minds and Mlanagemient
/ii'reaigar aIrme.r,it           * New Law air l irecigi Investment passed
/ vlrd I erriltsi.il #t.                                                           * DIraft lass to deal withl ctratenitorial clainis  so the firyrmer     o Adopt lass to deal with extra territomial clairis
Y'ugoslaIial



ANNEX IV
Table 1: Bosnia and Herzegovina - Key Economic indicators
Estimate                                 Projected
Indicator                1995    1996    1997       1998     1999     2000      2001     2002     2003      2004     2005
National accounts
(as % GDP at current
market prices)
Grossdomesticproduct                      100     100      too      too       too      too      too       too      too       too      too
Agriculture
Industry
Services
Exports (GNFS)a                           20       24      29       33        34       34        35       35       36        36       36
Imports (GNFS)                            71       83      76       70        59       54        50       46       43        41       40
Memoranduim items
Gross domestic product                   1867    2741    3423      4082      4533     5333      6262     7090     7731      8386     9081)
(US$ million at current
prices)
Real annual growth rates
%. calculated from 1995
prices)
Gross domestic product at                        69       30       18        8        144      14        10       6         5        5
market prices
Real annual per capita
grovth rates (%, calculated
from 1995 pTices
Gross domestic product at                                 28       17        7        13       13        9        5        4         4
market prices
Balance of Payments
(UlSSm)
Exports(GNFS)Y                          381      658     1002     1367      1541     1816     2162      2498     2796     3044      3293
Merchandise FOB                       152      336      575      817      955      1131     1387      1628     1843     2008      2169
Imports (GNFS)'                        1334    2278    2606       2864     2659     2863      3124     3234     3358      3460     3596
Merchandise FOB                       1082    1882    2333      2573      2397     2586     2826      2935     3051     3152      3278
Resource balance                        -953    -1620   -1604    -1498    -1118    -1047    -962        -736     -562      -416     -303
Netcurrenttransfers                     1002    10)94    772       510      311       281      245      210       170      104       37
(including official current
transfers)
Current account balance                 -193    -748    -1060    -1127    -896       -879      -831     -640     -504      -424     -350
(after official capital grants)
Net private foreign direct               0        0        0       100       60       162      185      200       200      200      200
investment
Long-termloans(net)                     -271     439      12       43        24       117      190      146       144      96        39
Othercapital (net, including            578      542      959      1015     944       648      528      390       242      182       161
errors and omissions)
Change in reserves5                     -1 14    -232     89       -31      -132     -48       -72      -96       -82      -54       -50
(continued)



Table 1: Bosnia and Herzegovina - Key Economic indicators
(Continued)
Projected
Indicator                  1099     1996     1997     1498      1999      2000      2001      2002     2003      2004      2005
Memorandun ilenis
Resource balance (%/o ot'                   -5I      -59      -47      -37       -25       -2(       -15       -10       -7        -5        -3
(iDP at current market
prices)
Real annual growth rates
1995 prices)
Merchandiseexports                                  155      71        40        14        15        19       14        10        6         5
(FOB)
Merchandise imports                                 8(       40        11       -10        5         h                   1        0
(CIF)
Public Sector Balances
(as % of GDP at current
market prices)
Expenditures                                36       78        56       52        48        48        47       44        43        42        40
Revenues                                    29       51        31       32        31        35        36        37       38        38        38
Deticit (-)                                 -7       -27      -25       -20       -17      -13       -11        -7       -5        -4        -2
External Financing                           7       27        23       20        17        13        11        7         5         4         2
Others, incl. Arrears                        0        0        -2        0         (        0         0         0         0         0         0
Monetary indicators
M2/GDP (at current market                  21       28       34
prices)
Growth of M2 (%)                            9       96       52
Price indices(1995=100)
Implicit GDP dellators
(% change)
Federation                                -40.4     9.1      13.7     2.0
Republika Sirpska                         53.1    -35 7      -04       9 8
a. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
b. Includes use of IMF resources.
Source: Otlicial data and staffestimates.



