Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24492
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(TF-23283; IDA-32620)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 37.6 MILLION (USD 50,000,000 EQUIVALENT)
TO
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
FOR AN
ENTERPRISE & BANKING PRIVATIZATION ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
03/27/2003
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2002)
Currency Unit = Konvertible Marka (KM)
1 KM = US$ $0.5075
US$ I = KM 1.9706096
Government
FISCAL YEAR
January 1   December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BAC            Business Environment Adjustment Credit
BPU            Bank Privatization Unit
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CPA            Cantonal Privatization Agency
EBPAC          Enterprise and Bank Privatization Adjustment Credit
EBRD           European Banlc for Reconstruction and Development
Entities       Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Republika Srpska
EU             European Union
FBA            Federation Banking Agency
Federation     Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina
FIB            Federation Investment Bank
FPA            Federation Privatization Agency
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
GTZ            Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
(German Technical Assistance Agency)
IDA            International Development Association
IFI            Intemational Financial Institution
IGA            Investment Guarantee Agency
IMF            International Monetary Fund
KfW            Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
(German Development Bank)
KM             Bosnian Convertible Mark
MFTER                 Ministry for Foreign Trade and Economic Relations
MOF            Ministry of Finance (of each Bosnian Entity)
OHR            Office of the High Representative
PFSAC          Public Finance Structural Adjustment Credit
PHRD           Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
PIC            Peace Implementation Council
PIF            Private Investment Funds
PTAC           Privatization Technical Assistance Credit
RS             Republika Srpska
SBA            Stand-by Arrangement
SIDA           Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency
USAID          United States Agency for International Development
Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:   Christiaan J. Poortman
Sector Director:   Paul Siegelbaum
Task Team Leader     Vicki Krecic Peterson



BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA
ENTER & BANKING PRIV
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2 Principal Performance Ratings                                                     1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             8
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                             13
6. Sustainability                                                                 14
7 Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   16
8. Lessons Learned                                                                18
9. Partner Comments                                                                19
10. Additional Information                                                        19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                              20
Annex 2 Project Costs and Financing                                               23
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                              25
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                              26
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components              27
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                 28
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                             29






Project ID: P048461                                      Project Name. ENTER & BANKING PRIV
Team Leader. Vicki Krecic Peterson                       TL Unit: ECSPF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date March 28, 2003
1. Project Data
Name   ENTER & BANKING PRIV                         L/C/TFNumber. TF-23283; IDA-32620
Country/Departrnent: BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA                             Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector Banking (55%), General industry and trade sector
(36%), General energy sector (5%), Central
governnent administration (4%)
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD.   06/01/1997                             Effective. 09/03/1999         09/29/1999
Appraisal:  03/09/2019                               MTR:
Approval   06/24/1999                              Closing: 06/30/2000         05/31/2002
Borrower/Implementing Agency. BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA/MIN. OF FINANCE AND MIN. OF FINANCE
(RS)
Other Partners
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President       Johannes Linn                             Johannes Linn
Country Manager:     Simon Gray                                Christian Poortman
Sector Manager:      Khaled F. Sherif                          J. Hennie Van Greuning
Team Leader at ICR:  Martin Slough                             Saumya Mitra
ICR Primary Author.  Matthew Mitchell; Martin R.
Slough
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome S
Sustainability L
Institutional Development Impact. SU
Bank Performance - S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry. U                      S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
3.1.1 The overall development objective of the Enterprise and Bank Private Sector Adjustment Credit
(EBPAC) was to help initiate the privatization process for enterprises and banks in Bosnia and
Herzegovina. To meet this overall objective, the Credit was to help the Govemment implement the first
phase of a privatization program, which consisted of establishing the necessary legal and institutional
framework and privatizing selected enterprises and banks.
3.1.2  For the enterprise sector, the Credit was to support:
(i)    Completion of the institutional and legal framework for enterprises and the rapid initiation of
small-scale enterprise privatization; and
(ii)   Preparatory actions for the privatization of larger enterprises, holding companies and utilities.
3.1.3  For the banking sector, the Credit was to support:
(i)    Development of the design and implementation of a program for privatizing solvent,
publicly-owned commercial banks and liquidating insolvent ones, including the development of the legal
and regulatory framework as well as the building of institutional capacity; and
(ii)   Implementation of financial sector reforms to improve banking supervision, strengthen banking
laws; establish deposit insurance systems; and limit public intervention in credit markets.
Strategic Context
3.1.4  Dayton Peace Accords and Post-War Reconstruction. The project's objective responded to a
market-based economic strategy that had resulted from the establishment of a reconstruction program
following the Dayton Peace Agreement of November 1995. This agreement ended the four-year civil
conflict in Bosnia and Herzegovina (BiH) and defined an institutional framework for rebuilding the
country. Initially the post-Dayton development program's focus was on emergency reconstruction of the
country's basic infrastructure. Following this reconstruction, there was broad consensus that a
market-based economy and a vibrant private sector were necessary for lasting growth and preparation for
the participation of Bosnia and Herzegovina in Europe's economic and political institutions. The design of
EBPAC took place in the policy context of the Dayton Peace Agreement and the related decision to make
the shift to market orientation through a program of privatization and restructuring.
3.1.5 Governance Arrangements and Privatization. The project's design reflected the govemance
framework for Bosnia and Herzegovina that emerged from the Dayton Accords. The Accords defined
Bosnia and Herzegovina as a sovereign state with two multi-ethnic Entities - (i) the Federation of Bosnia
and Herzegovina (the Federation); and (ii) the Republika Srpska (the RS) - with an overall State
govemment responsible for intemational relations and other functions defined in the Accords. The State is
responsible for policies concerning economic development, central banking, currency administration, trade,
international financial relations, etc. In contrast, the Entity governments have responsibility for the
administration and implementation of all economic policies. Concerning privatization, the Constitution of
the State of Bosnia and Herzegovina does not deal explicitly with the ownership of private property. In the
former state of Yugoslavia, public property was not owned by the drectly state but by enterprises and
worker management councils. After considerable debate and discussion with international entities, it was
- 2 -



decided that the right to privatize would reside with each of the two Entities.
3.1.6 Legal Framework and Policy for Privatization. When the Bank appraised the project in 1998, the
legal basis for privatization, at the State level, was the Privatization Law (August 1998) that the High
Representative had promulgated. The High Representative took this action based on his authority under the
Dayton Peace Implementation Conference. The Parliarnent of the country had not formally adopted the law
yet. The law recognized the right of the two Entities to pnvatize their publicly-owned assets and dispose of
the resulting proceeds. In particular, the law required the Entities to ensure that privatization recognized
the rights of all citizens, includmng displaced persons and refugees. The passage of this law by the normal
parliamentary process was one of the conditions for the release of the First Tranche of the Credit.
3.1.7 Banking Sector Profile and Reform Strategy. At the time of project appraisal, there were 55 banks
operating in the Federation, of which 13 were majority-owned by the public sector. The publicly-owned
banks accounted for about 77 percent of total banking assets (about DM 5 billion). In the RS, there were
about 15 banks and 11 of these were majority-owned by public enterprises. There was a high concentration
of assets in the four largest banks, which alone accounted for two thirds of the total assets in the RS
banking system. However, despite a relatively large number of banks, lending services were inadequate to
support the recovery of the country's postwar economy. For example, lending practices were subject to
little or no financial analysis in assessing risk and the judicial structure was inadequate for enforcing
contracts.
3.1.8 The poor quality of lending had led to a massive erosion of assets in the banking sector. By the end
of the civil conflict in late 1995, banking operations had come to a virtual halt. Three years later, at project
appraisal, banks still were unable to perform significant lending services other than those financed by credit
lines from donors. To improve lending performance, the banking strategy of both Entities was: (a) to
strengthen banking supervision, including commercial banking laws; (b) to develop deposit insurance
schemes; (c) to liquidate insolvent banks; (d) to promote the entry of foreign banks; and (e) to secure
long-term funding for commercial banks. Another complementary objective was the institution of a
privately-owned, competitive payments and settlements system involving the creation of a clearing house.
3.1.9 Enterprise Sector Profile and Reform Strategy. In the Federation, a relatively small number of
large and medium-scale, publicly-owned enterprises dominated the economy. There were numerous
small-scale enterprises to privatize. Of the Entity's 26,000 registered enterprises, fewer than 9 percent
were under public ownership. The RS, in contrast, had a much higher share of companies under public
ownership - about 7,000 of the 11,000 registered enterprises, accounting for 80 percent of pre-war
enterprise output. When the Bank appraised the project, the major issues on the reform agenda were: (a)
clarification of property nghts; (b) strengthening of corporate govemance; (c) enforcement of commercial
contracts; (d) adherence to fair market practices; (e) introduction of capital market instruments; (f)
enforcement and simplification of taxes; and (g) improvements to accounting and auditing standards.
3.1.10 World Bank Group Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). The objective of the Bank's CAS
reflected the joint pnorities set by the Govemrnent of Bosnia and Herzegovina (BH) and the World Bank
Group. The CAS applicable at the time of project appraisal was discussed by the Bank's Board on August
28, 1997 and it was updated in August 1998. The CAS and its update emphasized strengthening
govemance; fostering private sector-led growth; building social sustainability; and completing
reconstruction.
Macroeconomic Framework for the Project
- 3 -



3.1.11 At the time of project appraisal, Bosnia and Herzegovina was emerging from about four years of a
devastating civil conflict. After the conflict, it had taken another four years and considerable extemal
assistance to rebuild destroyed infrastructure. The main challenge the country faced was how to restore the
economy and reach self-sustainability. EBPAC was an important part of an integrated Govermment
program to rebuild the economy of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The project was to mitiate the transition from
an economy under reconstruction, primarily with financing from donors, to a sustainable economy based on
the development of private business. Bosnia and Herzegovina's population was about 4 million. Despite
high rates of economic growth due to inflows of foreign aid for reconstruction, the GDP of US$ 2.7 billion
in 1996 was still only about 40 percent of what it had been in the prewar period. Unemployrnent had
declined from 80 percent immediately following the war to about 35 percent, but the rate was still
alarmingly high, even for a transition economy. Incomes were lower in the RS than in the Federation. The
RS had close economic integration with the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, which was in difficulty
because of the ongoing conflict there. In addition, intemational donor assistance to the RS had begun later
than the assistance effort for the Federation.
3.1.12 Bosnia and Herzegovina, prior to appraisal, had taken steps to build a supportive framework for
sustained economic development. First, the country had concluded a Standby Arrangement with the IM1F,
in 1998. This arrangement fixed the exchange rate and implemented measures to reduce the public deficit.
In addition, the Bank had approved a Public Finance Structural Adjustment Credit (PFSAC) in 1998 to
help the country implement key reformns in the public finance sector. The PFSAC performed very well, and
it was fully disbursed in only one year. The resulting reforms have been instrumental in improving the
consistency between State and Entity budgets. They have established a transparent, predictable funding
mechanism and the legal and institutional framework for debt management. Furthermore, they have helped
the Government to initiate the development of the Entities' tax and pension systems.
3.1.13 The macroeconomic projections in the project's appraisal report use 1996 as a base year for
analysis. At that time, GDP was about US$2.7 billion equivalent Much of the GDP consisted of
intemational donor assistance, mostly on a grant basis, which amounted to US$4.2 billion equivalent
during 1996-98. During this time, Bosnia and Herzegovina had successfully rescheduled a significant
amount of its debt with foreign creditors. The agreement with London Club creditors (private financial
institutions) provided for a 73 percent reduction in the net present value of the country's outstanding debt
to them, including arrears. The agreement with Paris Club creditors (official sources of financing)
provided for 67 percent reduction of the net present value of the country's debt to them.
3.1.14 The long-term macroeconomic vision was for Bosnia and Herzegovina to move gradually from a
reconstruction economy based mostly on foreign flows to sustainable economic development based on
market principles. EBPAC was to serve as a catalyst for meeting these goals by helping former state
enterprises and banks adjust to the new market framework, by restructuring and improving management
skills. As a result, the forecast at project appraisal was for official transfers to decline from US$2.3 billion
equivalent in 1996 to US$0.5 billion equivalent in 2005 and for annual foreign direct investment and other
private flows to increase from zero to US$ 300 million equivalent during the same period.
Clarity and Realism of Objectives
3.1.15 The project's objectives were clear and their achievement was realistic given the progress with
reform which the Government had made at project appraisal and its stated policies for the future. The
objectives responded to the country's privatization objectives and the need to develop both the enterprise
and financial sectors in parallel. The project's time frame for achieving the objectives was overly
optimistic. However, there are several reasons why the project, as designed, was likely to achieve its
-4 -



objective of initiating private sector development in both the banking and enterprise sectors. First, the
Government already had taken some important steps to create a conducive environment for private sector
development and public/private partnership. In the banking sector, the Entities had created new
commercial bank laws. These laws had defined the authority of the Entities' banking supervision agencies
and general operational requirements for banks, including prudential standards, insolvency definitions,
liquidation procedures, etc. In the enterprise sector, both the Federation and the RS had passed laws: (a)
to secure the rights of shareholders; (b) to standardize the reporting activities of enterprises; (c) to provide
for improved enterprise registration; and (d) to streamline the regulation of business activity. A new
bankruptcy law was in place. In addition, the State had passed a law on foreign investment and the Entities
had passed a comprehensive set of capital market laws.
Evaluation of Benefits and Risks
3.1.16 The project was to have three main benefits. First, the project was to expedite the privatization
process, which in tum would help build the market economy to sustain development and reduce dependence
on foreign aid flows. Second, the project was to contribute to the resolution of pre-war debt and
war-related citizen claims. The method of restitution was different in each of the Entities. The Federation
was to issue claims in exchange for liabilities to citizens, such as frozen foreign currency deposits in
Federation banks; unpaid wages of soldiers, and unpaid pensions. Furthermore, all adult citizens were to
have a general claim based on the number of years of employment. In the RS, all adult citizens were to
receive a general voucher for a uniform amount, with veterans and soldiers entitled to an additional voucher
for a uniform amount. In addition, the RS was to issue coupons to compensate citizens for frozen foreign
currency deposits. These "cash coupons" were to be eligible for use in "cash sale" privatization. Third, by
pursuing essential reforms in the financial sector, the operation was to help restore confidence in the
banking system and in the economy. Fourth, by supporting the development of a suitable framework for
private business activity, the operation was to contribute to attracting additional domestic and foreign
investment, which was to create employment and eventually assist in reducmg poverty.
3.1.17 The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) recognized that the project faced legal, political, and
implementation risks. The potential legal risk concemed the promulgation of the State Privatization Law.
This law, as noted earlier, had resulted from the High Representative's exercise of his powers under Annex
X of the Dayton Peace Agreement as well as the Bonn Peace Implementation Council. It was possible that
the authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina could consider the exercise of this power as an extemal
imposition and challenge it. Indeed, by project appraisal there already was a challenge against the ongoing
privatization process in the Constitutional Court. However, the PAD for the EBPAC noted that the
Government's Letter of Development Policy mitigated this risk by stating that the Parliament of Bosnia and
Herzegovina would enact the Privatization Law under normal procedures in 1999.
3.1.18 The project required some major changes that were possibly politically sensitive, such as
the liquidation of banks and the sales of former state companies to foreigners. Thus the PAD
evaluated the main political risks as the possible unwillingness or inability of authorities to
implement agreed policies. There was also the possibility that authorities would reverse some
reform measures. Moreover, at the time of project appraisal, cooperation between the national
peoples in the Federation had not been fully satisfactory and had caused delays in
decision-making. To mitigate such risks, the Bank had been conducting an intensive dialogue
with donor partners and had mobilized the assistance of the High Representative. Other
multinational and bilateral agencies undertook to promote the reform agenda jointly. Notably the
Netherlands Government provided valuable support by agreeing to co-finance the First Tranche of
- 5-



EBPAC on a grant basis in the substantial amount of USD 15 million, of which USD 10.5 million
for the FBiH and USD 4.5 million for the RS. In addition the Netherlands Government financed
some of the initial technical assistance required to prepare the project. Finally, there was strong
support for privatization from the general public and steady progress in the cooperation among
the different ethnic groups in State institutions, as well as greater inter-Entity cooperation.
3.2 Revised Objective.
3.2.1 There were no revisions of the project objectives.
3.3 Original Components
3.3.1 The project's original components were to support the first phase of the Government's multi-year
privatization program. The design of the project provided for the release of funds based on the
implementation of a policy program to permit rapid, efficient privatization. The PAD outlines the main
elements the operation was to support, as follows:
(a)    Development of the institutional capacity and implementation of the program for restructuring and
privatization of state-owned commercial banks;
(b)    Financial sector reforms to improve bank supervision; strengthen banking laws; establish deposit
insurance systems; and limit public intervention in credit markets; and
(c)    Completion of the institutional and legal framework for enterprise privatization, rapid initiation of
small enterprise privatization and preparation for the privatization of larger enterprises, holding companies
and utilities.
3.3.2 The State Ministry for Foreign Trade and Economic Relations (I\TER) was to be responsible for
overall administration of the Credit on behalf of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Borrower. The disbursement
of the Credit was to take place in two tranches for the credit of the deposit account of the State at the
Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina The first tranche of US$25 million equivalent was to consist of
a Federation share of US$15 million equivalent (60%) and a Republika Srpska share of US$10 million
equivalent (40%). Each Entity was to be eligible to receive its share of the First Tranche by satisfying the
conditions for Credit Effectiveness and also those of the First Tranche release. These conditions included
actions to establish the legal and institutional framework for privatization along with some initial
privatization actions. The Entities' respective percentage shares of the Second Tranche were to be identical
to those of the First Tranche. Each of the Entities was to obtain its share of the Second Tranche upon
review by the Bank of: (a) the satisfactory implementation of the adjustment program as a whole; and (b)
the fulfillment of the specific Second Tranche conditions set forth in the Credit Agreement. These
conditions primarily concerned meeting specific privatization targets for both state enterprises and banks,
as well continued reform actions. Section 4 reviews the individual conditions and their achievement by
Entity and sub-sector.
3.4 Revised Components:
3.4.1 There was no formal revision of components. However, the Bank agreed to waive one of the
conditions for the First Tranche release to the Federation pending a further solvency test for one of the
largest state banks, which had been scheduled for liquidation at the time of appraisal. In addition, the Bank
refined the privatization conditions of the Second Tranche release to improve project monitoring in line
with the recommendations of the Bank's Quality Assurance Group (QAG).
- 6 -



3.4.2 Waiver of a First Tranche Release Condition. In February 2002, the Bank waived the condition of
the First Tranche release to the Federation concerning the liquidation of the Pnvredna Banka Sarajevo
(PBS), the largest state bank in the Federation. Evaluation work in the banking sector, at the time of
project appraisal had indicated that PBS was insolvent, indeed the FBiH Banking Agency issued a report
stating that the PBS group was insolvent by a wide margin. However, during project implementation, there
was a further investigation of the bank's solvency. PBS and six other Federation banks were once part of
the pre-1989 PBS bankng group. A court had determined that the banks in this group were both jointly
and severally liable to external creditors for DM 258 million of called but unpaid guarantees. Under the
several liability condition, each of the banks was responsible for all of the foreign guarantees of the entire
banking group. On that basis, each of the banks individually would be insolvent. To mitigate this
problem, the Government agreed to an action program that would attempt to reduce the liability of the
individual banks, render them solvent, and proceed with privatization. The Bank modified the conditions for
the release of the Second Tranche to include implementation of this action program, which involved
negotiation with the PBS group's creditors to seek their agreement to accept only partial payment of their
claims by the PBS banks still operating.
3.4.3 Further Specification of Second Tranche Release Conditions. The waiver of the First Tranche
condition concerning PBS led to refinement of the conditions for the Second Tranche release. In the event
that PBS turned out to be solvent, the Bank was to modify the conditions to require the signing of a Letter
of Commitment by a private investor. This letter was to specify concluding steps for final divestiture of the
banking group. The condition also required a significant non-refundable down payment of the purchase
price. In case of insolvency and liquidation of the PBS bank, the Bank was to release the Second Tranche
only after verification that the Government of the Federation had revoked the banking license of PBS.
Furthermore, the Government had to assure the World Bank that PBS was no longer conducting any bank
business. As it turned out, a Bank evaluation under the EBPAC project found PBS to be solvent and the
Government took the required actions leading to the bank's privatization.
3.4.4 For enterprise privatization in the Federation, the Bank initially had set the condition that the
Government complete the privatization of 500 small-scale enterpnses. However, the Bank had set this
condition prior to the Government's inventory of small-scale enterprises that were profitable enough to be
sold as "going concerns." Therefore, during project implementation, the Bank and Borrower, in
consultation with the Bank's Legal Department, further specified the requirement as the privatization of
150 small-scale enterprises as "going concerns" and 350 units as "business premises."
3.4.5 The Bank also modified tranche release conditions for the establishment of the legal and institutional
framework for the electric power and telecommunications sectors. The Bank and the Borrower agreed that
the submission of a satisfactory draft electricity law to parliament would satisfy the condition for the
electric power sector. For the telecommunications sector, the Bank clarified the substance of the condition
as the passage of a State-level Telecommunications Law that would provide for: (a) establishment of an
independent, Entity-level regulator; (b) liberalization of fixed domestic telephony by 2001 and open access
and interconnection to the existing telecommunications network; (c) cost-based tariff rebalancing of all
services; (d) separation of telecommunications and postal services; and (e) a commitment to privatize the
Federation telecommunications operator with the help of a strategic partner.
3.5 Quality at Entry.
3.5.1 A Quality Assurance Group (QAG) assessment rated the overall Quality at Entry (QAE) of this
operation as marginal. While the assessment acknowledged that the project's objectives were strongly
linked to the CAS, it questioned the operation's readmess for implementation due to several weaknesses in
- 7 -



project design. First, it stated that the project did not adequately incorporate regional lessons from bank
mergers and, in particular, the potential shortcomings of voucher privatization. In this regard it is
noteworthy that the client insisted on pursuing the route of voucher privatization despite the difficulties
experienced elsewhere in the region with this method. Second, the QAG assessment found that the project
lacked clarity of outcome and that the risk assessment underestimated the political challenges of some
conditions. Third, the assessment found the conditions difficult to monitor and considered that the reform
program was likely to take three to four years instead of one year as planned. In retrospect, a
programmatic approach might have been preferable.
3.5.2 The ICR finds the quality at entry to be marginally satisfactory. The project had a considerable
amount of preparatory work for establishing the legal and institutional framework for privatization.
However, it could have benefited from more preparatory work to review different models for privatization
in more detail, to develop a consensus on privatization methodology and to establish plans for the
enterprises and banks to be privatized under the project. This additional preparation could have resulted in
greater clarity in terms of the outcome and risk assessment. The ICR, with hindsight, agrees with the QAG
assessment that the implementation time period of one year was unrealistic, given that: (a) it was the first
privatization project in the country; (b) there were two government Entities and two sectors involved; (c)
tranche release conditions covered both policy and privatization actions; and (d) even with government
commitment to the general principles of privatization, there was bound to be some resistance to certain
actions such as liquidation of government-owned enterprises and banks. At the same time there is some
indication in the files that the Bank realized this but may have specified a shorter timeline as part of an
incentive strategy to make sure privatization did not extend beyond the Govemment's original timeline of
about 28 months. In addition, the Bank had a precedent to cite. The previous adjustment operation in the
finance sector had disbursed in about one year.
3.5.3 While agreeing with the QAG assessment of some of the shortcomings in design, the ICR assessment,
with hindsight, finds that the QAG, in evaluating quality at entry, perhaps under-estimated the substantial
commitment of the Government to the project. This commitment was evident in the Letter of Development
Policy and related actions, and the willingness of the authorities to receive technical assistance to support
EBPAC. The design also took account of lessons learned under the Transition Assistance Credit
concerning tranche release conditions.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
4.1.1 The overall outcome of the project was satisfactory. It substantially achieved its development
objective by strengthening the institutional and legal framework for privatization. It also exceeded the
privatization targets for enterprises and banks, although the implementation period was longer than
expected. In addition, throughout the project's implementation period, the IMF found the country's
macroeconomic situation to be satisfactory. The project's achievements are likely to be sustainable for
four reasons. First, the project has established a substantial institutional framework as discussed in Section
4 below. Second, the Government has maintained its commitment to the reform program in the Letter of
Development Policy of February 1999. Third, two follow-up operations are building on the foundation
EBPAC has constructed. They are supporting changes in the business enviromnent to enhance enterprise
development and continuing the privatization of large and strategic industries. Fourth, the banking system
underwent substantial reform and consolidation as a result of the project. The privatization of the banking
sector and the entry of foreign banks as shareholders in several previously state-owned banks has enhanced
the banking sector as a source of finance to the real sectors of the economy. Banking supervision in both
- 8 -



Entities has improved and a State-level Deposit Insurance Agency was created in 2002 as a successor to
the two Entity-level Deposit Insurance Agencies, of which only the FBiH Agency becarne operational.
4.2 Outputs by components
At the Level of the State of Bosnia and Herzegovina
4.2.1 The main outputs at the State level were to be: the passage of a Privatization Law and progress in
key areas of reform noted in the Letter of Development Policy and satisfactory macroeconomic
performance. The Parliament has adopted the Privatization Law, which formalized one of the key elements
of the post-war process of peacemaking and economic development process. The State is receiving
assistance from an international advisory group on tax reform, which is coordinating donor efforts to help
the Government rationalize and harmonize the tax systems in the two Entities. The IMF and the Bank's
Public Finance Structural Adjustment Credit II are supporting structural reforms. There has been
significant progress in removing barriers to the movement of goods and people within the country. The
Government has introduced a common, country-wide customs tariff regime and trade policy. Both Entities
have received bilateral assistance in drafting harmonized Laws on Land Registry. This assistance is
focusing on creating new land registry books as a prerequisite to an automated registry system.
Furthermore, both entities have made significant progress in harmonizing tax policies, establishing
intra-Entity revenue mechanisms and combating corruption.
4.2.2 On the macroeconomic front, the IMF has assessed progress as satisfactory. Fiscal discipline and
operations of the currency board have curbed inflation. Bosnia and Herzegovina now has one of the
region's most open trade regimes. The country recently completed its first economic strategy --- Economic
Development Strategy: A Global Framework for Bosnia and Herzegovina. While economic stabilization
has been satisfactory, and direct foreign investment has been growmg, the growth of output continues to
depend substantially on foreign aid flows. The latest CAS Progress report dated October 15, 2002
recognizes that the country has made progress to develop a market economy but states that this process has
been slower than expected. The acceleration of privatization - initially through EBPAC followed by
sector adjustment credits and technical assistance projects such as the Privatization Technical Assistance
Credit (PTAC) -- is a key element in meeting the objective.
At the Entity Level: The Federation
4.2.3 Enterprise Sector Reform. The conditions for the release of the First Tranche focused on initiating
the process of privatization by establishing the legal and institutional framework. It also included some
specific actions such as auctions and issuance of tenders. The Federation met these conditions by amending
its Enterprise Privatization Law to ensure consistency with the non-discrimination principal of the State
Privatization Law. Second, the Federation adopted the Law on Management Companies and privatization
investment funds. This law allows citizens to invest claims/vouchers in enterprises through funds as well
as individuals. The Federation Government has decentralized its privatization operations; fully staffed its
10 cantonal privatization agencies; and initiated privatization by auctions and issuance of tenders.
4.2.4 For small-scale enterprises, the Bank and the Borrower, during project implementation, further
defined the appraisal target of 500 such enterprises as - 150 small enterprises as "going concerns" and
350 units as business premises. The Federation exceeded these targets. By the end of 2001, the Federation
had privatized 199 small-scale enterprises as going concerns and nearly 2000 assets of small enterprises
including some 700 business premises. The Federation also met its target of initiating public offerings for
at least 100 large-scale companies. Moreover, in April of 2002, the Sarajevo Stock Exchange opened,
-9-



which will facilitate the trading of shares.
4.2.5 In addition to the privatization of small and large-scale enterprises, the Federation was to issue a
prospectus for the sale of at least one company. The Government met this condition by issuing a public
tender, in March of 2000, for the sale of Unioninvest Holding. This tender covered the share capital in the
holding company as well as its 16 subsidiaries.
4.2.6 Concerning the legal and regulatory framework, the Federation has met the conditions for the electric
power and telecommunications industries. In November of 2000, the Federation Government adopted a
revised electricity law satisfactory to the World Bank. As for telecommunications, instead of establishing
Entity-level laws and regulations, the Council of Ministers adopted a State-level Telecommunications
Sector policy satisfactory to the Bank. The policy has established the foundation for liberalization and
privatization of the telecommunications sector State-wide including GSM voice telephony and new
technologies.
4.2.7 In March 2001, the Office of the High Representative combined the authorities of the State
Telecommunications Regulatory Agency and the Independent Media Commission by establishing a single
Communications Regulatory Agency and appointing a Chief Executive. The creation of this independent,
state-level agency marks an important step toward market-oriented communications in Bosnia and
Herzegovina. The Government has also revised its Telecommunications Sector Policy to accommodate
these changes and to clarify the policy on liberalization of cellular mobile radio services. In January 2002,
the Government separated telecommunications and postal services, a prerequisite to privatization of the
telecommunications sector. The Bank's Privatization Technical Assistance Credit (PTAC) will assist in this
privatization.
4.2.8 Banking Sector Reform. The Government met all the policy conditions for the First Tranche release
---establishing a Bank Privatization Unit (BPU) with full staffing; submitting a Law on Deposit Insurance
(satisfactory to the World Bank) to the Parliarnent; and refraining from establishing any new credit lines or
extending existing ones with budget resources. In addition to policy actions, the release of the First
Tranche required the liquidation of PBS. However, a new solvency test by independent auditors resulted in
the declaration of the bank as solvent. Consequently, the Bank waived the condition and modified the
Second Tranche condition to ensure the sale or liquidation of the bank if the bank could not be privatized.
4.2.9 The conditions for the Second Tranche release were, on the policy side: (a) continued adherence to
the policy of not using budget resources for new credit lines or the establishment of new state banks; and
(b) enactment of the Law on Deposit Insurance; and (c) establishment and operation of the Deposit
Insurance Agency. Federation authorities demonstrated commitment not to establish any new banks or
extend credit lines using budget resources. On the contrary, the Government successfully sold minority
shares in private banks and by project closing had sold or was in the final stages of negotiating the sale of
six majority state-owned banks.
4.2.10 The enactment at year-end 1998 of a Federation Law on Deposit Insurance, acceptable to the Bank,
satisfied one of the First Tranche conditions for EBPAC, and the corresponding Second Tranche condition
was satisfied by the establishment of the Federation Deposit Insurance Agency in 1999 with reserve capital
of KM 20 million and the appointment of its key staff. However, subsequently, in June 2001, international
experts advised the government that separate deposit insurance agencies in such a small banking sector
would not be able to disperse the risk sufficiently and would have difficulty becoming financially
sustainable. Therefore, the advisors recommended the merger of the two Entity-level agencies into one
State-level agency. In line with this decision, an inter-Entity working group drafted a State Law on Deposit
- 10 -



Insurance, satisfactory to the Bank. The Government submitted this draft State Law to the Parliament in
July 2002 and it was approved in August 2002. The two Entity-level Deposit Insurance Laws were
repealed by a Decision of the High Representative in October 2002, owing to delays by the two Entity
Parliaments in repealing the laws. The new State-level Deposit Insurance scheme has therefore been
operational as from October 2002.
4.2.11 In addition to policy actions, the conditions for the release of the Second Tranche included the
privatization or liquidation of three major state banks-PBS Bank; Union Bank, Central Profit Bank; and
the Federation Investment Bank. The Bank and the Federation Government, during project implementation,
determined that the PBS bank was solvent based on the agreements with foreign creditors that reduced the
liability of individual banks. In accordance with the revised condition for Second Tranche release, the
Federation Govenmment completed the related action program by signing all the necessary documents to sell
the PBS bank to a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) in December 2001.
4.2.12 The Intemational Finance Corporation (IFC), the Govermment and a private investment group based
in Austria, all took approximately equal shares in SPV. The IFC and their co-investors paid in their
capital. IFC provided a subordinated loan totaling KM 23 million to the SPV to pay substantially reduced
foreign commercial guarantees (around 14% of the 1992 principal amount without interest - equivalent to
around 5% on a Net Present Value basis). According to the last project status report, the manager of the
SPV was to restructure and sell PBS and two other banks (Central Profit Banka and Travnicka Banka)
owned by the SPV, using the sales proceeds to repay the IFC loan and distribute any surplus among SPV's
shareholders. In 2002 Travnicka Banka was absorbed by Central Profit Banka, and as of mnid-March 2003
an Information Memorandum about Central Profit Banka had been distributed to interested investors of
which two were expressing serious interest. A similar process was underway for PBS with the expectation
that a transaction could be finalized in the second half of calendar 2003.
4.2.13 In February 2001, the Federation issued a prospectus for the sale of Union Bank. This initial
tendering did not result in a buyer. After another unsuccessful tender in July 2001, the Government issued
public invitations for direct negotiations. At the time of the project's closing, the Government's Banking
Privatization Unit was in the final stages of privatizing this bank. For the Central Profit Bank, the original
condition for the release of the Second Tranche was the sale or liquidation of this bank. Because of the
revised tranche release conditions for PBS Bank, the SPV purchased the bank, which was one of the six
affiliate banks in the PBS banking group.
4.2.14 For the Federation Investment Bank, the Government approved a privatization plan and announced a
public tender. Several bidders expressed interest. To facilitate the bank's sale, the Government converted
part of the bank's equity into subordinated debt and held detailed negotiations with a US-based private
investor. However, despite the Govemment's intensive efforts to sell the bank, the investor withdrew. The
Government was not able to find another suitable foreign investor.
4.2.15 The FIB manages a substantial portfolio of credits to small and medium-scale industries and other
enterprises that are receiving donor funding. To allow continued management of these funds while ensuring
that the FIB ceases all banking activities, the Government agreed -- in a letter to the Bank dated March
2002 - to transform FIB into the Federal Foreign Donor Funding Management Agency (FDFMA),
essentially a development agency. The transformation of FIB into FDFMA required that the Government
agree to provide no budgetary transfers for the new institution from the Federation's general domestic
revenues. In addition, the successor institution is to operate under a strict mandate set forth in specific
legislation satisfactory to the Bank, including revoking the banking license of FIB and its exclusion from
- 11 -



the payments system. The transformation of FIB into FDFMA was to have been finalized during the
mandate of the outgoing Govemment but it remained pending to be dealt with by the new government,
which will be required to submit to Parliament in 2003 the legislation converting FIB into the successor
agency. As of mid-March 2003 these discussions with the new FBiH Govemment were close to being
finalized.
At the Entity Level: The RS
4.2.16 Overall Privatization Framework. As specified in conditions for the release of the First Tranche,
the Republika Srpska enacted a law on Opening Balance Sheet, satisfactory to the Bank, to provide a
secure basis for the rapid privatization of both enterprises and banks.
4.2.17 Enterprise Sector Reform. The main condition for the release of the First Tranche was the
adoption, by the Entity's Parliament, of Laws on Private Enterprise Privatization satisfactory to the Bank.
These laws, which the Republika Srpska has adopted, are important for ensuring transparency of the
privatization process and equitable treatment of residents.
4.2.18 The conditions for the Second Tranche Release focused on specific privatization targets for both
small and large enterprises. Under EBPAC, the Government was to complete the privatization of at least
thirty percent of small-scale enterprises. The Government exceeded this target, completing the privatization
of 115 out of 283 private enterprises or about 41 percent of the total. For large-scale enterprises in the
Republika Srpska, EBPAC was to prepare and execute international tenders for at least three enterprises.
The project substantially exceeded this target by preparing and executing tenders for 21 large-scale
enterprises. The conditions the tranche release further specified that the Government was to issued a
prospectus for the sale of at least one of its holding companies. The Govermment fulfilled this condition by
issuing tenders for the divestiture of the Jelsingrad Company, in September 2001, covering three of the
company's four subsidiaries.
4.2.19 Banking Sector Reform. The conditions for the release of the First Tranche focused on
establishing the legal and institutional framework for banking sector privatization. In accordance with
these conditions, the Government adopted a Law on Privatization and established a fully functioning Bank
Privatization Unit. The Government also demonstrated its commitment not to establish any credit lines to
new banks or nor to extend new credit to existing banks with resources from the Government budget.
4.2.20 For the release of the Second Tranche, the conditions consisted of: (a) establishing the legal and
institutional framework for deposit insurance; (b) maintaining its commitment not to fund any new credit
lines from the Government's budget; and (c) evaluating the solvency of state-owned banks and either selling
them to private investors or liquidating them. In March 2001, the RS adopted a Law on Deposit Insurance,
in line with the one adopted by the Federation. The RS Government also established a related Deposit
Insurance Agency. However, as stated already in the case of the Federation, intemational experts
determined that the banking sector of the State of Bosnia and Herzegovina was too small for separate
deposit insurance agencies in each entity to be financially viable. As a result, the Government and the
Bank agreed to the establishment of a single State-level Deposit Insurance Agency. The new Agency
became fully operational in the last calendar quarter of 2002 following BH Parliamentary approval of the
State-level Deposit Insurance Law in August 2002 and repeal of the previous Entity-level Laws by a
Decision of the High Representative in October 2002..
4.2.21 The Government has continued to demonstrate its commitment not to increase the capital of any new
or existing bank with resources from the Government's budget. It has successfully sold four majority
- 12 -



state-owned banks and the Banking Agency has taken control of three majonty state-owned banks.
4.2.22 The Banking Agency of the RS established the solvency of all state-owned banks based on audited
financial statements for fiscal year 2000. However, the auditors of three banks raised "substantial doubt"
about whether the banks were capable of operating as going concems. The auditors based their evaluation
on additional risk exposures and liquidity problems in 2001. However, since this assessment, the RS
Government has successfully privatized two of these banks - Banjalucka and Kristal - and has revoked
the license of the third bank, Postanska Stedionica. Furtherrnore, the Banking Agency has taken control of
two more majority state-owned banks - Gradiska, which is under provisional administration and
Prijedorska, which is in liquidation. These two banks were technically solvent according to fiscal year 2000
financial statements. However, they were unable to find buyers or meet the Government's new KM 10
million minimum capital requirement, which went into effect on November 1, 2001.
4.2.23 The Government also met the condition of issuing a sales prospectus for the three state-owned banks
in which it had the largest investment. - Kristal, Banjalucka, and Razvojna Banks. With the assistance of
international experts, the Government's Bank Privatization Unit issued invitations for international public
tenders for all three banks. As noted above, Banjalucka and Kristal Banks were sold to private investors.
Razvojna Bank initially had difficulty finding a qualified buyer, but eventually the RS Government sold a
majority share in Razvojna Banka to the Bank of South East Europe (BSEE), a bank owned by investors
based in Belgrade. Furthermore, the Government has privatized three other state-owned banks - Agroprom,
Privredna-Srpska Sarajevo, and Semberskahave.
Institutional Development
4.2.24 The project contributed substantially to institutional development m Bosnia and Herzegovina. The
project helped establish privatization agencies in both the Federation and the RS. In the enterprise sector
these agencies, on a country-wide basis, have taken the lead in the privatization of nearly 300 small-scale
enterprises and have initiated the privatization of more than 100 large-scale enterprises. In the bankmg
sector, the project's policy conditions led to the establishment of a State-level Deposit Insurance Agency to
provide deposit insurance for banks that meet the qualifying standards, and the strengthening of banking
supoervision in the two Banking Agencies. The new Deposit Insurance Agency is operating with bilateral
support and is expected to increase public confidence in the banking system. The project also contributed
to the privatization of about 90 percent of the banking system's assets. The project's policy conditions also
led to the creation of the Communications Regulatory Agency, combining the authorities of the former
State Communications Regulatory Agency and the Independent Media Commission. The establishment of
this independent regulatory agency for telecommunications is an important prerequisite for establishing a
fair competitive framework for a market-oriented telecommunications industry.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
4.3.1 An analysis of the economic rate of return and net present value is not applicable to this project,
since it was an adjustment operation.
4.4 Financial rate of return.
4.5 Institutional development impact
- 13-



5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5. 1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
5.1 The main factors outside Government control that have affected the project are the civil conflict that
ended in 1995 and the mid-1999 conflict in Kosovo. Because of these conflicts, Bosnia and Herzegovina
has been the last country in the Eastern European region to make the transition to a market economy. The
main impact of the conflict environment has been on foreign investment. Foreign investors, many of whom
had already made significant investments in other countries of Eastern Europe, have been slow to enter the
market in Bosnia and Herzegovina, partly because of the perceived uncertainty of political stability, but
also owing to shortcomings in the privatization program. However, guarantee mechanisms have helped to
reduce the perceived risk. Another external factor that may have had an impact on the project was a
drought in 2000, which affected agricultural production.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
5.2.1 Protracted decision-making by the two Entity Governments on privatization of the banking sector
resulted in a substantial delay in the release of the Credit's Second Tranche, which was about two years
late in disbursing. In the Federation, delayed action resulted from: (a) complex arrangements for
establishing the solvency of the PBS group of banks; and (b) lengthy discussions involved in the
transformation of the Federation Investment Bank (FIB) into the Federal Foreign Donor Funding
Management Agency (FDFMA). In the RS, delays resulted from the slow adoption of the Law on Deposit
Insurance and lack of prompt action in announcing international tender of one large-scale enterprise.
Delays in Government decision-making during 2000 were due in part to Government elections in that year
and some hesitancy about taking actions that might be controversial. Other difficulties include insufficient
transparency in the implementation of the privatization program for strategic enterprises, weak corporate
governance in enterprises, and the many obstacles to private business identified by the FIAS report that are
now being tackled with the support of the Business Environment Adjustment Credit (BAC).
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control.
5.3.1 The State Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations and the Entities' Ministries of Finance
along with the Banldng Privatization Units took the lead in implementing and administering EBPAC. They
received substantial in-country supervision support from the Bank and well-targeted and effective technical
assistance from several donor countries, including Germany, the Netherlands, and Sweden.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
5.4.1 The total cost of the project was US$65.0 million equivalent, of which the IDA Credit financed
US$50.0 million (SDR37.6 million). The Government also received US$15.0 million in budget support
from the Govemment of Netherlands. This support was linked to the release of the release of the First
Tranche of EBPAC.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainabdlity rating:
6.1. The sustainability of the project's objectives is likely. The policy and institutional measures under the
project have set up a viable framework for the continued privatization of both banks and enterprises.
Indeed, the privatization of the banks in both Entities is alnost complete. As of March 15, 2003, more
- 14 -



than 90% of aggregate shareholders' equity and banking assets in the Federation were in private hands. In
the RS, as of the same date, virtually 100% of banks' aggregate capital and assets were privately owned.
The consolidation of the banking sector is proceeding fast, driven by successively higher minimum capital
requirements, the entry of foreign banks and the introduction of the new State-level Deposit Insurance
Scheme in mid-2002 that sets high standards for accreditation which must be met by August 2003 for
banks to retain their banking licences. The country contiues to receive significant donor support from the
European Union and the governments of Germany and the United States. The Bank's CAS and the Interim
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP) continue to give high priority to accelerating privatization,
which is also a key recommendation of the new PRSP currently being prepared. The purpose of this
acceleration is to eventually replace donor aid with sustainable private investment, especially direct pnvate
foreign investment. The increased employment resulting from the development of profitable private
enterprises should have a significant impact on reducing the level of poverty. Although the high level of
reported unemployment (35%) may be overstated due to possible company incentives for under-reporting
the number of employees, it is nevertheless still likely to be quwte high due to the events of recent history. It
is with this high level of unemployment in mind that EBPAC uiitially focused on the privatization of
small-scale industries. They are often easier to privatize than the larger, more politically sensitive ones.
Also traditionally, in many countries, small-scale enterprises have been the source of considerable
employment growth. Moreover, the Bank is providing follow-up assistance to improve the business
framework with the assistance of the Business Environment Adjustment Credit (BAC) and to privatize
large-scale enterprises with the help of the Privatization Technical Assistance Credit (PTAC).
6 2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
6.2.1 According to the project's design, EBPAC was to be the first in a series of privatization projects.
These projects were to help the country meet its medium to long-term objective of increasing exports and
attracting foreign investment to offset expected decline in aid flows. For EBPAC, the transition to regular
operations will be for the privatization agencies of the Entities under the project to continue the next phases
of privatization with the support of follow-up IDA-financed projects and donor support.
6.2.2 The CAS report dated May 2000, which was updated in September 2001, and the new CAS progress
Report reviewed by the Board on November 12, 2002 -- have established a graduated assistance strategy to
help Bosnia and Herzegovina to formulate and implement a comprehensive reform program for sustainable
growth and lessened dependence on foreign aid. The CAS reports place a strong emphasis on private
sector-led growth. A full Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) is under preparation by the
Government with broad participation by stakeholders and this will involve a detailed poverty profile. The
Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP), submitted for information, by IDA, in December 2001
serves as a basis for the full PRSP now being prepared. The I-PRSP envisions the acceleration of
privatization; the strengthening of the financial sector; and continued efforts to establish an enabling
environment for domestic and foreign investment.
6.2.3 IDA is currently financing two adjustment credits to support the acceleration of private sector
development. The BAC, approved by IDA on May 30, 2002, is supporting improvements to the overall
investment climate and the firther development of a single economic space. The Credit will support a
reform program to facilitate business entry and exit as well as improve the overall business operating
environment. The BAC is improving business entry by streamlining and improving the transparency of
business registration and licensing combined with a strengthened legal framework and capacity for
attracting foreign investment. The project is also streamlining the environment for business operation by
reducing the administrative and compliance costs of companies. The cost reduction measures focus on: (a)
the rationalization of inspections and regulations and the strengthening of both judicial and extra-judicial
- 15 -



capacity for resolving commercial disputes; (b) improved enforcement of secured transactions; and (c)
creation of a level playing field for private sector participation in public procurement. The project is
facilitating business exit though improved bankruptcy and liquidation procedures. A key link joining all of
these aspects of the business environment is the need to strengthen the consultative capacity between the
public and private sectors to promote policies and legislation that are business-friendly. The consolidation
of the banking sector that is presently underway will complement these improvements in the business
environment.
6.2.4 In parallel to the BAC's enhancement of the business environment for privatization, the Bank is
continuing to support privatization through the Private Sector Technical Assistance Credit (PTAC).
EBPAC made significant progress in privatizing small scale enterprises and setting up the legal framework
for privatization. It also initiated the process of privatizing large-scale enterprises and holding companies
and the development of a regulatory framework for privatizing telecommunications and power utilities.
PTAC will continue this process by: (a) assisting in the tender sale of large, state-owned enterprises; (b)
helping prepare the legislative and regulatory framework for divesture of large monopoly companies that
provide public services; (c) making holding companies more "privatizable" by unbundling them and taking
other actions to make them more attractive to potential buyers; and (d) setting up a transparent and
regulated market for shareholders to assist in the conclusion of voucher-based privatization.
6.2.5 As the follow-up operation to EBPAC, the PTAC is continuing the process of privatizing large-scale
enterprises, which involves assistance from experienced "dealmakers" with a strategic outlook. In the
Federation, large-scale enterprises are defined as those with assets above KM500,000 or more than 50
employees. In the RS, they are defined as those with assets valued at more than KM300,000. There are
about 1,029 of these enterprises, valued at KM19.7 billion, slated for privatization in the Federation and
830 such enterprises valued at KM8.7 billion, in the RS. An Intemational Advisory Group on
Privatization (IAGP) is supporting the privatization of 1,38 large enterprises -86 in the Federation and 52
in the RS. The IAGP consists of the European Union, GTZ, USAID, and the World Bank. Of the
privatization handled by IAGP, PTAC will support the tender privatization of 19 large-scale enterprises in
the Federation and around 20 large-scale enterprises and industrial groups in the RS. These enterprises
account for 70 percent of the assets to be privatized with the assistance of the IAGP. The enterprises
selected for the project are those likely to have better than average quality assets and thus a reasonable
chance of attracting buyers. Furthermore, the project's design allows for and encourages the addition of
more enterprises into the tendering process and could result in a greater number of privatized enterprises.
6.2.6 In addition to support under the PTAC, some of the technical assistance intemational donors
provided during the implementation of EBPAC is likely to continue. During the project's implementation
period, there were several bilateral donor agencies assisting Bosnia and Herzegovina in providing technical
and financial support for key mechanisms in the private banking sector. USAID provided this support for
establishing banking supervision agencies in both Entities. The establishment of these agencies, which was
integral to EBPAC reforms, has been effective in aligning prudential regulations with Basle principles. The
agencies conduct bank examinations regularly and place banks with financial difficulties under control of
the banking agencies for problem resolution or liquidation. Technical assistance to these agencies with
donor funding will continue in the medium term to deal with changing expertise required by the evolving
sophistication of the banking industry. Also, at the request of the Govemment of Bosnia and Herzegovina
and the World Bank, the govemments of the United States and Germany have provided substantial
financial resources and technical support for the establishment of the State-level Deposit Insurance Agency
- KM20 million for reserve capital and KMI million for operating funds. The operation of a single,
State-level agency rather than two Entity-level agencies has several potential benefits for country of Bosnia
and Herzegovina, including cost savings from economies of scale; greater independence; and access to full
- 16 -



funding from foreign donor agencies.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The ICR finds the Bank performance in lending overall was satisfactory. The project's design, though its
quality at entry was rated marginal by the QAG, turned out to be satisfactory for meeting project
objectives. It responded to the priorities identified in the CAS and was consistent with the Bank's role as a
catalyst for building a sustainable economic framework following emergency rehabilitation efforts of the
donor community. The project's preparation benefited from a large international reconstruction program
and two key studies: (a) a Bank country study on prospects for recovery and sustainable growth; and (b) a
study on private sector development prospects. While the original time frame for project implementation,
with hindsight, was unrealistic, project files indicate that the establishment of a shorter time period was
necessary as an incentive given there was a sense of urgency about the need for action and concern about
the possible loss of momentum. The Regional Operations Committee documents indicate that there was a
considerable amount of thought about project design, particularly the simplification of conditionality. The
main shortcoming was in the strategy for bank privatization. While the project's appraisal report
recogmzed the difficulties in finding strategic investors, there was not sufficient attention to privatization
altematives and the project's analysis of risk did not sufficiently address this issue.
72 Supervision:
7.2.1 The Bank supervised the project in the country on a daily basis by basing the Task Team Leader in
Sarajevo. The Bank also improved the precision of key perfomnance indicators in response to the
assessment of the project's quality at entry. It extended the closing date several times in recognition of the
Govemment's demonstration of comnnitment to reforms outlined in its Letter of Development Policy and
satisfactory overall progress in the project. The Bank tended to make the extensions shorter than those
requested by the Govenmment to ensure that the Govemment would first take certain actions that the Bank
considered critical. For example, in June of 2000, the Government requested an extension for the second
tranche release from June 30, 2000 until June 30, 2001. However, the Bank agreed to an extension only
until October 31, 2000 with the possibility of further extension, identifying the most critical steps to be
taken by then, such as the solvency test of the PBS group of banks in the Federation, and the adoption of
the Deposit Insurance Law in the RS.
7.2.2 The project files suggest that the Bank tracked the project's implementation closely in the field and
was actively engaged in dialogue with the government entities. However, a shortcoming in supervision,
which took place in the field, was the lack of formal supervision documents on file. There were very few
Aide Memoires supporting the project status reports (PSRs). The PSRs reported adequately on progress
but they were not always consistent in the presentation of information. None of them had matrices of
actions attached to them. However, the credit extension documents and all the tranche release documents
did provide an updated matrix of actions. The ICR has rated overall supervision as satisfactory based on:
(a) the effective results of daily supervision in the field; (b) the Bank's balance of flexibility and firnness in
working with the Borrower; and the satisfactory project outcome.
73 Overall Bank performance:
7.3.1 The overall performance of the Bank was satisfactory because of the substantial preparatory work for
the project and satisfactory daily supervision of the project in the field, despite some shortcomings in
- 17 -



formal reporting.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
7.4.1 The Borrower was the Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina and its performance in project
preparation was satisfactory. The Government's 12-page Letter of Development Policy, which served as
the foundation for the project, was comprehensive and well organized. It described the commitment of the
Government to the macroeconomic program, which was receiving support from IDA adjustment credits and
a standby arrangement with the International Monetary Fund (IMF). The Letter described a phased
program of privatization and discussed the risks.
7.4.2 Prior to the project's appraisal, the Entity Governments had made significant achievements in
establishing a supportive legal and institutional framework at the state level and at the Entity level. At the
State level, the following reforms had taken place: (a) the introduction of a common currency; (b) passage
of a State Law on foreign investment; and (c) introduction of uniform trade and customs policies across the
entities. In the enterprise sector, both the Federation and the RS had passed laws to support commercial
business activity. These included laws on the rights of shareholders, improved registration of businesses,
and streamlined regulation of business activity. Both of the Entities also had passed several laws for
capital markets development, which were important for the trade of privatization claims in the Federation
and vouchers in the RS. In the banking sector, both Entities had prepared commercial banking laws and
had established banking supervision agencies. Overall the SAR noted that progress in setting up suitable
mechanisms for promoting private mnarkets in Bosnia and Herzegovina had outpaced developments in other
countries with economies in transition.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
7.5.1 The Government's implementation performance was satisfactory, albeit the EBPAC program took
longer to implement than expected. At the State level, the Govemment of Bosnia and Herzegovina was
responsible for: (a) maintaining a stable macroeconomic framework; (b) executing the privatization
program outlined in its Letter of Development Policy; and (c) establishing the legal framework for
privatization. The State Government, throughout the project, remained committed to the main principles of
the Letter of Development Policy. During project implementation the IMF evaluated the macroeconomic
situation as satisfactory. The Government successfully concluded IMF Standby Agreements during the
project and in March of 2002. It also has signed a letter of intent for a new vIMF program.
7.5.2 By the end of the project the basic political and economic institutions for the functioning of a market
economy were in place - a central bank, State and Entity treasuries, and a national currency board
arrangemnent. Tight fiscal policy and a currency board were key factors in stabilizing the economy, which
had relatively low levels of inflation during the project's implementation period. The Government made
significant progress in liberalizing trade and in harmonizing the tax policies of the two Entities. The
governments of the Federation and the RS had established the necessary laws and institutions required
under the project. However there was a delay of 24 months in privatizing the industries and banks as
required under the project. Overall the privatization of certain industries and banks turned out to be more
complex than originally anticipated.
7.6 Implementing Agency.
7.6.1 At the State level, the implementation agency was the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic
- 18-



Relations (MFTER), which was responsible for the overall adminmstration of the Credit. At the Entity
level, the main implementing agency in the Federation was the Federation Privatization Agency, and in the
RS, the Directorate of Privatization. The performance of these agencies overall was satisfactory.
However, they required technical assistance during the implementation of EBPAC because they lacked the
expertise necessary for the more complex aspects of large-scale enterprise privatization and the
privatization of certain banks.
7 7 Overall Borrower perfonnance:
7.7.1 Overall Borrower performance was satisfactory considering the substantial actions taken toward
establishing the legal and institutional framework for privatization by project appraisal. In addition, the
Borrower met the conditions for the release of both tranches. While there were some specifications of
tranche release conditions as well as extensions of the closmg date, these allowed the Borrower to exceed
original privatization targets.
8. Lessons Learned
8.1 The project's key lessons learned of general applicability to Bank projects are the following:
*      Improving the Likelihood of a Satisfactory Project Outcome with a Marginal Project Design.
A complex adjustment project in terms of sector coverage and country conditions can be successful despite
a marginal quality at entry assessment if: (a) the Government commitment remains high and is
demonstrated through key policy actions; (b) supervision of the project is flexible in terms of
responsiveness to the Borrower's changing situation and intensive in terms of monitoring and adherence to
priority conditions; and (c) the project incorporates lessons learned from the QAG review during
implementation. The Bank rated the project's quality at entry as marginal, meaning that there was a high
risk of failing to achieve its development objectives. One of the main reasons for the marginal rating was
the short time frame. If the Bank had adhered to that time frame, it would not have been able to release the
Second Tranche of the project. With hindsight, the flexibility in extending the closing date allowed the
project to exceed its expected results in terms of the number of banks and enterprise privatized.
*      Setting Realistic Conditions for Tranche Release in Adjustment Operations with a Short
Implementation Schedule For initial adjustment credits in private sector development, it is best to set
conditions for the First Tranche release that do not involve major actions that are likely to be controversial
and delay the start of the project, especially one that is supposed to disburse within just one year.
However, the EBPAC included, as a condition for the release of the First Tranche to the Federation, the
closing of the largest insolvent bank as a first step toward liquidation. This condition concemed not only
one bank but also a major banking group. The determination of solvency became an issue because of the
complex liability provisions which required a considerable amount of evaluation work. There is likely to be
more resistance to closing and liquidation of a major bank, compared to its restructuring, and this factor
must be taken into account in project design.
*      Establishing a Viable Implementation Timeline for Privatization Adjustment Operations. To
increase the viability of meeting deadlines for privatization, it is advantageous to base implementation on
actual privatization plans completed during project preparation, for as many enterprises and banks as
feasible. In particular, it is prudent to look more carefully at some of the enterprises/banks that are likely
to present difficulties in privatization and require creative solutions. EBPAC prepared detailed timelines
based on opening balance sheets but the preparation of privatization plans did not take place until project
implementation. The lack of such planning contributed to the substantial implementation delay.
- 19 -



o      Realizing the Potential Impact of a Privatization Operation in Complex Country Condition&
Even in a complex country situation an adjustment operation can make a major contribution to market
development. While the project did not cornplete the privatization program in one year, as envisaged, the
privatization of 90 percent of the banking system's assets and about half of the country's small,
state-owned enterprises over a three-year period is a considerable achievement.
o      Recognizing the Advantages of Strategic Privatization and the Needfor Expert Privatization
Assistance Early in Project Preparation. Given the absence of detailed privatization plans during project
preparation, it was not until the project implementation phase that the Bank and the Borrower realized the
need for expert assistance in strategic privatization. While voucher privatization can provide a means of
comnpensating citizens entitled to state claims, it does not provide the strategic vision and expertise from
strategic investors that are needed to transform the fortunes of many enterprises to render them profitable.
In this context it might be helpful to seek expertise from other countries in the region that have successfully
privatized and restructured enterprises and banks in transition economies.
8.2 The project's key lessons for adjustment lending in Bosnia and Herzegovina are the following:
o      Recognizing the Advantages of Setting Tranche Conditions at the Entity LeveL Setting tranche
conditions at the entity level rather than at the overall State level was effective in that it allowed each Entity
not to be constrained by actions of the other in implementing its policy program and took account of
differences in the economies and the institutional and legal framework of the Entities. As it turned out, this
set-up allowed the Republika Srpska, which initially was less advanced in the establishment of its
privatization framework, to receive disbursements of both its tranches several months before disbursements
to the Federation.
o      RecognizingAdvantages of Organization at the State LeveL Given the small size of the country
and the early stage of market development in the entities there are some areas of privatization where
organization at the state level can have economies of scale. In the case of EBPAC, these areas turned out
to be the establishment of a deposit insurance agency and the regulatory framework for
telecomrnunications.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
BIH State Ministiry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations
Letter dated March 7, 2003 from Dr. Mila Gadzic, the 1B1H1 State Minister of Foreign Trade
and Economic Relations to the Country Director, ECCU4
I am pleased to send you attached our comments on the Implementation Completion Report for
the Enterprise and Banking Privatization Adjustment Credit. The Credit was supporting a very
important part of our economic reforms and its successful implementation has considerably
contributed to acceleration of privatization in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I expect we will continue
fruitful cooperation in the future.
Sincerely,
-20 -



Dr. Mila Gadzic
Minister
Detailed comments from the BH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations on the
Implementation Completion Report for the Enterprise and Banking Privatization
Adjustment Credit (EBPAC)
During the last three years, the Enterprise and Banking Privatization Adjustment Credit (EBPAC)
was one of the most important projects in the area of economic policies. In the process of overall
economic reforms that we are passing through, privatization was considered as a top priority.
Therefore, it was very irnportant for us to have the support of the World Bank in such
complicated process. Continual and close cooperation with the World Bank resulted in jointly
designed policies that were supported within this project.
The EBPAC Project comprised a large set of measures and policies, the successful
implementation of which resulted in the consolidation of the banking sector in the whole territory
of the Bosnia and Herzegovina, along with the creation of preconditions for the strengthening of
our economy based on a powerful private sector. Owing to the broad scope of reforms supported
by this project, we do consider that it was fully justified to implement this operation.
This project supported the creation of legal and institutional preconditions for the start up of the
privatization process in the whole territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Preparation of new laws
(State Privatization Law, State Law on Deposit Insurance, Amendments to the Law on
Privatization of Enterprises in the FBiH, Law on the Privatization of Enterprises in the RS, Law
on Privatization of Banks in the RS, Federal Law on Deposit Insurance, Law on Governance over
Enterprises and Privatization Investment Funds in the Federation of B&H) was one of the
necessary preconditions for the creation of a legal framework for privatization purposes. These
elements within the Project will stimulate local authorities to prepare and adopt legal solutions in
order to ensure a transparent privatization process, and at the same time, help to resolve the issue
of pre-war and war debts (receivables) in favor of the local population.
The consolidation of banking sector is a very important achievement, which emerged mostly from
the implementation of this Project. At the same time, the banking sector has strengthened and has
attracted serious foreign investments. Therefore, it represents a solid ground for the upcoming
development of our economy. This process has not required any additional fiscal allocations, due
to the strict implementation of conditions within the EBPAC project that prescribed refraining
from credit lines or increasing of capital in banks predominantly owned by the state. The pace of
the overall project was not sufficiently fast, but given the complexity of problems that were
inherited from the pre-war period and a very difficult post-war economic situation, the slower
pace experienced was not surprising. Despite a negative experience from the previous period,
some of the key reforms, such as the introduction of modem Banking Agencies and Deposit
Insurance Agencies etc., caused an increase in the trust of the local population in the country's
banking system. The close support of the World Bank, undertaken with the participation of other
agencies within the World Bank Group that played an active role (IFC), resulted in finding a
solution for PBS bank. All these efforts culmnated in a better chance for attraction of strategic
- 21 -



investor(s).
Accordingly to the State Privatization Law, activities on support to the privatization process have
helped the creation of a legal framework for non-discriminatory and transparent privatization.
After decelerated start up, in the area of privatization of small and middle scale enterprises, we
have achieved respectable improvements that could be recognized to exceed previously forecast
indicators. Privatization of strategic companies has not followed that pace nor its results.
Therefore, we should make many efforts to attract investors. We believe that the World Bank will
remain involved in that part, especially through the work of International Advisory Group on
Privatization (IAGP) and the Privatization Technical Assistance Credit (PTAC).
During project implementation, the World Bank has shown flexibility and we initiated reforms in
two sectors that were not originally considered. We are referring to the telecommunications and
energy sectors. Adoption of new legal solutions made possible restructuring of these two sectors
on the basis of the market economy as well as the creation of preconditions for the entry of
strategic investors.
Sustainability of this project is very obvious but it would also require further engagement of the
donor community. After significant delays in previous years, the privatization process is currently
in full swing and that is a process that will continue for sure. This component is given with the
highest priority within our strategy of poverty reduction and it is expected that privatization will
lead us not only to a change in ownership structure but also to the necessary restructuring of the
economy, more efficient production and greater competitiveness.
We have carefully studied the draft Implementation Completion Report for the Enterprise and
Banking Privatization Adjustment Credit (EBPAC), and we do find that this material has
realistically described the preparation and implementation of this project. From the very
beginning, our Governments were committed to implement this project and we did our best to
overcome difficulties that emerged during the project implementation. We have to be aware of the
complicated political and development circumstances in which this project was implemented.
Therefore, the over-ambitious goals designed at the beginning of the project were not always
implemented in accordance with the deadlines forecast at the outset. During project
implementation, Bosnia and Herzegovina has faced a complicated period of post-war
reconstruction and unfinished transition. So, in practice the privatization process has faced some
real difficulties. The EBPAC project has managed to fulfill its essential goal and has helped a lot in
the acceleration of the privatization process, including the successful completion of the process in
certain privatization components. The achievements of the project in institutional capacity
building will have long-term effects and will help us in our further economic development.
We do expect continuation of successful cooperation between the World Bank and Bosnia and
Herzegovina in the area of privatization and restructuring of our economy and other areas of our
development. The World Bank remains an important support to our upcoming tasks, and we do
expect to have a chance to create even more effective development projects based on lessons
learned from EBPAC project.
(b) Cofinanciers:
- 22 -



No specific comments on the ICR were received from the Netherlands Ministry for Development
Cooperation beyond a request that the Dutch co-financing of the First Tranche in the amount of USD 15
million be appropriately recognized in the text of the report.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
None
10. Additional Information
None
- 23 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
IldicatorlMatrix                 ProjectedinlastdPS-                  ActuallLatest Estimat
For the Federation of Bosnia and
HerzegovLna
Initiaton of the Legal Framework for
Privatization
1. Functoning of Bank Privatization Units,  1. The BPU in the FBiH was estabrished and 1. The BPIjcompleted its tasks and was
is operating satisfactonly.          disbanded in September 200Z Rts remaining
functions are handled by the FBiH Ministry of
Finance
2. Initiabon of privatization or liquidation of  2 Project implementaton further defined the 2. Almost all the state-owned banks in the
publicly-owned banks.                indicators for privatzaion PBS Bank  FBiH have either been privatized, liquidated
originally was determined to ba the largest  or merged with other banks Union Banka
insolvent bank and set for liquidabon  was offered for sale during the second half of
However, the bank was later determined to be 2002, but no sabsfactory buyer has yet been
solvent and was sold to a Special Purpose  found. Attempts continue in early 2003 to
VeNcle, owned by IFC, the Govemment and sell Union Banka, failing which it will have to
a private investment group with equal shares. be liquidated. PBS Banka Sarajevo and
The Govemment was in the process of  Central Profit Banka are expected to be sold
privatzing Union Bank. In addition, the Bank by the SPV during the first half of calendar
had approved a plan by the Govemment to  2003.
privatize Central Profit Bank.
Finanoal Sector Reform
1 Legal framework for deposit insurance  1 The Govemment adopted the law on  1 .The BH Parliament approved a new
adopted and deposit insurance agencies  deposlt insurance In 1998 and the Federal  State-level Deposit Insurance Law in August
estabgshed.                          Deposit Insurance Agency was established  2002. The two Entity4evel Laws were
and began funcioning in 1999.        repealed by a Decision of the High
Representative in October 2002, folowing
which the new State-level Deposit Insurance
scheme became fully operational.
2 Govemment does not establish or extend  2 Federation authorities had refrained from  2. As projected in the last PSR
any credi lines using budget resources or  such practices. Furthermore, they had sold
establsh any new bank or increase capital  minonty shares In private banks and were in
subscription in any existing bank.   the final stages of negobation for the
privatization of 6 banks that were majority
state-owned
Complebon of the Legal Framework for
Pnvatzabon and Expanded Pnvatizabon
1. Legal framework for enterprise pnvatrzabon 1. The legal framework is In place and the  1. The legal framework is In place and the
adopted and Privatizabon Agences     privatization agencies are operating, namely  privatizabon agencies continue to operate
operabng.                            the Federation Privatizabon Agency and the  satisfactorily.
Cantonal Privatization Agencies
2 Privatzation process for small-scale  2. The Bank had established expected  2. During the year 2002, a total of 204
enterprises substantially underway and  results for this indicator - the privatization of companles was privatized, of which 36 in the
privatizabon of large enterprise and holding  500 small-scale enterprises and the public  small scale privatization program, 97 large
companies initiated                  sale of shares In at least 100 large-scale  companies through the tender method and 71
enterprises. The Borrower, In consultation  companiss through public offerings. By
with the Bank's Legal Department had further December 31, 2002 a total of 937 enterprises
defined the expected results as the  had been privatized accounting for KM 4 8
privatizabon of 500 small-scale enterprises  million af share capital book value Sales of
including 150 small enterprises as going  strategic enterprises are being managed
concems and 350 units as business    under the umbreGa of the Intemational
premises.                            Advisory Group for Privatization (IAGP),
presently co-chaired by the Bank and the EU
By 2001 199 goin,g concems and nearly  Nineteen strategic enterpnses In FBiH are
2,000 assets of small enterprises, induding  being privatized with the assistance of the
700 business premises, had been sold  Prvatization Technical Assistance Credit
(PTAC).
The sale of Unhoninvest Holding company, a
- 24 -



share captal holding company with 16
subsidiaries, was completed in March of
2000.
3 Regulatory framework necessary for  3 In November 2000, the Counal of   3  In December 2002, a State-evel
privatization of telecommunications and  Ministers adopted a State-level  Communications Law was imposed by a
electric power generation and distributon  Telecommunications Sector Policy  decision of the High Representative
established in the Federation        satisfactory to the Bank The Bank preferred  Preparabons are expected to proceed in 2003
a state level regulator and legal framework  to prvatize the two FBiH telecommunications
The policy will serve as the foundation for the operators
liberalization and pnvatzabon of
telecommunicabons across the State
In the power sector, the Bank and the
Borrower further defined the indicator as the No additional comments
submission of a satisfactory draft electricity
law to the Paralament, which also was a
condition for Bank approval of the Power III
Project (June 2001). In November 2001, the
Federation adopted an electricity law
satsfactory to the Bank.
Output Indicators:
I ndcatprlMatr.x                  Projected In laid PSR      I    R    -ActuaII'testEstimate-
For the Republika Srpska (RS)
Initiation of the Legal Framework for
Pnvatzaton
1 Functoning of Bank Privatizaton Units;  1. The BPU in the RS was established and  1 The BPU completed is tasks in June
is operating sabisfactonly           2002 and was wound up. Its functions have
been absorbed by the RS Ministry of
2 Initaton of pdvahzaton or liquidabion of                                Finance
publicly-owned banks                 2. The Govemment was to establish the
solvency of State-owned banks and either  2. Virtually all the state-owned banks in the
take control of or dose two insolvent  RS have been either pnvatized, merged with
State-owned banks However, the       other banks or liquidated The three largest
Govemment established the solvency of all  banks (Kristal, Banja Lucka and Razvojna)
state banks based on year 2000 audited  have all been sold successfully to private
finanoal statements. At the same bme,  owners Only a few remaining state-owned
independent auditors had noted their doubts bank assets remain to be disposed of
about whether three banks could continue as
going concerns due to additional nsk
exposures and liquidity problems in 2001
Subsequently, there has been successful
privatzation of two of these banks,
Banjalucka and Kristal. However, the
Govemment has revoked the license of the
third bank Postanska Stedionica,.
No additonal comments
The Banking Agency took control of two
small majonty State-owned banks- Gradiska
under administration ,and Prijedorska, in
liquidation. Although both banks were
solvent, they were unable to find buyers
dunng privatizabon and could not meet the
minimum capital requirements estabrished in
November 2001.
Finandal Sector Reform
1. Legal framework for deposit insurance  1. An inter-Entty working group with the  1.The BH Parliament approved a new
adopted and deposit insurance agencies  assistance of intematonal experts, had  State-level Deposit Insurance Law in August
established.                         drafted a State Law on Deposit insurance,  2002 The two Entity-level Laws were
satsfactory to the Bank and the State and  repealed by a Decision of the High
Entty govemments  Law was in         Representatve in October 2002, following
- 25 -



Parliamentary procedure The Republika had which the new State-level Deposit Insurance
estabbshed a Deposit Insurance Agency In  scheme became fully operabional.
accordance with its March 2001 Law on
Deposit Insurance
2. Govemment does not estabiish or extend  2 The Govemment would continue to refrain No additional comments
any credd lines using budget resources or  from such acions Furthermore, the
establish any new bank or increase capital  Govemment had suocessfully sold four
subscription in any existng bank.    majority state-owned banks and the Banking
Agency had taken control over three banks
Completion of the Legal Framework for
Pnvatization and Expanded Privazatbon
1 Legal framework for enterpnse pnvatizabon 1. The Directorate for Pnvatization (DfP) in  1 The DiP oontnues to operate
adopted and Privatizabon Agencies   the RS was created and Is operating   satisfactonly.
operating.                           satisfatorily
2 The Bank and the Borrower further defined 2. Further small scale enterprises have been
2. Privatzation process for small-scale  this indicator to indude the complete  privatized during 200Z
enterpnses substantially underway and  pnvatizaton of at least 30 percent of small
privatizabon of large enterprise and holding  scale pnvate enterprises. At the end of 2000, The RS Govemment is undertaking an
oompanies initiated                 the Republica Srpska had privatzed 115 of  ambitious program of privatzng large scale
the 283 enterpnses or 41 percent, exceeding "strategic' enterprises with the assistance of
the target                          international experts The process Is
proceeding under the umbrella of the
The Govemment also had prepared and  Intemational Advisory Group for Privatzation
executed tendering of 21 large- scale  (IAGP) which s presently co-chaired by the
enterprises, with the assistance of  Bank and the EU Around twenty strategic
interriabonal experts They had substantially enterprises and industnal groups in RS are
exceeded the target of 3 large- scale  being privatized with the assistance of the
enterprises.                         Privatization Technical Assistance Credit
(PTAC)
The Govemment adopted a strategy of
unbundling the holding companies and
selling the subsidiaries separately. The
Govemment had issued tenders (September
2001) for the unbundling of 3 or4
subsidiaries of the Jelsingrad Holding
Company
3 Regulatory framework necessary for  3 In November, 2000, the Council of  3. In December 2002, a State-level
privatization of telecommunicabons and  Ministers adopted a State-level   Communicatons Law was imposed by a
electric power generation and distnbution  Telecommunicabtons Sector Pogcy  decision of the High Representative.
established in the RS.               satsfactory to the Bank The Bank preferred Preparations are expected to proceed in 2003
a state level regulator and legal framework.  to privatize the RS telecommunications
The policy will serve as the foundation for the operator (Telecom Srpske)
liberalizabon and privahzabon of
telecommunicatons across the State
In the power sector, the Bank and the  No additional comments
Borrower further defined the indicator as the
submission of a satisfactory draft elecbicity
law to the Pariament, which also was a
condition for Bank approval of the Power IlIl
Project (June 2001) In 2002, the RS
adopted an electricity law satisfactory to the
Bank
End of project
-26 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
'7---,  ,  ! ,  Appraisal  "ActuallLatest  Percentage of,
.  ,,-, ,   ~     '  ,,  ~, .,  ,  -  .   'Estimate -  Estimate '  Appraisal  ,
Cbmponent         L'          US$ilnillion, _ 4S$  n
Bosnia and Herzegovina                            10.50          10.50           100
Republika Srpska                                   4.50           4.50           100
Total Baseline Cost                               15.00          15.00
Total Project Costs            15.00         15.00
Total Financing Required            15.00         15.00
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Categoryi   -_ -                                             T -o P  't '  ;  tal CoSt"
--r         IC           NCB":,                   N hF-
1. Works                    0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                    0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
3. Services                 0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
Total                     0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)
Not Applicable to this project.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
'-   r .        ' Procuremenrt Metho'd  -                      '
ExpendituredCategory,  , .ICB  :. "                            NB.F.     Total Cost
NCB -: - .Other
1. Works                    0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                    0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                 0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
,_____________________  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous            0.00'        0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)     -   )       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)



Total                         0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
Not applicable to this project.
F gures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (X)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local govemment units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
- W  -    - -              |        -    -  - - 1   -     |-~~~~~~~~~1Percentage,of Appraisal
Component               ApOpraisal Estirnmate  e-(   ActuaLatest-Estmate< .                 Appr;-sal
_________ Bank     Govt.                Ban-k    -GCo. GoF.- 'Bnk           Govt L  CoF.
Not applicable to this project.
- 28 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not calculated..
- 29 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missionss:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty           Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year     Count          Specialty                      Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
10/97                      12    1 Mission Leader
I Economist
I Banking Specialist
I Enterprise Specialist
5 Consultants, Banking
3 Consultants, Enterprises
Appraisal/Negotiation
3/88                        6    1 Mission Leader
I Economist
I Enterprise Specialist
1 Consultant, Banking
Supervision
11/99                        2   ISenior Economist                  S             S
1 Senior Financial Sector
Specialist
10100                        2   1 Senior Economist                 S             S
I Senior Financial Sector
Specialist
05/02                        1   Senior Financial Sector            S             S
Specialist
11CR
NA
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation               NA                      $494,804
Appraisal/Negotiation
Supervision                              NA                      $671,289
ICR                                                               $31,000
Total                                                          $1,197,093
Source: SAP Project Details at a Glance (11/27/02) This project was supervised in the field and therefore
there were fewer missions han usual.
- 30 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Neghgible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro pohcies                      O H *SUOM O N O NA
O Sector Poltcies                    OH *SUOM O N O NA
OI Physical                          O H OSUOM O N * NA
L Financial                          O H *SUOM O N O NA
O Institutional Development          0 H * SU O M O N 0 NA
O Environmental                      O H OSUOM O N * NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction            O H OSUOM O N * NA
OI Gender                      OH   OSUOM     ON   *NA
O Other (Please specify)       O H OSUOM O N * NA
O Private sector development         0 H O SU O M 0 N 0 NA
OI Public sector management          0 H  * SU O M 0 N 0 NA
O Other (Please specify)             OH OSUOM ON * NA
-31 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                 Rating
OI Lending                                          OHS OS        OU    OHU
LI Supervision                                      OHS OS        OU    OHU
El Overall                                          OHS OS        0     O   fHU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
OI Preparation                                      OHS OS        O  U  O HU
LI Government implementation performance            O HS O S      O U   0 HU
O Implementation agency performance                  O HS OS      O U   0 HU
FO Overall                                          OHS OS        O u   O HU
- 32 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Project Preparation and Appraisal
Bosnia and Herzegovina: Enterprise and Banking Privatization Project, Project Information
Document, February 28, 1997
Project Concept Document: Bosnia and Herzegovina, Enterprise and Banking Privatization
Project, June 1, 1997.
Bosnia and Herzegovina: Enterprise and Bank Privatization Credit, Report of the Preparation
Mission, October 1997.
Bosnia and Herzegovina: Enterprise and Bank Privatization Adjustment Credit, Initiating
Memorandum, February 13, 1998.
Bosnia and Herzegovina: Enterprise and Bank Privatization Credit, Concluding Statement of the
Credit Appraisal Mission (March 9-19, 1998).
Bosnia and Herzegovina: Enterprise and Bank Privatization Credit (Report on the meeting of the
Regional Operations Committee (ROC), April 27, 1998.
Bosnia and Herzegovina: Enterprise and Bank Privatization Adjustment Credit: (Note
recommending that remaining recommendations for Board presentation of the adjustment credit
for the Federation be changed to conditions for the release of the First Tranche), January 29,
1999.
Report and Recommendations of the President of the International Development Association to
the Executive Directors on a Proposed Credit in an Amount Equivalent to SDR 37.6 Million to
Bosnia and Herzegovina for an Enterprise and Bank Privatization Adjustment Credit, June 1,
1999.
Development Credit Agreement (Enterprise And Bank Privatization Adjustment Credit) between
Bosnia and Herzegovina and International Development Association, July 5, 1999.
Project Supervision Documents
Bosnia and Herzegovina: Enterprise and Bank Privatization Adjustment Credit (EBPAC), Credit
No. 3262 BOS, Release of the First Tranche to the Federation - Waiver of Condition, January
28, 2000.
Bosnia and Herzegovina: Enterprise and Bank Privatization Adjustment Credit (EBPAC), Credit
No. 3262-BOS)-PE-P04846 1- Full Compliance-Tranche Release to the Borrower for the
Benefit of the Republika Srpska, February 11, 2002.
- 33 -



Bosnia and Herzegovina: Enterprise and Bank Privatization Adjustment Credit (Credit No. 3262
BOS), Release of the Second Tranche to the Borrower for the Benefit of the Federation of
Bosnia and Herzegovina- Full Compliance, May 3, 2002.
Project Status Reports
Project Status Report of January 1, 2000.
Project Status Report of December 19, 2000
Project Status Report of June 25, 2001.
Project Status Report of December 18, 2001.
Project Status Report of June 30, 2002.
Economic and Sector Work Documents
Bosnia and Herzegovina: Priorities for Recovery and Growth, Discussion Paper #1, December 8,
1995.
Technical Assistance for Privatization, Letter to the Prime Minister of the Republika Srpska,
March 17, 2000.
Bosnia and Herzegovina: Extension of the Enterprise and Bank Privatization Adjustment Credit
(Credit 3262 BOS).
Country Assistance Strategy of the World Bank Group for Bosnia and Herzegovina, June 14,
2000.
Country Strategy Progress Report of the World Bank Group for Bosnia and Herzegovina,
September 24, 2001.
Bosnia and Herzegovina: Enterprise and Business Environment Credit
General Privatization Documents
Enterprise Privatization in Bosnia and Herzegovina (EBPAC) at a Glance, December 2000.
- 34 -






I a-I - -  I- I  -
I . Ii.' -   _   I '  1  -_
ReporI No.:                                24492
Type:                 r'CR



