Report No. PID7676
PID7676.TXT
Project Name                     Bosnia Herzegovina-Enterprise and Bank...
Privatization Adjustment Credit
Region                           ECA-FPSI
Sector                           Privatization
Project ID                       BAPE48461
Borrower                         Bosnia and Herzegovina with on-lending to the
Federation                       and Republika Srpska
Implementing Agency              State Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic
Relations, Federation Ministry of Finance,
Republika Srpska Ministry of Finance
Environment Category             C
Date of PID                      April 28, 1999
Projected Board Date             June 1999
Background
Transition to private sector-based economy. The challenge faced by BiH
in the economic field after the Dayton Accords was not confined to
reconstruction. To lay the foundations for high rates of self-sustaining
growth, it was necessary to begin the transition to a private sector-based
economy. The economy consisted of socially-owned or state-owned enterprises
and banks. With no clear set of incentives for corporate or management
behaviour, and, indeed, with severe conflicts of interests, both enterprises
and banks suffered from serious weaknesses. Management and workers had few
incentives to preserve capital or to ensure healthy profits; rather,
incentives worked towards maximising wages and company indebtedness. As banks
were founded by enterprises and as laws on insider lending and lending to
connected parties were weak, banks typically lent heavily to their owners.
Banks were insufficiently motivated by maximising returns to capital and were
poor channels for the optimal allocation of investible funds. Corporate and
banking behaviour of the above-mentioned kind were facilitated by an absence
of laws enforcing adequate corporate governance and shielding enterprises and
banks from political interference. The accountancy standards fell short of
those in most industrial countries; investment was directed by non-market
considerations; and credits were subsidised by administrative decisions. All
these characteristics were inconsistent with the development of a market
economy.
Progress toward reform. There is broad consensus within BiH that a market-
based economy and a vibrant private sector are preconditions to achieve
lasting growth and prepare the country for participation in Europe's economic
and political institutions. There is also growing awareness that private
business activity requires an adequate legal and institutional framework to
operate and grow. In this respect, significant progress has been made over
the last two years:
Many of the basic political and economic institutions required for the



effective functioning of BiH have been established, including a national
currency and central bank.
Significant progress has been achieved in removing barriers to the movement of
goods and people within the country, and a common, country-wide customs tariff
regime and trade policy have been legislated.
Critical reforms of the public finance system have been introduced, including
assured funding for the State government and for external debt service
obligations.
Initial reforms have also been introduced to harmonize taxes across the two
Entities and to strengthen pension finances.
The legal framework for privatization has been adopted in both Entities.
Key elements of the legal and regulatory frameworks for the banking sector
have been introduced in both Entities, including provisions for strengthening
supervisory capacity, and reform of the payments system is being initiated.
Debt management units have been established at the State and Entity levels to
monitor external borrowing and debt-service obligations.
A State Statistical Agency has been established to disseminate and coordinate
the compilation of data provided by Entity Statistical Institutes.
Given the legacy of war and the current political background, implementation
has often been difficult. Strong efforts from international donors have been
required at times to resolve deadlocks. Nevertheless, the foundations are now
in place for more rapid progress in the coming years.
Project Description
Objectives. The proposed Enterprise and Bank Privatization Credit builds
on BiH's achievements to date in establishing the required legal and
institutional framework for privatization of enterprises and banks, and
supports further progress in institution-building and policy reforms in
private sector development. It aims to achieve this objective by focusing on
the following areas: (i) development of the design, legal framework and
regulations, and building up of institutional capacity and implementation of
the program for the privatization of solvent publicly-owned commercial banks
and liquidation of insolvent ones; (ii) financial sector reforms to improve
bank supervision, strengthen banking laws, establish deposit insurance
systems, and limit public intervention in credit markets; and (iii) completion
of the institutional and legal framework for enterprise privatization, to
include rapid initiation of small enterprise privatization, and preparation
for privatization of larger enterprises, holding companies and utilities. In
addition, the Credit provides support to reforms of the legal and
institutional framework necessary for private sector development.
The proposed EBPAC is the main IDA instrument in the FY98/99 program to
achieve these objectives. It is complemented by ongoing economic sector work,
including for post-privatization assistance, payment system reform, and
enterprise finance assistance, as well as ongoing investment lending for
commercial credit lines in both Bosnian Entities.
Key Sector Issues to be addressed by the project: The proposed EBPAC directly
supports to the BiH Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) (report no. 16866-BiH)
objectives of developing a modern market economy through a competitive
business environment, the privatization of socially- and State-owned assets,
and the development of a disciplined and competitive financial sector in BiH.
Project Components: To further its objectives of private and financial sector
-2 -



reform and development, which are crucial to furthering the advancement of a
market-based and internationally competitive economy in both Bosnian entities,
EBPAC will provide support to two broad areas, (i) Bank Strengthening and
Privatization and (ii) Enterprise Privatization. These general components are
further broken down as follows:
Bank Strengthening and Privatization
(i) Bank supervision: An increased strictness in licensing standards required
for banks and a gradual rise in the minimum capital requirement is planned so
as to rationalize the banking system. Increased emphasis will be placed on-
site supervision, with the institutionalization of risk-focussed safety and
soundness examinations -- in contrast to compliance-based reviews of the past.
Attention will shift towards reinforcing off-site capabilities of the bank
supervision agencies.
(ii) Legal and regulatory environment: The design and implementation of laws
in each entity that allow for the realization of bank privatization, the
establishment of supervision agencies, and a rational and transparent banking
system consistent with international banking standards is an on-going process.
Progress here will help to eradicate the past abuses in the banking system
arising from lending to insiders, lending to connected parties, and ensure
that fit and proper persons are owners and managers of banks.
(iii) Liquidation of insolvent banks: All banks deemed insolvent by the
banking agency will be closed immediately and then liquidated. This will send
a signal to the market that BiH is serious about its economic reform
commitments and help buoy consumer and investor confidence in the banking
system. Attempts to rehabilitate or recapitalize insolvent banks are not
envisioned, as they would constitute an impudent use of resources.
(iv) Deposit insurance: A system of insuring deposits, directed at protecting
small depositors from loss in the event of bank failure, discouraging runs on
banks, and providing an efficient mechanism for disposing of insolvent banks,
is essential to the recovery of confidence in the banking system. A Deposit
Insurance Agency for each entity will be created and would be responsible for
the implementation of such a program.
(v)   Bank privatization:  Essential to serious financial sector reform is the
privatization of majority-state owned banks. Majority-state owned banks are
burdened with pre-war international debts and liabilities towards domestic
citizens for frozen pre-war foreign currency deposits. Without relief from
these claims, Bosnia's state-owned banks have no possibility of becoming
solvent and, subsequently, privately-owned. On the asset side, pre-war loans
to domestic enterprises have to be largely written off due to heavy war damage
and loss of markets for the borrowing enterprises. Also, banks' claims on the
former National Bank of Yugoslavia for foreign exchange deposits are doubtful
at best. In order to resolve these issues of liabilities with foreign
creditors, frozen foreign exchange deposits, and poor bank assets, as well as
improve consumer confidence in the BiH banking system, a strategy for bank
restructuring and privatization has been developed and is supported by the
EBPAC.
Enterprise Privatization
-3-



The Federation and the RS have begun to prepare for the sale of small-scale
enterprises and large enterprises and conglomerates. Generally, these
enterprises are outdated, with markets lost, and skills dispersed. The
privatization strategy adopted in the RS and Federation is generally to sell,
small-scale assets for some percentage of cash with the rest in claims made on
the entity and for large enterprises and conglomerates, identify the centers
of profitability that exist and to sell those to investors for claims against
the state and, in some cases cash. To implement the strategy, enterprises and
conglomerates are required to develop business plans for the promising
enterprises and a privatization plan with the opening balance sheet. Parts of
conglomerates that could not be privatized will be closed. The task of
completing privatization is expected to take up to two years.
(i)    Enterprise privatization in the Federation:   EBPAC supports the
Federation's privatization strategy where each eligible participant will be
provided an individual claim account.    This account represents the sum of
five categories of claims (general, foreign exchange, military wages, pension
arrears, and restitution) that are given value based on the liabilities the
Federation has towards the citizen in each of these areas.     In the
Federation, claims have a nominal face value and may be sold or traded.
For Small-scale Privatization, assets may be purchased for a minimum of 35t
cash with the balance to be made up in any combination of cash and claims.
For Large-scale Privatization, assets may be purchased for any combination of
cash and claims.
(ii) Enterprise privatization in the RS: EBPAC supports the RS's privatization
strategy where interested eligible citizens register at the payment bureau for
a voucher account. The accounts represents the sum of 3 categories of claims
(general, families of soldiers killed in the war, and veterans). While these
claims have no nominal value, they may be traded through an exchange and by
PIFs. Claims against frozen foreign currency (coupons) are considered
equivalents to cash and are treated by a different process.
Where state capital is valued at less than 300,000 DM, assets maybe purchased
by eligible citizens with only cash or coupons, in any combination
Where state capital is valued at 300,000 DM or greater, 109 of the sale of
shares are transferred to the RS pension fund and 5t to a restitution fund. A
minimum of 55t of the capital must be offered by sale in the vouchers program.
The remaining balance 30t may be offered for sale by tender of the assets may
be purchased by strategic investors and with any combination of vouchers,
cash, or coupons.
(iii) Strategy sector privatization: EBPAC supports the privatization of
utilities. Here the Entity governments will follow the strategy of maximising
prospects for investment commitments and new technology, whilst attempting to
provide for claims. Initially privatization will focus on telecommunications
and electric power generation and distribution with future privatization
programs focusing on railways, road transport, water, gas and other sectors.
One or a consortium of strategic investors will be sought in a process that
will include sales and concessioning. This is expected to take a period of
two to three years.
(iv)   Capital markets: With the issuance of privatization claims in the
Federation and vouchers in the RS and the divestiture of publicly owned
enterprises, mechanisms are required to allow citizens to transfer and trade
their claims and vouchers through an organized capital market. With donor
-4 -



assistance, a comprehensive set of capital market laws has been passed by
parliaments in both Entities, but further progress, namely in the form of a
securities commission that will regulate the issuance and trading of claims,
shares, and vouchers, is planned and supported by the proposed EBPAC.
Conditionality Framework: Funds of the project are proposed to be disbursed
within 15 to 18 months in two tranches based on fulfillment of specific
conditions and sound progress in project implementation. The conditionality
framework will aim at facilitating enterprise and bank privatization as
presented above by focusing on critical actions under each component deemed
necessary for successful and timely implementation of the privatization
program.
Project Preparation and Implementation
Donor Co-ordination.     Throughout project preparation and monitoring, close
coordination will be maintained with the USAID, and its contractors, that have
helped USAID develop the comprehensive enterprise privatization program for
BiH. USAID has also provided generous technical assistance for bank
supervision and payment system reform. Close co-ordination has also taken
place with other donors, notably with (i) the OHR, which has been involved in
the legal aspects of enterprise privatization and privatization issues that
directly relate to returning refugees and displaced persons, (ii) the British
Know How Fund, which has been actively involved in enterprise privatization
and capital markets issues in the RS, and (iii) GTZ, which has provided
assistance for training of bankers in the RS and legal reform issues in the
Federation.
Co-ordination With and Among the Authorities.    There is also need to
facilitate coordination among different agencies involved in, or affected by,
enterprise and bank privatization is both entities. Although proposed reforms
have generally been supported by the key counterparts at the State and the
Entity levels, for the reforms to be implemented there will need to be
consensus among all parties concerned. This issue will be addressed by
maintaining close contact with the Bank Supervision Agencies in the RS and
Federation, the RS Privatization Directorate and the Agency for Privatization
in the Federation, and the RS Bank Privatization Unit and the Federation Bank
Privatization Agency.
1.      Funding for Project Preparation and Implementation.      For the
preparation of the project, the Japanese Government extended a PHRD-grant in
the amount of US$340,000. The grant financed the preparation of reform
proposals and the design of the privatisation programme.
Contact Point:                   The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Program Leader
Saumya Mitra
Tel.:   (1) (202) 458-2879
Fax.: (1) (202) 522-0005
- 5 -



Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending May 14, 1999
- 6 -



