Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3262 BOS
Development Credit Agreement
(Enterprise and Bank Privatization Adjustment Credit)
between
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated as of July 5, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3262 BOS 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated as of July 5, 1999, between BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA (the 
Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter dated February 25, 1999 from 
the Borrower, the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina (the Federation, as hereinafter 
defined) and Republika Srpska (RS, as hereinafter defined) describing a program of 
actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve structural adjustment of the 
economies of the Borrower, the Federation and RS (hereinafter called the Program), 
declaring the commitment of the Borrower, the Federation and RS to the execution of 
the Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in support of the Program 
during the execution thereof; and 
(B)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided 
in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower, the Federation 
and RS, by making the Credit in two tranches as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Page  2
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997), with the modifications thereto set forth below (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 12, is modified to read:
"Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit Agreement, in support of which the Credit is made.";
(b)
Section 4.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from 
the Credit Account shall be made in the currency of the 
deposit account specified in Section 2.02 (a) of the Development Credit 
Agreement.";
(c)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit 
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the Development 
Credit Agreement and of these General Conditions.";
(d)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
(e)
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified below), 9.07 
and 9.08 are renumbered Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07 respectively; and
(f)
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read:
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, 
the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the 
execution of the program referred to in the Preamble to the Development Credit 
Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the Association of their 
respective obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.".
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
"Deposit Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of 
this Agreement.  
(b)
"Federation" means the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, a political 
sub-division of the Borrower, and includes any successor or successors thereto. 
(c)
"Federation Subsidiary Credit Agreement" means the agreement entered or 
to be entered into between the Borrower and the Federation, pursuant to Section 3.01 
of this Agreement, as the same agreement may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules supplemental to the Federation Subsidiary Credit 
Agreement. 
(d)
"Holding-company" means a State-owned enterprise which has substantial 
ownership, control or management of any other enterprise or enterprises. The term 
"substantial ownership" means ownership of twenty-five percent or more shares in an 
enterprise.
(e)
"Large-scale enterprises" means the State-owned enterprises that are not 
Small-scale enterprises, as such term is defined hereinafter. 
(f)
"Privatization" means the transfer of ownership, control and management 
of State-owned enterprises, including State-owned banks, to the private sector through 
the sale of assets of, equity capital in, or the transfer of management control over a 
State-owned enterprise/bank to the private sector, including the sale of a business as 
a going concern. 
(g)
"RS" means Republika Srpska, a political sub-division of the Borrower, 
and includes any successor or successors thereto.  
Page  3
(h)
"RS Subsidiary Credit Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and RS, pursuant to Section 3.01 of this Agreement, as the same 
agreement may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules 
supplemental to the RS Subsidiary Credit Agreement. 
(i)
"Small-scale enterprises" means, in the case of the Federation, 
State-owned enterprises which have less than fifty employees and assets valued at less 
than Deutsche Marks 500,000 equivalent, and, in the case of RS, State-owned 
enterprises in which RS and its agencies have capital investment less than Deutsche 
Marks 300,000 equivalent.
(j)
"State-owned enterprises" or "State-owned banks" means those legal 
entities that are significantly owned or controlled by the Federation or RS either 
directly or indirectly through another legal entity significantly owned or controlled 
by the Federation or RS. The term "significantly" represents twenty five percent or 
more shares in an enterprise/bank. 
(k)
"Subsidiary Credit" means a credit provided under a Subsidiary Credit 
Agreement. 
(l)
"Subsidiary Credit Agreement" means either the Federation Subsidiary 
Credit Agreement or the RS Subsidiary Credit Agreement, as the said agreement may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules supplemental to each 
Subsidiary Credit Agreement; and "Subsidiary Credit Agreements" means said agreements, 
collectively. 
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to thirty seven million six hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 37,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The Borrower shall, prior to furnishing to the Association the 
first request for withdrawal from the Credit Account, open and thereafter maintain in 
its central bank a deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Association. All withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into the Deposit Account.
(b)
Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw and use the proceeds of the Credit 
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Deposit Account in support of 
the Program as follows: SDR 22,560,000 for the Federation and SDR 15,040,000 for RS to 
enable them to carry out their respective parts of the Program.
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. If the Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of 
the Credit shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (i) deposit into the 
Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment, or (ii) if the 
Association shall so request, refund such amount to the Association.  Amounts refunded 
to the Association upon such request shall be credited to the Credit Account for 
cancellation.
(d)
No initial withdrawals (SDR 11,280,000 for the Federation and SDR 
7,520,000 for RS) shall be made from the Credit Account unless: 
(i)
the State Privatization Law, satisfactory to the Association, has 
been promulgated;
(ii)
in case of withdrawal for the Federation: (A) the Federation 
Subsidiary Credit Agreement has been executed with terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association and evidence, 
satisfactory to the Association, has been furnished to the 
Association that the Federation Subsidiary Credit Agreement has 
been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on 
behalf of, the parties thereto and is legally binding upon the 
Borrower and the Federation in accordance with its terms; and (B) 
the Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as 
Page  4
described in Section 3.03 of this Agreement based on evidence 
satisfactory to the Association: (1) with the progress achieved by 
the Borrower, the Federation and RS in the carrying out of the 
Program; and (2) that the actions described in Part A of Schedule 
2 to this Agreement have been taken by the Federation. If, after 
said exchange of views, the Association shall have given notice to 
the Borrower that the progress achieved and actions taken are not 
satisfactory and, within 90 days after such  notice, the Borrower 
shall 
not have achieved, or caused the Federation to achieve 
progress, and taken actions satisfactory to the Association, then 
the 
Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the 
Federation’s share of the Credit or any part thereof; and
(iii)
in case of withdrawal for RS: (A) the RS Subsidiary Credit 
Agreement has been executed with terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Association and evidence, satisfactory to the Association, 
has been furnished to the Association that the RS Subsidiary 
Credit Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and 
executed and delivered on behalf of, the parties thereto and is 
legally binding upon the Borrower and RS in accordance with its 
terms; and (B) the Association shall be satisfied, after an 
exchange of views as described in Section 3.03 of this Agreement 
based on evidence satisfactory to the Association: (1) with the 
progress achieved by the Borrower, the Federation and RS in the 
carrying out of the Program; and (2) that the actions described in 
Part A of Schedule 3 to this Agreement have been taken by RS. If, 
after said exchange of views, the Association shall have given 
notice to the Borrower that the progress achieved and actions 
taken are not satisfactory and, within 90 days after such notice, 
the Borrower shall not have achieved, or caused RS to achieve 
progress, and taken actions satisfactory to the Association, then 
the 
Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the RS’s 
share of the Credit or any part thereof.
(e)
No further withdrawals shall be made from the Credit Account after the 
aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account shall have 
reached SDR 11,280,000 in case of the Federation and SDR 7,520,000 in case of RS, 
unless the Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in 
Section 3.03 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Association: (i) 
with the progress achieved by the Borrower, the Federation and RS in the carrying out 
of the Program; and (ii) that the actions described in Part B of Schedules 2 and 3 to 
this Agreement have been taken by the Federation and RS respectively. If, after said 
exchange of views, the Association shall have given notice to the Borrower that the 
progress achieved and actions taken are not satisfactory and, within 90 days after 
such notice, the Borrower shall not have achieved, or caused the Federation and RS to 
achieve progress, and taken actions satisfactory to the Association, then the 
Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the 
Credit or any part thereof. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Page  5
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on 
each April 1 and October 1 commencing October 1, 2009 and ending April 1, 2034.  Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on April 1, 2019, shall be one 
and a quarter percent (1 & 1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two and a half percent  (2 & 1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever:  (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three (3) consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months  or more after the date 
on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of 
a minimum of five (5) years on such repayment of principal. 
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall relend an amount in Dollars equivalent to 
SDR 22,560,000 out of the proceeds of the Credit to the Federation under a subsidiary 
credit agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and the Federation, and shall 
relend an amount in Dollars equivalent to SDR 15,040,000 out of the proceeds of the 
Credit to RS under a subsidiary credit agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and RS on the following principal terms and conditions:  
(a)
the term of each Subsidiary Credit shall be thirty five (35) years, 
including a 10 year grace period; 
(b)
the Borrower shall charge the Federation and RS a commitment charge at a 
rate equal to the rate payable under Section 2.04 of this Agreement, on the principal 
amount of each Subsidiary Credit not withdrawn from time to time; 
(c)
the Borrower shall charge the Federation and RS a service charge on the 
principal amount of each Subsidiary Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
at a rate equal to the rate payable under Section 2.05 of this Agreement;
(d)
the principal amount of each Subsidiary Credit shall be repayable in 
Dollars and shall be the equivalent in Dollars (determined as of the date or 
Page  6
respective dates of repayment) of the value of currency or currencies withdrawn from 
the Credit Account on account of expenditures for the Program; 
(e)
the Borrower shall have the right to require modification in the 
repayment terms of each Subsidiary Credit in conformity with the provisions of Section 
2.07 (b) of this Agreement; and 
(f)
the withdrawal of the Subsidiary Credit by the Federation and RS shall be 
conditional upon the Federation and RS taking the actions specified in Schedules 2 and 
3 hereof respectively to the satisfaction of the Association. 
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Credit 
Agreements in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Program, and, except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive the Subsidiary Credit Agreements or any provision thereof.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program and the actions specified in Schedules 2 and 3 to this Agreement. 
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying 
out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request. 
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be 
taken after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, 
including any action specified in Schedules 2 and 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; 
(b)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six (6) months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, 
a certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
(c)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested. 
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Event of Suspension 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out. 
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The date sixty (60) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of the 
Borrower is designated as the representative of the Borrower for the purposes of 
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Page  7
Ministry of Foreign Trade and
 Economic Relations
Musala 9
71000 Sarajevo
Bosnia and Herzegovina
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
By /s/ Ante Jelavic 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Rory O’Sullivan 
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency of the 
Borrower is also that of another country from the territory of which goods or services 
are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such goods or services shall not be 
excluded; 
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance under another credit or a loan;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by 
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or 
any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by 
the Association by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112                     -
Alcoholic beverages
Page  8
121                     -
Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
refuse
122                     -
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not
containing tobacco substitutes)
525                     -
Radioactive and associated materials
667
      -
      Pearls, precious and semiprecious
stones, unworked or worked
718                  718.7
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated, 
for
nuclear reactors
728
 728.43
Tobacco processing machinery
897                  897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum
group metals (except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’
wares (including set gems)
971                     -
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold
ores and concentrates)
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph 
the term "environmentally hazardous goods" means goods, the manufacture, use or import 
of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to 
which the Borrower is a party;
6.
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment 
or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines 
that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or execution of such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory 
to the Association to remedy the situation.
SCHEDULE 2 
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement 
Actions to be taken by the Federation
PART A:
Bank Restructuring and Privatization 
1.
The Federation has initiated the liquidation (closure) of the largest insolvent 
bank in the Federation. 
2.
The Federation has adopted a policy not to establish or extend any credit lines 
using budget resources or establish any new bank or increase capital subscription in 
any existing bank. 
3.
The Federation has established a Bank Privatization Unit and provided the 
necessary funds, facilities and other resources, including qualified and experienced 
staff in adequate numbers, for the effective operation thereof, as deemed satisfactory 
by the Association.  
4.
The Federation Government has submitted a draft Law on Deposit Insurance, 
satisfactory to the Association, for enactment by the Federation Parliament. 
Enterprise Restructuring 
5.
The Federation Parliament has amended the Enterprise Privatization Law, 
satisfactory to the Association, to ensure consistency with the principle of 
Page  9
non-discrimination contained in the Borrower’s State Privatization Law. 
6.
The Federation Parliament has enacted a Law on Management Companies and 
Privatization Investment Funds, satisfactory to the Association, to allow citizens to 
invest their claims/vouchers in enterprises through funds as well as individually.
7.
The Federation has initiated privatization through auctions or issuance of 
tenders for at least forty-five (45) Small-scale enterprises, in a manner satisfactory 
to the Association. 
8.
The Federation has completed the necessary staffing and operationalization of 
all Cantonal privatization agencies, as required by the Association.
PART B:
Bank Restructuring and Privatization 
1.
The Federation has completed the liquidation of the largest insolvent bank in 
the Federation. 
2.
The Federation has issued a prospectus for the sale of Union Bank or closed and 
initiated the process of liquidation of Union Bank. 
3.
The Federation has issued a prospectus for the sale of Central Profit Bank or 
closed and initiated the process of liquidation of Central Profit Bank. 
4.
The Federation has taken actions, satisfactory to the Association, to reach 
agreement with strategic private investors on the privatization of Federation 
Investment Bank. 
5.
The Federation has adhered to its policy not to establish or extend any credit 
lines using budget resources or establish any new bank or increase capital 
subscription in any existing bank.
6.
The Federation has enacted a  Law on Deposit Insurance, satisfactory to the 
Association. 
7.
The Federation has established a Deposit Insurance Agency and the said Agency 
has started functioning with deposit insurance reserve capital in place. 
Enterprise Restructuring 
8.
The Federation has completed privatization of about 500 Small-scale enterprises. 
9.
The Federation has begun public subscription for shares in at least 100 
Large-scale enterprises.  
10.
The Federation has issued a prospectus for sale of at least one Holding-company. 
11.
The Federation has established the regulatory framework necessary for 
privatization of telecommunication and electric power generation and distribution.
SCHEDULE 3 
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement 
Actions to be taken by Republika Srpska 
PART A:
Bank Restructuring and Privatization 
1.
RS Parliament has enacted a Law on Opening Balance Sheet, satisfactory to the 
Association, to provide for a secure basis for rapid privatization of banks and 
enterprises.
2.
RS has adopted a policy not to establish or extend any credit lines using budget 
resources or establish any new bank or increase capital subscription in any existing 
bank. 
3.
RS Parliament has enacted a Law on Bank Privatization, satisfactory to the 
Association. 
4.
RS has established a Bank Privatization Unit and provided the necessary funds, 
facilities and other resources, including qualified and experienced staff in adequate 
Page  10
numbers, for the effective operation thereof, as deemed satisfactory by the 
Association.  
Enterprise Restructuring 
5.
RS Parliament has adopted a Laws on Enterprise Privatization, satisfactory to 
the Association, to ensure transparency of the privatization process and equitable 
treatment of residents.  
6.
RS has adopted a rapid and rigid timeline for privatization, acceptable to the 
Association. 
PART B:
Bank Restructuring and Privatization 
1.
RS has established solvency of State-owned banks, and taken control of and 
closed at least two insolvent State-owned banks, including one such bank with the 
largest negative capital (being the difference between liabilities and assets).
2.
RS has issued sales prospectuses for three State-owned banks in which RS has the 
largest capital investment. 
3.
RS has adhered to its policy not to establish or extend any credit lines using 
budget resources or establish any new bank or increase capital subscription in any 
existing bank. 
4.
RS has passed a  Law on Deposit Insurance, satisfactory to the Association. 
5.
RS has established a Deposit Insurance Agency and the said Agency has started 
functioning with deposit insurance reserve capital in place. 
Enterprise Restructuring 
6.
RS has completed privatization of at least thirty percent Small-scale 
enterprises. 
7.
RS has prepared and executed international tenders of at least three Large-scale 
enterprises. 
8.
RS has issued a prospectus for sale of at least one Holding-company.
