Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3591-SL
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 46.4 MILLION
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
FOR THE
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROGRAM - II
May 23, 1983
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Sudanese Pounds (L.S)                  100 piastre
LSd 1.00                        =      US$0.77 (since Nov. 1982)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                    =       3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer  km)                       0.62 miles (m)
1 sq. km (km'-)                =       0.3886 sq mi (mi2)
1 metric ton (mt)              =       2,205 pounds (lb)
1 liter (1)                    -       0.264 gallons (gal)
1 feddan (fd)                  =       1.04 acres
1 kantar (seed cotton' !               143 kg
1 kilowatt (kw)                -       1.36 horsepower (hp)
AiBILEVIATIONS
ARP       Agricultural Rehabilitation Program
CCCA      Committee for Coordinating Commodity Aid
DCA       Development Credit Agreement
DGEF      Director General of External Finance
DMU       Debt Management: Unit
EAP       Export Action P'rogram
EEC       European Econonic Community
EFF       Extended Fund F'acility
ELS       Extra Long Staple Cotton
EMC       Earth Moving Corporation
GOS       Government of Sudan
IBRD      International Bank for Reconstruction and Developmefrt
IDA       International Development Association
IFC       International Finance Corporation
IMF       International Monetary Fund
MOAI      Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation
MOFEP     Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
MS        Medium Staple Cotton
PPC       Program Procurement Committee
SRC       Sudan Railways Corporation
TYIP      Three Year Investment Program
GOVERNMENT OF SUDAN
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROGRAM - II
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:        Democratic Republic of Sudan
Amount:           SDR 46.4 million (US$50.0 million equivalent).
Terms:           Standard IDA Terms
Project          The credit will support the Government's attempt to expand
Description:   agricultural export earnings through the rehabilitation of
the irrigated agricultural sub-sector, and will encourage
Government economic policy and institutional reforms.
Specifically, it will (a) provide financing for
fertilizer, pesticides, herbicides, and jute sacks,
(b) provide spare parts needed by the Rahad and Suki
Irrigation schemes, (c) provide spare parts to the Sudan
Railways Corporation to strengthen the agricultural
transport system, and (d) finance studies in the
agricultural sector. Principal risks include a policy
reversal which could render the program ineffective
through the setting of crop prices at too low a level or
an inadequate amount of foreign exchange to provide the
balance of the necessary recurrent inputs, which have been
addressed in the design of the project and by inclusion of
appropriate covenants in the Credit Agreement.
Estimated
Disbursements:
US$ millions
IDA FY     1984    1985
IDA Credit                 40      10
Appraisal Report:   None
MLap:                IBRD No. 16493
This document has a restriGted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its cgatet may nnt therwise be diAclged witwut World Bank authorization.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
FOR AN AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROGRAM
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the Democratic Republic of Sudan for SDR 46.4 million (US$50
million equivalent) to finance a program for agricultural rehabilitation
in the Sudan. The credit would be on standard IDA terms. This is a
follow-on to the Agricultural Rehabilitation Program (IDA Credit 1000-SU)
approved March 25, 1980 which is now fully committed.
PART I - THE-ECONOMY
2.        An economic mission visited Sudan in January 1981.  Its Report
No. 3551a-SU of February 16, 1982 has been distributed to the Executive
Directors. The findings of the mission are reflected below. An economic
mission visited Sudan in January 1983 and a report will be issued shortly.
Summary tables of social, economic and financial data are presented in
Annex I.
Background
3.        Sudan, with an area of 2.5 million square kilometers, is the
largest country in Africa.  It has a population of about 18.5 million (1980
estimate) and is classified by the UN as a least developed country.  Per
capita GNP is estimated at about US$380 (1981 Atlas methodology)._/ Much
of the country is unoccupied or very sparsely populated and there is
relatively little population pressure on the land. Although much of the
country is desert or semi-desert, the Sudan has great untapped potential
for agricultural development. About two-thirds of the total land area is
suitable for crop or pastoral production, but only a small fraction of this
land is under intensive use. The economy is heavily dependent on exports
of cotton, the major commodity from irrigated land, and on groundnuts,
sesame and gum arabic. The manufacturing sector is relatively small and is
limited to processing agricultural commodities such as cotton, oil seeds
and sugar and to the production of consumer goods and building materials.
A development of potential significance to Sudan's prospects is the
discovery of oil reserves in the southwestern part of the country. The
construction of an export pipeline carrying around 50,000 b/d is currently
under consideration. The public sector has long been important in the
Sudanese economy. It embraces all modern irrigation facilities, the
railways, virtually all power and water supply, and a significant
proportion of industry, commerce and finance. Although some industrial
enterprises are being returned to the private sector, about half of the GDP
is still generated within the public sector.
1/   Based on the nominal effective exchange rates for the period 1978/79 -
1980/81. Based on the official exchange rate as of November 15, 1982
of LSd 1.00 = US$0.769, per capita GNP would be about $260.



2-
The Current Crisis
4.         The most immediate problem facing Sudan is the balance of
payments crisis. Between 1972/73 and 1974/75, the deficit on current
account increased from US$11 million to about US$470 million and remained
between US$450 and US$550 million until 1980/81, when the combination of a
doubling of oil prices and a serious decline in cotton production pushed
the deficit to over US$700 million. Further reduction in cotton exports
and increased petroleum imports led to a current account deficit of close
to $1 billion in 1981/82. Gross official reserves have fallen to only a
few days worth of imports. By end 1982, external payments arrears had
accumulated to above $2.2 billion.
5.         The crisis is largely the consequence of inadequate economic
management policies compounded by external factors, such as the sharply
increased cost of petroleum imports, which have constrained Government's
ability to respond quickly with effective remedial action. Adverse
developments in foreign trade were accompanied by other adverse forces --
reduced flows of external capital after 1976, mounting debt problems, and
absorptive capacity constraints.
6.         The rapid increase in the value of imports came about partially
because of the sharp increase in oil prices and the steep rate of
international inflation, particularly in 1973/74 and 1974/75. There was,
however, a sharp rise in the volume of imiports between 1974/75 and 1977/78;
since then, imports have actually declined in real terms. Exports declined
in real terms by nearly 50 percent between 1972/73 and 1980/81. The
decline was concentrated in cotton and this occurred because of a shift
from cotton to other crops and also because of falling cotton yields. The
volume of cotton production in 1980/81 was only 40 percent of the 1970/71
level. Transport difficulties and other infrastructural problems
contributed to this decline, as did poor maintenance in many public
irrigation schemes.
7.         The rise in development expenditures after 1973 was financed in
large measure by external capital, but because of absorptive capacity
problems, disbursements of this capital declined unexpectedly after the
first few years, dropping from $465 million in 1974 to $264 million in
1977. Because of the slow disbursements and accumulating arrears, external
donors became less willing to make new commitments. Sudan faced a
difficult choice: either to cut back on projects just started or to
maintain the projects by running down foreign exchange reserves and
borrowing from banks or other sources abroad. The Government decided to
try to sustain the development effort by using reserves and by borrowing
heavily on relatively hard terms. As the reserves ran out, the
accumulation of arrears became unavoidable. Annual external public debt
service payments falling due increased from $55 million in 1972/73 to more
than $800 million in 1982/83. The debt service burden as a proportion of
exports of goods and services increased from 12 percent in 1972/73 to over
100 percent in 1982/83. The reasons were (a) the huge amount of external
borrowing in 1974-77; and (b) the fact that a large proportion of the
borrowing was on relatively hard terms. This unfavorable debt profile has
not only led to a heavy current debt servi ce burden, but also has critical
implications for future debt service obligations.



- 3 -
8.         The structural weakness in Sudan's public sector finances became
increasingly pronounced during the course of the 1970s. Sharp increases in
expenditures were not matched by increases in revenue. The consequent
sharp rise in public sector demands on the domestic banking system led to a
rapid acceleration in the growth of money supply, which peaked at 44
percent in 1976/77. Although the expansion has slowed in succeeding years,
the growth rate over the period 1977/78-1980/81 still averaged nearly 25
percent per year; during 1980/81, the rate of expansion again rose to
around 50 percent and, after a slowdown in 1981/82, is anticipated to rise
again in 1982/83 to around 30 percent. The expansion of the money supply
has contributed to an acceleration in annual price increases from 6 percent
in the early 1970s to over 25 percent now. Most of the increases in
current expenditures have been for social and community services, transfers
to local government, and general administration. The sharp increases in
general administration expenditures were due in large part to rising wages
and salaries of civilians in the central government, cost of living
subsidies and extra-budgetary expenditures. On the revenue side, tax
revenues have increased over the past few years; but since the tax system
is relatively inelastic, these increases have been made possible only with
frequent new tax measures. Recent changes, such as efforts to increase the
relative contribution of direct taxes, should improve elasticity somewhat.
Policy Changes
9.         Against this background of serious payments imbalances and
general economic crisis stemming from structural maladjustments in
production and trade, the Government has taken several significant
decisions in the last few years to establish financial equilibrium, restore
export growth through appropriate policies and public investments, improve
the performance of the public corporations, and install an adequate system
for management of the nation's external debt.
(a) Financial Stabilization and IMF Agreements
10.        In June 1978, a stabilization program was announced as part of a
Stand-by Agreement with the IMF. The Agreement included a variety of
measures to establish a more realistic exchange rate, reduce deficit
financing, control foreign borrowing, and improve production incentives,
particularly in the irrigated agriculture sector. In May 1979, agreement
was reached on similar policy actions that allowed access to a three-year
Extended Fund Facility (EFF).
11.        In November 1980, the Fund Board approved a second year program
under the EFF. Because of non-compliance with agreed targets, the
Government was not able to make drawings in the third and fourth quarters
of 1980/81. Subsequently in March 1981, several measures were taken to
strengthen the central government's budget, including increases in
petroleum product prices, import duties and the prices of cigarettes and
liquor. Further measures were taken in November 1981, including (i) a
unification of the official and parallel exchange rates at a new
depreciated rate of LSd 1.00 = US$1.11; (ii) reduction of budgetary subsidy
for petroleum products, wheat products, and sugar; and (iii) measures
designed to raise revenues and constrain credit expansion. These measures,



4  -
together with pledges at a special Donors Meeting in January 1982 that
closed the financing gap in the program, made it possible the following
month for the IMF to approve a one-year Stand-by Arrangement for the Sudan
of SDR 198 million. However, this program also lapsed in mid-term because
of Government's inability to comply with all of its conditions.
12.       The 1982 Stand-by Arrangemeni: was subsequently cancelled.
Further policy measures were taken in I)ecember 1982, including a 44 percent
devaluation of the Sudanese Pound to LS 1.00 = US$0.77. The Government
also prepared a comprehensive medium-term recovery program, Prospects,
Programmes and Policies for Economic Development, 1982/83-1984/85 (para.
18); this document formed the basis for discussions at the Consultative
Group Meeting in Paris in January 1983. The outcome of this Meeting,
together with a new debt restructuring package obtained from the Paris Club
in February 1983 (para. 17) enabled the Fund to approve a new Stand-by
Arrangement for 1983 for a total amount of SDR 170 million.
(b) Export Promotion and Public Investment Programs
13.       An essential aspect of the Government's stabilization program is
a concerted drive to increase foreign exchange earnings through increased
exports. This is being carried out under the Export Action Program (EAP),
initiated in mid-1979. The EAP was designed to raise the volume of cotton
exports at an average rate of 7 percent per annum during the period
1979-91. By mid-1981 the actual production of seed cotton had declined
further, but began a substantial recovery in 1981/82 with a 51 percent
increase in production volume. Several investments in the irrigated
subsector are aimed at reversing this deteriorating trend. Under the
Agricultural Rehabilitation Program (Credit No. 1000-SU of US$65 million
and EEC Special Action Fund Credit of about US$11 million), funds were
available for urgently needed spare parts and equipment. Several
rehabilitation projects will be carried out in the 1980s (the New Halfa
Rehabilitation Project, approved in May 1980, was the first of these,
followed by projects for the Blue and White Nile and more recently for the
Gezira irrigated area). In addition, several policy measures have been
taken in the areas of cost recovery, cot ton marketing, and institutional
reform (para. 28).
14.       Simultaneously with the EAP, the Government reduced the size of
its overall development program, as reflected in the Six-Year Plan, to a
more realistic level that was consistent with expected external and
domestic financial resources. In 1979 the Government completed the first
Three-Year Public Investment Program covering the period 1978/79-1980/81.
This Program has been updated twice; the latest investment program covering
the period 1982/83-1984/85 was incorporated into the medium-term recovery
program mentioned above.
(c) Public Corporations
15.       The Government has taken several actions to help remedy the
problems of the public enterprises. For example, in September 1979, the
Government announced the abolition of a cumbersome and overly centralized
corporate structure in agriculture and replaced it with more autonomous



-5-
agricultural entities. Organizational reforms have also been implemented
in the industrial and commercial sectors. During the past 12 months the
Government has substantially increased the prices for products of public
corporations to improve their financial positions.
(d) Management of External Debt
16.       As indicated earlier, Sudan's external debt burden has been quite
heavy for a number of years. The total disbursed outstanding external debt
at the end of 1982 amounted to around US$7.8 billion. Scheduled debt
service payments for 1983 exceed US$800 million. During the mid-seventies
external debt management was weak, in part because authority to engage in
foreign borrowing and the administration of foreign loans was divided among
many different ministries. This inefficiency was ameliorated through the
decision to vest sole authority for foreign borrowing with the Ministry of
Finance. A debt management unit (DMJ) in the Ministry of Finance was
established in 1979, but this unit has not operated effectively. Funds are
allocated under the Technical Assistance Project (Credit 1153-SU) to assist
in debt management. Following the recent Consultative Group meeting, the
Government adopted revised structures and procedures which should help to
improve debt management (para- 59A).
17.       Steps have also been taken to deal with the severe debt arrears
problems. In November 1979, a Paris Club meeting was held on the
rescheduling of Sudan's debt. Participating countries (Austria, Belgium,
Denmark, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, Switzerland, the
United Kingdom, the United States) and the Government reached agreement on:
(a) a rescheduling or refinancing of amounts falling due before October 1,
1979 and not paid (arrears); and (b) a rescheduling or refinancing of
amounts owed for the period October 1979 to June 1981. A further meeting
held in March 1982 rescheduled maturities falling due between July 1981 and
December 1982. The first payment on this arrangement was made by Sudan,
but because of an increasing scarcity of foreign exchange, the Government
was unable to discharge the other payments on time. The magnitude of
Sudan's debt problem and its inability to pay its rescheduled debt payments
led, in October 1982, to the appointment of an "international finance
coordinator". The first step towards a viable long-term solution to
Sudan's debt problem was taken by the Paris Club in February 1983 when it
agreed to reschedule all outstanding obligations due up to the end of 1983
over 16 years, with six years grace period. Agreements are expected soon
with other creditors, including the commercial banks.
New Recovery Program
18.       The Government issued the medium-term recovery program entitled
Prospects, Programmes and Policies for Economic Development:
1982/83-1984/85 (para. 12), in December 1982. In addition to an austere
three-year public investment program focused on economic recovery,
primarily through rehabilitation of the export sector and economically
efficient import substitution (especially in sugar), this document
contained macro projections through 1990/91 that reflect the long-term
nature of the recovery process and a set of short-and-medium-term policy



- 6 -
objectives covering areas such as foreign trade, production, demand
management, resource allocation and external resource mobilization. At the
Consultative Group Meeting held in Paris on January 12-14, 1983, the
Government requested program and project aid as well as substantial debt
relief to support the recovery progrEm. After intensive discussions, the
donor countries present concluded that the program was well conceived, and
expressed intentions to provide levels of assistance adequate to support
the program during 1983 if adequate debt relief were forthcoming.
Subsequently, the Paris Club met and agreed on rescheduling which was, in
the opinion of the Bank and the IMF, within Sudan's ability to pay. These
agreements in turn permitted the IMF Standby Arrangement to be activated.
If the Government builds on the progress which has been made by staying
within the terms of the IMF Standby Arrangement, keeping the exchange rate
realistic, continuing to encourage agricultural output by maintaining
adequate price levels for crops, and by adhering to its announced
development strategy for the next several years, a slow but steady
improvement in the balance of payments situation can be anticipated (see
Annex IV).
19.       The Bank/IDA share of Sudan's medium and long term debt service
is about 2 percent (based on scheduled liabilities for 1980/81) and of debt
outstanding and disbursed is almost 10 percent. It is estimated that the
Bank/IDA share of debt service will drop to 1 percent in 1984/85 when the
Bank/IDA share of debt outstanding and disbursed would be about 12 percent.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SUDAN
20.       World Bank Group gross commitments to Sudan to date total
US$792.1 million. Of this, US$33.0 million are IFC commitments. There
have been eight loans (two on Third Window terms) and 31 credits for a
total of 36 projects. Nineteen projects are under implementation. About
54 percent of total Bank/IDA lending has gone into agricultural
development: six irrigation projects; three rainfed mechanized farming
projects; four smallholder development projects; a livestock marketing
project; an agricultural research project; an Agricultural Rehabilitation
Program; and an agricultural credit project. Projects in other sectors
include: three power projects, two education projects, two highway
projects, a domestic aviation project, four railway projects, two port
projects, two technical assistance projects, and two industrial credit
projects. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits
and IFC investments as of March 31, 1983 and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects.
21.       Physical progress in implementing development projects in Sudan
has been mixed. Many projects have difficulty in getting key materials -
cement, fuel and timber of which there are periodic shortages. Belated
delivery of equipment and supplies due to transportation difficulties also
affects most projects. The continuing drain of skilled manpower to the
Middle East oil rich countries, where job opportunities are better, takes
its toll on effective preparation and implementation of projects. Largely
as a result of these problems, the Savannah Development Project (Credit
718-SU of June 24, 1977) has had to be redesigned into a much smaller pilot
project (Credit 1181-SU). Also, the Domestic Aviation Project (Loan
1287-T); Credit 643-SU of July 7, 1976) encountered serious delays and cost
overruns and has had to be terminated. There have also been lengthy delays



-7-
in meeting effectiveness conditions, mainly because of problems in
establishing new institutions or project accounts, hiring key staff,
completing necessary legal documentation, or concluding required
co-financing arrangements. These problems have been brought to the
attention of Government authorities, and steps have been taken to resolve
some of them such as in procurement and obtaining legal opinions.
Difficulties encountered in project implementation are reflected in Sudan's
disbursement performance. The disbursement rate, i.e. actual disbursements
during the year as a percentage of the undisbursed balance at the beginning
of the year, declined from 23.4 percent in FY78 to 12.1 percent in FY81,
but in FY82 the rate improved markedly to 27.7 percent as compared with a
rate of 24.7 percent for Eastern Africa and 23.9 percent Bank-wide.
Strategy
22.       The Bank Group strategy has been to encourage the Government to
undertake a broad program of economic reform aimed at addressing the
structural imbalances in the economy. The Government, with assistance from
the Bank and the IMF, has developed an economic recovery program, which
formed the basis for a Consultative Group meeting in January 1983 and a
Standby Agreement with the IMF (para. 12). In broad outline, this program
concentrates Government resources on the rehabilitation of existing capital
investments, particularly those which can contribute to expanding export
earnings, while restraining investment in new projects. At the project
level, IDA has continued to emphasize the rehabilitation of irrigated
agriculture, Sudan's major export earner, plus improvements in
infrastructure needed to service the agricultural sector. The Agricultural
Rehabilitation Program (Credit 1000-SU of April 4, 1980) which was just
completed was effective in providing badly needed spare parts and
replacement machinery for the irrigated sector, as well as encouraging the
Government to take some important steps toward improving incentives to
farmers through better cotton prices and costing arrangements for the
irrigated schemes. IDA lending will continue to be concentrated in the
agricultural sector and for critical infrastructure during the next two
years, with proposed projects in sugar rehabilitation, a further
agricultural rehabilitation program, electric power expansion, and highway
maintenance.
Relationship to other Aid Flows
23.       Bank and IDA lending - both new commitments and disbursements -
represent about 10 to 15% of total aid flows to the Sudan. This
relationship is expected to continue at about the same level during the
next several years.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
24.       The agricultural sector dominates the Sudanese economy.  It
provides for the livelihood of 80 percent of the population and contributes
about 40 percent of GDP and 95 percent of exports.  The Bank published a



-8-
survey of the Agricultural Sector in May 1979 (Report No. 1836a-SU) and a
review of the sector is included in the Bank economic report
"Sudan-Investing for Economic Stabilization and Structural Change" issued
in February 1982 (Report No. 3551a-SU).
The Irrigation Subsector
25.       The first large-scale gravity irrigated project in Sudan was
started in the 1920's at Gezira, initially for the cultivation of cotton as
an export crop. There are now five major irrigation schemes: Gezira-
Managil (2 million feddans), New Halfa (0.4 million feddans), Rahad (0.3
million feddans), and the Blue and White Nile Pump schemes covering 0.7
million feddans. About 50 percent of agricultural export earnings were
derived from cotton in the 1970-80 decade, mostly from the irrigation
schemes. Groundnuts, sesame and gum arabic contributed a total of 25
percent. The most striking feature of agricultural export patterns in the
seventies was the sharp decline in the volume of exports of Sudan's
traditional cash crops, long staple (ELS) cotton, sesame and groundnuts.
The annual export volume of these three crops averaged only 81,000 tons,
41,000 tons and 43,000 tons, respectively during the 1979-81 period,
compared to 168,000 tons, 70,000 tons and 99,000 tons in 1972-74.   Only
because the terms of trade were in Sudan's favor during the period, both
for cotton and for oilseeds, was the decline in value not more dramatic.
Nevertheless, the reduction in agricultural exports has played a major part
in Sudan's current economic difficulties.
26.       There are many causes for this decline.  The maintenance of
existing irrigation schemes has been neglected in favor of new expansion.
Crop diversification and intensification in the early seventies placed a
strain on delivery of inputs and management. The flight of skilled
manpower to neighbouring oil-producing countries compounded the problem.
Perhaps most important, the Government, its weak fiscal base strained for
cash to finance new investments, held the producer price for cotton low so
as to maximize short-term budgetary revenues. Cotton ceased to be an
attractive crop for tenants, who increasingly devoted more attention to
other crops and off-farm activities, while producing corporations were
unable to cover maintenance costs and r,eplace equipment. Declining exports
also led to shortages of the foreign exchange needed to buy spare parts and
inputs. These inputs were delivered late, cultivation techniques
deteriorated, and yields of all crops fell.
27.       The pattern of production relations developed at Gezira, the
oldest and largest scheme, has served as a model for the others. After
attempts to use wage labor and a rental system failed, a partnership was
developed based on the traditional allocation of crop shares on lands
adjacent to the scheme. Profits were divided between the Government,
responsible for developing and providing irrigation to the land, a
corporation responsible for agricultural services, and tenants, responsible
for supplying labor, seed, tools and farm animals. Under this system, most



- 9-
of the items of expenditure incurred by agricultural corporations for the
different crops grown on the tenancies were deducted from the total
revenues received from cotton sales by the corporation concerned. The net
revenues from cotton were then distributed in Gezira (and along a similar
pattern in other schemes) as follows: 36 percent to the Government for
land use, dam and canal maintenance and provision of water; 10 percent to
the corporations for meeting overhead costs; and 47 percent to the
tenants. A further 2 percent was set aside for a local government tax, 3
percent for a Social Services Fund and 2 percent for a Tenants' Reserve
Fund. The tenants' share was then divided by total scheme production of
seed cotton to arrive at a price per kantar of seed cotton payable to each
tenant. The Joint Account created a strong bias in the minds of tenants
against cotton. Input costs were recovered per kantar of cotton produced
rather than per feddan of area planted. This penalized the more productive
cotton growers, whose actual per kantar costs were lower. Over the years
the tenants' share increased from 40 percent to 47 percent although
increasing responsibilities, for instance sowing and fertilizer
application, had been transferred to the corporations. Consequently, the
corporations increasingly lacked revenue to discharge their responsibili-
ties effectively. The most serious consequences of the Joint Account
System, however, were felt when cotton yields fell at the same time as
other crops became increasingly important. These crops are privately
marketed and input costs cannot be recovered at sale. Therefore, land and
water costs for these crops were recovered from cotton revenues. Cotton,
bearing the burden of these other charges, therefore became less and less
attractive to tenants.
Strategy for Revival of Agricultural Exports
28.       Recognizing the severity of the problem, the Government, with the
Bank, drew up the Export Action Program (EAP) (para. 13) in 1980 designed
to restore production to the levels of the early 1970s. The EAP contains
provision for: (i) urgently needed investments aimed at satisfying
requirements for spare parts, machinery and equipment in order to arrest
decapitalization which has plagued the subsector; (ii) allocation of
foreign exchange to finance larger imports of current inputs of which there
has been a serious shortage; (iii) a series of rehabilitation projects,
with IDA support, to be carried out in the 1980s, principally in the major
agricultural schemes where cotton is grown; and (iv) policy reforms and
other actions such as institutional reforms and revision of the incentive
systems intended to stimulate greater production. In line with the
strategy embodied in the EAP, IDA also financed projects for the
rehabilitation of the New Halfa (Credit 1022-SU), Blue Nile Pump (Credit
1118-SU), and White Nile Pump (Credit 1119-SU) schemes.  Another IDA
credit, to finance the rehabilitation of the Gezira irrigated area, has
been prepared for submission to the Board in June 1983. All
rehabilitation projects include measures to improve management
capabilities, such as the design of regular work programs and improved
financial management, technical assistance and training.



- 10 -
29.       The Agricultural Rehabilitation Program of US$76 million (IDA
Credit 1000-SU of US$65 million and EEC Special Action Program of US$11
million) financed urgently needed requirements for spare parts, machinery
and equipment in order to arrest the decapitalization of the 1970s, in
addition to studies in support of policy reforms. This credit was
disbursed over a two-year period. Three reports of particular importance
to irrigated production have resulted from ARP financed studies. They are:
(a) "Study of Cost Recovery in the Irrigated Agricultural Sector"; (b)
"Study of Cotton Marketing"; and (c) "Administrative Review of the
Irrigation Sector". These studies drew up recommendations for policy
reform which may be grouped under four main headings: (i) Improvement of
cost recovery and reform of accounting systems: (ii) Reform of cotton
pricing mechanism; (iii) Improvement of cotton processing and marketing
-systems.; and (iv) Improvement of Government support and supervision of
parastatals. Progress towards implementing these reforms is described in
the following paragraphs.
30.       Cost Recovery and Accounting System.  In June 1980, the
Government announced that the Joint Account System would be abolished and
replaced by an individual accounting system. Tenants would be charged for
each input for each individual crop. Accounts would be kept separately for
each tenant, and debts would be recorded for cash advances, inputs,
services and land and water charges primarily on a per feddan basis. On
this basis, farmers would receive a much larger share of their marginal
increases in production, thus increasing the incentive to produce. With
effect from 1981/82, the individual account system has been introduced on
all schemes.
31.       Reform of Cotton Pricing.  Also in June 1980, the Government
announced two other reforms. The first was to announce publicly, each year
before harvest, a producer price for cotton. The second was to pay tenants
their cotton incomes promptly on delivery of seed cotton on the basis of
the new individual account system. As a result, tenants were, for the
first time in over half a century, able to estimate incomes from cotton
reliably since distortions caused by uncertainty over prices, unpredictable
cashflows, and adjustments of non-cotton charges against cotton sale
proceeds were eliminated. This gave them the opportunity to make rational
decisions on allocation of efforts between tending the cotton crop and
other competing claims on their time and has contributed to the remarkable
improvement in productivity achieved in the last two years. Cotton prices
for the 1980/81, 1981/82 and 1982/83 seasons were announced in early
December each year. The prices announced were found to be acceptable to
the Association. Improvements in the official producer price of cotton,
and also other irrigation crops, are depicted in Annex IX, Table 1.
32.       Improvement to Cotton Processing and Marketing.  Cotton is
exported by the Sudan Cotton Public Corporation (CPC) which generally
obtains favourable prices for cotton exports. However, technical and
institutional improvements are needed so that it can operate on more
commercial lines (Annex IX, paras. 37-41). These issues are being addressed
during the preparation of a Cotton Marketing Project. The agricultural
corporations, primarily responsible for production, also have
responsibility for cotton ginning. While most of the ginneries are owned
by the corporations, a few private sector ginneries also operate on
contract with them.



- 11 -
33.       Support and Supervision of Parastatals.  An important decision
taken by Government in November 1981 was to amalgamate the ministries of
agriculture and irrigation into a single Ministry for Agriculture and
Irrigation (MOAI). In June 1981, the statutes of a limited number of
parastatal companies were revised to permit their operation on a more
autonomous basis. Thus an important beginning was made in reorganizing the
parastatal sector. Another notable accomplishment was the establishment,
through the ARP, of a strong procurement capability within the Ministry of
Finance and Economic Planning with the establishment of a Program
Procurement Committee (PPC). Plans are now under way to establish a unit
in. the MOAI, staffed with competent specialists, to review and revise
ministry accounting, to monitor and evaluate performance of all
agricultural parastatals, and to extend technical assistance and evaluate
the impact of governmental policies on them. This unit will be supported
under the Blue Nile Rehabilitation Project. The Gezira Project would
support a Project Management Unit in MOAI which would inter alia deal with
external donors, coordinate among government agencies and departments,
review annual work programs, coordinate procurement, monitor progress,
conduct studies and extend technical support to the various project
entities.
Results achieved
34.       On the whole, available evidence indicates that the Export Action
Program has reversed the downward slide in production and productivity.
After a further decline in 1980/81, cotton production increased 51 percent
in 1981/82 (59 percent increase in the irrigated areas) compared to the
previous year, and another 23 percent in 1982/83 compared to 1981/82.
Other crops also have made impressive gains in the past two years, as set
out in para. 57 of Annex IX. The supply of critical farm inputs can be seen
as an essential prerequisite to the realization of further benefits from
the EAP. The balance of payments situation has made it virtually
impossible for the country to embark on a regular program of importing such
inputs well in advance of actual requirements. With project lending
arrangements and the establishment of a policy framework conducive to
production and productivity improvements, priority needs to be given to
assuring that Sudan can meet its requirements for recurrent farm inputs in
the short run. At the same time, it is necessary to establish mechanisms
that would enable production units to gain access to an adequate and timely
supply of foreign exchange to finance inputs and replacement equipment in
the medium and longer run.
Transport for Agriculture
35.       The Sudan Railway Corporation (SRC) is important to the irrigated
sub-sector since it delivers inputs from Port Sudan to the interior and
carries export crops to the port for shipment abroad. Since 1958, the Bank
Group has made three loans and two credits for four railways projects for a
total amount of US$114.0 million. Although provision of rolling stock and
other equipment has helped overcome physical bottlenecks, general
operations of the railway have deteriorated. Over the past ten years rail



- 12 -
transport has declined by 44 percent for freight and 10 percent for
passengers. While in the early seventies rail accounted for 73 percent of
total freight, it is presently 26 percent. Performance against financial
and operational indicators has also deteriorated. Although the inevitable
advent of road transport has had its effect upon the railway's share in
traffic, the lack of operational efficiency and the unreliability of its
services are major causes of the railway's decline.
36.       Further major investments in capital stock are not justified at
this time. There is, however, an urgent need for provision of spare
parts. In any effort to rehabilitate SRC, emphasis must be placed upon:
(a) improved operational and financial efficiency of the railway system;
and (b) improved intermodal coordination between rail and road transport to
render the two modes complementary rather than competitive as at present,
with consequent economic inefficiencies. The Government is making efforts
to restore the railways as an asset to Sudan's economy and agreement was
reached recently between the Government and the Association on the
formulation of a coherent action program which would result in an
acceptable level of efficiency of SRC in the short run. To assist in the
formulation of this recovery plan, the Association agreed to provide
consultancy services under the Second Technical Assistance Project (Credit
1153-SU).
PART IV - THE PROGRAM
The Program: Scope and Objectives
37.       Given the situation as described in Part III and further
elaborated in Annex IX,the proposed Agricultural Rehabilitation Program II
is a logical follow-on to the ARP which is now almost completely
disbursed. The commodities proposed for importation under ARP II would
mainly be annual recurrent inputs for the irrigated sub-sector, whereas
commodities under ARP-I were mostly spare and replacement parts for
equipment used in the irrigated schemes. ARP II would also provide some
spare parts for the Sudan Railways Corporation (SRC) in order to help
assure the movement of agricultural input:s and exports, and to the Rahad
and Suki irrigation schemes.
38.       The objectives of the program would be:
(a) To support continuation of the progress made in policy and
institutional changes affe!cting the irrigated subsector;
(b) To assure an adequate supply of critically needed farm
inputs and spares in support of activities in the irrigated
subsector; and
(c) To encourage continued improvements in Government
performance in certain crucial macro-economic policy areas
affecting the agricultural sector including foreign
exchange and financial management.



- 13 -
Program Strategy
39.       As described in Parts I and III, Sudan has made progress during
the past three years in addressing some of the major problems which had in
the past led to a decline in the output of Sudan's major agricultural
exports. Prices for cotton are now being set at levels which encourage
production, and tenants are being paid for their rcrops promptly and on the
basis of a system of charges which creates incentives to produce. Capital
investments included in the Government's development program are
concentrated on the rehabilittion of existing structures rather than on new
projects. Macro-economic policies important to increased agricultural
output have been implemented through agreements with the IMF, including
exchange rate adjustments, and through attempts to introduce some order
into Sudan's debt obligations. These measures have resulted in sharply
increased output of cotton and production increases in most other crops
grown in the irrigated areas during the past two years (Annex IX, page 17).
40.       This credit will be used to support and expand these efforts,
both in a physical and policy sense. Support for recurrent agricultural
inputs will help to fill a pressing requirement needed to maintain and
expand the progress which has been made in increasing agricultural output.
Even more important, the Government has agreed to introduce a system of
advance planning for meeting these recurrent requirements which did not
exist previously (para. 48). Also, the Government has indicated its
intention to carry on the improved policies of the past few years,
including its access to IMF resources and the implementation of its
economic recovery program (para. 18). Other specific conditionalities
associated with the credit will be the establishment of an effective debt
management unit (para. 59A), a study of how foreign exchange needed for
agricultural production should be provided in the longer run (paras.
49-51), and a program for encouraging the Government to make further
progress on stemming the losses from certain agricultural parastatal
operations (paras. 55-56). These steps are now needed to maintain the
momentum which has been achieved.
41.       Thus the program is a natural extension of the several
IDA-financed agricultural rehabilitation credits, reinforcing their
effectiveness both through the provision of physical inputs and through a
strengthening and expansion of the policy and institutional changes of the
past several years.
Program Implementation
42.       The following items are included for IDA financing under this
credit:
US $ Million
Recurrent Agricultural Inputs for
Year 1984/85 for the Irrigated
Sub-Sector                                      $43.5
Spare parts for Rahad and Suki Corporations         2.0
Spare Parts for Sudan Railway Corporation           4.0
Technical Assistance and Office Support              .5
$50.0



- 14$ -
43.       Given the size of the annual requirements for recurrent inputs
(Annex VI), the Credit will all be made available to meet the needs of the
crop year 1984/85. Therefore, procurement by the end users is expected to
be accomplished within one year of effectiveness. End users would purchase
the items financed by the credit on a cash basis, paid in local currency.
There would be no subsidiary agreements or credit arrangements other than
those normally used by these entities in their regular course of business.
The Sudanese pounds received from the sales would be deposited in a special
account which would be used to cover the local costs of development
projects in the TYIP (Section 3.01(i), draft Development Credit Agreement).
Recurrent Input Financing Plan
44.       The full cost of the recommended level of agricultural inputs for
the irrigated area now under cultivation was calculated at appraisal to be
$146 million, as given in Annex VI.   However, the actual cost of inputs
used in the last several years has not exceeded $80 million per year, and
financial constraints will probably dictate a maximum level of inputs of
about $100 million for the crop year 1984-85, even with the financing
available under this credit. An expert has been provided, financed under
IDA Credit 1153-SU (Technical Assistance II), to review the requirements
list, the application methods, and the bidding procedures to see if this
requirement can be reduced. His findings will be reviewed with the
Association by September 30, 1983 (Section 3.01(k), draft Development
Credit Agreement). Also, a final judgment as to the balance between
agricultural needs and financial availabilities should be made immediately
preceding procurement. Therefore, the Government will prepare a financing
plan which will show the requirements for the 1984-85 crop year, as well as
the sources of probable financing to meet these requirements, as a
condition of credit effectiveness. There will be some practical problems
in assuring adequate financing by September 30, 1983, however, since some
aid donors do not agree on the content of their program aid until early in
the calendar year in question. On the other hand, it would be desirable to
place lead items on order by October 1983 to assure prompt arrival and
distribution to the points of use prior to planting time in May 1984. The
Government will make every effort to secure commitments for financing the
agreed minimum necessary level of requirements as early as possible, and
IDA financing will only be made available when reasonable assurances have
been received that full financing can be expected (Section 5.01, draft
Development Credit Agreement).
Rahad and Suki Spare Parts
45.       All of the major irrigated schemes are now being or will be
assisted by IDA-financed rehabilitation programs, except for the Rahad and
Suki Corporations. It is necessary to assure Rahad and Suki of a source of
replacement parts and spares during the coming year in order to maintain
efficient operation of equipment and ginneries. Therefore, $2 million
equivalent has been included for this purpose (see Annex VIII). This will
include equipment for land preparation, transportation and workshops.
Railway Spare Parts
46.       In view of the importance of the railway to the agricultural
sector and the progress made in reaching agreement with the Government on a



-  15  -
program of improvement (para. 36), a project for rehabilitation of the
railway is under preparation. To assist in procuring the necessary spare
parts to keep rolling stock operative in the meantime, an allocation of
$4.0 million equivalent is included in the proposed Credit. Efforts are
currently underway to obtain spare parts through bilateral sources.
Disbursements for railway spares would therefore be contingent upon a
determination, satisfactory to the Association, that the requisite spare
parts are not available from sources other than the Association. A list of
Sudan Railways Corporation's (SRC) spare parts requirements over the next
year is attached as Annex VIII. Disbursements would furthermore be
contingent upon appointment of consultants to assist in the formulation of
a railway recovery program financed under Credit 1153-SU which provides for
.the Association's approval of terms and conditions of consultancy services
provided (Schedule I, para. 4(c), draft Development Credit Agreement).
During negotiations, the Government delegation was advised that if the
consultants were not appointed by March 31, 1984, the $4.0 million
equivalent allocated for railway spares would be cancelled rather than
reallocated for other uses. In actual fact, appointment of the consultancy
services is expected by September 30, 1983.
Technical Assistance and Office Support
47.       A sum of $500,000 equivalent would be set aside under the credit
to finance technical assistance relating to the agricultural recovery
program, and office support and training for procurement.   These will
include:
(a) Assistance to study the longer term arrangements necessary
to assure adequate recurent input financing (para. 55); and
(b) Office equipment, vehicles, training and technical
assistance to strengthen the Program Procurement Committee
(PPC) (Annex V, page 3).
Foreign Exchange Management for Agricultural Needs
48.       The Government has recently established a Committee for
Coordinating Commodity Aid (CCCA), chaired by the State Minister of Economy
in the MOFEP and including representation from the Ministry of Commerce and
the Bank of Sudan to manage and arrange the program aid available to Sudan,
except for food aid which is handled separately through another committee.
The Government has now agreed to set up a permanent staff arm for the
Committee and to broaden the Committee's functions to include the review
of the Government's foreign exchange budget including the monitoring of its
implementation (Section 3.01(e), draft Development Credit Agreement). The
Government also agreed to set up appropriate procedures in the Ministry of
Agriculture and Irrigation (MOAI), under the Director General of Planning
(DGP), for planning the foreign exchange recurrent needs of the
agricultural sector. Two expatriate advisers financed under the Blue Nile
Project (IDA Credit 1118-SU), assigned to work with the DGP, will assist in
setting up these procedures (Section 3.01(h)(i), draft Development Credit
Agreement). These arrangements should help to assure an adequate level of
foreign exchange to meet high priority requirements.



- 16 -
Long Term Foreign Exchange Needs for Agriculture
49.       While the arrangements which are described in para. 48 should be
a major improvement in the manner in which the Government plans and manages
the foreign exchange resources which it controls, these arrangements do not
extend to foreign exchange denominated deposits held by the commercial
banks. The development of a freer market for foreign exchange since
September 1979 has had a number of beneficial effects on the economy. It
has attracted remittances from Sudanese working abroad, encouraged
non-cotton exports and financed a growing volume of imports and invisibles
which previously constituted a financing burden on the Bank of Sudan. At
the same time, the authorities have been concerned about the possibility
that the free market may have encouraged capital outflows and speculative
behavior. Moreover, the free market rate of exchange has diverged
substantially from the official rate, creating distortions in the economy.
50.       The Government and the IMF are actively reviewing the present
arrangements to see if improvements can be made which will reduce the
adverse tendencies of the free market system without causing a
disproportionate decline in foreign exchange inflows. This review is also
designed to assure that an adequate level of foreign exchange is available
to the Government for the procurement of those priority purchases which are
made for the Government's account.
51.       While the arrangements being put in place under this Credit will
give reasonable assurance of full finaLncing for the 1984/85 irrigated
agriculture crop year inputs, this will be a recurrent problem in future
years when aid program assistance may be less plentiful. The review which
the Government and the IMF are conducting may reveal means for greater
access to the free market than at present, but this will not be apparent
until the review is completed. Therefore, during negotiations Government
agreement was reached that during the disbursement period of the credit it
will conduct a study of the longer term arrangements necessary for assuring
adequate levels of foreign exchange financing for recurrent inputs in
future years and will prepare an action program for the implementation of
the recommendations of the study by May 31, 1984, the results to be
reviewed with the Association by July 31, 1984, with technical assistance
to be made available from the Credit (Section 3.01(h)(ii) and (iii), draft
Development Credit Agreement).
Fuel Requirements
52.       Those irrigated schemes which still rely on diesel pawered pumps
to provide power for lifting water have in recent years had difficulty
obtaining the fuel supply needed to run the pumps and farm machinery.
During the last crop year, for example, a shortage of diesel fuel for the
Blue Nile pump schemes led to inadequate water availability during critical
times in the growing season, and was largely responsible for a yield of
only 2.25 kantars per feddan for MS cotton compared to a national average
of 5.5. Similar shortages in the 1984/85 crop year could nullify the
effectiveness of the farm inputs to be financed under the IDA credit.



- 17 -
53.       Since diesel fuel is supplied for the entire country through the
Government's import refinery, and distribution system, there is no feasible
way to provide for the fuel needed for the irrigated schemes, estimated to
be about $16 million for the year, as a separately purchased input. Also,
the problem is complicated by the fact that the proper control of fuel
within the irrigated schemes is essential to the availability of irrigation
water; even if the Government provides an adequate amount of fuel, this
will not guarantee water availability if fuel is diverted for other uses.
The Government has provided a firm commitment that an adequate level of
fuel will be provided, and controls will be applied to the use of the fuel
in the irrigated schemes to assure its effective use. This will be
accomplished through improvements in the irrigation pump scheme management
data and control systems, and through policing of actual consumption at the
pump stations. Quarterly reports will be submitted to the Association
regarding fuel availability until completion of the project to provide a
means of anticipating problems in this area (Section 3.01(f), draft
Development Credit Agreement).
Improved Agricultural Policies
54.       The Government has agreed that the improved agricultural policies
of the last two years would be continued. Specific conditionality relating
to agricultural policies and institutional changes are included in other
credits and proposed credits, and therefore are not included as conditions
of ARP-II. Specifically, the Gezira Rehabilitation Project includes
conditions relating to the setting of adequate cotton and wheat prices,
machinery hire rates and land and water charges, provision of a ten-year
program for investments in the irrigated sub-sector, and the establishment
of a centrally located institution within the Ministry of Agriculture and
Irrigation to coordinate and supervise the irrigation rehabilitation
program. The Gezira credit also provides for studies regarding the tenancy
system, credit availabilitiy, and the marketing system as a basis for
future improvements in these areas.
Agricultural Parastatals
55.       A persistent problem for Government monetary management in recent
years has been the substantial losses incurred by the Government-owned
operating companies (parastatals), requiring credit advances from the Bank
of Sudan in order to keep the units functioning. Overdrafts to parastatals
totalled LS 131.5 million in 1980/81, which was equivalent to about 30
percent of the Central Government deficit for that fiscal year. About LS
100 million or 75 percent of this amount was for the agricultural
parastatals, where the problems of output pricing and charges for services
provided to tenants are now being addressed through IDA financed projects.
The status of the parastatals was studied in depth in a report written
jointly in 1978 by the World Bank and the Government, as a result of which
Government divested itself of several small operations.
56.       The Government continues to be concerned about parastatal losses,
which have expanded further in recent years, and has considered turning
some additional operations back to private ownership. However, the issues
of equity and ownership are complex, and the Government is understandably



18  -
uncertain as to how to proceed. The Government has, however, agreed to
concentrate on improving the operations of the sugar parastatal companies,
and also the Government operated cotton marketing operations. The
objective will be to improve the commercial performance of these
parastatals on the basis of recommendations emanating from studies now
being carried out under previous IDA credits. These studies will address
the legal status, organizational arrangements, management issues,
accounting and financial viability, and general operating conditions under
which these organizations function. The Government has agreed to prepare
an action program for these two subsectors after reviewing the studies, and
to exchange views with the Association on this program by March 31, 1984
(Section 3.01(j), draft Development Credit Agreement). This will in turn
form the basis for major projects of rehabilitation for both the sugar and
cotton marketing subsectors.
Other Conditions
57.       The Government understands that an active IMF agreement and a
viable debt rescheduling arrangement are conditions for presentation of the
credit to the Board. This position was taken because of the critical
importance which the exchange rate has for the setting of an adequate level
of prices for Sudan's export crops, and the belief that adequate foreign
exchange could only be made available to meet recurrent input requirements
if Sudan had put its debt obligations on an orderly basis. Both of those
conditions have now been met (see paras. 12 and 17).
58.       The Government has stated tha.t it intends to carry out its
economic recovery program as presented at the January 1983 Consultative
Group meeting. Another condition of the credit would be adherence to the
Government's program until completion of the project, including the yearly
updated Three Year Investment Plan (TYIP) (Section 3.01(b), Draft
Development Credit Agreement).
59.       The Government has agreed to undertake the following
institutional changes, which will make important improvements in the
Government's capacity to carry out its economic program:
A. Debt Management - a Directorate General of External Finance
(DGEF) will be set up in the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
(MOFEP) by September 30, 1983, reportin,g to the Minister. This unit will
replace the existing Debt Management Urnit, which has been ineffective
because of its organizational location and staffing. The primary objective
of the DGEF would be to enable the Government to maintain adequate
information on its external debt obligaLtions and its reporting obligations
to the External Debt Reporting System maintained by the World Bank (Section
3.01(c), draft Development Credit Agreement).
B.  Implementation Committee - The Government has established a
Joint Committee for Implementation of the Government recovery program, as
agreed at the January 1983 Consultative Group meeting. The Committee is
chaired by a Sudanese official and includes representatives of both the
donor community and the Government. Its function will be to review



- 19 -
progress under the recovery program on a quarterly basis and to report to
the Consultative Group donors (Section 3.01(d), Draft Development Credit
Agreement). Annex VII sets out the Terms of Reference under which the
Joint Committee will function, and a first meeting was held on March 7,
1983.
Procurement and Disbursement
60.       Procurement of the agriculturfal inputs would be handled by the
Program Procurement Committee (PPC), an organization set up to handle
procurement under ARP-I. All contracts for goods of US$250,000 or more to
be financed under the Credit would be procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding procedures consistent with Bank Group
guidelines. Contracts for goods of less than US$250,000 would be procured
under normal procedures of the GOS acceptable to the Association.
Contracts for insecticides and other chemicals, for which there are only a
few established and reliable sources, would be awarded through limited
international bidding among at least three such sources. Goods costing
less than US$20,000 equivalent would be purchased off the shelf or through
quotations provided the aggregate value of goods so acquired does not
exceed US$100,000. Spare parts for vehicles, machinery and equipment would
be purchased directly from the manufacturer or after obtaining quotations
from at least two reputable manufacturers or other established sources. A
full description of the procurement process and the organizations involved
has been included as Annex V.
61.       The proceeds of the Credit would be disbursed over 18 months
after credit effectiveness on the basis of 100 percent of foreign
expenditures for agricultural recurrent inputs and spare parts; 100 percent
of foreign expenditures, 100 percent of local expenditures (exfactory cost)
and 55 percent of local expenditures for railway spare parts, office
equipment and vehicles; and 100 percent of consultants' services and
overseas training financed by the Project. No retroactive financing is
contemplated.
Environmental Effects
62.       Pest control by spraying cotton with insecticides has been
extensively practised in Sudan for the past 30 years. All sprays currently
used are tested by residue analysis for compliance with prescribed
specifications and registered with the Pesticide Committee of the MOAI.
Application is by aerial spraying. Studies on techniques that minimize
drift has been proposed on a pilot scheme in the Gezira Rehabilitation
Project, so that risk of direct contamination of the human population can
be reduced further. In addition, the Government has agreed to employ an
expatriate pesticide specialist to check on the amount of pesticides used
annually in all major irrigation schemes and to recommend proper methods of
control and application of pesticides in the field with his services to be
financed under IDA Credit 1118-SU (Blue Nile Irrigation). Although
extensive use of chemicals would continue to pose long-term risks, it would
not be commercially feasible to produce cotton without chemical pest
control.



-  20  -
Ri sks
63.       The principal risk associated with the project relates to a
possible shortfall in foreign exchange needed to finance the agricultural
input requirements for the 1984-85 crop year. However, this risk will be
greatly reduced by the fact of IDA financing itself, which will provide
approximately half of the inputs needed for the irrigated sub-sector.
Also, other donors have been providing inputs of this kind in prior years,
and it should be possible to make a sound assessment of the prospects for
full financing by October 1983.
64.       A shortage of fuel needed to run the pump schemes could also
jeopardize production. Obtaining a Government commitment during
negotiations to meet this requirement and agreement on periodic reports on
fuel availability to be made available to IDA (para. 53) will minimize but
not eliminate this risk.
65.       Another risk is the possibility that the Government will set crop
prices at a level too low to provide an adequate incentive for farmers to
produce.  However, the Government has ia recent years been extremely aware
of the linkage between farm gate prices and output. Furthermore, the
provisions contained in the Gezira Rehabilitation Project (para. 54) which
provide for consultation with the Association on cotton and wheat prices,
should mitigate this risk.
66.       Another risk is the possibility of delay in procurement or
delivery. However, this risk is minimal since PPC has much experience with
IDA procurement and a good track record in its work on ARP-I. Also, the
delivery system set up for handling, moving, and storing inputs within
Sudan were reviewed during appraisal and found to be satisfactory.
Benefits
67.       It is difficult to separate the anticipated benefits of the
proposed program (ARP-II) from those expected from the various agricultural
rehabilitation programs, and therefore no overall rate of return
calculation has been made. However, the rate of return on the inputs
financed under the credit would certainLy be very high. ARP II could also
be seen as insurance against serious crop losses which would result from
inadequate or untimely supplies of fertilizer or pesticides, and can be
expected to increase crop output to the extent that larger applications of
fertilizer are possible than would otherwise be the case.
68.       Even more important, ARP-II can be seen as a critical element of
support to keep Sudan on the course of economic recovery. The next three
years will be crucial to this process, after which program aid requirements
should begin to taper off.
69.       Finally, there are important benefits to be gained through the
institutional arrangements being set up for managing Sudan's debt, for
better foreign exchange management, and for the financial resturcturing of
parastatals.



-  21  -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
70.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Democratic
Republic of the Sudan and the Association, and the Recommendation of the
Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Association are being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors. Special features of the Draft Development Credit
Agreement are referred to in Section III of Annex III.
71.       The following condition of effectiveness has been included in the
Credit Agreement:
The Borrower shall provide the Association a financing plan for
the acquisition of essential recurrent inputs needed in 1984/85
for the irrigated agricultural sub-sector, such plan to be
satisfactory to the Association (para. 44).
72.       The following condition of disbursement shall apply to the
procurement of railway spares (Category 3):
The Borrower shall, by March 31, 1984, appoint Consultants to
review railway operations, and provide evidence satisfactory to
the Association that financing from other sources is not
available (para. 46).
73.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
74.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
by
Ernest Stern
Washington, D.C.
May 23, 1983



-  22  -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A
SUDAN   SOCL IND2CATORS DATA SHEET
SUDAN                            REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVElAGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                               - MDST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL           2505.8                                    MOBS, RECENT           LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL     684.0                 1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (US4)                    190.0       240.0     41L0.0                250.0                 1053.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(XILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)         51.6       146.3    1:12.6                 66.5                   610.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)   11228.0      13849.0  18631.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)   10.3         16.4       14.8                 17.8                   28.3
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                         :13.7
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          101.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                    2135
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                           4.5         5.5       7.2                 27.7                    54.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        16.7        20.5      26.5                  86.7                  129.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                            43.7        43.7      44.2                  44.8                   46.0
15-64 YRS.                            53.2        53.4      53.0                 52.3                    51.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                      3.1         2.9       2.8                  2.9                     2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 2.0         2.1       3.0                   2.7                    2.8
URBAN                                 6.9         6.7       7.1                   6.2                    5.2
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        46.5        46.7      46.9                 47.3                    47.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        24.5        22.1      18.8                  19.5                   15.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 3.3         3.3       3.2                   3.2                    3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)          ..          ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)       ..          ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)             92.0       100.0     100.0                  88.7                   90.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                      83.3        91.2      95.8/c                90.2                   93.9
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)             64.6        65.8      67.6/-?               53.1                   54.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          23.7        21.8      21.6/c                18.4                   17.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        40.1        32.4      21.9                  26.7                   23.9
HEALTH
'IFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)        39.6        41.8      46.2                  45.6                   51.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             168.0       150.4     124.5                 129.9                  118.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..        19.0      46.0/d                23.9
URBAN                                  ..        61.0      49.07-                54.9
RURAL                                  ..        13.0      45.O7d                18.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..        16.0      22.0/e                25.8
URBAN                                  ..          ..        ..                  63.1
RURAL                                  ..          ..        ..                  20.2
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            33416.7     14059.9    8782.4/c             32097.3                14185.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        3032.4/f    1719.9     El50.47r             3264.6                 2213.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                               980.0/      920.7/   1008.4/c              1225.0                 1036.4
URBAN                               132.67f,g   185. 47   449.O7r               249.5                  430.8
RURAL                              4400.97j,j  5124.1 j  1'60.17r              1712.1                 3678.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..          ..      16.9
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                  ..         5.1
URBAN                                  ..         5.7/h
RURAL                                  ..          ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                  ..          ..
URBAN                                  ..         2.5/h
RURAL                                  ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                   ..       26.4/h       ..
URBAN                                             ..               ..               ..
RURAL                                   ..         ..         ..



- 23 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A
SUDAN - SAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
SUDAN                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  lb    1970 lb ESTIMATE lb   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 25.0        38.0       50.0                  63.2                    83.3
MALE                  35.0        46.0      58.0                   72.7                    96.1
FEMALE                14.0        29.0      42.0                  50.3                     80.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  3.0         7.0       16.0                  10.2                    15.3
MALE                   5.0        10.0      20.0                   13.2                    19.4
FEMALE                 1.0         4.0      11.0                    6.6                    11.3
VOCATIONAL ENROL. tX OF SECONDARY)   3.4           1.4/i     3.3LiW                7.9                     4.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            41.1        46.5       35.0                  47.4                    38.6
SECONDARY                          20.0        16.6       19.0                  26.2                    23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        13.1         14.7/h    20.0/d                34.0                    35.6
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          1.4         2.0         ..                   3.0                    31.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         17.0/k      80.4       73.0                  34.8                    71.8
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.8/1       3.2        5.8                   1.7                    17.9
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST-) CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   4.0           ..       1.0                   2.9                    19.1
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.8            ..       0.2                   1.1                     0.6
LABOR FORCE
rTotALLABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      3722.3      4544.1    5936.7
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    9.6         10.2      10.8                  34.1                    36.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              86.0         82.0      72.0                  78.4                    56.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  6.0         8.0       10.0                   9.2                    17.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                33.2         32.8      31.8                  41.4                    37.0
MALE                                 59.3         58.2      55.9                  53.9                    46.9
FEMALE                                6.4          6.8       7.0                  29.1                    27.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.4          1.4       1.5                   1.2                     1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   20.9/r         ..         .
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  50.17i       49.2/n
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    5.07T         5.17       ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.9T7       14.5T7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     137.0                 134.3                   507.0
RURAL                                ..           ..      80.0                  82.9                   200.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     115.0                  96.4                   523.9
RURAL                                ..           ..     100.0                  60.4                   203.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..                  39.3
RURAL                                ..           ..      85.0                  69.0
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1977; /d 1976; /e 1975; /f 1962; /g Governoent hospital establishments; /h 1966; /i Beginning 1970,
the duration of general secondary education was reduced from 8 to 6 yearis  /j Includes programs of 5
training centers operated by Dept. of Labor and 17 short-term centers operated by Ministry of Youth
and Sport; /k 1963; /1 1964; Ia 1963, Omdurman "urban;' /n 1967-68.
May, 1982



-  24  -                                                                 ANNEX I
Page 3
DflP7JsTITUS OF SOCLJL IsDICAITMS
Note:  Although the dta        draw.n free sources generaiiy judged the  -es antheritatire and reli-ble  it should sIne be wted tho  tbey my set be iuter-
_trionaly corparabl  bec-ne of the lack of atawdardeied definitions and ceereper u se   by different enanres in oliecting she data   The data are. tope-
th.les.  uneful to describe orders of _sglitude, indicate treed, and characteri-e certain major differettes between ceentries.
The reference gronps are (1) the name country group of the nubiutt country and (2) aetuoutry group with 6n2exhst highenr overage lecowe than the country group
of the suhjeIt country (tuCePt for   "High lucow          Oil loportern" group niece 'Middle Incom  North Africa and Piddle  lane" is cho-en because of stronger
notio-nuituol titiohties).  in tie refornuce group data the averagen ant pupulation esighted arithmetic m.ane  fotma th itditater end hown only wihe
najorify of the countrien itoo group has dote for that indicator   Since the coverage of countries amtng the iudicaters depends en the evailabiliry of data
and to nor uoiform  caution must he exercised in rolatirg aveoagus of one indiator to a-other.  Tho ese  eruges are only useful in Iorparing the value of
ewe indicocor at a pipe apo*g the country and reference groups
A-IA (thousnod nq.kp.)                                                                       Populotion per HRoapital bd - total, orian   nd rural - Population (totul
Troal -  0Tul surf ace area corprising land area end inland wgaters  1979 data,              urban, and rural) divided by their respective Dunhe.  of hoepital beds
Agricultural - Entinato of agricultural area used tenporarily or perpanently                 available in public and  private general and sp rialized hospliol and re-
for cropo. postures,  arket and kitches gardeps or to lie fall-; 1979 data.                habilitation centers    espitole are setablishetas perpanently staffed
GP ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~by at leas.t oee  pyian fEethlishents providing principally o..ste-
liP PIR CAPITA (If)) - IMP per capica astlmatus ot correct mrther prirs., ral-                 dial rart  art  ort icludd.  Rua-l hospitals, however  include health
culatad by sane conversion method as WforId batk Atlan  (1978-'d  basis); lYhO               ond edical cancers rut permanently staffed by a physician (ht hya
1970, tnd 1980 date.                                                                         medical assistaut  nurse, midwife, etc.) tit ob fr in-patiest ocunebt      -
ERRif COPT70NI  PR CAPITA    Annal onmpti o o--eradgeoth Ifal eerg   (cl                       tice) purpo es urban hoepita.l  inclde dWO  prieip rl/gr       l hospital.
er"iie Ieuoen  "auut     o  wdhdo,  ula    b   rtoml  uBec-ladrus  heapit-l,  o-1 or troro  h.upitala and medical and ea.teniy
tricity) io kilograms of cool equivole-t per capit.; 1960, 1970, and 1979                    centera   Spralibed hospitals are included only nuder total.
data.                                                                                      Adminaios per tuptitl Bud - Tota  l nmer of aessnnto or disoheegna
gEow hospitals divided by the nurber- of hids,
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
Toctl Po=ulation, Mid-Yer (thousands) - Au of July 1; 1960, 1970. aed 1980               dOUsING
Auto.                                                                                    A-uraic Si.o ut guuhuld ..rt.u.. per h"-"ebud) - ot b.un, end v-tal
Urhan fopulatioc (percent of coral) - Ratio of urban to totol population;                  Avheurahge  d b nuii; of    a gro p  f IndildI   u             i      quo
different definitionu of orb an arenastay affect comparability of data                     snd their malt mauls.  A boarder or lodger map or pay nou  be l. luded In
osuag countries; 1960, 197., ond 19ff detco                                                the household fE w tatistica1 purpuwe.
Porulation frolectiuo                                                                      Averaso uubeeo of persons per root- total, urban, and rurol -average te_
Populatiou in year 2000 - CnrreC t population prujectios are buord ot 19b1 her of pursen pee runs in all urban, and rural occupied tonvantiswal
totol populatiee by age end sex and their aortclity aud fertilitpeaces                   dwelling., respctively.   -ellngs excludadnon-perneunt sructauresoad
Pr_jection puramecarn fur psrtality rates comprise uf three  levels .nsom-               u--ccupied parts
ig life eupectancy at birth incresu.Ig with country'c per napita inoue                Access to Electricity (peeonst of dellioge)  - total, urban, ovd rural -
lvel, and toels. life eopectancy unahilieug at 77.5 yearn.  The paro-                   C-nventional Avellings with electricity in  living quarters as peruentago
Peters f or fertility rate ales  have three levels assuming decline in                   of roc-l, urban, sd rvurl dwellings respectively
feotility a-nvdt.e  cc int.u  leve  and punt ismily ylsunin0 pettuvnco.
iRch country is then es igred one of  exe nice cosbionaious of nurtolity            IfOCATION
and fertility trends fer projection purpose.                                           Adjusted Etrolnut RPtion
Etationary populaclun - . I     a  ctatiunery population there in no growth niece          Pritary school - total. sle end female - Grles toal. male and female
the birth race is eqoul to the deuch rate  aod also the ago struutue  e-                   enrollment of all ages ut the primry level as percentages of vespecive
we Ion copnstante   lhlt is achieved ealy ofter fertility rates decline to                 prisarp school-age populations; nemorlly includes children eged h-li
thu reploonveno  level of uit uet reproduction ra.t  hen each geusrati.t                  years but odjusted for differeut lengths of primary edueation, fur
of  _own replaoes itself eactly.  The stationery population sioe wan                       coontries with  utversel  edocation enenllmeet sup euceed II0 percent
e6tiDsted ot the husisno  the projented ohuracteristirt  of the pepulat-on                 niece soar pupil  ure beluv or above the efficiul t-obol age.
io the peor 2000  ond thereto of decline of fertilityranetoreplace-                      secondary school - tutol,   i leand fepale - GCopoted an ahoer; ..enndury
went level.                                                                                educationeqoie  aIt le..c 0 or years of approved pritary instruction;
Y'earstationaty population il renbhed - Tht year when ccctiunury population                  ptr-ides general. vucationol, or teerhter t cieig inscructinn for pupils
tiere will be crophed.                                                                     osoally of 12 to 17 years of age; currespendence courses are generally
Population Densitv                                                                             oocaded_
Per sq. k. - gi-year pupololion per square kilopeter (100 hbecaren) of                   Pocatiot.l entelsect (pernene ef suondary) - fonatiool instirutions
notal area; 1960  1971 and 1979 data.                                                  include tetical, iedatriul, op other p           -ograns which operate independ-
per sv- km. oprb-ultol lund -  nopoced  as aohe to   agriculcural lord                     re7tly  r as departruucs If secoedary i-stitutions
only; 1960, 1970 and 1979 data.                                                        Pupil-teu-her rutio - primary,  nd secondary - Tetal studnuts enerlled In
Pouy ttion Ae  scture (prneut) - Children (l-14 yenrs)  conkilu-ape (II-                     poipsry and secondury lnvels divided by nu-bec- nE crochets ic the
4 years),  and re ied (65 yearn and over) us perc-ntoges oIf  id-ypar popu-                roeresponding lene1.
lation; 1960, 1970, and 1980 ato.                                                        Adult literary rate (perneet) - Literoteddolts (able to reod end write)
PopulatIon  eetch Rlte (percont)  -                    -otul  -  Annual  Irownb pa   of total mid-  an a perceutuge uP total adult yopoplatio  aged 15 yearn ed over.
y_t  popution for 1950-bO  196C-7t, tad 1970-it.
Popoletion Gleth Rlte (percent) - orba  -Annal -     rowgbh ratec of urban pupu-        CONSUMPTION
leti.on  for 1950-60, 1960-70, ad ig70-e8                                                fassenger Corn (per thousand populotion) - Pesenger oars coeprire =otor
Crude Birth Rten  (per chousund) - Annual  line limhs per tho.u...  of rid-yeer              corn seetflg leso thau eight persons; e claden oabulecen, hearses and
populution; 1960, 1970, end 19S0 dra.                                                      nilitary vnicl.
Crude leech gate (per chousund) - Adnuan dId-ht per thousand  of sid-yeur                 RAdio R-ceuvert (per thousand popolotioc) - All types of reneivers for radio
population; 19607  1970, and 1980 dat.                                                     brood-cots  o general public per thotusad of poyulation; excludes ve-
Grens Raynnduncion bateu-kvPetese c-bhen uf dcugh-ert a conan will bear it                   li-csred rcneivers in cuouiti-s and in yepus rhen regiuttinc   nf redio
her noerol  reproductive period if she experienceo pre.ent age-apocific fee-                Ites "wo  ic effect; data for recant yeers may non he comparble since
tility races; usualip five-ptye   averages ending il 1960, 1970, and 1980.                 .o..  .. rian bo his bed lining.
FPaily Plnning - Aceptors.  An_ual (thousands) - Annual tombor If  -ccaptura               TV Recivrs (Per thonsaud pepulacio) - TV  oe ivs fee brtwdoo.t to
of bitth-onctrol devices under _uupices of nationll to=ily planning ptegram.               general public per  bnoo.sed population; e-cludAs onlicexeb  TV receivers
Family PIe..ieg -TCer  Iperceo  of married women) - Pertentage of parried                    in countries and 10 pratt vhet regiatranlue of TP sets  as ic effent,
woman of phild-beriag age (15-44 years) who ute birth-coutrol  devices ye                ftowpoper Circulasion (pee thousand population) - ehown the arerog  cir-
a11 .relied en=ee in udo  age gr-op.                                                       oulacien of "daily general interest nuwupapee"  defined asua   tindicul
publication denoted primarily to recording general .  tes   Ic in consideed
yOOp AND .UTRITION                                                                             no he "diY"iitapoe engeut  ou  ton  anel
Inde- of Pod Prodnction per Capita (1969-71.100) - Indox of per capit. annusl              Cinema Actual Attend-nte per Capita per fear - gonad on the number of
pnodution of o11 food   otasndicioa   Prnduntion etclodes nerd and fered and               tickets sold doting the yeea, including cdminnions to dtive-in  ineman
in on nulend"r year batis.  Caumditie  onvet priwery goods (e..  sugarace                  und mebile units
i-nteod of nogor) chinh are edible und nontain nutrien  (e.g. .ffet and
nra oreanlodod).  Aggegote pr-d-otiow  of eac h      tpIs base.d onLABOR PFORCE
national overage produder- price weights; 1961-bI. 1970, and 1980 dno.                  Tonl1 Labor Farce (thousands) -    -conoeicolly optive persoan  including
Per capito supply of calories (perrcnt of re-ulreeootn  - lerpuced free                      uabed fnrc-s and uneuployed bft -ucluding h-ooeivrs, students  etc
errgy equinalent of retfood oppit    -iluble i   - ty per ro pita                          -nriog pypulatio  of all age.   Defioiti-s in various co-tnrie_ ore
Pen lop.  maclbIle _nypllee comyi- d-wulo  rdcinc  nntvIo                                   o  comp-buln; 19b0, 1970 and 1910 detc.
expocrts  und cha-.o in crocik  No  supplice enclude eneial feed.  reded                   Pemal  (prrcent) - fe it lobor force on perceutuge of total labor force.
quantictisused in food proce-sn.-, and lossec  in distributioc   kequire-                 Agric-lture (perennt  - Labor forpe in farming, forestry, hunting end
we.te m ero eeoc-iacd by FA0 boted on physiological ocde  for normal octi-                   fiohibg at percentage of total labor fume; 1960, 1970  nd 1980 date.
vity end heelih -cideri nn'gcrronucul trmpcouture  bvdy -ipht-, age                      lndustry (ptcentu) - Labon force in amid,n-o-struction,  snacfnturlag
and uer  distributior of populiotlo. und allowing 10 percent for Coste dt                    ond eleotricity, -tner and gun en percentage of tut.l labor force;
h--ouhold level  1961-65  1970 end 1977 dota                                                 1960, 1970 and 1980 duata
Per cou ofra) - Protein conrent of per copita  Participation Rotc (percent) - total, me. ond fende - Participotiwe or
net supply of feud per lapy   Yt oupply of food Is defined us alone.  Ac-                 activity raten ore computed on total, male, end fe=le labor force a
q_urwepnty for ell countrien  -stablished by UEDA provide fer rlinrP                       perce.tugna of totel, m1ae ad feosle population of all oge" rrspectively;
olinooencs of 60 groZI of totl proteic per day and 20 grawe of ociaul and                 1960, 1970, and 198f dots.   Thee are bhoed on IL's participation eaten
pulse protein. ot skid  tgoon10   should be unival protein   Thearosuad-                   nefleoting ogen ex  structure no tie pupuietin, wed lon  time treed.  A
ords ore lover chan those of 75 gra= of cotal protein oad 23 grove of                      few  tstimnes are from notiowl       r
aunim1 protein on  average for the vorld  proposed by PAP in the Third                   bconoaic lepuodenoy Ratio - latin of population under 15 and 65 and over
World Foed Survey; 1911-h5. 1970 end 1977 doto                                             no che corel labor for.
Per capita proteIn supply frto auiel und pule -Pcotein oupply of food de-
ived fro-  ouiqsla and polson in groan per doy-; 1961-65i  1970 ard 1977 data.        _2COi   DISTRIBUTION
Child (uges 1-b) Peach hate (per thovsand) - Aonal deaths per thtusand in                  Percentune of Private Inotfe (both in cash und dkid) - Received by richest
age group 1-4 ypro, to  childre- in this oge group; for roat developig coon-              S percent, richest 20 perceni, poorest 20 pruent. and poorest 40 percent
tries date depived fron lifn cubles; 1960. 1970 and 1990 darn                              of hosaholds.
iEAITd                                                                                     P(EVRRT  TARGET GROUPS
Life inpe  nou  on Birth (yeuro) - Average noser of yeuco of life rrnioing                 The following eu         ItDatus are very opproniete weunures of poverty levels
at birth; 19116  1971 and 19f0 dots                                                        and should be interpreted eith coctiderable cotion.
Infant Rarcolity Race (per thoua-nd) - mewed deoths of Infalit uder one year               intimated Absolute Poverty I,co-e Lanai (Us$ per Ecpitc) - orban und erol -
of ege par thocsand live birthu; 1960, 1970 and 1980 dca.                                  Absolute poverty iecome level ic that incene level below which a miniRdl
Ac-ces to Sofa later (perceot of population) - tonal, orhb-, and cural - Nun-                nutritionolly adequate diet plu   esential eon-tood requiremeets is rno
ber of people (totl, urban, and rtoal) with reasonable access to nof                       affordable.
voter supply (iocludes trvaced surfactreearerotreated hut unco.numinored                 Estimated Relative Ptverty Income Level (USI  per tapita) - orb- and rura1 -
cuter such us that tone peotenced borebola, eptips. 'nd nanictay wells) an                 Rural "elative poverty income l-e  in  --tbird of a            per ccoitu
percentages of their re-pec-ive pupclati-ms   In an urban area a public                    personal income of tho countryp  Urbon level is drined from the rural
fountain or standpost located not mare than 200 meters fro b o h-ue sy be                  level with adjoatnent for highbr oust of livitg in orben areas
considered as being withit reas.n. bla uccess of tchu  hena.  In rurol. re.s             latioted Population lelt Absolute Poverty Incu.-  Larel (percent) - urban
reasonable access would imply thu thu h.use.ife or metbers of the houeehold                and rural - Percent of population (orban sod rural) whi are "absolute
do not bore to speed a dispt.pprtiecate purt of the day  in fetching the                   poor"
fa  ly' a  ater needs
Access to E-crato Disoo- l (perIen-t  f poulation) -           total, urban  and rural -
Nuober of people (anul, urban, ond  cr-l) served by excreta diepu..l as
peecenages of their reapective poPulationa.   Rxcreta disposal may include
she collectinn end disposal, with or eithawe  treament. ef bhmenoris
a.M wusce-wocer by wotar-bo-ne sy-om  or the use of pit priviwe avd nimi-
ion intaidlatisnee
Pop.-ulion par Physician - Popolatine divided by number of prooritiag phyai-                                                   Ec.neod  and Seical Dats Diivinin
cieaP  qualified from a  medical sehool or university level.                                                             cRen. L. Anlysis and Prej-ctinus  Depettnet
Porpoatien per Ns...ig Purtse  - Population divided by   abor If practieigg                                                                 8ay 19E2
male and fem-ae grodtatae arses. nsistant nurses, practical earner and
nursing omeillurle.



ANNEX I
-  2 5  -                       Page 4
SUDAN - COUNTRY DATA
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH
GROSS DOHESTIC PRODUCT IN 1981/82 1/                           (D, Constant Prices)
US$ Mln.    Z           1977/78-1981/82      1977/78-1981/82
GDP at Market Prices           8,876.0   100.0                 8.0                  0.1
Gross Domestic Investment    1,597.0    18.0                  11.4                  4.4
Gross National Saving             405.0      4.6             - 2.6                -24.8
Current Account Balance       -1,191.0    13.4               -30.6                -23.9
Exports of Goods, NFS             788.0     8.9              - 2.7                  1.8
Imports of Goods, NFS          2,246.0    25.3                 9.8                 11.9
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1981/82
Value Added 2/      Labor Force 3/           V.A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.     z       Mln.         Z         USS     (of average)
Agriculture       2,990    36.6        3.97      68.7         753        53.3
Industry          1,121    13.7        0.37       6.3       3,030       214.6
Services          4,052    49.6        1.44 .   24.9        2,814       199.3
Total        8,163   100.0        5.78    100.0        1,412       100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government - 1981/82
(LSd. Mln.)       Z of GDP 4/
Current Receipts                    916              12.7
Current Expenditure               1,046              14.5
Current Surplus                   - 130             - 1.8
Capital Expenditures 5/             416                5.8
External Assistance (net)           416               5.8
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                77/78   78/79    79/80    80/81    81/82
.(millioo  LSd outstanding end period)
Money Supply                            669.1   877.0   1,047.5  1,488.9  2,028.1
Bank Credit to Central Government    593.5   913.7   1,131.6  1,400.0  1,590.8
Bank Credit to Private Sector and
Parastatals                          490.8   652.9       814.3  1,118.6  1,560.9
(Percentages)
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index (estimates)          17.0    25.6        25.9      28.1      24.9
Bank Credit to Central Government        27.4    54.0        23.8      23.7      13.6
Bank Credit to Private Sector
and Parastatals                       13.5    33.0        24.7      37.4      39.5
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the annual average effective
nominal exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
1/  Bank staff estimates.
2/  The last year of officially published national accounts is 1977/78; the data
presented here are the Government's own estimates presented in Prospects,
Programmes and Policies for Econonic Development; 1982/83-1984/85.
3/  Total labor force (est.); unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal!
occupation.  "Unallocated'  consists mainly of *inemployed workers seeking their,
first job.
4/  At market prices.
5/ Expenditures from Development Budget (includes some capital expenditures by other
public entities).
EA2DB
April 1983



SUDAN - COUNTRY DATA
TRADE BALANCE AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS ESTIMATES                                                     MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1979/80-1981/82)
1978/79   1979/80   1980/81   1981/82                                       US$ Ml.            %
(Millions US$)
Cotton                     19 3.9          40.6
Exports Goods, NFS                 699        798         801        788          Sorghu                      69.2            4.3
Imports Goods, NFS               1,321      1,564       1,827      2,246          Sorghum                      68.2          14.3
Resource Gap                     - 622      - 766    -1,026    -1,458             Grondnuts                   3492.6          8.3
Interest, H1LT Debt (net)         - 72       - 60        - 79       - 75Ssme                                   39.8           8.1
Other Factor Payments (net)           3          2        - 9        - 8                                                     19e.a-  33.8  8.1
Private Transfers                  240        209         305        350          Other                        44.2
Current Balance                  - 451      - 615      - 809    -1,191                   Total               477.0          100.0
Public Grants                       17         84         122        174          EXTERNAL-DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1982
Direct Investment                  --           10         20         70
Public MLT Loans, disb.            618        615         540        420                                                  US M1.
Public tlLT Loans, amort.           30          42         52         68                                                  U      n
Total Public Net                   588         573        488        352          Public Debt, DOD, MLT                   5.096.0 1/            I
Net Credit, IMF                     58         115        165
Capital Flows (incl. errors
and omissions)                - 162      - 113       - 52         400          DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1981/82
Change in Net Reserves
(- indicates increase)         - 50       - 54         66        195           Public Debt, lncl. guaranteed              18.3
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                  Total Outstanding and Disbursed
IBRD/IDA LENDING, (Dec. 31, 1982) (Million US$)
Annalal Averages            End Period
1980/81       1981/82      Nov. 81   Dec. 82                                                   IBRD      IDA
Official:
LSd 1 - US$         2.000/1.250  1.250/1.111       1.11L      0.769            Undisbursed                          246       259.06
Effective:                                                                                                             _            _
LSd 1 a US$             1.580          1.230       1.111      0.769            Outstanding lacl. Undisburaed         49.4    598.6    (D 
Free Market:                                                                                                                                   H
LSd 1 - US$              ---            ---        0.769      0.556
Not available.
1/ Total DOD (including IMF, outstanding arrears, and millitary debt) ia, however,
estimated to US$7.3 billion as of December 31, 1982.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS - SUDAN
(as of March 31, 1983)
Amount (US$ Million)
(Net of Cancellations)
Ldan/                                                                   Undis-
Credit No.     Year   Borrower  Purpose                 Bank    IDA    bursed
Seven Loans and twelve Credits fully disbursed:         127 2   144.9
Credit 364-2   1975   Sudan       Rahad Irrigation                20.0    1.0
Credit 547      1975   Sudan      Education II                    10.0    1.8
Credit 614      1976   Sudan      Technical Assistance             4.0    0.1
Credit 727     1977   Sudan)                                      8.0    0.5
Loan 1467T      1977   Sudan)    Railway IV              12.0             0.4
Credit 781      1978   Sudan      Port                           22.0    2.0
Credit 782      1978   Sudan      Livestock Marketing             25.0   12.3
Credit 804     1978   Sudan      Mechanized Farming III           16.0    8.6
Credit 834      1978   Sudan      Agricultural Research           15.0    8.5
Credit 882      1979   Sudan     Highway II                       41.0    8.1
Credit 904      1979   Sudan      So. Region Agriculture          15.0    8.4
Credit 1000    1980   Sudan       Agric. Rehab. Program           65.0    5.4
Credit 1006    1980   Sudan       Third Power                     65.0   37.7
Credit 1022    1980   Sudan       New Halfa Rehabilitation        40.0   36.1
Credit 1118 /1 1981   Sudan       Blue Nile Pump Rehab.           32.0   26.0
Credit 1119 /1 1981   Sudan      White Nile Pump Rehab.           35.0   28.1
Credit 1153 /1 1981   Sudan       Second Tech. Assistance          6.0    4.9
Credit 1181 /1 1981   Sudan      Western Savannah                 13.0    8.4
Credit 1201 /1 1982   Sudan       Agricultural Services           18.0   16.4
Credit 1233 /1 1982   Sudan       Second Port                     25.0   20.2
Total                                        139.2   619.9  234.9
of which repaid                             92.0    11.2
Total now outstanding                          47.2   608.7
Amount sold                     5.8
of which repaid               5.8             -       -
Total held by Bank & IDA                      47.2   608.7
Total undisbursed                              0.4   234.5  234.9
/1 IDA 6 Credits, US dollar equivalent of SDRs at time of negotiations.
(Note: SDR amounts of these 6 credits are: SDR 25.1 million, SDR 27.5
million, SDR 4.9 million, SDR 11.2 million, SDR 15.7 million and
SDR 21.5 million respectively.)



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of March 31, 1983)
Fiscal                                                (Amount in US$ million)
Year           Obligor                                  Loan   Equity  Total
1964 and       Khartoum Spinning & Weaving Co.
1972            Textiles                               1.9    0.3       2.2
1976           Cotton Textile Mills                      8.7    1.3    10.0
1978            Seleit Food Production Ltd.              11.0    1.2    12.2
1978           Gezira/Managil Textile Co. Ltd.           6.7    1.4       8.1
1980           Promotional Cement Company                 -      0.2      0.2
1982           White Nile Petroleum Co. Ltd.               -     0.3      0.3
Total gross commitments                 28.3    4.7    33.0
Less cancellations, terminations
repayments and sales                   6.7    0.4       7.1
Total commitments now held by IFC        21.6    4.3    25.9
Total undisbursed by IFC,                 1.1    0.4      1.5



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION1/
As of March 31, 1983
Credit No. 547      Second Education Project: US$10.0 million Credit of
May 16, 1975; Effective Date: September 30, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The second project is some 18 months behind the original 1975
appraisal schedule. The delay is due to the lack of construction material,
transportation difficulties and weakness in project management. Some
change in project scope has been necessary in surmounting these
difficulties. Physical execution of the project has improved in recent
years and major educational objectives are being achieved.
Credit No. 781      Port Project: US$22.0 million Credit of June 9, 1978;
Effective Date: February 2, 1979. Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
The Project provides for expansion of the capacity of the
existing berths in Port Sudan and mechanization of cargo handling and
movement, improvement of layout and working surfaces, and improvement of
bulk, container and roll on/roll off facilities, as well as management
assistance and training. Civil works are essentially completed and
procurement of equipment is being finalized.
Credit No. 782      Livestock Marketing Project: US$25.0 million Credit of
June 16, 1978; Effective Date: July 9, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
The Project provides rolling stock, market and transport
infrastructure , technical assistance, headquarters building and additional
staff for the Livestock and Meat Marketing Corporation (IMMC), which is
implementing the project. Construction of the LMMC headquarters is
complete, and ten locomotives with 68 wagons to carry livestock have been
purchased and have started operating. The Sudan Railways Corporation has
contracted to build nine livestock railway yards. Contract to build ten
livestock markets will be awarded later this year.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
Credit No. 804     Third Mechanized Farming Project: US$16.0 million Credit
of July 13, 1978; Effective Date: August 13, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
The third project was specifically designed to strengthen
extension services, carry out a program of adaptive trials and related
research, an access road building program, provide agricultural machinery
spare parts and strengthen and restructure the Corporation.  In addition,
funds were provided to establish a machinery hire unit for smallholders and
also to create a center to develop mechanized crop production systems for
use of the sandier soils of the west. Project implementation has been slow
and suffered from three major constraints: (a) management, (b) provision of
local funds, and (c) failure of Government and MFC first to come to a firm
decision of MFC's role in the agricultural sector and then to pursue its
implementation.
Credit No. 834     Agricultural Research Project; US$15.0 million Credit of
July 27, 1978; Effective Date: March 21, 1980; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985
Over a six year period, the project would develop the research
capability of the Agricultural Research Corporation (ARC) in Western Sudan,
implement research programs in this region and strengthen ARC's new
Khartoum headquarters. The research program includes integrated livestock
and crop production systems, pure livestock production systems and water
and land use management. USAID is cofinancing the project. In order to
limit projected cost escalation, reductions in staffing and housing have
been agreed. Construction is scheduled for completion-January 1984.
Credit No. 882     Second Highway Project: US$41.0 million Credit of
March 16, 1979; Effective Date: January 23, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The second project will facilitate the transport and export of
agricultural production through construction of the Jebel Aulia to Ed Dueim
road along the White Nile; improve accessibility of currently settled but
isolated areas; provide access to new areas of agricultural development;
develop appropriate organizational, planning and technical skills in the
Roads Department of the Southern Regional Ministry of Communications,
Transport and Roads, particularly with respect to highway maintenance; and
provide detailed engineering for future priority roads. Construction work
is proceeding and technical assistance to the Southern Region is under way.
Credit No. 904     Southern Region Agricultural Project: US$15.0 million
Credit of May 11, 1979; Effective Date: February 14,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
This project, a follow up to the earlier rehabilitation project
(Credit 476), is assisting the Southern Regional Government to implement
part of its regional agricultural development program by strengthening
agricultural services, planning capacity and management and improving
physical infrastructure.



-  31
ANNEX II
Page 5
Credit No. 1000    Agricultural Rehabilitation Program: US$65.0 million
Credit of April 4, 1980 and EEC Special Action Credit
No. EEC 57-SU; Effective Date: May 12, 1980; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
The project provided foreign exchange financing for high priority
imports (spare parts, fertilizers, etc.) to help increase utilization of
productive capacity in the irrigated agriculture subsector from which Sudan
derives the bulk of its foreign exchange earnings. The project also
encouraged macro-economic and agriculture sector policy and institutional
reforms and provided financing for technical assistance to help implement
the program. An EEC Special Action Fund Credit of about US$11.0 million is
supplementing the program. This program has progressed well. All funds
have been fully committed and studies have been completed.
Credit No. 1006    Third Power Project: US$65.0 million Credit of April 24,
1980; Effective Date: August 14, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
This project will help expand power supply and distribution in
Sudan's Blue Nile grid through the provision of hydro, thermal and diesel
generation. The project will help meet the expected increased demand
through 1986. The Overseas Development Administration (United Kingdom) and
the Ministry of Economic Cooperation (Federal Republic of Germany) are
cofinancing this project.
Credit No. 1022    New Halfa Irrigation Rehabilitation Project: US$40.0
million Credit of May 23, 1980; Effective Date:
February 18, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1986
This is the first of a series of rehabilitation projects in the
irrigated subsector designed to support Sudan's Export Action Program. It
will revitalize the second largest irrigation scheme in the country, where
cotton and groundnuts are grown. The International Fund for Agricultural
Development and the African Development Fund are cofinancing.
Credit No. 1118    Blue Nile Pump Schemes Rehabilitation Project: US$32.0
million Credit of March 27, 1981; Effective Date:
December 22, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1986
The Project is one of a series of rehabilitation/modernization
efforts under the Export Action Program, which is designed to increase
cotton export earnings by means of stepped-up production in existing
irrigation schemes. The project would, over a five-year period,
rehabilitate the Shasheina Region of the Blue Nile Agricultural Corporation
(BNAC) and provide agricultural machinery and workshops for cotton
cultivation in the rest of the BNAC area. The African Development Fund is
cofinancing.



-  32  -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Credit No. 1119    White Nile Pump Schemes Rehabilitation Project: US$35.0
million Credit of March 27, 1981; Effective Date:
December 22, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1986
This project is one of a series of rehabilitation/modernization
efforts under the irrigated subsector. It is designed to support the
Government's Export Action Program. The White Nile project would help
achieve this objective by rehabilitating, over five years, some 174 ongoing
pump schemes along the White Nile south of Khartoum.
Credit No. 1153    Second Technical Assistance Project: US$6.0
million Credit of July 2, 1981; Effective Date:
December 22, 1981; Closing Date: March 1, 1985
The Second Technical Assistance Project builds on the first but
is significantly different in that in addition to assistance for project
preparation, it provides a wider range of assistance for project
implementation and macroeconomic management. Specifically, it provides
assistance for improving accountancy training, for improved tendering and
procurement operations for debt management and national accounts.
Credit No. 1181    Western Savannah Project: US$13.0 million Credit of
February 4, 1982; Effective Date: August 20, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
This will be a pilot development project for the long-term
development of the Western Sudan. It will: (a) test strategies for
improving livestock and range production; (b) identify and test agronomic
packages and extension methods for crop production; and (c) test approaches
to settlement and soil conservation. This project replaces the Savannah
Development Project (Credit 718-SU), the balance of which was cancelled
upon effectiveness of this Credit.
Credit No. 1201    Agricultural Services Project: US$18 million equivalent
Credit of March 11, 1982; Effective Date: October 28,
1982; Closing Date: September 30, 1986
This project would strengthen the institutional structure of the
Agricultural Bank of Sudan and provide a package of credit, essential
inputs and services to private farmers in three selected areas.
Credit No. 1233    Second Port Project: US$25 million equivalent Credit of
August 20, 1982; Effective Date: October 22, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
This project would improve physical handling capacity and
operational productivity, enabling Port Sudan to meet projected traffic
until 1987. This would supplement the first Port Project (Credit 781-SU)
through berth modifications, improvement of grain and edible oil handling
facilities, and increased efficiency in general port operations.



-  33  -
ANNEX III
Page 1
SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROGRAM - II
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I. Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time Taken to Prepare Project:   2 months
(b) Preparation by: Bank staff
(c) Initial Discussions with Association: October 1982
(d) First Bank Mission: February 1983
(e) Appraisal Mission Departure: February 1983
(f) Completion of Negotiations: April 29, 1983
(g) Planned Date of Effectiveness: September 1983
II. Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
III. Special Conditions
Proposed conditions of credit effectiveness are listed in Part V
of this report. Major conditions of this credit, either included
in the conditions of effectiveness or otherwise agreed with the
Government, include:
(a) The Government will establish a special account for the
deposit of local currency from the sale of inputs financed
under the credit, such proceeds to be used to finance the
development budget (para. 43).
(b)  The Government will provide a financing plan satisfactory to
the Association for the procurement of inputs needed for the
irrigated agriculture sub-sector (para. 44).
(c) The Government will provide an adequate supply of fuel
needed for the irrigated schemes, and will furnish the
Association with quarterly reports on fuel stocks (para.
53).
(d) The Government will appoint consultants to review the
railway operations (para. 46).
(e) The Government will establish and maintain a Directorate
General of External Finance to manage the Government's debt
obligation (para. 59A).



- 34 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(f) The Government will establish and maintain a Committee for
Coordinating Commodity Aid with responsibilities for
managing foreign exchange budgeting operations (para. 48).
(g) The Government will establish and maintain planning
procedures in the Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation for
dealing with the recurrent foreign exchange requirements for
agriculture (para. 48).
(h) The Government will establish and maintain a Joint Committee
for Implementation of the Government's economic recovery
program (para. 59B).
(i) The Government will prepare a study of how the financing for
the recurrent foreign exchange inputs needed for agriculture
can best be assured in future years (para. 51).
(j) The Government will prepare an action program for the
improved operation of its sugar and cotton marketing
parastatal companies (para. 56).



35  -
ANNEX IV
SUDAN
Balance of Payments Projections
($ millions)
1981/     1982/    1984/    1986/   1991/
82        83        85        87       92
1.    Current Account:
1.I   Exports f.o.b. at constant
1981/82 prices              657        718       964     1670    2757
1.2   Export Price Index             100       103       112       119      146
1.3   Exports at Current Prices    657         740      1080      1988    4025
1.4   Imports CIF at constant
1981/82 Prices            1830       1885      2000     2163    2640
1.5   Import Price index             100       106       119       134      179
1.6   Imports at Curren; Prices   1830        1998      2380      2898    4725
1.7   Trade Balance    a          -1173      -1258    -1300       -910    -700
1.8   Remittances & NFS              410       450       550       680    1150
1.9   Interest Payments             -270      -325      -390      -480    -600
1.10  Official Current Transfers:
a. Receipts                   240        255       345       400     200
b. Payments                    --         --        --      -100    -100
1.11  Current Account Balance       -793      -878      -795      -410      -50
2.    Capital Account
2.1   Official Receipts              339       305       372       460      550
2.2   Repayments due                -350      -410      -637      -600    -900
2.3   Other monetary movements
(including private medium
and long term capital
commercial credit, IMF
drawings, etc.)               804        983      1060       550     400
3.    MEMO
3.1   Total Foreign Finance
required 1.lCa + 2.1 + 2.3) 1383        1543      1777      1410    1150
3.2   3.1 as % of GDP Q Factor Cost 20           19       16         9        4
3.3   Total foreign exchange
earnings                     1067       1190      1630      2668    5175
3.4   3.1 as X of 3.3                130       130       109        53       22
3.5   Total Debt Servicing           620       735      1027      1080    1500
3.6   DSR (3.5 x 100)
3.3                    58         62        63       40       29
aNFS = Non-factor services.



- 36 -
Annex V
Page 1
SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROGRAM II
Procurement and Contracting
Implementing Agency
1..       Procurement would be implemented through the existing Program
Procurement Committee (PPC), an organization specially set up under ARP I
(IDA Credit 1000-SU) by the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
(MOFEP) to handle all procurement and disbursement matters. Its
performance has been effective and satisfactory as it is vested with the
power to approve all contracts under the proposed Credit. This has
eliminated delays which usually occur when contracts are sent to the
Central Purchasing Department of MOFEP for approval as has been the case
with other Government agencies. There are presently 9 members in the PPC
Committee consisting of a chairman, appointed by the Minister of MOFEP, and
representatives of each beneficiary under ARP I, viz, Sudan Gezira Board,
Rahad Irrigation Project,. Blue Nile Scheme, White Nile Scheme, Earthmoving
Corporation, Ministry of Irrigation at Wad Medani, Engineering Department
of the Ministry of Agriculture, and New Halfa Rehabilitation Projects.1/
PPC has its own secretariat including an expatriate logistics specialist
(originally, there were two expatriates including a procurement specialist)
to administer procurement and disbursement and to monitor deliveries of
goods to ensure their timely arrival at the ultimate sites.. As the ARP I
Credit is now closed, it is appropriate that PPC be given responsibility to
continue operating as an executing agency for procurement of ARP II.
Procurement Schedule
2.        There would be major ICB and LIB contracts for the supplies of
fertilizers, insecticides and herbicides, and jute sacks. Generally, the
first input required for the 1984/85 cropping season would be fertilizers
which should be applied on the field in May 1984, followed by herbicides in
June, insecticides in August and jute sacks in November. The materials
should also arrive at the project site at least one month before their
application schedule in order to allow for field distribution. However,
due to transport difficulties during the rainy season, all materials should
arrive at the project sites not later than June 1984. As fertilizer is the
first input material required for the season, its delivery to the site
should be preferably during February and March 1984. To meet this target,
the fertilizer tender should be the first to be issued and its
implementation schedule is proposed below:
1/ Not a beneficiary of ARP I, but later became a member when PPC was
asked to assist in procurement for the New Halfa Project.



- 37 -
Annex V
Page 2
July 1, 1983          -  Advertisement for invitation to tender
August 15, 1983       -  Tender opening
September 30, 1983  -  Contract award
October 15, 1983    -  Contract signing
November 15, 1983   -  Letter of Credit established and
qualified agreement issued
January 15, 1984    -  Arrival of first shipment of goods at
Port Sudan
February 1, 1984    -  Arrival of first shipment of goods at
project site
March 1, 1984         -  Last shipment arrive at Port Sudan
March 15, 1984        -  Last shipment arrive at project site
Tenders for insecticides, herbicides, and jute sacks should
follow respectively with an interval of approximately two weeks.
3.         Standard tender documents comprising invitation to tender,
instruction to tenderers, and general conditions of contract will be
prepared by PPC, while technical specifications of the goods to be procured
will be prepared by the Sudan Gezira Board (SGB), the major beneficiary, as
is being done under the present practice and found to be satisfactory. The
specifications of insecticides and herbicides will, however, have to be
reviewed and approved by the Sudan Pest and Disease Research Committee at
Wad Medani before being sent to PPC for final preparation. PPC would
advertise, issue tenders and announce places and dates for return of
tenders. Upon receipt of tender proposals, PPC would review financial and
commercial parts of the proposals and simultaneously forward the technical
parts to the Sudan Gezira Board for evaluation. Complete evaluation and
recommendations for award would then be combined for both commercial and
technical parts and submitted to the PPC Committee for approval. PPC will
thereafter prepare a final tender evaluation report and enter into
contracts with successful bidders on behalf of all beneficiaries. As for
spare parts which constitute only a minor part of expenditure under ARP II,
they are easily specified and can be procured directly by the beneficiary
agencies. PPC, however, would approve all spare parts procurement and keep
records of each agency's procurement for future reference.
4.         To help speed port and customs clearances of all ARP II goods,
PPC would request Government, in the same way as was done under ARP I, to
grant deferred payment to taxes and duties and other costs as required



-  38  -
Annex V
Page 3
under the law. SGB would undertake clearance and storage of goods upon
their arrival at Port Sudan and each beneficiary would arrange for
collection and transport to site upon presentation of proof of payment to
MOFEP (Planning) in local currency equivalent to the costs of relevant
imported goods. The goods would then be transported from Port Sudan to the
project sites in the same manner as the existing practice which is found to
be satisfactory. Transport of fertilizers and jute sacks are generally
handled by each beneficiary mostly by road transportation, while
insecticides and herbicides are usually delivered to the project sites by
suppliers as these need special handling and proper attention. PPC would
monitor the deliveries of the farm inputs from Port Sudan to the project
sites and their field distribution to ensure timely deliveries and proper
stocking of materials. Monthly reports on work progress would be prepared
by the PPC, a copy of which would be sent to IDA for information.
Strengthening of PPC
5.        In addition to ARP II, PPC has also entered into agreements with
the New Halfa, Blue Nile and White Nil,e Corporations to assist in
procurement work of their respective projects under separate credits. It
is therefore necessary that PPC be provided with some new office equipment
to replace the old existing ones. The equipment required would consist of
one photo copier machine, two english typewriters, 10 hand calculators and
five filing cabinets. In addition, new vehicles, i.e. one saloon car, one
station wagon and two motorcycles woulcd be required for official trips
within and outside Khartoum. Moreover, to provide incentives to the staff
and to strengthen PPC for its future role as a Government agency res-
ponsible for international procurement, it is proposed that a program of
training abroad in the field of procurement procedures and contract
administration be provided to the PPC staff. A total sum of US$100,000
would be allocated under the Credit proceeds for the new office equipment,
vehicles, and training. Also, US$50,000 will be provided for the
employment of a procurement specialist for one year to assist the PPC.



- 39 -
Annex VI
SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROGRAM II
Cost Estimates
1.        Total cost in foreign exchange requirement of farm inputs for the
1984/85 cropping season of the five major agricultural corporations, viz,
Sudan Gezira Board, Rahad, White Nile, Blue Nile and New Halfa, estimated
together with provision for spare parts, office support and studies, is
shown below:
US$ million 1/
Fertilizer                                39.7
Insecticides                              62.9
Herbicides                                12.7
Jute sacks                                17.5
Sub-total         132.8
Price contingencies 2/                     7.0
Total             139.8
Spare parts for Rahad
and Suki Corporations                    2.0
Spare parts for Sudan Railway
Corporation                              4.0
Technical Assistance, Office
Support and Training                     0.5
Grand total       146.3
The local cost component involved consisting of transport, local
labor, taxes and duties is estimated at about US$40 million equivalent and
would be provided by Government. The proposed credit amount of US$50
million would finance part of the total foreign exchange requirement and
the balance is envisaged to be financed by other financing agencies and the
Government. Provision for office support totaling US$0.1 million would be
used to finance vehicles, office equipment and overseas training for the
PPC staff.
1/ Base costs (including 5% physical contingencies) in June 1982 prices
updated to end April 1983 estimated baseline price levels.
2/ Projected to end December 1983 by which time all procurement contracts
under the Program would have been awarded.



- 40 -
Annex VII
Page 1
March 6, 1983
S U D A. N
Joint Committee for Monitoring the Implementation of
The Economic Recovery Program
Proposed Terms of Reference
Background
During the Consultative Group Meeting on Sudan that was held in
Paris on 12-14 January 1983, it was decided that a Joint Committee be
established to monitor the implementation of the economic recovery program
outlined by the Government to the Consultative Group. The Joint Committee
would be chaired by a senior Government O)fficial and would include local
representatives of the IMF, the World Bank and other concerned donors. The
Committee would meet quarterly and report: in writing to the Government and
the donors on the progress of program implementation. The Committee will
also report annually to the Consultative! Group.
This note sets out a proposed terts of reference for the Joint
Committee.
Ohjectives
The main objectives of the Joint Committee are (a) monitoring of the
implementation of the economic recovery and financial programs, and
(b) ensuring timely mobilization of donors assistance.
In performing its tasks the Committ:ee will, in particular, focus on
the following:
(i)  consistency of projects to be implemented with the recovery
program;
(ii)  adequacy of amounts of foreign and local financing available
for these project;
(iii) annual preparation of the rolling Three Year Public Investment
program and its consistency with the recovery strategy;
(iv) the performance of the parastatal agencies;
(v)  the possibilities for increased private sector involvement in
economic activity including an action program for stimulating
this sector;



- 41 -
Annex VII
Page 2
(vi) improving national accounts and expediting the preparation of
other data, particularly fiscal and monetary, so that
appropriate macroeconomic pr ojections become possible;
(vii) ensuring the establishment of an effective Directorate General
of External Finance; and
(viii) timely payment of agreed debt service.
Procedures
The key areas covered in the Government's program are:
(a) the Three Year Public Investment Program for the period
1982/831984/85 ;
(b) the impact of the program on economic development;
(c) the financing of the program; a*d
(d) the program of policy actions designed to assure the
environment requi red for successful implementation of the
physical investments.
Because of the necessarily general nature of the program as laid out by the
Government to the CG, the Government will need to prepare a document
indicating specific targets to be monitored. The Joint Committee will
review th is document to ensure that it covers the main elements of the
program. This document would serve as the basis for monitoring the
implementation of the recovery program.
The functions of the existing Monitoring and Evaluation Unit of the
MOFEP would need to be expanded to cover aspects related to monitoring the
implementation of economic policies and their impact on the economy. This
expanded unit wuuld act as the secretariat to the Joint Committee.
The following sections discuss issues associated with each of the
key areas listed above. These issues and areas to be monito red are
summarized in the attached table.
Implementation of the Three Year Public Investment Program
The Joint Committee would need to receive summary information on the
progress of both the physical and financial implementation of the major
projects included in the program. The existing Monitoring and Evaluation
Unit would be strengthened and would be required to provide this
information to the Joint Committee on quarterly basis. Each executing unit
(department/agency/corporation) for each major project would establish an



- 42 -
Annex VII
Page 3
annual work program with quarterly seIective monitorable financial and
physical targets. The financial targets would indicate the expenditures
that would be anticipated in local currency and foreign exchange. The
physical targets would depend on the nature of the project and be limited
to global indicators of overall progress in physical project
implementation. With such work plans available, the reports to the Joint
Committee could be made on an exception basis, focusing only on deviations
from the expected targets, and giving reasons for such deviations. This
would focus the Committee's attention on the specific problem areas,
'allowing more rapid identification of the remedial measures required to put
the program back on track.
Exception reports would be prepared by the projects on a quarterly
basis for submission to the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit in the Planning
Wing of the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning. This unit would in
turn prepare a consolidated report for the Joint Committee focusing on
general trends and global problems. The exception reports from the
individual projects would be available on request to the Joint Committee.
The exception report should also note any expenditures on projects outside
the investment program. The Joint Committee should ensure that Government
policies on investment are kept current by timely preparation of
appropriate rolling th ree year plans and annual development budgets tied
closely to such plans.
The sector sub-groups established under the Consultative Group would
compliment the monitoring process of the recovery program. The sub-groups
would, after each of their meetings, submit reports to the Joint Committee
summarizing the main issues facing the respective sector and addressing
issues of targets to be met, financing required and recommended policy
actions.
Impact of the Program
The recovery program presented to the Consultative Group by
Government spells out the expected impaci: of the program on the national
economy. To enable the Joint Committee to monitor this aspect of the
recovery program, the Economy Wing of Finance would prepare quarterly
reports on the current status of selected indicators in the areas of
balance of payments, external debt, public finance, money and banking, and
economic growth. In other areas, special efforts, supported by external
technical assistance, would be required to develop the necessary
statistical base for monitoring economic progress.
Financing of the Program
In monitoring the financing of the recovery program, the committee
would review:



- 43 -
Annex VII
Page 4
(1) foreign exchange available from donors through program
(commodity) aid;
(2) foreign exchange available from donors for project aid; and
(3) local currency made available for development projects by the
Government.
Accounting and reporting on each category would necessarily require
separate treatment. Special attention would be required to enusre the
timely availability of commodity assistance. The commodity aid
coordination committee would provide inputs to the secretariat of the Joint
Committee on commodity assistance requirements and financing. The planning
wing of MOFEP would provide information on project aid and the finance wing
of MOFEP would provide data on local currency allocations for development
projects.
Implementation of the Policy Action Program
In its recovery program the Government laid out a series of areas
where policy actions are to be taken in the short and medium term
including, for example, the establishment of action programs to encourage
the private sector and to improve the performance of parastatal units. The
short term covers the period through the end of the current fiscal year
(June 1983). The medium term measures are to be implemented by the end of
the investment program period (June 1985). The Joint Committee will
monitor the implementation of a schedule of policy actions comprising the
highest priority short and medium term policy actions consistent with the
economic recovery and financial program and the standby agreement with the
IMF.
Further Responsibilities of the Joint Committee
The Joint Committee will review,in its first meeting, the need for
strengthening the capacity of the monitoring unit and other units through
technical assistance from the Bank and the IMF. The IDA financed Technical
Assistance II Credit includes assistance to strengthen the Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit of the MOFEP. In formulacing the terms of reference for
this assistance, the Government should also take into acco*nt the
requirements for the Joint Committee.
Following the quarterly meetings of the Joint Committee, a minute of
the meeting would be prepared by the secretariat to the Committee. This
minute, after clearance by the participants, would be sent to all members
of the Consultative Group along with a copy of the report submitted to the
Joint Committee by its secretariat.



-  44   -        Annex VII
Page 5
S U D A N
Economic Recovery Program
Areas for Monitoring
1.            Public Investment Program
Physical Targets
by Project
Financial Targets
by Project
by Foreign/Local Currency
2.                Impact of Program
Economic Growth
Balance of Payments
External Debt
Public Finance
Money and Banking
3.               Financing of Program
Mobilization of Resources
Local Currency
Foreign Exchange
Allocation of Resources
Local Currency
Foreign Exchange
4.     Implementation of Policy Action Program Short-term
(through end :L982/83
Medium-Tetrm
(priority items for rest of 1983
consistent with recovery) and IMF program)



- 45 -
Annex VIII
S U D A N
Agricultural Rehabilitation Program - II
RAHAD AND SUKI CORPORATIONS
Spare Parts Estimates
US Dollars
1.        Agric. Machinery (Tractors and implements)           800,000
2.        Vehicles and Trucks                                  500,000
3.        Ginneries                                            400,000
4.        Workshop Equipment                                    50,000
5.        Tyres (For machinery and vehicles)                  200,000
6.        Miscellaneous                                        100,000
2,050,000
SUDAN RAILWAYS CORPORATION
Spare Parts Estimates
A. Locomotive Spare. Parts:
English Electric             62 Units                    1,000,000
General Electric             40 Units                    1,000,000
Henschel                     40 Units                    1,000,000
B.  Wagon Spare Parts:                                       1,000,000
Total                                             4,000,000
The amount of spare parts for locomotives is calculated on the
basis of an annual requirement of spares of US$25,000 per locomotive. Most
of the English Electric locomotives are more than 20 years old and about 20
units are expected to be retired shortly thus reducing the need for spare
parts. Requirement of wagon spare parts is based on estimated
consumption. Locomotive spare parts have to be procured under limited
tendering procedures or through direct procurement. Wagon spares will be
procured under ICB.



- 46 -
Annex IX
Page 1
SUDAN
THE IRRIGATED SUBSECTOR
A. BACKGROUND
1.        Over the last 50 years, Sudan has developed about 4 million
feddans of irrigated land, principally from the Nile waters; it has
accomplished this by using 16.8 km3/year of water of her share of 20.35
km3/year as measured at Sennar under the 1959 Nile water sharing agreement
with Egypt. The irrigated area comprises Gezira-Managil (2 million
feddans), pump schemes (1.4 million feddans), New Halfa (400,000 feddans),
and Rahad (300,000 feddans); a remaining 200,000 feddans is almost all from
streams in the Savannah belt, including the Gash and Tokar deltas. Only
18,000 feddans, or less than half a percent of the total, is estimated to
be irrigated from groundwater. The principal irrigation schemes are shown
on IBRD Map 16493. Appendix I sets out trends in production of irrigated
crops during the period 1970/71 to 1980/81.
2.        The irrigated agriculture schemes employ gravity, flood and pump
techniques. Rotation requirements, the necessity to organize water
distribution, and the economies associated with the consolidation of small
plots under one crop into large areas led lto the establishment of central
management boards which undertake the major production decisions, prescribe
the cropping pattern, and provide the necessary inputs. The degree of
cooperation demanded between the boards, the farmers and the Central
Government involves a complex system of relationships. These relationships
can be illustrated in the case of the Gezira Scheme.
3.        The Gezira Board is responsible for organizing crop rotation,
crop distribution, land preparation and crop spraying, as well as the
provision of seed, fertilizers and the necessary agricultural equipment.
The Board also extends to the farmers production financing for certain
crops. The land and the irrigation services are supplied by the
Government, to which the Gezira Board is responsible. The farmers are
alloted "tenancy units" varying in size from 15 to 50 feddans (a feddan is
equivalent to 1.04 acres), but they neither own the land nor rent it. They
are in charge of individual field preparation, crop cultivation and
harvesting, and they provide labor as well as managerial supervision.
4.        Historically, these schemes were conceived for the cultivation of
cotton as the only cash crop. Two other crops were cultivated for
subsistence purposes, either complementing cotton in the rotation (a fodder
crop), or using marginal land for cereal prcducton. However, after a sharp
rise in the world prices of cereals in 1974, a decision was made to expand
the production of wheat and rice to promote self-sufficiency in basic
foodstuffs and to expand the output of high-value cash crops, most notably
groundnuts. The decision to expand the output of alternative cash crops
was accommodated by cutbacks in irrigated land used to support cotton.
Groundnut production has gradually displaced the fodder crop in the
Gezira's cropping pattern and has also been expanded upon new acreage,
while wheat has been expanded in competition for acreage with cotton and
sorghum.



- 47 -
Annex IX
Page 2
Cotton
5.         Sudan produces three distinct types of cotton.  The most
important variety is long staple cotton (LSC)11 which accounted for about
70 percent of total cotton acreage up to 1974/75, followed by medium staple
cotton with about 18 percent and short staple with some 12 percent. Total
cotton acreage until the 1974/75 season remained largely unchanged at about
1.2 million feddans. In recent years, however, the area devoted to cotton
has shown a tendency to fall to about 0.9 million feddans and there have
been marked shifts in the distribution between the three different staples
with much of the reduction in acreage falling upon the long staple
variety.  While Sudan was a major producer of LSC up to L974/75, accounting
for about 27 percent of world output, the decline in LSC output following
the acreage cutbacks reduced its world share to about 16 percent. Its
share in world trade of the long staple varieties, which accounted for
about 40 percent of world exports during the 1973-75 period, also declined.
6.         Long staple cotton is cultivated in the Gezira scheme and on the
pump schemes along the Blue and White Niles. Its technology is labor and
water intensive.  In the 1973/74 and 1974/75 seasons, large stock
accumulations of long staple cotton resulted from slackness in world
demand. This induced a reconsideraton of Sudan's specialization in this
variety and led to sharp cutbacks in the areas allocated to long staples in
the Gezira and the pump schemes. While in 1974/75 LSC was sown on some
856,000 feddans, in the following two seasons acreage was reduced to
589,000 feddans and 659,000 feddans, respectively. The trend of replacing
LSC by medium staple cotton continued. In 1982/83, the area planted with
LSC variety decreased to 470,000 feddans.
7.        Medium staple cotton is mostly grown under irrigation, although
it is less water demanding than LSC. Recently, the market value of the
medium staples has been about 20-25 percent lower than LSC with only small
savings in its input costs, but it enjoys a firmer market than LSC, which
adds a stabilizing influence to the profile of foreign demand for Sudan's
cotton exports. Partly because of its strong market abroad and partly in
response to the stockpiling of LSC, the Government promoted an expansion in
medium staple cotton cultivation in the mid-seventies. This trend has
continued and the area under this variety in 1982/83 reached 394,000
feddans.
8.         Short staple varieties are grown in the rainfed areas, mostly in
the Nuba Mountains, and they do not compete with either the long or medium
staple varieties. While their yields are low, input costs are also low,
particularly with respect to land use which has a low opportunity cost in
terms of alternative crops. These schemes have contributed significantly
to the rural development of the western and eastern regions and, since the
1/ Extra-long staple cotton (by international trade terminology) with a
staple length of 1 3/8 inches and over.



-  48  -
Annex IX
Page 3
crop is used in Sudan's expanding textile industry, increasing emphasis has
been attached to the expansion of short staple cotton production.
Successive droughts, however, have militated against much progress being
made so far. The area planted with this variety in 1982-83 was 90,000
feddans.
9.         During the seventies, cotton output in Sudan declined.  From
1970/71 to 1974/75, output fluctuated between 1 million bales and 1.2
million bales, with the long and extra-long staple varieties accunting for
about 80 percent of the total. Output fell sharply, by almost 50 percent
in 1975/76, with about 90 percent of the reduction occurring in the long
staple varieties. Part of the declinie in LSC was planned since, as
indicated above, the area planted in the Gezira scheme was reduced by about
240,000 feddans. However, only marginal lands were taken out of cotton
cultivation so that average yields should have increased.  In fact, yields
in the Gezira fell to 2.7 kantars per feddan which was the lowest level
recorded since 1963/64. The position deteriorated during the second half
of the seventies and 1980-81 recordecl an all-time low yield of 21 kantars
per feddan. The trend has reversed i.n 1981/82 and in 1982/83 and the
latest yield levels in Gezira for long staple was 4 kantars per feddan
while medium staple yield was 6.0 karntars per feddan.
Groundnuts, Wheat, Other Crops
10.        Although most groundnuts are grown under rainfed conditions,
around 30 percent of production is now under irrigation on some 300,000
feddans. Two major varieties are grown -- Barberton and Ashford.
Barberton produces small nuts with slightly higher oil content fetching
higher prices than Ashford. Ashford, on the other hand, is more vigorous
with a spreading habit and larger pods and nuts. In the irrigated areas,
planting startsfrom mid-June, enabling the harvest to be completed by the
end of December.
11.        Wheat has been grown for many years along the main Nile in
Northern and Nile provinces traditionally under the basin flooding system,
and more recently on pump irrigation schemes. With the drive for self
sufficiency and increasing intensity on the major schemes, wheat has become
a major crop in the rotation in the Gezira and New Halfa schemes and on
some of the White Nile pump schemes. The planting season starts from
mid-October to mid-November. The best: sowing date is as soon as possible
after the winter wind has arrived in the hope of maturing the crop before
the return of summer. All ploughing, discing and sowing is done
mechanically in the large irrigation projects. In general yields are low
and over the past 10 years have varied from 400 to 650 kg/fd.
B. PROBLEMS IN THE IRRIGATED SUBSECTOR
12.        The present arrangements (para. 3) for distribution of
responsibilities between the Government, the agricultural corporations and
the tenants have, with some changes, been in existence since the first
irrigated cotton schemes were established over 50 years ago; they are based
on Egyptian irrigation practices. However, as social and technical
developments have evolved, these arrangements have become unsatisfactory in



- 49 -
Annex IX
Page 4
many ways. In particular, the Joint Account System (para. 21), which
served as the basis for profit-sharing between Government, the agricultural
corporations and tenants until it was abolished in 1980, created serious
disincentives to cotton cultivation.
13.       Role of Tenants.  Tenancies were allocated when the schemes were
first developed as far back as the 1920s in the case of Gezira. Tenants
may not transfer or sell any part of their land; it is passed on from
parent to child. However, over two generations, with rising living
standards and opportunities for education, those holding tenancies no
longer have much interest in farming the land, having developed off-scheme
business interests. A recent survey in Gezira revealed that 41% of tenants
had retired from direct involvement in their tenancies; most received
remittances from sons working in towns. One third of such tenants were
women. Besides, a further 13% who had inherited their tenancies were
either following full-time education or working full-time in towns. In New
Halfa, tenants resettled from Wadi Halfa also have substantial freeholdings
whose use is not controlled.
14.       Tenants rely heavily on hired labor, which may be 70% to 80% of
total requirements. Livestock, partly because of its low labor
requirements, has become an increasingly attractive alternative to crop
production on irrigation schemes. Many of the nomads settled on the New
Halfa scheme have retained a primary interest in pastoralism. In some
areas animals graze on the growing cotton crop, causing heavy losses.
15.       In fact, many tenancies have been informally subdivided; a 1972
Gezira survey indicated that 75% of all tenancies were half-tenancies. In
addition there are widespread sharecropping arrangements, commonly with
farmers who first came to the scheme as laborers, frequently from Western
Sudan or West Africa. Thus the original tenant lists are far from
accurate, and government policies aimed at de jure tenants may not directly
affect those who actually work the land.
16.       The tenants have only limited control over what they grow and how
they grow it. The area to be planted with cotton is determined by
Government each year. Crop rotations are fixed by the agricultural
corporations, as are the timing and method of major agricultural
operations. The agricultural corporations may be late in land preparation,
seed or fertilizer delivery, and poor timing of these operations may have a
critical effect on yields, however diligently the tenant discharges his
responsibilities. Thus, for the tenant, the relation between effort and
output is diluted.
17.       Agricultural Corporations.  There are many inefficiencies in the
provision of services by the agricultural corporations and the rate of
application of available technology is low. The causes of these
inefficiencies can be summarized as decapitalization (deterioration in
plant and equipment) and increasing management problems. The agricultural
corporations are constrained in their operations, policies, staffing and
administration by civil service regulations and scarcity of funds.
Furthermore, incentives for management are not tied to performance. As in
other sectors of the economy, the flight of skilled manpower to neighboring
oil producing countries, where salaries are much higher, has increased the



- 50 -
Annex IX
Page 5
problems of the parastatals, while the increasingly serious economic
problems of the Sudan have reduced availability of foreign exchange for
purchase of new equipment and spare parts and import of current inputs,
including fuel. In turn, these problems have reduced staff morale.
18.       A further difficulty is that the agricultural corporations, as
corporations responsible for increasingly complex operations, have not
developed any analytical accounting, monitoring or evaluation systems. For
example, insecticide spraying by air, which, in the early 70s was carried
out four or five times per season, is now undertaken 12 to 13 times. The
agricultural corporations lack the capability to analyze whether this is
cost effective in terms of the value of increased output. Nor are the
agricultural corporations able to estimate tractor operation and pumping
costs accurately. Usually fuel and operator costs are the only ones
measured; provision is not made for maintenance, depreciation or interest
charges. Government charges for irrigation services but such charges do
not reflect accurately the financial cost of the services provided. It has
been very difficult to isolate the costs of each agricultural and
irrigation operation on a crop and feddan basis; thus it has been difficult
to identify the areas where improvements are most needed.
19.       Expenditure is classified by type of resource (e.g. salaries)
rather than by output. This is standard practice in civil service
organizations, but it does not help semi-autonomous and supposedly
financially independent agricultural corporations to budget and program
efficiently; neither does it enable their activities to be effectively
scrutinized. For tenants and for agricultural corporation staff alike, the
link between effort and increased production is weak. Furthermore, the
accounts are not up-to-date. As of March 1983, the audit reports were two
to three years behind; the accounts, one to two years behind.
20.       Tenants' accounts are kept at block level and are relatively well
maintained with costs debited within a month of their being incurred.
However, as described above, there is no reliable means of costing
operations; tenants are not given a copy of their accounts, and there is
little management follow-up on defaulters. Furthermore, tenants' accounts
have in the past not been finalized for one or two years after harvest,
because of the delay in receiving cotton proceeds.
21.       Production Relationships.  A Joint Account System operated in
most irrigation schemes in the Sudan until 1980. Under this system, most
of the items of expenditure incurred by agricultural corporation's on the
different crops grown on the tenancies were deducted from the total
revenues received from cotton sales by the agricultural corporation
concerned. The net revenues from cotton were then distributed in Gezira
(and along a similar pattern in other schemes) as follows: 36% to the
Government for land use, dam and canal maintenance and provision of water;
10% to the agricultural corporations for meeting overhead costs; and 47% to
the tenants. A further 2% was set aside for a form of local government
tax, 3% for a Social Services Fund and 2% for a Tenants' Reserve Fund. The
tenants' share was then divided by total scheme production of seed cotton
to arrive at a price per kantar of seed cotton payable to each tenant. In
effect, therefore, input costs were recovered per kantar of cotton produced
rather than per feddan of area planted. This penalized the more productive
cotton growers, whose actual per kantar costs were lower.



- 51 -
Annex IX
Page 6
22.       Over the years the tenants' share had increased from 40% to 47%
although increasing responsibilities, for instance, sowing and fertilizer
application had been transfered to the agricultural corporations.
Nevertheless, their share of revenue had fallen from 20% to 10%.
Government's share was higher than the costs of the services it provided
warranted, while the agricultural corporations increasingly lacked revenue
to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
23.       The most serious consequence of the Joint Account System,
however, were felt when cotton yields fell at the same time as other crops
had gained importance in the rotation. Groundnuts, sorghum, forage crops
and, more recently, wheat have become increasingly important. These crops,
however, are privately marketed and input costs cannot be recovered at
sale. Land and water costs for these crops were recovered from cotton
revenues. Cotton, bearing the burden of these other charges, had therefore
become less and less attractive to tenants. Consequently, they
concentrated their efforts on the other crops and livestock, while cotton
was neglected. Yields and Government revenues both fell to levels which
were insufficient to cover cultivation costs.
24.       As a result of the strong disincentives to cotton production,
private capital shifted from irrigated cotton to irrigated groundnuts,
wheat and sorghum and from the irrigated subsector generally to the rainfed
mechanized subsector. Tenant labor likewise shifted from irrigated cotton
to other crops on the tenancy. Furthermore, traditional labor migration to
irrigated areas for cotton picking was weakened, partly because the
agricultural corporations and tenants could not pay enough and the shortage
of cotton pickers was acute. This shift of both labor and capital out of
cotton cultivation had severe effects on production and productivity.
Given the low yields, tenants grew cotton only because they must in order
to retain their tenancies and avail themselves of the cash advances made
for cotton operations.
25.       Role of Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation.  The Boards of
Directors of the agricultural corporations are directly responsible to the
Minister (not the Ministry) of Agriculture and Irrigation (formerly to
MAFNR). However, there is no established procedure or department within
the MOAI for scrutinizing their technical or financial performance. Their
budgets are examined by the Ministry of Finance, but the link between
financial and technical performance is lacking. It would be difficult, in
any case, to discern inefficiencies, given present monitoring and
accounting practices. This is unfortunate, given that the agricultural
corporations are supposed to be financially autonomous, self-supporting
agencies. In fact, their revenues have fallen so much in recent years that
they have had to be shored up by subsidies and "write-off" of overdrafts
with the Bank of Sudan in order to operate at all. At present, MOAI does
not have the staff to supervise the agricultural corporations adequately.
26.       Water Conveyance and Distribution.  The former Ministry of
Irrigation (MOI) is one of the larger organizations in the Sudanese
Government, with long experience in design, construction and
maintenance of irrigation systems. With its parastatal, the Irrigation
Works Corporation (IWC), it has suffered somewhat less than other
Ministries until recently from the flight of manpower to Gulf countries.



- 52 -
Annex IX
Page 7
27.       Since December 1980, Blue Nile, White Nile, Northern Gash and
Tokar agricultural corporations have been entrusted with larger
responsibilities for operating, maintaining and rehabilitating all pumps
and canals. These agricultural corporations are unable, however, to
perform their responsibilities properly. On Gezira, Rahad, New Halfa and
Suki, formerly MOI irrigation staff operate and maintain canals up to field
outlet pipes. Maintenance and repairs are carried out by the Earth Moving
Corporation on contract to the Ministry. Field water distribution is
entrusted to the agricultural corporations. Water requests (indenting) are
made through agricultural corporation block inspectors to irrigation
staff. Telecommunications and transport problems delay the passage of
information. Water management at farm level, and maintenance of field
channels are the responsibility of agr:Lcultural corporation staff with the
cooperation of tenants but agricultura:L corporation staff are not
adequately trained in water distribution and measurement. Minor canals are
used for night storage; silting and weeds are problems. The division of
responsibilities at minor canal level has been unsatisfactory and
ambiguous, sometimes leading to strained relationships between irrigation
staff and the agricultural corporations, reducing staff incentives to
perform well and resulting in considerable frustration to the tenants.
28.       Marketing Performance.  Ginned cotton is handed over to the
Cotton Public Corporation, a parastatal, which is responsible for selling
it on the international market. Prices obtained are relatively good;
however, the cotton sales may not be completed until two years after
harvest, and accounts are settled with the producing corporations only
then. Real revenues are reduced through inflation in the interim while the
link between production and receipt of revenues is weak.
29.       Pricing and Payments for Cotton.  Cotton prices received by
parastatals and tenants have, until recently, been subject to severe
distorting influences. The most important of these are:
(i) Application of the official exchange rate to cotton exports and
the parallel exchange rates2! to imported inputs for cotton had
the effect of lowering income from cotton sales while increasing
the price of inputs;
2/  A system of parallel and official exchange rates has been practiced at
some time or another by many countries. These dual exchange rates are
frequently maintained when the currency is over-valued at the official
rate, but there is resistance to devaluation. So that imports are not
valued too cheaply, and in order not: to discourage money flows into the
country, there may be a second "parallel" exchange rate, applied to
certain items, and which usually rellects more accurately the market
rate. The difference between the two rates has varied in Sudan over
the years: in 1980-81 the official rate was US$2 to the LSd, while the
parallel rate was US$1.25 to the LSdI. In November 1981, the rates were
unified at US$1.11 to the LSd and the distorting influence eliminated.
In November, 1982, the exchange rate was revised to US$0.769 to the
Lsd.



- 53 -
Annex IX
Page 8
(ii) An export tax which reduces domestic cotton incomes;
(iii)  A margin of about 14 percent between f.o.b. prices for cotton and
prices paid by CPC to the parastatals, part of which ultimately
accrues to the Government budget as CPC surplus;
(iv) Sharing of revenues by Government which, under the Joint Account
System takes about 36 percent of net revenues, reduces incomes
for tenants and parastatals; and
(v)  Payments to tenants were delayed for as long as two years,
destroying the link between effort and reward, and further
reducing real incomes.
30.       Low and declining real producer prices have probably been the
single factor most responsible for the decline in cotton production.
Government, always pressed for short-term revenue, has been reluctant to
raise the share to be allocated to producing agents. This has led to a
circle of declining production and Government revenues, tenant default in
payment of debt to agricultural corporations, and default in turn by the
agricultural corporations on overdrafts with the Bank of Sudan.
31.       Meanwhile, tenants have sold their other crops through private
traders for immediate cash, at prices which reflect their market value.
The financial viability of parastatals responsible for operation of
irrigated schemes was destroyed. This, in turn, led to severe shortages of
working capital and failure to maintain assets; it also contributed to
declining productivity and demoralization of parastatal staff. This, and
the joint account system, resulted in tenant incomes from cotton which were
too low to justify cotton production.
32.       Technical Problems.  There are also technical problems
constraining cotton production. Some of these are caused by an inability to
apply known technology rather than any lack of technical solutions.
Irrigation water supplies are insufficient and unreliable, distribution
canals are poorly maintained and therefore field water distribution is
uneven while drainage is generally inadequate. Land preparation is
frequently late and done perfunctorily; cotton planting is delayed and
yields suffer in consequence. Fertilizer application is often not timely
and supplies are unreliable. Aerial spraying is now carried out 12 to 13
times per season, but despite the expense, it is not effective and honeydew
from whitefly has been a serious problem. Cotton stalks are not always
adequately pulled and crop hygiene is poor as is weed control. There may
be only two pickings of cotton, and some goes unharvested because pickers
are not adequately mobilized and rewarded. Most of the technical problems
are aggravated by the lack of interest of tenants in devoting much effort
or cash to cotton cultivation, since there are alternative earning
opportunities both within and outside agriculture and in livestock. These
difficulties were further compounded by the inability of the parastatals to
perform adequately because of their financial and management constraints.



-  54  -
Annex IX
Page 9
C. STRATEGY FOR THE IRRIGATED SUB-SECTOR
33.       The reduction of Sudan's cotton exports during the 70s is one of
the most critical factor behind its current balance of payments crisis.
Recognizing the severity of the problem, the Government, with the Bank,
drew up an Export Action Program (EAP) in 1980 designed to restore
production to the levels of the early L970's. The EAP contains provision
fot :
(i)  urgently needed investments aimed at satisfying requirements for
spare parts, machinery and equipment in order to arrest
decapitalization which has plagued the subsector. These were
financed by the ARP (Agricultural Rehabilitation Program approved
by IDA and the EDF in March 1980), which financed US$75 million
worth of equipment and other critical inputs;
(ii)  allocation of foreign exchange to finance larger imports of
current inputs of which there has been a serious shortage;
(iii) a series of rehabilitation projects, to be carried out in the
1980's, principally in the major agricultural schemes where
cotton is grown, including four projects already financed by
IDA for New Halfa (US$105 million), White Nile Pump Schemes
(US$54 million), Blue Nile Pump Schemes (US$67 million) and
Gezira Scheme (US$262 million); and
(iv)  policy reforms and other actions such as institutional reforms
and revision of the incentive systems intended to stimulate
greater production; the ARP provided funds to finance studies
needed to accomplish such reforms.
34.       Three reports of particular importance to irrigated cotton
production have resulted from ARP financed studies. They are: (a) "Study
of Cost Recovery in the Irrigated Agricultural Sector"; (b) "Study of
Cotton Marketing"; and (c) "Administrative Review of the Irrigation
Sector." These studies drew up recommendations for policy reform which may
be grouped under four main headings:
(i) Reform of cotton pricing mechanisms;
(ii)  Improvement of cotton processing and marketing systems;
(iii)  Improvement of cost recovery aLnd reform of accounting systems;
and
(iv)  Improvement of Government support and supervision of parastatals.
Progress towards implementing these reforms is described in the following
paragraphs.



_ 55 -
Annex IX
Page 10
D. PROGRESS TOWARDS REFORM
35.       Cotton Pricing.  In June 1980, Government announced two far
reaching reforms.  The first was to announce publicly, each year before
harvest, a producer price for cotton. The second was to pay tenants their
cotton incomes promptly on delivery of seed cotton through the installation
of individual accounts for each crop. As a result, tenants were, for the
first time in over half a century, able to estimate incomes from cotton
reliably since distortions caused by uncertainty over prices, unpredictable
cashflows and adjustment of non-cotton charges against cotton sale proceeds
would be eliminated. This is expected to give them the opportunity to make
rational decisions on allocation of effort between tending the cotton crop
and other competing claims on their time. Besides, tenants would hereafter
be in a position to lobby for and negotiate a fair price for cotton.
During the 70s, overvalued (and sometimes discriminatory) exchange rates
compounded by commodity export taxes denied growers the benefit of high and
rising world prices of cotton. A negotiated price should provide adequate
incentives for tenants to grow more cotton in the short-run and a growing
production and revenue trend in the longer term.
36.       The first announcement of cotton prices was made in December
1980. For 1980/81, Government also introduced a bonus system under which
tenants acheving better than standard yields received additional
compensation for the difference between the actual yield and the standard.
The tenant received the full price for the marginal yield without
deductions for profit sharing. Cotton prices for the 1981/82 and 1982/83
seasons were announced in early December each year. Improvements in the
official producer price of cotton, and also other irrigation crops, are
depicted in Table 1. IDA projects place considerable emphasis on
maintenance of remunerative price levels.
37.       A number of further reforms to help remedy price distortions were
suggested in the Marketing Study:
(a) Institutional arrangements for advising the Government on the
suitable level of prices to be announced each year.
(b)  Establishment of a sound basis for the determination of the
cotton price.
(c) Establishment of a Price Stabilization Fund to be used as
insurance to support cotton growers' income in years of low
productivity or low prices. Incomes could be suported by two
mechanisms: (i) paying tenants relatively higher prices when
world prices are low; and (ii) subsidizing land and water charges
so that production costs are lower when harvests are poor.
38.       Sudan Cotton Board.  Despite the importance of cotton to the
Sudanese economy, there is no national level body responsible for the
cotton subsector. The Cotton Marketing Study recommended that such a
board, the Sudan Cotton Board, be established, to be responsible for all
cotton pplicy and related matters, including research and establishment
of the cotton price.



-  56  -
Annex IX
Page 11
Table 1
OFFICIAL PRODUCER PRICES FOR SELECTED COMMODITIES
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1978/   1979/   1980/   1981/   1982/
79      80       81      82       83
Seed cotton ELS   Per Kantar,
Grade 4       n.a.   n.a.        60.50   74.00   92.00
Seed cotton MS    Per Kantar,
Grade 1       n.a.    n.a.       47.00   58.00   72.00
Groundnut          Per Kantar
(Gezira)           in shell        3.72     4.24    5.30    6.28    9.03
Sorghum*
(average)          Per Kantar      3.80     7.77    9.77   11.14   12.73
Wheat              Per Ton        85.00   118.00  160.00  230.00  280.00
Cottonseed         Per Ton        55.00    75.00  255.00  205.00  300.00
* No floor prices were fixed during this period. Hence sorghum prices are
the average market prices.
n.a.= Not applicable.
Source: GOS.
39.       Basis for Cotton Price.  The study recommended that the starting
point for calculation of seed cotton prices should be the f.o.b. price for
cotton lint. The estimation of the f.o.b. and seed cotton prices would be
entrusted to the Sudan Cotton Board ancd would be based on five factors:
(i) international prices, (ii) costs of1 production of other crops, (iii)
Government revenues, (iv) producer incentives and (v) elimination of
cross-subsidization between producers. The Sudan Cotton Board would also
advise on price and income stabilization measures.



- 57 -
Annex IX
Page 12
Cotton Processing and Marketing Systems
40.       Many ginneries are over 50 years old, and lack up to date
equipment and spare parts. The lint recovery rate of 34 percent is poor by
international standards. A number of technical improvements would be
undertaken under the proposed cotton marketing project. These include:
i) modernization of ginning facilities, including introduction
of additional cleaning equipment, automatic humidifiers and
mechanical handling;
ii) covered storage facilities at the ginneries, expanded storage
capacity and equipment at Port Sudan;
iii) improvement of the grading system to include definition of
staple length and measurement of fiber quality, and
establishment of a cotton testing laboratory.
41.       Cotton is exported by the Cotton Public Corporation which
generally obtains favorable prices for cotton exports. However,
improvements are needed so that it can operate on more commercial lines.
The introduction of some competition with the private sector in cotton
marketing activities would also be explored under the proposed Cotton
Marketing Project.  The agricultural corporations, primarily responsible
for production, also have responsibility for cotton ginning. While most of
the ginneries are owned by the agricultural corporations, a few private
sector ginneries also operate on contract with them. The possibility of
expanding private sector ginning capacity would also be explored.
Cost Recovery and Accounting Systems
42.       In June 1980, the Government announced that the joint account
system would be abolished and replaced by an individual accounting system.
Tenants would be charged for each input for each individual crop. Accounts
would be kept separately for each tenant, and debts would be recorded for
cash advances, inputs, services and land and water charges on a per feddan
or a per kantar basis. With effect from 1981/82, the individual account
system has been introduced on all schemes.
43.       In May 1979, a system of water and management charges on crops
other than cotton (excluding sorghum) was introduced but had to be
withdrawn because of tenant resistance. In 1981, the Government finally
negotiated land and water rates with tenants. These were announced in
December 1981 and will apply until the 1982/83 cropping season (see below).



-  58  -
Annex IX
Page 13
Table 2
Land and Water Charges 1981/82-1982/83
- LSd/feddan -
Gezira                     Other Schemes
Cotton           28.5                             36.0
Wheat             14.0                            24.0
Groundnut         18.0                            30.0
Sorghum            7.0(3.5 in 1981/82)             2.0 (6.0 in 1981/82)
Vegetables       25.0                             48.0
44.        These charges represent the full cost of supplying water by
gravity at Gezira (subject to the accuracy of cost measurement/estimates
which are probably understated), but contain a large element of subsidy for
the other schemes, supplied by pumping. In view of the improvement in
productivity and output prices during the past two years, an increase of
charges is foreseen for the year 1983/84. IDA projects would closely
monitor cost recovery in the irrigation schemes.
45.        The introduction of the water and management charge system
increases the volume of individual tenant debt, and though better cotton
prices improve the tenants' ability to pay, the establishment of sound debt
recovery mechanisms is fundamental for the success of the new system. Debt
balances for cotton would continue to be recovered by deductions at source
since cotton sale proceeds are routed through the agricultural
corporations. The difficult issue of debt recovery for other crops has yet
to be resolved by Government. For thts time being, these costs must
continue to be recovered when cotton disbursements are made to tenants.
IDA projects would support efforts to establish satisfactory debt
collection machinery.
46.       Reform of the agricultural corporations' accounting systems will
require substantial technical assistance over an extended period. This
would be provided in New Halfa, Gezira, the Blue and White Nile
rehabilitation projects. Despite the difficulties, progress towards reform
of accounting systems and introduction of improved cost recovery mechanisms
has been substantial.
Support and Supervision of Parastatals
47.        The Administrative Review study has suggested a number of
improvements which are summarized below. Administrative reform involves
even more complex issues than does reform of pricing and accounting
mechanisms; thus, most reforms are still under consideration by
Government. An important decision taken by Government in November 1981 was
to amalgamate the ministries of agriculture and irrigation into a single
Ministry for Agriculture and Irrigaticn. Another notable accomplishment
was the establishment, through the ARE-I, of strong procurement capability
within the Ministry of Finance and Ecanomic Planning with the establishment
of a Program Procurement Committee.



- 59 -
Annex IX
Page 14
48.       Ministry Supervision and Guidance.  One of the problems with
proper administration of the agricultural corporations is the poor quality
of supervision and guidance given so far by MOAI, which needs much
strengthening. This, in turn, requires reorganization of the accounting
system to develop budget information by outputs and programs, rather than
by type of resource committed such as salaries or services. In addition,
there is need to undertake better analysis of the information developed
under the revised accounting system and to provide more technical
assistance for the agricultural corporations.
49.       While the agricultural corporation chairmen should continue to
have direct access to the Minister, the Ministry would undoubtedly have to
provide much more support both to the Minister and to the agricultural
corporations. This would call for a unit in the Ministry of Agriculture
and Irrigation, staffed with competent specialists, to review and revise
ministry accounting, to monitor and evaluate the performance of
agricultural corporations, to provide guidance for agricultural
corporations and to evaluate the impact of Government policies on them.
Provision has been made in the Blue Nile project for staffing and financing
the unit and the unit is expected to be effective shortly. The
agricultural corporations need to establish annual work programs, through
which available resources could be channeled towards physical program
goals. The Gezira project would support the establishment of a Project
Management Unit in MOAI which would inter alia deal with such annual work
programs, handle procurement, monitor progress and extend technical support
to project entities.
50.       Joint efforts between the agriculture and irrigation sections of
-MOAI, agricultural corporations and ARC to improve coordination, benefit
from research efforts, and establish improved systems of water management
have been identified. In addition, the irrigation section of MOAI needs to
strengthen its operations in certain areas including maintenance of, and
technical assistance to, the irrigation systems. The creation of a single
Ministry for both Agriculture and Irrigation augurs well for closer
coordination between agriculture and irrigation activities and should be
followed up by installing administrative mechanisms at the field level.
One such mechanism would be a field water management unit attached to each
agricultural corporation. This unit would be manned by trained water
management specialists and would have broad responsibility for proper water
management in the schemes and foster close working relationships with
irrigation authorities on one hand and tenants on the other. Training for
both agricultural corporation staff and tenants would be an important
responsibility of this unit.  The Gezira project supports these activities.
51.       Improved Accounting and Auditing.  Without proper accounting for
the utilization of inputs and services by crop and by individual tenant,
there is little incentive for tenants and agricultural corporations to use
resources in a cost effective fashion. The proper assignment of costs by
crops and individual tenants would stimulate tenants and agricultural
corporations to economize on the use of resources which do not produce
profits or where profits are small. The introduction of the individual
account system is an important step in this direction and would be
supported by needed hardware and software through IDA projects.



- 60 -
Annex IX
Page 15
52.       Use of Private Sector.  Even if the agricultural corporations are
encouraged to operate on a commercial basis, their many responsibilities
will continue to place a strain on ma]nagement, as they have in the past.
Certain activities could more profitably be carried out by the private
sector. An example is land preparation, which, in the case of food crops,
is largely carried out by the private sector already. It is important,
however, that contractors be able to charge rates for land preparation
which cover all costs. At present, rates are fixed so low that in order to
break even land preparation can be done only in a perfunctory way. This
problem is being addressed through the Gezira project.
E. SUMMARY OF REFORMS
53.       Measures taken so far include:  elminination of dual exchange
rates and adjustments to the value of the Sudanese pound; abolition of
export duty on cotton; announcement, before harvest, of adequate cotton
prices; elimination of the Joint Account System and introduction of
individual tenant accounts for each crop; prompt payment of cotton incomes
to tenants on delivery of seed cotton; levy of land and water charges for
each crop; arrangement of all agriculture and irrigation activities under a
single ministry to foster coordination; heavy investments to arrest
decapitalization of existing schemes through the ARP-I and projects for New
Halfa, Gezira and Blue and White Nile pump schemes; provision of technical
assistance under projects to improve efficiency of current operations on
schemes; and the completion of a number of studies with support from IDA
projects which would guide policy actions in the coming years.
F. ROLE OF BAN4K OPERATIONS
54.       It is important to recognize that most of the reform introduced
by Government require time to implement: and call for systematic efforts to
foster an orderly transformation. The areas covered are complex and
involve changes in long established procedures and institutions. Close
monitoring of developments and quick responses to problems as they evolve
hold the key to success in the 80s.  Government and the Bank have
established a close and constructive dialogue on incentive and
institutional issues during the past four years.
55.       IDA projects have covered virtually the entire sub-sector.  The
table below lists such projects.



-  61  -
Annex IX
Page 16
Table 3
Name                    Total Project Cost    IDA Contribution   Credit No.
US$ million
Rahad*                         370                     62           364 and
364-2-SU
New Halfa                      105                     65            1022-SU
Blue Nile Pump                  67                     32            1118-SU
White Nile Pump                 54                     35            1119-SU
Gezira                         262                     80
Agricultural
Rehabilitation I+             76                      65            1000-SU
* Closed on December 31, 1982
+ Closing on March 31, 1983
56.       These projects have supported physical investments on irrigation,
drainage, pumpstations, dams, agricultural machinery and equipment,
workshops, vehicles, roads, telecommunications, light railways, and
ginneries. At the same time, considerable emphasis has been given to
technical improvements and strengthening the management and accounting
systems on the schemes through technical assistance and training and the
introduction of management information systems. Pricing and cost recovery
systems supported by projects would go a long way in improving incentives
for tenants, labor and indeed the scheme management. There are, however, a
host of institutional issues where much further study is required before
reforms can be implemented. These include matters such as tenancy reforms,
enlargement of the-role of the private sector in scheme operations,
problems in the integration of livestock in the cropping system, the
appropriate area-mix for long and medium staple cotton on the schemes,
mobilization of labor particularly for picking of cotton, role of
mechanization in cotton harvesting, comparative advantage of different
crops and institutional changes involved in the progressive transfer of
decision making to individual tenants or groups of tenants. Studies for
these problems would be funded under IDA projects. Further, the projects
would seek to establish a sound system and organization for monitoring and
evaluating sociological responses to various sectoral policies and project
actions. Again, the project would lay emphasis on strengthening research
programs and improving extension systems. On present indications the
project can be expected to trigger technical and further institutional
improvements just as the ARP I, through studies and technical assistance,
and provide the impetus for major reforms in the areas of both incentives
and institutions in the sub-sector.



-  62  -
Annex IX
Page 17
57.       It is too early to assess the full impact of the rehabilitation
efforts, but the partial impact of physical inputs, especially as a result
of ARP I, and the initial response to policy reforms is positive as is
evident from the following data:
Table 4
Irrigated Production: Area and Output 1980/81 and 1982/83
1980/81  1/    1982/83  1/ (Prelim.)
Area  Output         Area    Output
Cotton                             831    231           882       540
Sorghum                            503    142            570      230
Groundnuts                         285    1933           232      186
Wheat                              437    130            304       149
1/ Area in 1000 feddans, output in 1000 tons.
58.       On the whole, available evidence indicates that physical
rehabilitation efforts and policy reforms have reversed the downward slide
of production.  However, the supply of crLtical farm inputs can be seen as
an essential prerequisite to the realization of full benefits of the
rehabilitation effort. The balance of payments situation has made it
virtually impossible for the country to embark on a regular program of
importing such inputs well in advance of actual requirements. With project
lending arrangements and the establishment of a policy framework conducive
to production and productivity improvemenl:s, priority needs to be given to
provision of program lending to help Sudan meet its requirements of current
farm inputs in the short run. The proposed ARP II operation would fulfill
this need. At the same time, it is necessary to establish mechanisms that
would enable production units to gain access to adequate and timely supply
of foreign exchange of finance inputs and develop appropriate linkages
between foreign exchange earnings and import needs in the medium run. ARP
II would support efforts in this direction.



SUELAN: TREN [Is IN FrR Il)ICT10 N IN IJR lICIF.r AGRICULTUJRE, 197 0/71-1980/81
(AREA. '000FR ; YIELID. Ni;, FDi; FRODI.:  OOOMT
ITEM                1Y71        FY72        FY73        F Y74        FY75        FY76        FY' 77      FY78        FY79         FY80        FY81
                                          --- -  --------                           - -  - - -  - -  - -  - -  - -  - -  - -  - - -  - -  - -  - -
COT TOTAL A    h    95 9.00       990.00    9Q90.00    1008.00   1& .i'.oo        732.00      932. 00    885.00        857.00      900.00      831.00
COT TOTAL Y    Z    72 9.93       663.64      526.2.26    642'.B6    6 0O' .85     382.51      514. 42    598.87        430.57      335.78      338.08
CO1 TOTAL P    5    70 0.00       657.00      521 .00     648.00      & l9.00      280.00      428. 00    530.00        369.00      302.20      280.95
NlUT IRR A    52    186.00        167.00      270.00      296.00      384.00       553.00      346. 00    380.00        311.00      408.00      285.00
GNuT IRR Y    53    677.42        664.67    1029.63       885.14    1187.50        743.22      736.99    1121.05        791.00      992.65      678.42
ONUT IRR P    51    12 6.00       111.00      278.00      262-.00     456.00       411.00      255. 00    426.00        246.00      405.00      193.35
SORGO  IRR A   67    629.00       511.00      406.00      545.00      402.00       628.00      471O00    539.00       591.00       443.00      503.00
SOFRH IRR Y   613    41 8.12      420.74      894.09      535.78      425'.37      458.60      450_11      497.22       438.24      379.23      281.36
SOROH IRR P   66    26.3.o0       215.00      363.0K      292.00      L71.00       288.00      212.00      268.00       259.00      168.0       141.53
WHEAT A        64    29?0.00      288.00      248.0-0    419.00       591.00       690.00      639.00      602.00       566.00      457.00      437.00
UHEAT Y        65    562.07       430.56      612.90       560.86     455.16       369.57      460_09      526.38       296.82      509.85      297.48
WI1EAT P       63    i&3.00       124.00       152.0'0    235.00      269.00       255.00      294.00      3 17.00      168.00      233.00      130.00
TOTAL AhEA   i94   2064.00    1956.00    1914.0 0   2268.00    2392.00    2603.00    2280  00    24 06.00    2325.00    2208.00    2056.00
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--    ----    ------  ----     ----
SOURCE: DEPARTMENT OF AGRICUL TURAL PRI3DUCTION AND STATISTICS
NOTE: EXCL UDES SUGAR PRODUCTI ON
04/19/83
10109 AM 
(DI-
H,



S~~~~2                                                    2D Dl A NA ;  '; 
-25'         S  U  D  A  N                       MILESO,         IL           200          30
GEZIRA   REHABILITATION                              D      10      230     330    4DD      530
PROJECT
Location of Project Area
rIP  [0000105 OF PROJECT AREA                                                                                                                    "5t, _ 0  
,,   IRA3J010N SCHEME5                                      ARAB        REPUBLIC     OF    EGYPT                             '
:-  S VERS, PERERN CIESEASONAL,                                                                                                     =         =.:
-I>-  DEAMS
RAIt'XA<S 424Dd~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i H.1fr7 .  t=  %  
-PRDVINCIAL 5'NDAcoflRIS       ;?   wo\Lt                                                     ,,g< 
- -IUTERSATIORAL RAURRARIRS                                                                        R / \E 'o     
2   N O R T H F R
CHADKNE'   '                                                                                           \'br                      0
i                |~~~~~~ ----------r----__-                         3      hnl      -    o     [      ) a
,'~~~~~~~d
VAIIACShend,A
/ - .J                     ;                                         '\KHA JDLIA2'' 0    rI''f\  i ['59/              <--
0 N  O  R  T H  F  R? A/ 'N                 '                               AUA                                                   -
Ik N   0),?    T ,,,  H,,,  ,    K   O   k   DedNref
'.)Rl0fZ                                                                 -1  5 ngei'ClO                                   I       (- -.eb: tP2<
D tNyl         11                                                                                                   W,_'.-4 B P  F    a /  qbAref
*_    oiisgei        -      -          r '.   ,5 0EU  T /1           R Nohud  EIObe,dQ, RA O  R.ENh  ,   R05EI Q  JId SER
Al    O        TR N                    ;BNyalo    '                                            N  Z I  S                               <A
X   D    A    R    F    U    R  x\  | K  O  R  D   KodLgH   F  Ra N  )Rn / L   --A
0   F A  NI
z  F   i          E T H I      P I A
8 A-H-*PER---                                         MIRON/IFETIOI
- G 5 HA Z A L                             t                              W       . 
CENTRAL AFRICAN                                               T" ,<  /-tVn 5Z\--JUNJ!4  
R E P U B L I C                 .i   H' Y~tBU8bk     R A    +                                   '. 
'---~~~~~~~~~~'   B4H-RKEL~~~-------   ---- 
755TRN,'S TAST5RN
CENTRAL  AFRICAN                           Toni EL             IL/N             L'4A'F/ATORA    T-
=   tA F RttA '                                                            Y                -     -      c,                a,( 
REPUBLIC                    E P U BLIC   OF   ZAIRE                                                         0-
9; ;    C3 0       bd6h6't9Qlh&    Q                t aeA*f                     UNE  GER   EA ST R N                     '(\EN  
AFR A;                                                                 Ye =_.- = )L   = =a=  2r3s  3r-  -A                                    ,,23KNY
REPUBLIC  OF  ZAIRE  ~~~~~~~~ :--~~'  '~~~                                      N



