OFFICIAL
DOCiUMENTS      DIT NUMBER 1389 SU
Development Credit Agreement
(Agricultural Rehabilitation Program - Phase II)
between
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated      4"                       , 1983


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1389 SU
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       4,                         , 1983,
between THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN (hereinafter called
the Borrower or Sudan) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements or the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional term has the following meaning, namely, that "PPPED" means
the Borrower's proposed activities known as "Prospects, Pro-
grammes and Policies for Economic Development 1982/83-1984/85"'.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to forty-six million four hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 46,400,000).
Section 2t02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.


﻿-2-
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed
by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1985
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Sect.on 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each June 1
and December 1 commencing December 1, 1993, and ending June 1,
2033, each installment to and including the installment payable
on June 1, 2003, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, financial, economic and technical prac-
tices and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facili-
ties, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) Until completion of the Project, the Borrower shall, by
July 1 of each year (or such other date as the Association may
agree), transmit to the Association for its comments the public
investment program for the following three years to be prepared
by its ministry responsible for finance and economic planning,
sulch program to be consistent with the strategy and objectives
set forth in the program included in the PPPED.
(c) The Borrower shall, by September 30, 1983 (or such
other date as the Association may agree), establis- and, there-
after, maintain within its ministry responsible for finance and
economic planning a Directorate General of External Finance, such
Directorate to be established in consultation with the Associa-
tion.
(d) The Borrower shall maintain a committee for monitoring
the implementation of the PPPED.
(e) The Borrower shall, by September 30, 1983 (or such
other date as the Association may agree), establish and, there-
after, maintain a committee for the coordination of commodity
aid, such committee to be established in consultation with the
Association.
(f) The Borrower shall:    (i) take all appropriate steps to
ensure that the irrigated pump schemes in Sudan be provided with
fuel in a timely fashion and in sufficient quantities; and (ii)
provide the Association with quarterly reports on the avail-
ability of fuel to said schemes until the completion of the
Project.
(g) Until the acquisition of the essential recurrent
inputs for the agricultural sector for 1984/1985 shall have been
completed, the Borrower shall, from time to time, update its
financing plan for the acquisition thereof.


﻿-4-
(h) The Borrower shall: (i) by September 30, 1983 (or such
other date as the Association may agree), devise procedures and
assign appropriate personnel, within its ministry responsible for
agriculture and irrigation, for preparing the projections for
the foreign exchange recurrent requirements of the agricultural
sector in consultation with the Association; (ii) by May 31, 1984
(or such other date as the Association may agree), prepare and
submit to the Association for its information an action program
for the implementation of the recommendations emanating from the
study included in Part B (b) of the Project; and (iii) by July
31, 1984 (or such other date as the Association may agree),
exchange views on such program with the Association.
(i) The Borrower shall take all appropriate steps to ensure
that: (i) the agricultural inputs and spare parts, financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be sold to the beneficiaries
thereof; and (ii) the Sudanese Pounds generated by such sales
shall be deposited into a special account which shall be opened
in the name of the ministry responsible for finance and economic
planning with the- Bank of Sudan and used to finance the local
costs of the development projects included in the PPPED. For the
purposes of this paragraph, "beneficiary" means any of the Sudan
Gezira Board, Blue Nile Agricultural Corporation, White Nile
Agricultural Corporation, New Halfa Agricultural Production
Corporation, Rahad Corporation, Suki Corporation and Sudan
Railway Corporation.
(j) The Borrower shall: (i) after completion of the studies
included in Part A of the Schedule (Description of the Project)
to the Development Credit Agreement, dated June 2, 1981, between
the Borrower and the Association (Credit No. 1153 SU) related to
the sugar and cotton marketing sub-sectors, prepare an action
program for improving the commercial performance of the Bor-
rower's parastatals in these sub-sectors on the basis of the
recommendations acceptable to the Borrower emanating from such
studies; and (ii) by March 31, 1984 (or such other date as the
Association may agree), exchange views on such program with the
Association.
(k) The Borrower shall, by September 30, 1983 (or such
other date as the Association may agree), exchange views with the
Association on the recommendations emanating from the study
included in Part B (c) of the Project.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying


﻿- 5 -
out Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
empluyment shall be satisfactory to the Association, such
consultants to be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank
in August 1981.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and procurement schedules for the
Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
at regular intervals all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and,
where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expen-
diture of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the


﻿-6-
Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof, the
name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contcact price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and
initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits
derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the
Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Credit.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of the'departments or agencies of the Borrower responsi-
ble for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) Without limitation to the foregoing, the Borrower
shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure; (ii) retain, until one year after the Closing Date,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure; and (iii) enable the Association's
representatives to examine such records.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts referred to
in paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any
case not later than nine months after the end of each such year,
a certified copy of the report of such audit by such auditors, of


﻿-7-
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested, including, without limitation to the
foregoing, a separate opinion by said auditors in respect of the
expenditures and records referred to in paragraph (b) of this
.Section as to whether the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from
the Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure have
been used for the purpose for which they were provided; and (iii)
furnish to the Association such cther information concerning said
accounts, records and expenditures and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions, namely, that the Borrower shall have provided
the Association with a financing plan for the acquisition of
the essential recurrent inputs in 1984/1985 for the agricultural
sector,  indicating,  inter   alia,  the   probable  sources  of
financing, such plan to be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 5.02. The date       e I15               is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance and Economic Planning
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and
Economic Planning
P.O. Box 2092
Khartoum
The Democratic Republic of the Sudan


﻿-8-
Cable address:                       Telex:
EIMAR                              3324
Khartoum
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
By 1151'
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Agricultural             36,250,000        100% of foreign
Inputs                                    expenditures
(2) Spare Parts for the       1,670,000  )     100% of foreign
the Agricultural                     )     expenditures,
Sector                               )    100% of local
)     expenditures (ex-
(3) Spare Parts for the      3,340,000   )     factory cost) and
Railway Sector                       )     55% of local ex-
)     penditures for
(4) Office Equipment             95,000   )    other items pro-
and Vehicles for                     )     cured locally
Part C of the                        )
Project                              )
(5)  Consultants' Services     370,000         100%
and Overseas Training
for Parts B and C of
the Project
(6) Unallocated               4,675,000
- TOTAL       46,400,000


﻿- 10 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that the proceeds of
the Credit shall not be disbursed on account of pa:ments for
taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or
supply thereof; on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of items in any Category decreases or
increases, the Association may, by notice       to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such Category as required to be consistent with the aforemen-
tioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures made prior to the date of this Agreement;
(b)  expenditures for goods supplied, or services provided,
under a contract which any national or international financing
institution or agency other than the Association shall have
financed or agreed to finance; and
(c) expenditures under Category (3), unless the Borrower
shall, by March 31, 1984 (or such other date as the Association
may agree), have employed (as provided in Section 3.02 hereof)
the consultants required for the carrying out of the study
included in Part B (a) of the Project.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentagei set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:


﻿- 11 -
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
.if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expen-
ditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restrict-
ing or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Associ-
ation under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associ-
ation's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expen-
ditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing
out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
Part A:
Implementation of a program of procurement of fertilizers,
insecticides, herbicides, jute materials and spare parts for the
agricultural and railway sectors.
,Part B:
(a) Study of the Borrower's railway operations.
(b) Study by the Borrower's ministry responsible for
finance and economic planning of alternative arrangements for
financing the foreign exchange recurrent costs of the agricul-
tural sector.
(c) Review *of    the  Borrower's  pest  control  management
systems  and   pesticide  and  herbicide   requirements  for   the
1984/1985 season.
Part C:
Strengthening of the existing procurement committee of the
ministry responsible for finance and economic planning.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1984.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the current edition (Edition of July
1980) of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter
called the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender, a general procuremeat notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Association shall
reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification to
prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods in
question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information to
update such notice annually so long as any goods remain to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   (a) Contracts for fertilizers, insecticides and herbicides,
jute sacks and spare parts will be grouped into appropriate
bidding packages in order to attract the interest of both smaller
and larger manufacturers/suppliers.
(b) Insecticides and herbicides will be procured with due
regard to the risks inherent in widespread aerial application.
Contracts for insecticides and herbicides which, in the Associa-
tion's opinion, present high environmental risks, will be ineli-
gible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit,
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes


﻿- 14 -
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and simi-
lar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery, pur-
suant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account in
the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the p:.curement of goods in accordance with the procedure
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Sudan may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids     offering  goods manufactured    in
Sudan if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Association
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Sudan equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids


﻿- 15 -
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this
further comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of
.customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
(a) Annual   requirements of   spare  parts  for  vehicles,
machinery and equipment may be purchased directly from the
manufacturer thereof or after obtaining quotations from at least
two reputable manufacturers or other established sources (if
there is more than one reputable manufacturer or established
source), provided that the aggregate cost of the spare parts so
acquired shall not exceed $2,000,000 equivalent.
(b) Contracts for fertilizers and herbicides may be awarded
under local procedures acceptable to the Association, provided
that the aggregate cost of contracts so awarded shall not exceed
$200,000 equivalent.
(c) Goods for contracts of less than $20,000 equivalent
each, may be purchased off-the-shelf or through comparative
shopping after obtaining at least three quotations, provided that
the aggregate cost of the goods so acquired shall not exceed
$100,000 equivalent.
(d) Contracts for goods, which come in contracts of less
than $250,000 equivalent each, may be awarded under local proce-
dures acceptable to the Association, provided that the aggregate
cost of the contracts so awarded shall not exceed $5,000,000
equivalent.
(e) Contracts for insecticides and other chemicals, for
which there are only a few established and reliable sources, may
be awarded through limited international bidding among at least
three such sources. The procedures for evaluation and award shall
be the same as those applicable to international competitive
bidding, as described in Part A of the guidelines.


﻿- 16 -
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods estimated to cost
the equivalent of $250,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association*"s concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, and such other informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be incon-
sistent with the Guidelines or'this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph (except for contracts on account of which withdrawals
are allowed from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of
expenditures), the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from


﻿- 17 -
the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the
respective bids, recommendations for award and such other infor-
mation as the Association shall reasonably request. The Associa-
,tion shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was
not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 20% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension
or change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the pro-
visions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of          ,
1981-.
FOR SECRETARY


