Docuentof
The World Bank
FOR OFMICIAL USE ONLY
C A;, /14'etp_CkQ
RePat No. P-4193-A
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
ON A
PROPOSED IDA CREDIT
OF SDR 84.0 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A
SECOND RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
November 25, 1985
I ThI dmSta h  a inSi_   dIbtSe. m  may be _ed by edopms sIly Is te erfama.c  of
thIr Stint dS  Iu.t ess insfl w   urhxe be d_acseu wideo  Wi But  l



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Renminbi - Yuan (Y)
Calendar 1984      November 1985
US$1.00  =  Y 2.32         Y 3.14
Y 1.00  =   $0.43          $0.32
(Project cost estimates are based on the exchange rate of
Y 2.8 per US$1.00 which prevailed at the time of appraisal.)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)        =       3.28 feet (ft)-
1 kilometer (km)            0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)              2.47 acres
1 ton              =        1,000 kg
=       2,205 pounds
1 kilogram (kg)            2.2 pounds
1 hectare (ha)     =        15 mu
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ABC          -   Agricultural Bank of China
BOC          -   Bank of China
RCCs         -   Rural Credit Cooperatives
PBC          -   People's Bank of China
MAAF         -   Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry
and Fisheries
PKC          -   Project Management Committee
PO           -   Project Office
PU           -   Project Unit
IFAD         -   International Fund for Agricultural Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CHINA
RURAL CREDIT II PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:              People's Republic of China
-     Beneficiary:           Agricultural Bank of China (ABC)
Credit Amount:         SDR 84 million (US$90 mlflion equivalent)
Credit Terms:          Standard
Relending Terms:       From Government to ABC: 20 years including five years
of grace, with interest at 3Z p.a. and commitment fees
of 0.5% p.a. Repayment of principal by ABC would be
the amount of Renminbi, and the SDR equivalent of the
foreign currency used.
From ABC to subborrowers: Interest at prevailing
rates, currently ranging from 5.76% to 10.08% p.a.,
with maturities and grace periods depending on subpro-
ject cash flows. Where ABC extends subloans using
foreign currency, ABC would pass on the foreign
exchange risk to subborrowers.
Project
Description:         The project would expand the Bank Group's support of
ABC's medium and long-term lending for the diversifica-
tion and modernization of agricultural production and
processing which was initiated by the ongoing first
Rural Credit Project (1462-CHA). Project subloans
would be provided by ABC to individual farmers and
households, collective units, and enterprises owned by
local government entities and collectives in the two
provinces of Fujian and Hunan to finance investments
for the development of aquaculture, orchards, agro-
processing and livestock enterprises.  A technical
assistance component is included in the project for
effective project implementation and to strengthen the
operations of ABC. At full development, the value of
the incremental output from the project would be about
US$140 million p.a. The project would benefit directly
some 16,000 families from increased production and
incomes, and generate additional employment equivalent
to 61,000 full time jobs.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offcial duties. Its contenst may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Costs:
Local       Foreign      Total
(US$ million)
Aquaculture                                   89.1          7.7         96.8
Orchards                                      79.9         8.8          88.7
Agro-processing                               27.9         18.7         46.6
Livestock                                     15.9         4.1          20.0
Technical assistance                           1.5         3.3           4.8
Total Project Cost                     214.3        42.6         256.9 /a
Financial Plan:                             Local     Foreign         Total
(USS million)
IDA                          47.4         42.6          90.0
ABC                           90.0          -           90.0
Subborrowers                  76.9          -          76.9
Total                     214.3         42.6        256.9
Estimated Disbursement:
IDA FY       1987      1988       1989      1990      1991
Annual                   5.4       18.0      25.2      26.1        15.3
Cumulative               5.4       23.4      48.6      74.7        90.0
Rate of Return:   28Z
/a  Taxes and duties of about $7 million are included in the cost estimates.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A SECOND RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed IDA
credit to the People's Republic of China to help finance a second rural credit
project. The credit, for SDR 84.0 million ($90 million equivalent), would be
on standard IDA terms. The proceeds of the credit would be onlent to the
Agricultural Bank of China (ABC) with a 20-year term, including 5 years of
grace, at 3% p.a. interest and commitment fees of 0.5% p.a. Where ABC extends
subloans using foreign currency, ABC would pass on the foreign risk to
subborrowers.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A country economic report entitled, "China: Long-Term Issues and
Options" (No. 5206-CHA) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
May 22, 1985.  Basic data on the economy are given in Annex I.
Background
3.        Since 1978, China has initiated economic reforms in both rural and
urban areas and in the external sector. Reforms have been greatest in rural
areas. Following some experiments with the abolition of collective farming in
impoverished areas, the Government implemented a comprehensive restructuring
of rural institutions based on various forms of the "production responsibility
system". By 1983 the farm household had become the fundamental unit of
management and production in agriculture, within a framework of collective or
state ownership of land and major fixed assets. Reforms have not yet proceed-
ed as far in the urban economy, but there have been significant changes in
enterprise management and finance. The scope for collective and individual
economic activities has been enlarged and state enterprises have been allowed
greater freedom in production, pricing and marketing above their mandatory
plan targets. State enterprises have also been alLowed to retain some profits
and investment projects have increasingly been financed on a loan rather than
a grant basis.
4.        In international trade and investment, China has promoted opening up
to the rest of the world in recent years. Between 1978 and 1984, the share of
exports to CDP nearly doubled to about 10Z, a ratio similar to other large
economies such as the U.S. and Brazil. Foreign investment has been encour-
aged, first through establishment of four Special Economic Zones and signing
of joint venture contracts for off-shore oil exploration, and more recently
through opening of several coastal cities to foreign investment.



-2-
Growth and Stabilization
5.        Reforms have helped stimulate rapid development of the whole
economy. Real GDP growth averaged 5% p.a. between 1978 and 1981 and 10% p.a.
between 1981 and 1984. During these six years, per capita incomes in real
terms more than doubled in rural areas and increased by more than 50Z in urban
areas. Agriculture has continued its remarkably strong performance, with
gross agricultural output value (excluding rural industry and commerce) rising
at nearly 11 p.a. between 1981 and 1984 and grain output at 8% p.a. (reaching
over 400 million tons in 1984).  Cash crops and animal husbandry, stimulated
by rising demand and attractive prices, have also grown rapidly. Gross indus-
trial output value grew at over 10% p.a. over the same period, with heavy
industry growing somewhat faster than light industry (12% p.a. vs. 9% p.a.).
If rural industrial output is included, total industrial output value grew at
close to 12% p.a. in real terms between 1981 and 1984. The energy constraint
on industrial growth was eased by rising coal output (8% p.a. between 1981 and
1984), renewed increases in crude oil production (4% p.a. between 1981 and
1984) and improvements in the efficiency of energy utilization (primary
commercial energy consumption grew only 60% as fast as GDP between 1981 and
1984). Manufactured exports growth at 8% p.a. between 1981 and 1984 was
slower than during the 1978-81 period but it started from a much higher base
and in the face of worsening world market conditions.
6.        The Government continues to face difficulties in combining system
reform and rapid overall growth with maintenance of economic stability.
During 1979 and 1980, China experienced large budget and current account
deficits combined with excessive investment and inflationary pressures.  In
response, a strict stabilization program was introduced in 1981 relying mainly
on administrative controls on investment spending. The program slowed growth
but also helped lower the budget deficit from about 5% of GDP in 1979 to less
than 1X in 1981, reduce inflation to around 2Z p.a., and change China's
external position to one of current account surpluses averaging nearly $4 bil-
lion during 1982-84. As a result, foreign debt and debt service ratios
remained at low levels ($6.4 billion and 5.5Z respectively in 1983) and
China's foreign currency reserves (excluding gold) rose to $17 billion (over
7 months' imports) by mid-1984.
7.        This comfortable balance of payments position, achieved at the cost
of drastic reductions in investment spending and some recentralization of
investment decisionmaking, disappeared rapidly during the course of 1984 and
early 1985. Partly as a result of decentralization of decisionmaking and the
lack of effective indirect levers, there was a rapid acceleration of invest-
ment and consumption during 1984 and the first half of 1985 causing the
economy to overheat. Real GDP grew by 14% during 1984, while average wages in
state-owned enterprises rose by 20% and domestic credit grew by 36%. The
retail price index rose by only 3% in 1984, but inflation is expected to be
higher in 1985.  Imports of capital goods increased from $4 billion in 1983 to
over $7 billion in 1984, with most of the increase occurring in the second
half of the year. There was also a rapid expansion in consumer goods
imports. These trends continued during early 1985. As a result, foreign
exchange reserves (excluding gold) had fallen to about $10 billion by
July 1985 (equivalent to 3.1 months of exports), and the current account
deficit for the year is likely to be in the range of $10 billion. The Govern-
ment has responded quickly by launching a strict stabilization program that



includes further increases in interest rates as well as a series of adminis-
trative directives governing bank credit and project approval. As a result,
aggregate credit and demand as well as new import orders have begun to slow
down, though total imports will continue to rise as past orders are filled.
Recent Reforms
8.        The Central Committee of the Chinese Communist Party issued a major
document on "reform of the economic structure" in October 1984. Recent reform
developments have been fully in accordance with the directions indicated in
the October decision: (a) state enterprises should be made fully independent
units which pursue profits and are responsible for losses; (b) the scope of
mandatory planning should be reduced and replaced by indicative planning while
the focus of planning should shift from annual to medium- and long-term
guidance planning; (c) a more rational price system should be introduced by
reducing the role of state-controlled prices and increasing the role of
"floating" and free market prices; and (d) the tax system should be improved,
finance and banking should be reformed and a larger role should be given to
indirect macroeconomic regulation through instruments such as tax, credit and
pricing policy.
9.        Rural reforms have continued to progress more rapidly than reforms
elsewhere in the economy. There has been a remarkable spread of nonagri-
culturaL activities like processing, transport, and commerce. "Specialized
households" (which concentrate on cash crops, animal husbandry, or nonagri-
cultural activities) and pooling of capital by small groups of households in
various types of ventures are becoming increasingly common forms of economic
organization in China's rural areas. Wholesale markets for some agricultural
products have emerged. To encourage investment in land improvement and
development, farming contracts between collective and peasant households for
the use of land (which typically had been fixed for no more than 3-5 years)
can now be extended to as long as 15-20 years. In early 1985, the system of
agricultural procurement was changed. Previously the Government purchased
quota output of grain and other crops at relatively low prices and stood ready
to purchase all above-quota output at a higher price. Under the new system,
procurement up to a certain amount (below former quota procurement) is based
on contracts concluded voluntarily between peasants and procurement
agencies. Prices for these purchases are based on the relatively high average
price of past years. Output above the contracted amount must be sold by
peasants directly on the free market, but the Government will intervene to
purchase grain if the price falls to the original low quota procurement
price. Thus a considerably larger portion of basic crop production will be
produced for and traded on markets with flexible prices.
10.       The momentum of urban reforms has revived, with significant progress
on several fronts. In enterprise management, the focus has been on broadening
and delineating the decisionmaking authority of urban enterprises. Profit
retention now extends to virtually all state-owned industrial enterprises and
to nonindustrial sectors Like transport, commerce, construction, and other
services. Urban collectives and individual enterprises, as well as a variety
of joint ventures between them and state enterprises, have grown rapidly (the
number employed in urban individual enterprises rose from 150,000 in 1978 to
2.31 million in 1983).



11.       In financial reforms, the most important new development has been
the implementation of a profit tax system to replace profit remittances by
state enterprises to the government budget. Though most enterprises have
switched to this system, the benefits have been limited because of the
application of a different effective tax rate for each enterprise, to offset
the impact of distorted relative prices and other factors. Similar problems
have resulted in the abandonment of an attempt to impose a fee or charge on
the fixed capi-tal provided to state enterprises by the Government, and they
have hindered the shift from grant to loan financing of new fixed
investment. Financial discipline at the enterprise level =emains weak, in
spite of efforts to strengthen accounting and auditing systems and more
strictly enforce existing financial regulations.
12.       Some progress has been made with price reform.  The majority of
agriculture commodity prices were decontrolled even before the recent change
in pricing and procurement of grain. Prices of many minor consumer goods are
also set by negotiations between producers and commercial units. "Floating
prices" (up to 20Z above or below official prices) are now allowed for many
industrial producer goods (either for all output or for output above the
mandatory plan target). Price adjustments for key energy products and raw
materials (which in many cases are severely underpriced) and for subsidized
basic consumer goods like grain and edible oil have proven more difficult to
implement, hindered by the potential impact of price changes on urban living
standards and on the finances of energy-using enterprises. Nevertheless, some
price rises have occurred (e.g., for coal and petroleum), and moreover the
share of free market transactions, at largely uncontrolled prices, has
increased in recent years. Gradually over time, and only partly as a result
of conscious policy, a two-tier system is emerging; a large but shrinking
share of the total supply of most important goods is subject to mandatory plan
allocation and administratively set prices, while at the margin a substantial
and growing share is allocated by the market mechanism, largely at flexible
prices. This pattern may permit China to "grow out of the plan" in a rela-
tively smooth transition, though there are obvious threats to this strategy
arising from the strong incentive for arbitrage between planned and unplanned
realms.
13.       The Government recognizes the need to develop new tools of indirect
macroeconomic management and has taken some steps to do so. The People's Bank
of China was established as a separate central bank at the beginning of 1984,
with its commercial banking functions taken on by the newly created Industrial
and Commercial Bank of China. In 1985, new methods of credit planning and
control were introduced and lower-level and specialized banks were given
significant redeposit requirements. Interest rates (including deposit rates)
were also raised in 1985, with some move toward unification of rates and
development of a term structure resembling that in other countries. Technical
transformation loans with a maturity less than one year and loans for working
capital now carry the same 7.9% interest rate while loans of longer maturity
carry higher rates, up to 10.8% for 10-year loans. However, interest rates on
budgetary capital construction loans (formerly grants) remain low and there
are a variety of directed credit schemes. On the external side greater use is
now being made of the exchange rate. The old internal setclement rate was
abolished at the beginning of 1985 and between January and end-October 1985
the rate against the U.S. dollar declined by over 13%. Despite these changes
progress in developing new indirect levers of control has been slow. Recent



difficulties in securing macroeconomic balance highlight the need to
strengthen institutions and macroeconomic management tools (including
monetary, fiscal, and exchange rate instruments) for a decentralized and more
market-oriented economy.
Long-Term Issues and Prospects
14.       In September 1985 a national party conference adopted a proposal
which will be the basis for drafting a new Seventh Five Year Plan covering the
period 1986-90. The proposal reaffirms a political commitment to economic
reform and provides guidelines for future reform and development. One of the
main objectives of the plan will be to create a favorable environment for
reform which, in turn, will set the stage for future development. Target
growth rates (7% p.a. for industry, 6% for agriculture, a Little over 7% for
CNP) are below rates of growth achieved with the Sixth Five Year Plan, invest-
ment is to be restrained in the next few years, and emphasis is to be placed
upon quality rather than quantity of output. It is felt that slower growth
will facilitate reform.
15.      The plan proposal identifies three main areas of reform.  First,
enterprise management and incentives are to be improved by: giving enterprises
greater autonomy in production, pricing, and employment decisions; lowering
and equalizing taxes; increasing competition, increasing accountability for
performance; and reforming personnel procedures. In addition, some small
state enterprises will be turned over to collective or individual management
through contract or lease. Second, the role of the market is to be extended
and market networks strengthened. The scope of mandatory planning will be
further reduced and markets for capital, technology, and labor will gradually
be developed. Third, the emphasis of planning will shift from detailed
administrative control to indirect macroeconomic control through economic
policy. To this end a series of mutually reinforcing reforms in the plAnning,
pricing, fiscal, banking, and labor and wage systems will be introduced during
the plan period.
16.      Implementation of the plan proposal will help foster an environment
in which fundamental reforms can be gradually implemented in a coordinated
way. But specific policy measures will take time to design and then to
implement. Many of the reforms required will be difficult, particularly since
reforms in different areas are closely interrelated, and thus appropriate
sequencing and coordination are essential. For example, price reform in the
absence of improvements in enterprise financial discipline will have limited
benefits, yet the more profit-oriented behavior that would resuLt from tighter
financial discipLine would exacerbate the adverse impact of distorted
prices. Similarly, reform of the labor allocation system will be incomplete
without eliminating many of the "social responsibilities" of enterprises
(which now provide housing, medical care, and pensions for their workers and
in many cases education and jobs for workers' children) and replacing them
with Government-supported social service programs. The plan proposal suggests
moving in this direction by commercializing housing.
17.      China's objective of quadrupling the gross output value of industry
and agriculture between 1980 and 2000 (which means GDP growth of well over 6%
p.a.) will require significant improvements in efficiency as well as continued
high saving and investment rates. The plan proposal recognizes there must be



major structural changes in the economy over the next two decades, including a
reduction in the share of agriculture, a rise in the share of industry and
services (which at present is unusually low), and substantial urbanization.
There will also be a shift within agriculture, away from grain and basic crops
and into cash crops and animal husbandry. The new plan will emphasize
development of the service sector, mainly through removing restrictions on
collective and individual activity. Urban development will focus on small and
medium sized cities and towns while restrictions on growth of large urban
areas will continue.
18.       Certain physical/technical constraints will hinder the attempt to
achieve China's targets for the year 2000 and its longer-term goal of catching
up with developed countries. Despite rapid growth and substantial improve-
ments in efficiency in recent years, agriculture may again become a constraint
on overall growth, since land in China is severely limited. In energy, short-
ages of fuel (primarily coal) and electricity may continue to constrain growth
in transport and commercial infrastructure. Without large new investments and
improved efficiency, economic growth will lag. In mobilizing resources in all
these areas, China could profitably make use of foreign borrowing. Finally,
the rising share of the elderly ia China's population (related to the slowdown
in population growth) means that more resources will have to be devoted to
maintaining their consumption levels, especially in the decades after 2000.
19.       Poor motivation and inefficient utilization of labor in the state
sector of the economy are major problems which can be solved only by coor-
dinated reforms in labor allocation, the wage system, enterprise management,
and social services, among other things. Reforms in the system of education
and training to develop China's "human capital" potential also are crucial.
Backward technology and inefficient use of existing technology must be
addressed by a combination of reforms, appropriately directed investment, and
transfer of advanced foreign technology. Irrational location of factories,
suboptimal scale of many plants, and poor utilization of physical capital in
general are related problems.
20.       If reforms successfully transform the economic system, with a bene-
ficial impact on growth and efficiency, a new set of issues will come to the
fore, as the plan proposal recognizes. Management of a reformed economy with
indirect fiscal, monetary, and other instruments is a major issue (see para.
13 above). In this context, maintaining an adequate saving rate (if the
Government no longer accounts for the bulk of aggregate saving) and avoiding
inflation (as well as deep cyclical downturns) will be major goals. Ass-ring
an adequate minimum standard of living for the population and an appripriate
level of social services will become a major challenge as enterprise and rural
communal responsibilities in these areas are reduced. The problem of poor,
backward rural areas in various parts of the country will continue to require
attention.  Redistributing financial resources to these areas through the
fiscal system, easing restrictions on migration out of the poorest areas, and
lowering nonagricultural wages to make investment in them more attractive are
some options for alleviating poverty.
21.       In order to mobilize the external resources needed for rapid,
sustained growth the plan proposal calls for export growth of 40-50% over the
next five years, greater efforts to attract foreign investment, and increased
commercial borrowing. If exports grow at 8Z p.a. between 1984 and 1990 and



- 7 -
imports grow at 9% p.a., China would have a relatively modest current account
deficit of around $4-5 billion p.a. (except in 1985) during the remainder of
this decade, equivalent to about 1Z of GNP. This implies that the present
debt service ratio would increase only moderately by 1990. If China's exports
grow more slowly imports will probably have to be cut back because a higher
borrowing target, though feasible in terms of debt service indicators, would
probably run into supply constraints as China would become one of the largest
developing country borrowers. This highlights the need for continued export
growth in order to meet other plan objectives and service greater commercial
borrowing. The pLan proposal recognizes that greater use of exchange rate and
pricing policies will be needed to encourage export growth.
22.       Even with continued good export performance, China will have
substantial external capital requirements during the remainder of the
decade. Under the trade growth assumptions outlined above (exports growing at
82 p.a. and imports at 9Z p.a. during 1984-90), the current account deficit
would be over $5 billion in 1990 and the gross borrowing requirement would be
about $6.5 billion. If export growth fell to 6% p.a. during this period and
imports continued to grow at 9% p.a., the current account deficit would reach
$14 billion by 1990. Although the plan proposal calls for increased borrowing
at commercial rates, access to concessionary capital will play an important
role in sustaining China's growth. China also has a claim to concessionary
lending because it is still one of the poorer countries of the world. But
China's access to concessionary capital to finance development and moderniza-
tion is limited; apart from Bank Group funds, a significant amount of conces-
sionary capital is Likely to come only from Japan and a few other bilateral
donors and will probably average no more than $500-600 million p.a. during the
rest of the 1980s.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
23.       To achieve the target growth rates envisioned in proposals for the
Seventh Five-Year Plan, to increase efficiency and innovation, and to maintain
equity in distribution, China will need continuing and fundamental reforms.
Large investment will be required and China will need to import more technol-
ogy and increase trade. In the next few years, therefore, the Bank can best
assist China by increasing its access to foreign technology and practices and
supporting the development and implementation of reforms that will help to
increase the efficiency of resource use and reduce poverty.
24.       To address China's objective to update technology, the Bank will
play the role of intermediary. In transportation, energy, industry,
agriculture and the social sectors, the Bank will contribute to technology
transfer by bringing the Bank's experience to bear on project design and by
helping China to seek appropriate technical solutions through international
competitive bidding, training, and foreign technical assistance.
25.       Bank assistance will be closely linked with the Government's reform
efforts. There are five major elements common to both rural and urban reform
in China that will be the focus of the Bank's involvement. First, institu-
tional change, involving both the separation of economic and administrative
functions and further decentralization of decisionmaking, will extend to every



- 8 -
sector in which the Bank is involved as well as the overall process of
planning and management. Second, financial sector reform, primarily develop-
ment of financial institutions that can serve as intermediaries between the
suppliers and users of resources, has become a focus of reform and is an area
where Bank assistance can play a useful role. Third, improving planning and
project analysis will be critical to reform in sectors such as jgriculture and
industry, where decisions are now being made by households and independent
enterprises, as well as in infrastructure where direct government involvement
will be required. The Bank will therefore continue its emphasis on
introducing appraisal methods and will include sector investment and financial
planning as well as analysis of intersectoral issues. Fourth, the Bank will
be involved in the Government's major program of price reform and development
of indirect levers such as control via money, credit and fiscal policies. And
finally, the Government will make institutional and policy changes to further
improve the quality of social programs. The Bank will thus support reforms in
health, education and other social services and measures in particular, to
address the problems of poor regions.
Economic and Sector Work
26.       Our economic and sector work in China aims to develop the Bank's
understanding of the structure and direction of the Chinese economy and to
introduce to the Government new perspectives on economic management. This
work builds a foundation for lending and for the dialogue with Government on
issues of reform and development options and policies in the various
sectors. Past work has included two major economic reports, studies on
sectoral investment analysis and planning, and collaborative research with
Chinese institutions. We have also organized seminars on macroeconomic and
sector issues.
27.       Over the next two years, the Bank will carry out a large program of
studies to follow up on issues identified in the most recent economic report
and analyze policy options. In this program, we will examine alternatives for
developing the financial system and foreign trade and investment. We will
also analyze issues of intersectoral and interregional planning and develop-
ment of resource-poor regions. One such study is already underway in Gansu
province to review and formulate programs to increase interregional resource
flows, improve the spatial efficiency of development and reduce poverty.
Research on urban development and transport planning and finance at the
provincial level will also be initiated, and we will undertake studies of
regional industrial subsectors to form the basis for project preparation.
Collaborative studies with Chinese research institutions will continue. An
ongoing study of management and guidance of state-owned industrial enterprises
will be followed by a study of collective enterprises, which are expected to
become increasingly important industrial organizations in the reformed system.
Lending Operations
28.       Since China's change of representation in the Bank Group in May of
1980, 30 projects involving lending of $2949.9 million to China have been
approved. Of the projects, ten have been in the agriculture sector, seven in
energy, four in transport, three in industry, three in education and one each
in health, water supply and technical cooperation. In FY85, IFC made its
first investment in China of US$17.02 million in automobile manufacturing.



- 9 -
Annex II contains a summary statement of these loans, credits and IFC invest-
ment as of October 31, 1985.
29.       In addition to the proposed project we expect to presenit projects to
the Board this year for provincial higher education, power infrastructure,
port and railway development, aquaculture, health, industry, and technical
cooperation. For FY87 and beyond, we expect the China lending program to
continue to grow from current levels. Infrastructure projects in energy and
transport will remain priorities. Technical renovation of enterprises,
particularly in industry, will be given greater attention and support as will
the regional approach to project development, now being used to assess the
needs of Gansu province.
30.       In the energy sector, future Bank lending will be aimed at reducing
energy consumption and expanding energy production. For example, in the coal
subsector, we will assist in upgrading the facilities and operations of
existing mines and in transferring improved technology for mines under
construction or in operation. In power, we will assist China in technology
transfer, staff training and institution building. Through a power tariff
study, we will seek to introduce a tariff system based on marginal cost and
the need for a nationwide power system development program. In the gas
subsector, the rationale for project involvement will lie in the identifica-
tion, packaging and transfer of specialized technologies as well as in the
strengthening of investment planning and management capabilities.
31.       Future transport projects will both upgrade technology and
strengthen institutions. In roads, major changes in organization and
financing will be required as a result of administrative decentralization and
introduction of the production responsibility system in rural areas. In rail-
ways, we will focus on technologies to improve domestic production of railway
equipment and materials in addition to our work on line construction and
electrification. We also intend to broaden our involvement in ports to
include coastal shipping and inland water transport. For all transport
subsectors, we will support efforts to improve financial analysis and
investment planning.
32.       Agriculture lending will focus on developing institutions to provide
services to individual farmers and to monitor and stimulate change in the pace
and pattern of agricultural development. The shift from grant to loan finance
and the increased autonomy of the rural banking system will be major aspects
of change that will be supported through rural credit projects. We will
continue to assist with the training, research, extension, and other service
activities of the ministries concerned with agriculture. In addition, we
expect to finance programs for specialized agricultural development such as
livestock and fisheries, and for irrigation and area development.
33.       Bank lending in industry, as in agriculture, will focus on strength-
ening of financial intermediaries which provide credit to state and collective
enterprises. In addition, we expect that there will be large regional
projects in fertilizer, cement and machine tools and other subsector projects
concerned with upgrading technology and improving organization and management.
34.       Bank lending in education will gradually be broadened beyond the
present concentration on higher education. For example, we will finance



- 10 -
vocational and technical education which is now being given great emphasis in
China. In view of the Government's recent decision to universalize access to
primary and lower secondary education, another major aim of education lending
will be to assist with basic education, particularly in poor rural areas. In
this context, support for teacher education will be given priority.
35.       Project preparation in the urban sector is currently concentrated in
Shanghai on efforts to improve services, especially in environmental upgrading
and housing, and development of municipal institutions. Future Lending is
expected to include support for development of medium-size and small urban
areas in specific provinces. In addition, we expect to continue lending for
rural water supply. Bank lending in health will provide access to new medical
technologies for more efficient health care in both the lingering problems of
communicable disease, primarily in poor rural areas, and the emerging problems
of chronic disease. This will involve further support for medical training
and planning and management of service delivery systems. Projects will also
support the reform of systems for supplying and financing health services.
36.       Cofinancing with multilateral and bilateral agencies has been
arranged for projects in coal, power and rural water supply and will remain a
feature of our assistance program. We will explore options for cofinancing
with export credit agencies. Commercial bank cofinancing and the use of
B-loans also appear viable, particularly as China increases the overall volume
of its foreign borrowing. En technical assistance, we will continue to
incorporate into projects components for training, overseas study, and access
to foreign expertise. In addition, we will be the executing agency for a
second UNDP umbrella project in China. EDI activities remain an important
element of the Bank's program and in coming years will provide an extensive
program of policy seminars for senior Chinese officials, and economic and
financial management courses and sector-specific training for officials from
core and line agencies.
ImpLementation
37.       Project implementation is generally proceeding well.  Most project
agencies, as well as the Ministry of Finance and the State Planning
Conmmission, have established and staffed offices to handle Bank projects.
Disbursement performance has also been satisfactory. Special accounts have
been established for 22 of the 30 approved projects and have helped to speed
disbursements. In October 1985, the Bank opened a resident office in Beijing
to support further expansion of the lending program, accelerate project
preparation, improve project implementation and further economic and sector
-work.
PART III - AGRICULTURAL SECTOR AND THE AGRICULTURAL BANK OF CHINA
Agriculture
38.       Agriculture in China, including crops, livestock, forestry and
fisheries provides sustenance to over one billion people. It is the source of
income for some 190 million farm families, and accounts for about 35Z of the
country's GDP. Only about 100 million ha of China's land area of 960 million



- 1i -
ha are arable. Farming systems are intensive, with large inputs of labor,
chemical and organic fertilizer and water. Nearly half of the arable land is
irrigated. Fcodgrains occupy about 80% of the cropland and account for about
65Z of total agricultural output. This intensive system of food production
allows China to meet the basic food requirements of its population (about 22Z
of the world's total) from less than 8% of the world's arable land. Agricul-
tural production is carried out largely on household-managed farms within a
framework of collective or state ownership of land and major fixed assets.
Since 1979, the gross value of agricultural output has grown at an average
annual rate of about 7Z, or more than twice the rate achieved over the pre-
vious two decades. Output of foodgrains increased by about 3.4Z annually over
the last decade, reaching a record of over 407 million tons in 1984 despite
declines in cropped area and area sown with grains. Demand for agricultural
products is expected to increase steadily over the next two decades in
response to increasing per capita income and moderate population gro.7th.
China's cultivated area will remain essentially unchanged over the lperiod-
land Lost to roads, urbanization, and industrial development will be approx-
imately offset by newly reclaimed land. As a result, the production gains
required to feed a population growing by at least ten million per year and to
supply the raw materials to meet rapid growth in industrial demand will have
to come almost entirely from increased yields on existing cultivated areas.
Agricultural Bank of China
39.       The Agricultural Bank of China (ABC) is the dominant institution in
the mobilization of rural savings and the financing of agriculture and rural
development. ABC's general objective is to contribute to the effective execu-
tion of Government economic policy throughout the rural areas of China. Its
activities extend beyond agricultural lending to include financing rural com-
mercial and industrial activities which support agriculture and rural develop-
ment. In addition to its main tasks of mobilizing rural financial resources
and extending credit and a wide range of banking services to the rural areas,
ABC provides leadership to the large network of rural credit cooperatives and
financial guidance to collectives (communes, production brigades and produc-
tion teams) and other rural organizations. The communes and production bri-
gades have recently been renamed townships (xiang) and villages (cun) respec-
tively.
40.       At the end of April 1985 the ABC had 28 branch offices in the
provincial capitals, municipalities and autonomous regions, 304 central
subbranches at the prefecture level, 174 business offices in major urban
centers, 2,260 subbranches at county level, 25,350 offices at township
(conmmune) level, 1,090 offices on state farms and 405 savings offices in urban
areas. The ABC is therefore represented at all administrative levels with
close to 30,000 offices, and has a total staff of some 328,000. ABC's work is
further complemented by some 56,000 rural credit cooperatives (RCCs) with some
250,000 full or part-time staff organized at the township and lower levels.
Although they are separate entities, the RCCs function as the smallest
operating units of the ABC. Thus, the wide network of ABC's offices and the
RCCs means that virtually all of China's 53,000 townships and 2,000 state
farms have at least one ABC office or RCC in their area. This extensive
national coverage is a major strength in ABC's total operations and reflects
ABC's role as banker to the rural community as well as its responsibility as
the financial agent of the central and local governments for the rural areas



- 12 -
of China. Most ABC and RCC staff at the local level have had many years of
experience in rural finance.  Local office managers and department heads are
usually middle school graduates with professional training at ABC's banking
schools. Only a small proportion of ABC staff (less than 5Z) are university
graduates.
41.       ABC's total loans outstanding qty the end of 1984 amounted to
Y 112.4 billion (about USS40.1 billion).._ The majority of the portfolio are
short-term loans. Loans to rural commercial and industrial enterprises
accounted for 63%, loans to collective units 21Z, loans to state-owned agri-
cultural enterprises 6Z, loans to individuals 4%, loans to RCCs 3% and other
loans 3Z. ABC places considerable emphasis on full and timely repayment of
its loans, and estimates that bad debts currently are less than 2% of loans
outstanding. Until recently, ABC also acted as an agent for the People's Bank
in a number of fields of which the most important were loans to the commercial
department of the Ministry of Food and Commerce for the purchase of agricul-
tural commodities from producing units. The amounts onlent by ABC on a
commission basis have been substantial (Y 48.0 billion at the end of 1984).
As the former agency activities are expected to be increasingly funded by ABC
with its own funds, the relative importance of its major sources and uses of
funds, and items of revenue and expenditure would undergo significant changes
in the future. Recent interest rate reforms would enable ABC to supplement
its resources by greater deposit mobilization and to safeguard its profitabi-
lity through improved interest spreads. Sources of financing ABC's funds
mainly comprise deposits and capital contribution from the central govern-
ment. Major deposits as of December 31, 1984 were those of the RCCs (Y 87.2
billion), rural commercial, industrial and state-owned enterprises (Y 16.3
billion), individuals (Y 9.7 billion), local governments (Y 3.5 billion) and
other deposits (Y 3.4 billion). The deposits consist of demand deposits and
fixed-term deposits with maturities ranging from six months to eight years.
ABC reported a profit of Y 1,755 million in 1984. Revenues were derived
mainly from interest earnings, agency fees and interest on interbranch
deposits (Y 8,084 million). Administrative costs of about 21 of total
resources employed are low by international standards, and reflect generally
low salaries.
42.       Recent economic reforms, including banking system reforms, have
increased the potential role of interest rates in the Chinese economy.
Deposit rates were raised in early 1983 and in April and August 1985, while
lending rates were increased significantly at the beginning of 1982, 1984 and
in April and August 1985. The present rates on loans range from 5.76X to
10.08% p.a. The average rates for loans of three to five years and for loans
of more than five years are 8.28X and 9% respectively. These rates are
positive in real terms. Interest rates on deposits range from 2.882 for
demand deposits to 10.44% p.a. for an eight-year deposit. The average cot of
ABC funds is about 5.8% including interbranch borrowings and the funds lent by
the People's Bank of China.
43.       The RCCs, while collectively owned, serve as the basic level units
of the ABC. They play a major role in the provision of credit and
1/   This does not include loans by the RCCs.



- 13 -
mobilization of savings at the township and lower level. Lending by the RCCs
is generally focused on short-term loans to individual farmers, households and
collectives whereas the Larger and longer-term loans are usually provided by
the ABC. The ABC supervises th. management and operations of the RCCs,
including carrying out periodic inspection of the accounts and training staff.
44.       RCC sources of funds include deposits of individuals and collec-
tives, operating profits, member subscriptions and loans from the ABC. Uses
of funds include loans to individual households and to callectives, and
deposits in ABC. In general, RCCs are net suppliers of funds to ABC. RCC
lending rates are the same as ABCs for similar types of projects and similar
borrowers. The RCC loan portfoLio more than doubled between 1979 and 1983,
reflecting largely the sharp increases in lending to individuaLs and
collectives.
45.       In recent years ABC has been attempting to improve the quality of
its project appraisal work. Emphasis continues to be placed on ensuring that
projects conform to the state plan and overall government policy, that the
necessary supplies and materials are available and chat there are markets for
the project output. However, most of the project proposals are still not
reviewed in much detail; there is little examination of issues of scale, tech-
noLogy, location and timing of proposed projects; and formal financial or
economic analysis using discounting techniques is usually lacking, although
pay-back periods are occasionally calculated and used as supplementary crite-
ria for investment decisions. The first project has introduced changes in
appraisal procedures (including the project appraisal manual) to address the
aforementioned issues. As in the case of the ongoing first Rural Credit
Project (para. 58), subprojects under the proposed project will be subject to
detailed technical, financial and economic analysis using criteria and
procedures set down in the project appraisal manual. Based on the experience
gained with appraisal of these subprojects ABC expects to use such techniques
much more widely in its project appraisal work.
46.       Sound project appraisal by ABC has become more important as the
autonomy granted to ABC has increased. Large projects requiring funds from
ABC and especially those in industry and commerce still require approval by
local planning committees and relevant line agencies as well as by ABC. But
in the case of smaller projects and almost all agricultural projects the
planning committee decides only on the total amount of loans to be made
(taking into account available materials and supplies and other sources of
finance). ABC then approves the allocation of those resources among different
types of projects and different areas and townships. Procedures for loan
approval by the ABC have been established by ABC Beijing and are uniform
throughout the country.
47.       ABC is placing increased emphasis on project supervision and
monitoring. It enters into a formal contractuaL arrangement with the borrower
which stipulates the loan amount and disbursement schedule, specifies the
type, quality, quantity and delivery times for the equipment, indicates the
repayment schedule for the borrower and requires the timely repayment of the
loan. The contract also provides for remedies in the event of default, such
as suspension, acceleration and penalty interest. The State Council recently
promulgated Loan Contract Regulations which stipulate and confirm these
provisions. On completion of a project ABC compares the actual use of funds



- 14 -
with the stated intent and measures production achievements against targets.
Efforts are also made to assess the lending experience gained as a guide to
future loan operations.
48.       In most provinces ABC has an adequate number of accounting and
statistical staff at all levels. Few of these are experienced in comprehen-
sive financial analysis, but they prepare timely, consistent and detaiLed
records. ABC requires the financial accounts to be balanced daily at each
office. Summary details are reported by township-level offices every two
weeks by telephone to the county office and township-leveL accountants come to
the county once per month to reconciLe accounts. County offices report
monthly to provincial offices which in turn send detailed accounts to head-
quarters every six months. Statistics on loan operations, which vary from
province to province but which always compare actual operations with loan
targets in the credit plan, are forwarded to provincial levels on a similar
schedule. These statistics are quite detailed with reference to types of
investments financed, geographic location of subprojects, expected incremental
production, etc.
49.       The accounts of ABC headquarters are audited by the Ministry of
Finance. Recent moves to restore auditing in China, especially the establish-
ment in September 1983 of the State Audit Agency (SAA), directly accountable
to the State Council, and emphasis on financial accountability are expected to
lead in the future to a satisfactory external auditing of ABC's accounts and
improvement of its internal auditing. The SAA has indicated that it has
started auditing all projects financed by the Bank and other multilateral
agencies, but that its capability of carrying this out can only be built up
gradually and over an extended period because of its lack of experienced
auditing staff.
Bank Group Assistance to Agriculture
50.       The objectives of Bank Group lending for Chinese agriculture are
to: (a) assist China in expanding and diversifying agricultural production to
keep pace with the rapidly growing demand for food and other farm produce
resulting from population growth and increases in per capita incomes; (b)
finance inputs which will help remove development constraints; (c) help
improve economic efficiency through better planning and improved project
analysis; and (d) raise rural earning power in the poorer regions of the
country. These objectives are being pursued through both sector work and
project lending.
51.       The North China Plain Agriculture Project (Credit 1261-CHA), the
first Bank Group operation in the agriculturaL sector, provides irrigation and
drainage for 200,000 ha covering parts of nine counties in three provinces.
Work on this project, the first large-scale attack on soil salinity and
waterlogging in CLiina, is proceeding well. The Agricultural Education and
Research Project (Credit 1297-CHA) supports the Government's program to
strengthen higher education and research in the agricultural sector by
providing technical assistance and equipment to selected agricultural colleges
and research institutes. Implementation of the project is proceeding well.
The Feilongjiang Land Reclamation Project (Loan/Credit 2261/1347-CHA) is
developing 200,000 ha of new land through land reclamation and use of modern
farming equipment in Northeast China. Project implementation is proceeding



- 15 -
well. The Rubber Development Project (Credit 1417-CiA) in Cuangdong Province
involves new planting and replanting of 40,000 ha of rubber with high yielding
clones. Procurement of equipment is underway. The first Rural Credit Project
(Credit 1462-CHA) finances investments in the development of orchards and
other economic tree crops, agro-processing, livestock and aquaculture in
Guangxi. The Second Agricultural Research Project (Credit 1516-CHA) will
expand and improve 15 agricultural research centers and include a pilot pro-
ject for 10 agro-technical extension centers. The Seeds Project (Credit 1577-
CiA) will modernize facilities at 18 seed production, processing and distribu-
tion centers in 12 provinces and two autonomous regions to increase the supply
and improve the quality of certified seeds. The Forestry Development Project
(Credit 1605-CHA) will establish about 82,000 ha of forest plantations and
improve the management and exploitation of 122,000 ha of existing forests in
Guangdong, Heilongjiang and Sichuan, and strengthen forest research facilities
and extension services. The Pishihang-Chaohu Area Development Project
(Loan/Credit 2579/1606-CHA) will improve irrigation and flood control drainage
on about 710,000 ha in the Pishihang and Chaohu areas in Anhui Province.
52.       Other projects at various stages of processing are an aquaculture
project and a red soils development project. Future project possibilities
include livestock, agro-industries, and land development in the Northwest.
First Rural Credit Project (Credit 1462-CHA)
53.       The project provides funds to the Agricultural Bank of China (ABC)
for medium- and long-term loans to individual farmers and households, cWlec-
tive units and state-owned enterprises in the Guangxi Autonomous Region.. for
investments in orchards and other tree crops, aquaculture, livestock and agro-
processing; and technical assistance to ABC. The major objectives of the pro-
ject are to (a) support a three-year lending program of the ABC which would be
part of a high priority government development effort to increase agricultural
and rural production and incomes through the diversification and modernization
of agricultural production and processing, and (b) assist ABC in developing
and implementing procedures and methodologies for appraising agriculture and
rural development projects. Other objectives are to: expand rural employment
and make full use of the rural labor force; alleviate rural poverty; raise the
value added of agricultural production; improve production efficiency; and
increase the supply and quality of agricultural produce, including processed
foods, to consumers. Total project costs were estimated at about $142 million
of which IDA financed $50 million (35%), ABC $30 million (21Z), the Government
$20 million (14%), and subborrowers $42 million (30%).
54.       The project, which is scheduled to be completed by the end of June
1988, became effective on November 1, 1984. Implementation of the project has
been proceeding well and project lending and disbursements are ahead of sche-
dule. ABC, as of the end of April 1985, had already appraised 449 subloans
for Y 221 million of which 210 subloans for Y 86 million (312 of total project
2/   At the time of its appraisal, the Bank also appraised on behalf of IFAD a
similar type project w'iich supports ABC's medium- and long-term lending
for agricultural diversification in Hubei Province. The proposed Rural
Credit [I Project would in effect be the third such project for ABC.



- 16 -
funds) were approved as of the end of 1984. The subloan appraisals were based
on ABC's Project Appraisal Manual which was prepared with the assistance of
IDA (para. 62).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
55.       The project was identified in August 1984 and appraised in April
1985. Negotiations were held in Washington in November 1985. The Government
of China was represented by Ms. Sheng Jinxia, Deputy Division Chief, External
Finance Department, Ministry of Finance and the Agricultural Bank of China by
Mr. Lin Zihong, Division Chief, ABC. A Staff Appraisal Report entitled (No.
5810-CiA, dated November 25, 1985) is being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors. Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III. A
map showing project locations is attached.
Project Rationale
56.       As part of China's effort to diversify, modernize and enhance the
efficiency of its agricultural sector, the Government is increasing the role
and autonomy of the banking system and making greater use of credit instead of
grants to finance development projects. ABC has a large staff and a wide
network of offices which serve households, collectives and state enterprises
throughout the rural areas of China. ABC's capacity to lend for projects
aimed at agricultural diversification is constrained, however, by the limited
availability of medium- and long-term funds and by its lack of experience with
sound technical, financial and economic analysis of development projects. The
major rationale for the Bank's expanded involvement with ABC is therefore to
assist ABC both in expanding the availability of medium- and long-term funds
for agricultural diversification and in developing and implementing improved
project appraisal techniques.
57.       Under the first Rural Credit Project (Credit 1462-CHA), considerable
progress has been made in upgrading the technical and financial expertise of
ABC in Guanrgxi. A project appraisal manual has been prepared with the assi-
stance of the Bank and distributed to offices throughout Guangxi as well as
other provinces and regions, and a series of training courses in the use of
the manual have been held. The technical capabilities of ABC have also beer.
PnhAnced by secondment to ABC of experts from various technical bureaus. The
quality of project preparation and appraisal is improving. Under the Second
Rural Credit Project, it is proposed to extend the experience gained in tbe
appraisal and supervision of subprojects in the first project to two other~,
provinces, Fujian and Hunan. These two provinces are relatively poor; their
agro-climatic conditions are suitable for fish culture and for growing a wide
range of crops. The ABC offices and government technical bureaus in both
provinces are keenly interested and their respective provincial and local
leaderships have expressed strong support for the project.  More emphasis will
be placed on training of ABC staff in appraisal of agricultural and agro-
processing investments and on the dialogue with ABC headquarters on its
overall financial situation and future role in a reformed financial system.
This will complement the study on investment finance in China that the Bank
will shortly be initiating.



- 17 -
Project Description
58.       The project would provide funds to subborrowers in Fujian and Hunan
to finance a three-year program of investments for the development of aquacul-
ture, orchards, agro-processing and livestock enterprises. Project funds
would be channelled through ABC to subborrowers comprising individual farmers
and households, collective units, and 'niterprises owned by local government
entities and collectives. ABC expects that of the total project loan funds,
some 80X would be utilized by farmers (as members of households and collec-
tives) and the remaining 20Z by local government entities, including enter-
prises jointly owned by these entities and the collectives. The project would
also have a technical assistance component to ensure effective and efficient
project implementation and to strengthen the operations of ABC.
59.       Aguaculture.  This component would finance investments to expand the
production of freshwater fish, mainly carp and tilapia, and marine fisheries,
such as shrimp, mullet, oysters, clams and other shellfish. It would comprise
construction of new fish ponds and improvements to existing fish ponds,
including supporting infrastructure and equipment such as dykes, drains,
canals, sluice gates, pipes, hydraulic structures, roads, pumping stations,
manure holding pits, fishing gear, aerators, boats, hatcheries, and floating
platforms or rafts for culture of oysters and clams.
60.       The improvements to existing fish ponds would include partitioning
the ponds for more efficient operation, raising the dykes and excavating
ditches, deepening and leveling pond bottoms and canals, and constructing
additional sluice gates. The investments to be financed would aLso include
production of green manure and the purchase of fry, organic manure, fertili-
zers, lime, pesticides and feed required to produce the first harvest from the
ponds. A total of some 12,300 ha of ponds would be developed of which about
three-fourths would be fresh water ponds. The greater part of fresh water
fish pond development would be in Hunan Province and would be centered on
Dongting Lake and the surrounding area. The development of salt water
(including brackish water) fish and shrimp ponds would be located along the
coastal region of Fujian Province. These ponds would account for about one
half of the pond development in the province. In addition to these ponds,
about 2,500 ha of coastal water surface would be utilized for oyster and other
h'iellfish culture.
61.       Orchards.  This component would provide for the establishment of new
plantings and improvements to existing plantings amounting to some 14,000 ha
of orchards of which about three-fourths would be orange (mainly mandarin
orange). The other fruits would include litchi, longan, banana, plum, peach,
persimmon, loquat, bayberry and pomegranate. Most of the new plantings would
be on slope lands of up to 20' which are generally uncultivated. The main
investment costs would be for land preparation (clearing, leveling and terrac-
ing), access roads, establishment of cover crops, irrigation works and
equipment, planting material, fertilizers, pesticides, spraying equipment,
other small hand tools and labor. Production inputs, until the initial crop
is produced, would also be financed.
62.       Agro-processing.  This component would include (a) the construction
and equipping of plants for freezing and cold storage; processing fish and
poultry feeds, fish, poultry, and fruits; fruit storage, including facilities



- 18 -
for sorting, grading and waxing of fruits; and orange and other fruit juice
extraction and concentration; and (b) procurement of trucks (some with refrig-
eration) and other vehicles to support the operations of the above plants and
the marketing of project output. These plants would help meet the rapidly
growing demand for their output and would provide the project with the
required production inputs, such as fish and poultry feeds, and improve the
quality, increase the value added and facilitate the marketing of the project
output, e.g. freezing and cold storage plants to reduce spoilage and preserve
quality of fisheries output (shrimp, fish, etc.) and to facilitate their
marketing. Improvements to existing similar type precessing plants would also
be financed. Freezing and cold storage, fish feed processing, and fruit
storage plants would account for about two-thirds of the total investment cost
of this component.
63.       Livestock.  This component would finance the production of poultry
(including ducks, geese and turkeys), goats, pigs, and beef and draft
cattle. Major investment items would include procurement of improved breeding
stock to upgrade local stock, construction of cattle and goat sheds, pig and
poultry pens, incubators, feed storage, and veterinary facilities; establish-
ment of improved pastures mainly on slopeland presently under wild grasses,
and procurement of supporting equipment, such as feed choppers, watering
facilities, hauling carts, etc. The cost of establishing improved pastures
would be mainly for land preparation, fencing, seed, fertilizers, manure, lime
and labor. The costs of chicks, kids, piglets, calves, feedgrains and labor
required to raise the initial batch of livestock for sale would also be
financed. Poultry and goats would account for about 85Z of the total invest-
met cost under this component.
64.       Technical Assistance.  This component would entail the training of
ABC staff and provision of supporting equipment, machinery and consultant
services. Training would be provided in project preparation, appraisal and
implementation methodologies based on ABC's project appraisal manuaL,
auditing, statistics, finance, management and data information systems. About
1,500 staff are expected to receive such training during 1986-89 at an esti-
mated cost of about US$100,000. Training courses would be conducted primarily
at ABC Fujian's and Hunan's Banking Schools. To support the long-term insti-
tutional development of ABC, training under the project would include staff
from the non-project prefectures and counties in Fujian and Hunan. ABC pro-
ject managers and senior operational staff will also participate in overseas
study tours to observe rural credit project management in other countries with
experience in development credit institutions and Bank Group financed pro-
jects. About three study tours for each of the two provinces, at an estimated
total cost of US$300,000 are envisaged. Consultant services would be financed
to assist the project in resolving specific technical problems, especially in
agro-processing, and in the introduction and implementation of improved tech-
nologies. About 10 man-months of short-term consultants would be provided at
a total cost of about US$100,000. The cost of the consultant services would
be borne by the subborrowers.
65.       Equipment procured under the technical assistance component would
support the training and institution-building of ABC Fujian and Hunan.
Training equipment would consist mainly of audio-visual items such as video
recorders, video cameras, TV sets and tape recorders to facilitate the
training programs at the ABC Banking Schools in Fujian and Hunan which are



- 19 -
based on the National TV University's curriculum in banking and finance.
Other training equipment would include overhead projectors and photocopiers.
Office equipment would comprise microcomputers, room air-conditioning units
for the microcomputers, photocopiers, telex and telephone-message machines,
and calculators. Details of the training and technical assistance program
were confirmed during negotiations. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that the training under the project would be carried out in
accordance with a program agreed between ABC and IDA, and consultants would be
employed in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the use of consultants.
Cost Estimates
66.       The project is estimated to cost about $257 million of which
$43 million (17Z) would be the foreign exchange cost. Taxes and duties of
about $7 million are included in the cost estimates.
Financing Arrangements
67.       Of the total project cost of $257 million, IDA would finance
$90 million (35%), ABC $90 million (35Z), and subborrowers $77 million
(30Z). The IDA funding would cover the foreign exchange cost of $43 million
and another $47 million (22%) of the local currency component. Some local
cost funding for the project is justified in view of the small foreign
exchange component and the need for IDA to make a meaningful contribution to
project costs.
Procurement -
68.       In both Fujian and Hunmn, individual households, collectives and
state enterprises usually purchase fertilizers, pesticides, animal feeds, hand
tools and other small euipment items from the Federation of Supply and
Marketing Cooperatives- or local enterprises. Seeds are purchased from the
County Seed Company or local seed farms and machinery and larger equipment
items from the County Agricultural Machinery Company or other local
agriculturaL machinery companies. Except for the local enterprises, these
organizations are represented in each county and serve as intermediaries for
retailing of items distributed through national or provincial wholesale
systers. There is, however, a growing trend toward product specialization in
the distribution system and direct marketing by producing enterprises.
Consequently, specialized househoids and collective or state enterprises which
procure inputs in some quantity can now, for example, purchase feed from local
mills or a Feed Supply Company, breeder chicks from various poultry breeding
farms, or cattle from individual cattle raisers or an Animal Products Company,
fertilizer from local factories, etc. Civil works, including earthworks and
construction of structures, would be undertaken mainly by the collectives with
labor provided by their farmer members. Some of the civil works, especially
for the farms and facilities belonging to local government-owned entities, may
3/  A cooperative marketing organization responsible for the distribution and
sale of most agricultural inputs and consumer goods in rural areas. The
organization is also engaged in the government procurement of
agricultural products and in price stablization operations.



- 20 -
be contracted out to a local construction team (work brigade) selected
primarily on the basis of its ability to carry out the job satisfactorily and
within a specified time. However, local competitive bidding of civil works
has recently been introduced as indicated by the increasing use of price
quotations as a major determinant in the selection process.
69.       Project investment items for the aquaculture, orchards and livestock
components would be varied, generally small and widely scattered and would be
procured by subborrowers as and when required by them, and spread over several
years. This makes bulk procurement impractical. Procurement of these invest-
ment items would therefore not be suitable for international competitive
bidding. Moreover, familiarity with local machinery and equipment, their
ready availability, including spare parts and repair services, and the need
for standardization, strongly support the general preference of the users for
locally manufactured over imported items. The investment items, including all
civil works, would therefore be procured locally and in accordance with pre-
sent procedures (described in paras. 73 above) which are acceptable to IDA.
Aside from the many local suppliers, there is also an increasing number of
representatives of foreign suppliers in China of machinery and equipment for
the agro-processing facilities and the technical assistance component. These
investment items would be procured as follows:
(a) Contracts for purchase of investment items of up to US$50,000 would
be awarded after comparison of price quotations from at least three
qualified suppliers.
(b) Contracts for purchase of investment items with costs exceeding
US$50,000 would be awarded through limited international bidding
procedures on the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids invited
from a list of at least four suppliers from at least three countries
in accordance with the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans
and IDA Credits".
(c) Award of contracts exceeding US$500,000 would require prior review
by IDA.
Disbursements
70.       Project subloans are expected to cover a three-year commitment
period commencing in the early part of 1986 and the project is expected to be
physically completed by June 30, 1990. Disbursements of the IDA funds are
expected to extend over a five-year period ending June 30, 1991 and the
Closing Date would be December 31, 1991. Disbursements would be 502 of
amounts disbursed for subloans by ABC; 100% of expenditures for overseas
fellowships and consultant services; and for machinery and equipment under the
technical assistance component, 1002 of foreign expenditures, 1O0Z of local
expenditures (ex-factory) and 75Z of local expenditures for other items
purchased locally. Disbursements against expenditures for machinery and
equipment under the technical assistance component will be fully documented
for contracts exceeding US$200,000. For contracts of up to US$200,000
disbursement will be made against statements of expenditures. Disbursements
for subloans will be made on the basis of statements of expenditure listing
subloans made, and disbursements for overseas fellowships and consultants will
be made based on statements of expenditure certifying that the expenditures



- 21 -
were incurred on the basis of a training program 8greed with IDA and that the
consultants have been employed in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants. Supporting documentation for statement of expenditure
disbursements would be retained by ABC and made available to IDA staff for
review during supervision missions.
71.       Under the project, a special account would be set up for disburse-
ments of the IDA credit. This account would facilitate project implementation
in view of the large numbers of small expenditures to be made. It would be
set up and maintained in US dollars. The initial deposit of the dollar
equivalent of SDR 5.6 million ($6.0 million) represents the average estimated
disbursements of the IDA credit for any 4-month period. Applications for
replenishment of the account would be submitted quarterly, or whenever the
special account is drawn down to 50Z of its initial deposit, whichever comes
first.
Implementation
72.       The project would be carried out by ABC under a Project Agreement
with IDA. State Council approval of the Development Credit and Project Agree-
ment would be a condition of credit effectiveness. The project organization
to implement the project in each province will comprise a Project Management
Committee (PMC), a Project Office (PO) in ABC's provincial office and Project
Units (PU) in each of ABC county offices participating in the project.
73.       The role of the PMC is to oversee the implementation of the project
and to ensure coordinated planning and execution of project operations between
the ABC and other concerned government departments and agencies, especially
with regard to ensuring the adequate and timely provision of local cost
funding, improved production inputs, technical extension support, and train-
ing. Both the PMCs for Fujian and Hunan have recently been established. The
membership of the PHCs as constituted can be expected to enable the two
comaittees to carry out their assigned roles effectively.
74.       Under the direction of the PMC concerned, the PO will be responsible
for the implementation and management of the project, including provision of
technical guidance to the Project Units (PU), assisting them in their
appraisal and supervision of subprojects, and supervision and coordination of
their lending operations. The PO would have a core staff comprising a mana-
ger, two economists, two finAncial analysts, an accountant/bookkeeper, one
aquaculturist, one horticulturist, one livestock expert and an agro-processing
specialist. Additional technical experts will be provided by the Technical
Bureaus concerned as and when required. The POs have also been recently
established.
75.       In addition, a Project Unit (PU) would be established in each of
ABC's county offices which would supervise and monitor project implementa-
tion. The PU would appraise and supervise project subloans, ensure the proper
utilization of project funds and procurement of project investment items,
maintain separate accounts for the project and record the progress of the
project with support from the POs. The POs and PUs would also be responsible
for monitoring and evaluating the economic benefits and impact of project
lending. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the PMCs would be
maintained, that the POs would be maintained with a core staff acceptable to



- 22 -
IDA, and that a PU would be established and maintained in each of ABC's county
offices participating in the project.
76.       The PU would rely on staff from the local government technical
bureaus (agriculture, livestock, fisheries, etc.) for guidance and assistance
on the technical aspects of project preparation, appraisal and supervision.
This would be an appropriate arrangement and has worked well during the prep-
aration and appraisal of both this project and the first Rural Credit Pro-
ject. The available technical expertise would be adequate to meet project
needs. Project investments would be evaluated in terms of their technical
feasibility and financial viability based an incremental returns. ABC would
carry out the appraisals using the procedures and criteria set out in the Pro-
ject Appraisal Manual prepared by ABC with the assistance of IDA. In addi-
tion, as part of the appraisal, ABC shall ensure that: (a) planting mate-
rials, soils and topography included in Investment Projects shall be accept-
able to the Fujian and Hunan Academies of Agricultural Sciences, respectively;
(b) agro-processing plants included in Investment Projects shall be designed
in accordance with sound environmental practices as specified in the Environ-
mental Guidelines issued from Lime to time by the Bank; and (c) sub-loans for
fish and shrimp ponds shall be made only after the design and layout of ponds,
incLuding water supply canals and disposal drains, have been approved by the
Fisheries Bureau of Fujian Province and Hunan Province, respectively. IDA
with ABC has appraised an initial set of representative subprojects, and ABC
will appraise the remainder. Individual subloans in excess of $500,000 would
require IDA's prior approval. It is estimated that about thirty subloans
accounting for about one-fourth of the total project funds would be above the
free limit.
Subloan Terms and Conditions
77.       Based on its present administrative costs, ABC would need a 2Z
interest margin to cover the costs of project lending. An assurance was
obtained during negotiations that the Government would take steps necessary to
enable ABC to achieve at least a 2X spread between the cost to ABC of the
project funds (IDA funds and ABC's counterpart contribution) and the project
lending rates. ABC wouLd obtain an interest margin (2.6X) based on the
present average project lending rate of 7.O p.a. and the present cost to ABC
of its counterpart contribution (5.8% p.a.) and the cost of the IDA credit to
ABC at 3% p.s. The interest margin would be adequate to cover the cost of
project lending as well as the commitment charges on the IDA credit. In
addition, an assurance was obtained that the Government and ABC would exchange
views on ABC's lending rates with IDA from time to time at the request of any
party in light of ABC's cost of funds and profitability, and taking into
account inflation and other interest rates in China. The proposed $90 miLlion
IDA credit would be lent to the Government on standard terms. The Government
would relend these funds to ABC under a subsidiary loan agreement acceptable
to IDA, signing of which would be a condition of credit effectiveness. The
relending terms would be for 20 years, including five years grace at an
interest rate of 3X p.a. and a commitment fee of 0.5Z p.a. ABC would oclend
project funds to subborrowers at the same interest rate it charges on surloans
for similar purposes and with similar maturities. The present rates range
from 5.76Z to 10.08Z p.a. Where ABC extends subloans using foreign currency,
ABC would pass on the foreign exchange risk to subborrowers.



- 23 -
78.       Subborrowers would be required to contribute a minimum of 30Z of
subproject costs. The repayment periods of subloans would be determined by
ABC's estimates of the cash flows of the related subprojects but would not
exceed 15 years, and would include an appropriate grace period. Based on the
cash flow estimates of selected major subprojects and given that the project
funds would be disbursed over five years, the cash flow estimated for the pro-
ject as a whole indicates that ABC's loan repayment to the Government would
require a period of 20 years, including five years grace. ABC would be per-
mitted to roll over funds repaid to it by subborrowers and not yet due on its
loan from the Government.
Accounts, Audit, Monitoring and Evaluation
79.       The Project Units in ABC's county offices in the project area would
maintain detailed accounts of the project subloans and expenditures. These
accounts and other data relating to the implementation and progress of the
project would be collated by the Project Offices. The accounts, including the
statements of expenditures, and ABC Fujian's and Hunan's tozal operations
would be audited annually by independ2nt auditors acceptable to IDA. These
auditors are expected to be from the State Audit Agency. The audited accounts
together with the annual accounts (balance sheets and income statements) of
ABC's total operations would be submitted by ABC to IDA within six months of
the close of each financial year. In addition, ABC would forward to IDA half-
yearly reports covering the project's progress within two months following the
end of each reporting period. Assurances on the above were obtained during
negotiations.
Benefits and Justification
80.       At full development, the value of the incremental output from pro-
ject investments would be about $140 million per annum. The project wouLd
increase the production of higher value foods which are in short supply and
for wnich demand is growing rapidly, and thereby improve the quality of local
diets. Increased annual production would include about 266,000 tons of fruits
and 65,000 tons of aquatic products (mainly shrimp and fish). In addition,
lending for the establishment or expansion of animal breeding and egg produc-
tion and fish nurseries would help satisfy the growing demand from individual
households for improved stock, while increasing the supply of red meat, poul-
try, and table eggs. The project would benefit directly some 16,000 families,
or 74,000 individuals, through increased production and incomes. The annual
demand for labor would increase by about 18.4 million man-days, equivalent to
61,000 full-time jobs, thereby absorbing part of the surplus rural labor
force. The project would also put to productive use land which at present is
mostly wasteland or low-productivity land. The ABC would benefit from insti-
tutional strengthening through improvements in the efficiency of its overall
credit operations and its capability and capacity to undertake proper
appraisal and supervision of project investments.
81.       The financial rates of return (FRR) of the project components based
on typical subprojects in each component would range from 21% to 40Z. Their
economic rates of return (ERR) would vary from 23Z to 50Z. For the project as
a whole, the FRR and ERR are estimated at 28% and 34% respectively. No major
risks are anticipated. Sensitivity analysis demonstrates that all the typical
subprojects would yield satisfactory rates of return even with significant



- 24 -
increases in costs and reductions in revenues. The technological improvements
envisaged are already widely in use in China.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
82.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
November 25, 1985
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
CUMA. PEOPL1S REP. OF - ioaAL INDICATORS DATA SUT
_tt_. nears REF. oF                EERNCE cR0015 (UKIGTE  AVERAGES) Is
MHST                    (M    RECENT ISTVIATE) /b
19GO/b   gzccfT           ~LOW INCONS           flaIl LiCK
z,r/b       me  nn7 an!tk          ASIA & *ACnC         ASmA *acznc
hUlA CTIOUSAN SQ. C)
TOTAL                           9561.0     9561.0     9561.0
ACjMCULRAL                      3257.6     3882.0     3865.9
e  F  CAA CS)                         ..         ..       300.0             278.3                  1011.1
(KIOGRAMS OF OIL EQuTvALEINT)    202.0      259.0      441.9            25.7                    566.8
-urnLAt. AND  L  S        _TmC
POIULATXON.IHD-TEAR (TEOSANDS) 651000.0   815160.0  1019102.0 
UAM POPULAeI (Z DOr TOTAL)        1s.4 Ic     ..        21.0              22.3                    35.9
POPULATXIa PROJECKIONS
*                 POPULATIS IN TM 2000 CMIL)                           1242.3
STATIONART POPULAIOII CM=                            1571.0
POPuLA7IIO muumm                                       1.6
POPULATIONDEST
PER SQ. Km.                     68.1       85.3       106.2            173.8                   386.9
PER SQ. m1. ACar  LaW          I99.8      210.0      260.8             353.3                  159t.24
POPULATION aGE STIU=RZ (Z)
0-14 YIS                       38.9       37.6       32.0              36.3                    38.2
15-64 us                        56.2       57.2       63.1              59.4                    57.7
6G AND AN=                       4.7        5.0        5.0               43                      3.5
POPULATXIO CXOt RAZE (S)
TOAL                            1.1        2.2        1.7               2.0                     2.3
URBAN                            ..         ..         ..                4.1                     4.1
CRUDE ur  R   (CpER ;IOUS)        39.2 /d    35.7       18.6              27.5                    30.1
CRUE DElAT RATE (CP  THWOIS)      23.5 Td     8.8        7.1              10.2                     9.4
CROSS REPRODUCrIO  RATE            28 7ld    23          1.0               1.7                     1.9
FANILT PLMUI2C
ACCEPTOUS, AINUAL (TROS)         ..
USERS CZ  O KAMRD W)             .7 ..                 1                49 4                    56.5
aD   -
non or rM iRem. FM CAPITA
C1969-71-100)                      ..       1DO.O      123.0             116.6                   124.4
PER CnrA Snt OF
CALORIES (: OF REQUIIIET)       94.6 /d   101.6       119.8            106.3                    115.7
WRTKINS (GRMS PER DA)           53. 7;i   56.2        69.7              60.1                    60.3
OF  raNS ANR AL AND Pm Sz      12.5 77    133         15.9             14.4                     14.1
CHTLD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE       13.5        8.5        2.0               7.3                     7.2
LIFE EhECr. AT DBIR  (TEAM)       41.0 1.    60.9       67.1              60.5                    604
NFANT mR. RAE (PuR TUWS)         165.0o 77    69.0      38.0              69.2                    64.9
ACCESS TO SAFS VAT (S10)
TOTAL                            ..         ..        50.0              4.2                     46.0
DRBN                                        ..         5.0              77.2                    57.A
RURAL                            ..         ..        40.0              34.6                    37.1
ACCESS LO  CA    DISPOSAL
(C OF :'oPULhoN)
TO0AL                             .         ..         ..                7.                     50.1
UrRA .A                                      .         ..               284                     52.9
RIVAL                            ..         ..         ..                5.5                    4.7
POPULATION PER PSICIAN          7940.0 If  3690.0 If  1740.0 If         3318.0                  7751.7
FOP. PER NUIISI PERSON          3830.0     2760.0     1710.0            4690.7                  24644
POP. PER HOSPrrlA BED
TOTAL                         1040.0      760.0      40.0             1039.2                   1112.1
MU"AN                          210.0        ..       160.0             299.1                   651.4
UmRAL                        10140.0        ..      1020.3            6028.2                  2596.9
ASSIQS PE 8SPITAL IED              ..         ..         ..               52.3                    41.1
OFZRACIS SIZE OF IlOCEROLD
0TOAL                            ..         ..         5.1
OR                               ..         ..         4.1
RURAL                            ..         .-         5.4
AEURAZ NO. OF PERSONS/R00H
TOTAL                            ..         ..
Wnu                              ..         ..         .                  ..
RURAL                            ..         ..         .                  ..
ERC     E OF DWEUNCS IrTH ELECT.
TOTAL                            ..         ..
URN                              ..         ..
RUAL                             ''         .



-26 -                                                 ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
ClllIU. * o L    U7. 07 - SOCIAL ZEDICATOEU DATA S115?
CDUT, PELES EE. 0o                   UFEEC  cR0   (1430UD  AVRAE) i
i,@LkwU                         s t wr xucos u r   /b
1960=6     i                        AL ASIA A PAcrnc      ASIA A PACIFIC
ADJUSTED uNmOLUMm ATmOS
PMINAEI   TOTAL.                109.0       110.0       110.0              92.6                    100.7
3w.E                                         1 ..  ..  lU.0    103.3                     104 .
TEJIMAX&..                          ..        97.0              79.3                      97.2
SECODARTs TOTAL                  21.0        23.0       35.0               31.3                     47.S
HALE                    .4 *-                 46.0              40.8                      50.6
MALS                    ..          ..        25.0              21.9                      44.-
VOCATAL to   oU )                   ..          ..         2.2                3.2                     18.4
1011L-TEACE EATO
1RZKArf                           ..         33.0       25.0               38.0                     30.4
SECEURAST                          ..        22.0        16.0               7.4                     22.2
PASSENGER CARS/TSAND                 ..         ..         0.2 lb             0.9                     1O.l
ADIO EEES/TOUSAUD                    ..        14.7       210.1             129.                     172.9
TV UcErS/TMUMUD                      ..         0.6        35.3              19.8                     58.5
NEIWADE  ("DAn. CGBRAL
DMir) CI XZ1oE
1P  TINUSAND POPA                   ..         ..         33.4              25.7                     65.3
CN  AIU             C                ..         ..          ..                6.0                      3.4
TOA LABOR FOCE (TiWS)          321646.0   380555.0   470692.0
FlMlAL  (1EEtIt)                 35.3        38.0        37.3              33.2                     33.6
AGEIOIZZUE (PRE)                   ..         ..         68.9              69.6                     52.2
IDUSTR CY ( zrC)                   ..         ..         1.7               15.8                     17.9
1AICZ?IIO  LAT (14?
TOTAL                            46.R        *5.0        "6.1              41.9                     38.9
NALE                             55.9        54.5        55.4              53.6                     50.8
FEMaLE                           37.0        35.0       35.1               29.1                     26.8
SCO.CoIC DEPEND1C? ama 0.9                      1.0        0.8                1.0                      1.1
3EWDE DISTREINIU
1C45   OF PrVATE DIRH
RECEIE  S
UCUST S5  Of II SLS                ..         ..         12.5 A         -   ..
IICICES 2010F W-SOI                ..         ..         39.3 7i                                    48.U
LoIe  20S OrEus      S             ..         ..         6.                                          6.4
LOWEST   0 Of IILSX ..                        ..         18                 ..                      1
ro           mC_
TLMSSOL PM    I
LEEL (us  PER chuT
DREAM                             ..          ..          ..              133..
;AL                                ..         ..          ..              111.6                    151.9
mm mzm   IC
LEELS (USSP  CAPUTA)
Dam                                .          ..          ..                ..                      77.9
iAL                               ..          ..          ..               61.7                    164.7
CSTD  POP.53BLO AASOLUT
POVEr INCOME ism (I)
URUII                              ..         ..          ..               43.8                     23.5
AL                                ..          ..          ..               51.7                     37.8
Nor AVAILAIE
NVW APPLICABLE
OTES 5
t   Mm gromp ayrbu  for each indLitor are populatin-nweipgtd artlemtlc _Ia.  Coverage of Coot
mog the liicetaru deped. On availabilty of date and la Got anfor.
lb  Ihlccr och r.. . noted. "Data for 1960" refer to an yer  bituen 1959 end 1961; 'Date for 1970" between
1969 and 1971; and data for "Iet Recent  utfcte" betwe_n 1981 and 1963.
Ic  1964; fd 19355-5  vrqe; /a 1955-64 ezae; If Senior doctor of westarm _mdl-cie   A  Distribetlo
of peopLe muked by hbmebo2W per capita LAcm. 3979 data  lh  9l.
JUE. 1985



- 27 -                                                 ~~~~~ANNEX I
-27-                                                    ~~~~~~Page 3 of 6
mt-   cth.etis.ic. am  de   it. =tr. Aecm. -L. Ict-w t.5-J .cllri.ttm        alibi.  iicet   1-h  cci htstn mle m.nicc5
VWiih  ituci  ifW -yctti t, uiutt  -tri          aMop.1C mintimaci mettle           9 cim.it tefrmm   bampi mean... igwo"M1                  twet  dwypo .
cifmlcLms  It tin imt.t"I"tiiam. it'b. tin  t i.1 ctm 11o   Wonihmemltcm  attibmcmtc mccc. fio  lf -umi  as .medt sly 1.i OM ictyf-%   -tin   Oal  tin
-cccpl.c  ic. tr tint -iiicmta -  Lmcm it.1 ftricm o-k        ittl-.. mac  i-  -Jtrtc  ipmi -in  nllitllc or Wic  acto act Icm ..M.t aft. mint h
ac9&Ci-c.mqi da.i.)                                                                        ft-1-p- -r      4--      fitc -    dt.lt.mi Utdtb miin  ecft ptit-tlttm
Roedo isits ti..                                                                       tm.tlmiinma    ci  -Pplim    ileic  by mcm  ciA9d pittcl
cue cmi ccii iccm.n                                                                            inccrcccl is .-..-hoLU""o    _   "tacit. mu-i -LcIa  IF.    ectc  (card.
IW d. iSt,      dimi  ..                                                                hat.1tac m"' pttymcca.  fcbiibtchc-tc prm tmci   pitcplpewtiittl
ma.c - W    stlitt   1it-R hcpiLctt. %..c.. LinuS. inLt  a
iS? ~WMISMM CtPtT  - dA_ca  ampiccet - - - tt-c cc mac- tat                                eodlct    Oc M m   mm-ccmistly mIttici by c pbymtCte lb"t hr m atfti
Am iimm  it-cmcccly) 1m kcltccc  it .&Lcmtia  Pint -c.ttc  tOti.                       pictdtmlmtirol  ie    ttccm
sue, at mis him. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~qIMlJ-,,.1aht - - Tmol. ...i. 0 d.ac..C. ten iicaet
ictcp -ciuc Wtt   tin  .dr cr bi."
ceicare   corc itTIal.  itIn                                          od ifO
Vs;itt.sc  aic.=itatc -~-               AH  of ci cil  5; tilt. liip.91 aSlR               nti
at.f.                                                                                     ....._.1t Id  t dc...    -I..c.mc A corns cM  cicee-ci - ittet in..acml
-                   mme ccactci fmimcsci  act  -  it  ci mike cc 9ctel pip.stsciit                                  a. haotitai r   Matlin ct liP.m    itmtit i-e-m.14g.at
yct..mtmct.mc                                  t.ictiaclac                                tsmm-ititem.i tiicca. loofto  .-ti.c            ciapcd Im--  itiat. dmt
W-.ftjVI_  w -.-9--oCimsdtma                     pm.cct  aimp acci  or lemm            pccmccc P.cMa.       ilc.s  aittcpetcsmta
cr... iiJTV. tms   ftici   cMriz. ccicclc  tateb       b       1.caoitt ci clint          iciccimp1ci ptn..
pttctc  pmtticmi.  tih    its - i cimi ctcrc ad   i~t chic it*19t             _____             L
imi  tes  tmittccmly  ccccc  it itlAod-c  lid   :Cat.                                ptly     Iea-aMP pcpcttcticc  iremitly c.elc.h   butci  ciii I-ti
cm'.ccccs" at-1it.  t..icl,   ecetli. it.  nhItatit                c l Mtcc  hi iijcim  ii. dlImIess  WaORMt it pitccqs icemtal c
a  md  c OWI    ch  inh  a,  t  cii ictsccc . tm ci  commict. mc  m                          atimic   tim cciccicra luda     ody  dodi tU  ic
dsic  ai   W .... We cttccs.y ccsmttcc  c1ci ma -cctsc  a cM                                pIca odt ;ica.l ci beIn at tie   tin iti olmt  dLm  MMc.
biot. .1 tinh mJmi pj cduacmlt ric  fti  pipetta c tind ycti                             tiui. stc    - Ctac. -ik  a              Ial   - Ieeci c tie.t   -.es
imicicc. sisuci     c tt. cuictm  ci pic1ct.cc   jimect it wilm                         ptccldm   tumd,oI  odicitoimil  m  c      cali  l Wticetdta  cit
li. c=c.dc- tie OIL apcdtttlc  scc  a aicin   -IttY. Th.                                   dacirlty m ti
itmt -n tisctc  pmpIttla  -i thi pipmtal.i tif.-I  j, gii                                mhi  ttthic   tiitl, -d mini"s             r cile vtAft imuiit
isiicI0 iit.                                                                        =m.ii-zccii act - mrimc   atd ccmacic  - Taci .scdcmc   amLtii Ic
,i-c. .    J-&Mi-p. Piemlficc  P-? ct--ki.t-tisi  Ci00 scmct.,timc mc                    afctcili  hlp.                   tM        It    b     ._d          U
iiccLtcccedt ircicic  ceic.lcl- O.tii.c cC:; mci.) ..tt.a-mm Ct  tyiiclcnht
Wmt pipm.it.c  fir ciii-tO. cime-PO   a4  i'm-u.                                          emit. mR.its.   i    tcM   ctta   All typi if a-l-mI. 1mm  Oil.
iam.tc_L_ c-Mat  "i. Immt - AVbe  - ttcca                       -Cct  nc   me  e-             bici    .ema   eci  m   hma                      pcuilatosc;iii
tPiliCLe C., 10c-me. site-J"o, a  iCc0-42.                                                  .et--mcm  ncmcmi  tc wmtCtcm cmi Ripn . W               'aetI:ircc t_  .51 t
cmi. .It% sib .ai  (mm?dccscicc  - tc-ct15m tj  Ittti.cm  chmai erd-                          ccc .n cm uiic;     Ct.,ic  us        -O -, at in, imtoc-hl ice goSd
lii mac  iei.Ciccc  ailS  51cm  .mpittcsc   tacc              ie -muilil                     S.mmcm -to rcmcc  (       -h- Wca.iiaitc            eO     gai. O'
t*iZ.                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~pibtIciti  idcmtc  pIL-tarl  tm icMd1ti  gioan  mim. ii cm micdiuim
iicl5. ttect -ttccmi. licalCchcicdm)    m.tct  ft   i ainiim            moh  -uc-ttfc  cc dppW.a.i  Imim  isi mcc. -ct.
a   li-itl=usa   mi .cpcc   at  ittci  cilty, etaimt                              Ccci ht   tiaci` mit ii   -i    m- %tt - I.Oci ao aM  -i  it
pagrim                                                                                                                                              -.bm   midcis      -..cmmcimcatci  t-I. ciam
icclct ft-n5m -V Pr arami    ciliicc   - Piitcctgi ii iffii                                   .ccI. alt..
amitr tcltc laiimi cg. .dmamp.i P              a. elci tithed. ca
pitttti     tIim mC -amititicc c ct. L omult i         .  hicci cL a"t mmci
citcic-hittcm   ac  t-  ec-nicty ac  cii li-ti, tikt5t   sttc   t   icimi_ fIt.                                   Ba)     ncac Uct   -ilS  pin. tilttise -tcci
casle. ccci itctts  -mcI L. -ccrai fii achic qm gram.ottm  a4  --PIcylc    hi tiCteli  %--mLi. immiat., MCc.. -immi
mta  tie wc.m;rw                                                                                coopiatce: tilt,. ciii at til  hit
;.tcc  ia  iimfcc  cc LLc Itc   sLP-i.iil ~C- ci mc  it  tlt                               tml .Win -i    Fit.            fire- L.     rmytdie. toIf, ccitsin  cia.
t  -sit  pImiic    it~ cIlcci  ctttcm    isiIti  P"-.ci W".i C..t                      Jg-j           - P-od - lhr  cara~ li ititow.   toler.   Inutria
mmcii -i W--- _iWc.ifi ~-             Piitim   ~aitic   di etch. cmmm.  I.JU                omlctrs4tr  ai.i        t       iieg   icct   mc    ntia   i
iata,                                                                       tcrctflcmctayP-C.-  M  w K.    o tic. ui.ir -1  ccdtcc. mitt. cicctc - t ctl-t-P-,-iT
ci.,  cotiueetc  ccetLOW.is ttms       p     dcai... c.iicc  its   -                  tict  tiits, a  sic, itt..  Lhm  asbt  ctiepiimmcl   cu
c.-ti.L.,    b-cct  sec,m   cc-tlcmcc  add   ccci,..ii.                                     r.cclc11 cAI-s  espter.  ith  ap palice   amc ci  ici
ci  mia    titti   if-pipittta, aWtheic  5 pAttieiii aof
.It _inill Iol  tes -i.st, at lieda.,                                                   lisle m;ecc;cXytcc
psr.esi ptIlr.  ii catisi tpti 0-id ic. -mtmt  Tecci  iiptiit                                     P riiumtm              hts  qic    iikc)-mcai   ui 
at  nyt  -l cIi ci c.~ mm  FSt &-  ca   tL P-oota  -4 a.. A-                                ,mcm.UAft.   - -cutt pctm.  rpici opreot Punc,a          m         OpIrc-Id.
ail..Isc icr all  -ith          fortlhe  'cy UL.c tw.dmi icc iriA m t.tMId aminlit.ddbl 
PMco,.. pctt -I. ahtmm II n         1 itati hi amcm         .icmmtdm, Tacit             sP-mytty ?cL- CL.iii
ictcciit  aeaci -itccitEta  ic- tir;  fits.mi  site -a  lo,,                       -c"ctcmttty dmMccc tIn  plcm  c-amisc  ma-too  ruq.ttie. mc ooz
C=a  . t                                                     , %-'                           ctf.mibtt,
Chat fcc. s-i mits.  ci i.. tu-ca) - m-ra  ucc.ccipintct-i   cm     imsmtmL inlittc  icis  ie   at(S-tt) - mik   "Ii cmt -
ciciccu  icc  iiisi 6     i tsr- .btablm; site. tm-i ." sm   me.. p-eIctcea  it..  "the mct. itt-  hod  Ii i-tttc    f- ccc                                    -.
list eftc  mij-mtc c'mi O bctotol mc It..    i ant  mimi.
htrt l; im   si,  sc tilt                 l dcci.                                          pmit.dr 
otmn- or Sa"t Uccc- (rrii taittui-  tct.schc                                                                                       C-     .A      sistetdOK --RLo
mitt  ,Wply (hekims-  mctdi dMIca at.tm                                                                                        9-antecihmtodec   wtpek. at Pimjit-ts ipicce
1is . incao ar he mcathui -c Volt chili itetachl  iccof tCt
aS.i f tit     Itmacht do ci ham C. mPmid iltpaprihaati prts ci
C". ity l. imitci mi cttol&.             -du ciic
rt mct.imclcr.ltiiccii.mta)-iclint.a
ch. colscccla  a4 ilimac. itch Wi mit-Ct-c cici . .1 sea inst
ad eccair by- cei-i  cmot-c  i W                cm   pic  tttcs  a



- 28 -                                                       ANNEM I
Page   of 6
Population       1.019 million (mid-1983)
GNP per capita: 5300 (1963)
CHEM - CcoxNOIc INDICA!OS
Amont - 1984                               Annual growth rates (2)
(tdllion US$ at                 Actal                                         Prolected
lndicstor                   current prices)/b 1980   1981   198Z   1983   1984a   1983         1986      1987     198       1989     1990
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS /a
gross domestic product          281,260       6.6    4.9    7.8    9.6   14.0       10.4       6.8      6.8        6.8     6.8       6.8
Agriculture                   100,430      -1.7    6.4   11.2    9.0   13.9        6.0      4.9       4.g       4.9      4.9      4.9
Industry                      125,010      12.3    2.3    7.3   11.4   16.6       14.0      7.7       7.7       7.7      7.7      7.7
Services                       55,620       8.2    8.9    3.3    6.5    7.7       10.0      7.9       7.9       7.9      7.9      7.9
Conamption                      198,190       9.1    5.2    5.9    9.0   12.5       12.5      8.9       7.4        7.4     7.4      7.1
Cross inveatment                 83,100       1.3   -1.8   10.9   15.2   20.7       11.0      2.3       4.8       4.8      5.1      5.7
Exports of CNYS /a               26,720      17.8   16.7    0.6    9.5   13.0        3.0      8.9       8.8       3.8      8.8      8.8
Imports of   WS7ar               26.750      16.1   -6.7   -5.7   26.1   25.9       43.1      0.0       5.8       5.9      6.0      6.2
Gross national saving.           85.870      -0.2    3.6   17.0   12.0   17.0        5.0      2.4       5.1       5.1      5.6      6.2
PRICES
CDP deflator (1980 - 100)                   100.0  101.8  101.7  102.9  107.6    113.1    118.7    124.7    131.0    137.5    144.4
Excbange rate (TUan/US$)                     1.50   1.70   1.89   1.98   2.32       2.84     2.84      2.84     2.84      2.84     2.84
Share of CDP at market prices (Z)                  Average annual increase (2)
(et current prices)                          (at constant 1981 prim)
1960   L970   1975   1980   1985   1990       1960-70  1970-75  1975-80  1980-86  1984-89  1989-94
Grosa  domestic product /a      100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0          6.1      5.2       6.6      9.0       7.3      6.6
Agriculture                    23.0   35.0   32.8   32.0   34.2   31.3          6.7      3.4       3.3     10.1       5.0      4.8
Industry                       48.0   41.0   45.8   48.0   47.9   49.9          7.8      7.5      9.9       9.4      8.6       7.4
Services                       29.0   24.0   21.4   20.0   17.9   18.8          3.4      4.5       5.4      6.6      8.2       7.5
Consimption                      62.4   70.8   69.1   71.3   66.7   69.3          6.1      4.7       6.4      8.1       8.4      6.8
Gross Invesnment                 37.8   Z9.2   31.1   30.0   34.4   30.9          9.5      6.9       9.7     11.3       5.1      6.1
Exports of CNFS                   4.8    2.8    5.3    7.1    7.7    8.5         -1.5     10.8       5.7     12.3       8.0      7.7
Imports of chrS                   5.0    2.7    5.5    8.4    8.8    8.6          1.2     13.9      13.0     12.2      8.4       7.4
Gross national savings           37.7   29.2   30.9   28.9   33.6   30.7          9.1      6.7       7.2     14.D       4.8      6.2
As 2 of CDP
1957           1970            1980            1983          N198
PUnLIC FDIAEC
Current revenues                                     28.7           29.6            30.6            27.8           26.7
Current expenditures                                 15.1           29.0            34.0            29.4           28.3
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                         +13.6            +0.6            -3.4            -1.6           -1.6
Capital expenditure                                  13.7           13.3            11.0             7.8            7.3
Foreign financing                                     0.7            U.S.            0.5             0.2             0.3
1960-70     1970-75      1975-80     1980-84      1984-89     1989-f9
OTHER INDICATOMS
CNP grovth rate (Z)                                  6.1         5.1          6.4          9.2         7.2          6.6
CUP per capita growth rate (1)                       3.5         2.9          5.2          7.9         6.1          5.5
Energy consUmption growth rate (2)                  -0.3         9.2          5.8          4.1         5.3         4.8
ICOR                                                 3.3         4.7          5.1          3.8         4.0         4.6
Marginal savings rate                                0.4         0.4          0.3          0.3         0.2          0.3
Import elasticity                                    0.2         2.7          2.0          1.4         1.1          1.2
/s  Data for 1981 and 1982 are from different sources; data for 1982 exclude re-exports.
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
Novetber 22, 1985



- 29 -                                                  ANNEX I
Pge 5 of 6
Population       1.019 tt.IlLn (mid-1983)
GNP per capita: S300 (1983)
CHINA - EXTERNAL TRADE
Amount - 1984                 Annual growth races (Z) (ar conscmnr prlei
(milllon US$ at                          Attual                          Protlected
current prices)         1980     1981      1982     1983      1984     1985      1990
EXTERNAL TRADE /a
_    Merchandise exports                       25,020              14.8      17.3      5.5      10.1     10.4       2.8      8.7
Primary                                 11,410               1.5     -1.4       3.9      14.6      9.6       3.3      6.8
Manufactures                            13,610              32.2      36.2      6.6       7.n     11.1       2.4     10.4
Merchandise imports                       26,740               6.8       7.2      0.2     29.7      22.3     47.1       6.2
Food                                     2,330               9.1     68.3      42.9    -30.9    -24.9      14.4       7.1
Petroleusm                                 130              52.6    -65.5    130.0    -43.5       30.8      0.0      35.5
Machinery and equipment                  8,420              16.4      19.0    -41.7      34.7     82.3     58.2       5.1
Others                                  15,860               0.9    -13.5       7.1     71.7      16.8     19.9       6.3
PRICES
Export price Index (1980-100)                                100.0    102.7      98.7     86.8      90.5     86.0    126.0
Import price Index (1980-100)                                100.0    104.5      89.2     76.7      78.4     77.3    112.0
Temrs of trade index (1980-100)                              100.0      98.3    110.7    115.8    115.4    113.8    112.5
Composition of merchandise trade (S)                   Average annual increase (2)
(at current prices)                               (at constant prices)
1978        1981         1984       1990       1980-84           1984-89             1989-94
Exports                         100.0        100.0       100.0       100.0       10.8                7.9                 7.6
Primary                        53.4        46.6         45.6       42.1         6.7                6.4                 6.1
Manufactures                   46.6        53.4         54.4       57.9        15.2                9.4                 S.e
Imports                         100.0       100.0        100.0      100.0        14.9                8.5                 7.5
Food                           12.8        17.4          8.7        9.7        13.9                8.9                 S.5
Fetroleum                       0.5         0.4          0.5        0.9        13.0               17.2                16.1
Machinery and equipment        18.9        29.2         31.5       33.3        23.6               12.0                 6.8
Others                         67.9        53.0         59.3       56.1        20.5                6.7                 7.5
Share of trade with         Share of trade with         Share of trade with
industrial                  developing                 the USSR and
countries ()                countries (Z)            EasLern Europe (C)
1977     1980     1983      1977     1980      1983     1977      1980     1983
DIRECTION OF TRADE
Exports                                    36.4      44.7     42.1      46.8     48.7     53.2      16.8      6.6       4.7
Imports                                    63.1     73.6      69.P     20.7      19.7     24.5      16.2      6.7       6.5
/a Based on gu6tuma statistics. Exports, f.o.b., imports, c.i.f.
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
November 22, 1985



-30 -                                                ANNEX I
iage w t 
Population    :  1,019 million (mid-1983)
GNP per capita: $300 (1983)
CHINA - ALANCE OF PAYNENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(Ollions of US$ at current prices)
Actual                                   Projected
Indicator                                      1978    1979    1980    1981        1982       1983      1984        1985      1990
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports of goods and nonfactor services  10,370  14,983  20,324  24,423    23,637    23,186    26,716            26,840   58,590
Of which:  Merchandise f.o.b. /a          9,607  13,658  18,492  22,027    21,125    20,707    23,905         23,900   52,130
Imports of goods and nonfactor services  11,668  17,759  24,058  23,446    18,900    20,711    26,748            38,290  .63,180
Of which:  Merchandise f.o.b. /a         10,745  16,212  22,049  21,047    16.876    18,717    23,890          35,150   56,950
Net factor income freu abroad                   -8     -77    -117    -200         452      1,253     1,620       1.140     -850
Net transfers                                  597     656      640     464        530       436        304         300       300
Current account balance                      -709  -2,197  -3,211   1,241        5,719     4,164      1,892    -10,010   -5,140
Private direct investment (net)                  -       -       57     265        430        636     1,100       1,650    1,95'
Official grant aid (net)                         -       -       21     156        -44         75       137         140       140
MLT loans (net)                               549   3,815   1,069       310        301       927       -145           0    4.450
Disbursements                               549   3,895   1,670   1,659       2,481      1,600        718         950    6.390
Amortization                                  -       80     601   1,348       2,180       673        863         950    1.940
Other capitat /b                              -628  -1,021   2,455      -47       -115    -1.672    -2.889        2,330         -
Change Ln reserves
("-" indicating increase)                   788    -597    -391  -1,925    -6,291    -4,130           -95       5,890   -1,400
International reserves                      6,677   7,274   7,665   9,590    15,881    20,011    00,106          14,220   21,YUu
Of which:  Gold /c                        5,120   5,120   5,120   5,120       5,120      5,120      5,120       5,120    5,120
Reserves as months of imports                 6.2      4.5      3.5     4.8       10.1      11.7        9.1         4.5      4.2
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT id
Cross disbursement                              ..      ..       ..      ..
Official grants                              ..       ..      ..       ..
Concessional loans                           ..       ..      ..
Other                                      ..       ..      ..       ..
Nonconcessional loans                         ..      ..       ..      ..
Official export credits                    ..       ..      ..       ..
Other multilateral                         ..       ..      ..       ..         ..
Private                                    ..       ..      ..       ..         ..        ..
External debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed              549   4.364   5,433   5,261       5.562      6,397      6,340
Official                                   ..       ..      ..       ..
Private                                    .         .      .         ..                   ..
LUdisbursed debt                             ..
Debt service
Total service payments                        ..      ..
Interest                                    .               .        ..
Payments as Z of exports                    0.4      2.7     6.3      9.0       11.4       4.4        5.0
Average interest rate of new loans (2)           -       -        -       -          -          -         -
Average maturity of new loans (years)                    -                                                                            T
/a  Data for 1978-81 are not comparable with those of 1982-85 because of a difference to their sou-ces.  The laLter e&.lude
re-exports.
/b  Includes net use of DMF credit and net flov of short-teru capital.
T7- Valued at US$402/troy ounce.
Td Excludes short-term loans (one year or less).
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
November 22, 1985



ANNEX 11
- 31 -
STATUS OF DANK CROUP OPERATIONS IN THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
A. STATEMENT OF SANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of September 30. 1985)
Loan or                                                                                   US$ million
Credit                                                                            Amount (less cancellations)
Number    Year  Borrower                      Purpose                             Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
2021/1167    1981  People's Republic of China  Universit) Development                100.0    100.0         24.6
1261    1982  People's Republic of Ctina  North China Plain Agriculture            -       60.0       16.8
2207    1932  People's Republic of China  Tnree Ports                            69.0        -        44.0
1297    1982  People's Republi- of China  Agric. Education & Researcb              -      75.4        18.1
2226/1313    1982  People's Republic of Ch'na  Industrial Credit                      40.6      30.0        37.8
2231    1983  People's Republic of C0ina  Daqing Petrolem                       162.4        -        91.8
2252    1983  People's Republic of China  Zhongyuan-Uenliu Petroleum            100.8        -        79.1
2261/1347    1983  People's Republic of China  Heilongjiang Lead Reclamation          25.3      45.0        30.8
1411    1983  People's Republic of China  Polytechnic/TV University                -      85.0        76.9
1412    1983  People's Republic of China  Technecal Cooperation                    -       10.0        7.5
1417    1984  People's Republic of China  Rubber Development                       -      100.0       52.8
2382    1984  People's Republic of China  Lubuge Hydroelectric                  145.4        -       139.4
2394    1984  People's Republic of China  Railway                               220.0        -       12b.1
1462    1984  People's Republic of China  Rural Credit                             -       50.0       34.2
1472    1984  People's Republic of China  Rural Health & Nedical Edur.             -      85.0        67.1
2426    1984  People's Republic of China  Kara ay Petroleum                     100.3        -        95.4
2434/1491    1984  People's Republic of China  Second Industrial Credit              105.0      70.0       158.7
24b4/1500    1984  People's Republic of China  Second Agricultural Education          45.3      23.5        54.6
1516    1984  People's Republic of China  Second Agricultural Research             -      25.0        19.2
1551    1985  People's Republic of China  Second University Development            -      145.0      140.3
2493    1985  People's Republic of China  Second Power                          117.0        -       117.0
2501/a  1985  People's Republic of China  Changcun (Luan) Coal Mining           126.0        -       126.0
1557W   1985  People's Republic of China  Seeds                                    -      40.0        40.0
1558/c  1985  People's Republic of China  Rural Water Supply                       -      80.0        80.0
2539115947W  1985  People's Republic of China  Highway                                42.6      30.0        72.6
2540Wc  19d5  People's Republic of China  Second Railway                        235.0        -       235.0
25417c  1985  People's Republic of China  Fertilizer Rehabilitation and          97.0       -         97.0
Energy Saving
1605/c  1985  People's Republic of China  Forestry Development                     -      47.3        47.3
2579/1606W  1985  People's Republic of China  Pishihang-Chsohu Area Development  17.0           75.0       92.0
25807   1985  People's Republic of China  Weiyuan Gas Field Technical            25.0        -        25.0
Assistance
Total                                                                              1,773.7  1,176.2    2,247.1
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                                     1,773.7  1,176.2
Total Undisbursed                                                                  1,453.1    794.0
B. STATEENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of September 30, 1985)
Amount tn US$ million
Year    Obligor                                     Type of business                Loan      Equity     Total
1985/d  Cuangzhou and Peugeot Autombile Co.         Automobile                        15.0       2.0        17.0
Total Gross Commitments                                                               15.0       2.0        17.0
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayment and sales                                                                   -         -           -
Total Commitments now held by IFC                                                      15.0      2.0        17.0
Total Undisbursed                                                                      15.0      2.0        17.t)
/a Became effective on October 31, 1985.
Rb- Became effective on October 24, 1985.
7W Not yet effective.
/d Signed on October 16. 1985.
Notes: The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all Bank/IDA finan-
cial projects in execution, which is updated ntice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors
on April 30 and October 31.



- 32 -                       ANNEX III
CHINA
RURAL CREDIT II PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:     Six months
(b)  Project prepared by:               Agricultural Bank of China (ABC)
(c) First mission:                      October 1984
(d)  First presentation to IDA:         October 1984
(e)  Departure of appraisal mission:    April 1985
(f)  Completion of negotiations:        November 1985
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:     March 1986
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a)  Training of ABC staff would be carried out in accordance with a
program agreed between IDA and ABC (para. 65);
(b) The Project Management Committee would be maintained; the Project
Offices would be maintained and would have a core staff acceptable
to IDA; and a Project Unit would be established in each of ABC's
county offices participating in the project (para. 75); and
(c)  The Government would take steps necessary to enable ABC to achieve
at least a 2Z spread between the cost to ABC of the project funds
and the project lending rates (para. 77).



HUBEI  <^                                                                CHINA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~il 87
RURAL CREDIT Ii PROJECT
ANHUI  ~-No= Novo,
ZHEJIANG
JULY 1965






