Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Rept No.  11779
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT II
(CREDIT 1642-CHA)
APRIL 7, 1993
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department II
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document bas a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Name of Currency   Yuan (Renminbi)
Rate of Exchange         Appraisal         US$1.00 - Y 2.8
1985              US$1.00 - Y 2.9
1986              US$1.00 - Y 3.2
1987              US$1.00 - Y 3.7
1988              US$1.00 - Y 3.7
1989              US$1.00 - Y 4.7
1990              US$1.00 - Y 5.2
1991              US$1.00 - Y 5.3
Fiscal Year of Borrower : January 1 - December 31
Weights and Measures :
1 Meter (m)             -      3.28 Feet (ft)
1 Kilometer             -      0.62 Mile
1 Hectare (ha)          -      2.47 Acres
-     15 Mu
1 Kilogram (kg)          -     2.2 Pounds (lb)
-     2 Chinese Jin
1 Ton (t)               -      1,000 Kg
-     2,205 lb
GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS
ABC         -    Agricultural Bank of China
BOC         -     Bank of China
PBC         -     People's Bank of China
CIB         -     China Investment Bank
EDI         -     Economic Development Institute
ERR         -     Economic Rate of Return
FERR        -     Financial Rate of Return
IDA         -     International Development Agency
IFAD        -     International Fund for Agricultural Development
LIB         -     Limited International Bidding
MOF         -     Ministry of Finance
MOA         -     Ministry of Agriculture
PMC         -     Project Management Committee
PMO         -     Project Management Office
PO          -     Project Office
PU          -     Project Unit
RC I        -     Rural Credit I Project (CR 1462-CHA)
RC II       -     Rural Credit II Project (CR 1642-CHA)
RC III      -     Rural Credit III Project (CR 1871-CHA)
RC IV       -     Rural Credit IV Project (CR 2182-CHA; LN 3265-CHA)
SDR         -     Special Drawing Rights
SOE         -     Statement of Expenditures
SMCs        -     Supply and Marketing Cooperatives
TA          -     Technical Assistance
RCCs        -     Rural Credit Cooperatives



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
April 7, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on China
Rural Credit Project II (Credit 1642-CHA)
Attached is a copy of the report entitled "Project Completion Report on China Rural Credit
Project II (Credit 1642-CHA)" prepared by the East Asia and Pacific Regional Office. The Borrower
contributed Part II, which includes comments on Part I.
This second credit project repeated the Agricultural Bank of China's success in disbursing
credit funds ahead of schedule to support farm and agro-industrial investments. Borrowers included
individual households as well as cooperatives and public agencies at several levels of local government
in Fujian and Hunan provinces. The project was limited to aquaculture, orchards, livestock and agro-
industry. This is the first China project with a major credit component where the PCR reports
substantial overdues and lax administration by the executing credit authority. However economic
rates of return average around 20 percent. The project is rated as satisfactory, its sustainability as
likely, and its institutional development as partial.
The Project Completion Report is comprehensive and informative, though Part I does not
deal explicitly with Agricultural Bank of China's dissenting views in Part II. The emergence of arrears
as a problem in the China rural credit portfolio bears close scrutiny.
The project will be audited.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT II (CREDIT 1642-CHA)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface ...................(1)
Evaluation Summary ...................(ii)
PART I:    PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.     Project Identity   ..........................................                1
B.     Background   ................................................                1
C.     Project Objectives and Description   ........................    2
D.     Project Design and Organization   ...........................                3
E.     Project Implementation   ....................................                4
F.     Project Results   ...........................................                5
G.     Project Sustainability   ....................................                7
H.     Project Impact ..............................................    8
I.     IDA Performance   ...........................................    8
J.     Borrower Performance   ......................................                9
K.  Experience and Lessons Learned .11
L.  Project Documentation and Data .13
M. Recommendations .13
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A.     General    ..........            ............................    16
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.  Related Bank Loans and Credits .18
2. Project Timetable .19
3.  Loan/Credit Disbursements .20
4.  Project Implementation .21
5. Project Costs .22
6. Project Financing .23
7. Direct Benefits .24
B.  Economic and Financial Rates of Return .25
9. Status of Covenants .26
10.  Staff Inputs . ......................................  27
11.  Bank Missions .......................................  28
APPENDICES
1.    Hunan Agricultural Sector ...................................   29
2.     Fujian Agricultural Sector ..................................   30
3.     Project Income and Expenditure ..............................   31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHIN
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT II (CREDIT 1642-CHA)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Rural Credit
Project (RC II) in China, for which Credit 1642-CHA in the amount of SDR 84.0
million (US$ 90 million) was approved on December 17, 1985. The credit was
fully disbursed and closed on September 16, 1991.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Agricultural Division of the China
and Mongolia Department of the East Asia and Pacific Regional Office (Preface,
Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III), and the Borrower (Part II).
The PCR is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report; the Credit
and the Project Agreements; supervision reports; correspondence between the
Bank and the Borrower; internal IDA memoranda; and a field completion mission
conducted in November, 1991.






ii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT II (CREDIT 1642-CHA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives
1.    The objective of the Second Rural Credit project (RCII) was to expand
IDA's support of ABC's lending for investments to increase farm and rural
output and incomes through the diversification and modernization of agricul-
tural production and processing. It provided funds to ABC for medium- and
long-term loans to individual farmers and households, collective units and
enterprises owned by collectives and local government entities in the two
provinces of Fujian and Hunan. The objective of the technical assistance (TA)
component was to ensure effective and efficient project implementation and to
strengthen the operational capacity of ABC.
2.    The project was prepared by IDA with the assistance of ABC officials in
November 1984 and appraised in April 1985. Five proiect components were
identified and estimates made of the likely size of each component; these were
stated as guidelines only and subject to change:
(a)   The aquaculture component was to expand production of freshwater fish,
mainly grass, common and bighead carp and tilapia; and marine species,
such as shrimp, mullet, oysters, clams and other shellfish. It was to
comprise the construction and improvement of some 12,300 ha of ponds
including supporting infrastructure and equipment.
(b)   The orchard component was to provide for the establishment and
improvement of some 14,000 ha of orchards of mainly orange, litchi and
longan. Plantations were to be established mainly on sloped lands
previously uncultivated and intercropped with a range of vegetables
during the initial unproductive years.
(c)   The agroprocessing component included the construction and equipment for
plants for freezing and cold storage; processing fish and poultry feeds,
fish, poultry and fruits; fruit storage, including facilities for
sorting, waxing and grading fruit; orange and other fruit juice
extraction and concentration.
(d)   The livestock component was to support investments in the production of
poultry, goats, pigs and cattle.
(e)   The Technical Assistance (TA) component entailed training of ABC staff
and provision of supporting equipment, machinery and consultant
services. Staff training was provided in project preparation, appraisal
and implementation methodologies based on ABC's project appraisal
manual, as well as in auditing, statistics, finance, management and data
information systems.



iii
Proiect Implementation
3.    Implementation of most project components far exceeded the appraisal
estimate in terms of physical scales. A total of 3,503 subprojects were
approved in both provinces. With the exception of a few minor cases all civil
works and plantation works were satisfactorily carried out. No major delays
were experienced. In fact, many of the subprojects were implemented ahead of
schedule resulting in a rapid disbursement and completion of the project three
months ahead of the expected closing date.
4.    During project implementation the Yuan was devalued several times from
an exchange rate of Y2.8 to US$1 at appraisal to Y5.3 to US$1 at the time of
completion. This increased the IDA contribution from Y252 million to Y407
million. The total project investment size went up from Y719 million at
appraisal to Y1203 million at completion, leading to a substantial expansion
of physical scale of major components.
5.    At appraisal. the mission estimated the establishment or improvement of
10,500 ha of orange orchards which at completion had expanded to 23,400 ha.
The area planted with other fruit trees increased from 3,500 ha to 9,000 ha.
Freshwater fish ponds, estimated at 9,000 ha at appraisal, increased to 17,500
ha while the area of salt water ponds more than doubled from 3,300 ha to 7,600
ha. The investment for agroprocessing increased from an estimated Y130
million to about Y454 million, resulting in a more than doubling of capacity.
A relatively small amount of Y56 million was estimated for livestock with
actual investment of only Y31 million. An unsatisfactory decline occurred in
technical assistance from an estimated Y13 million at appraisal to Y8 million
actual.
Results
6.    The orchar  component, accounting for about 26% of total investment
costs, was implemented well, showing promising initial production levels.
Many fruit subprojects are not yet in full production but income was generally
satisfactory for 1991. Concerns remain on future prices. Within the current
price structure11 FRR's and ERR's are between 19% and 21%, respectively. At
present, a 30% decrease of farm gate prices can be tolerated, before the FRR
drops below 12%.
7.    The aguaculture shrimp subcomponent in Fujian has had a number of major
setbacks due to disease, storms and a sharp fall in foreign market prices.
Income was well below expectations in 1990 and early 1991 but reasonable
returns for end-1991 and future years are expected. The reestimated FRR of
this component is between 18% and 22%. The intensive fish pond component in
Hunan has been very successful. High yields and reasonable market prices have
resulted in a FRR of about 30% to 33%.
8.    The livestock component mainly supported the establishment of several
medium- to large-scale poultry units. The two hatcheries visited showed FRR's
between 14% and 18%. Due to the existing overcapacity in pig production and
l/ FRR's and ERR's were reestimated applying constant 1991 prices



iv
poor returns to cattle and goat production, little enthusiasm was encountered
with regard to this component.
9.    The agroprocessing component, which increased from 18% to 38% of project
investment demonstrated more mixed results. A large feed mill investigated in
Fuzhou showed very robust FRR's (base calculation >40%) based on high capacity
utilization and a superior quality product with very little marketing prob-
lems. Small feed mills, however, faced serious problems. Although the base
calculation showed a FRR of 19%, at 75% utilization or with a 20% increase in
costs, the rate of return was negative. This is an accurate reflection of
conditions currently being experienced by project mills. The FRR of fish
freezing and cold storage was 20% for the base case with 82% capacity utiliza-
tion (the highest encountered during the visit). At lower rates of capacity
utilization (60%) the FRR is negative. In fact, many project facilities
operated at these lower levels experiencing poor results.
Sustainability
10.   The investments in fruit orchards and aquaculture appear to be self-
sustaining. The subprojects have been carried out well and most subborrowers
are capable operators. There are concerns, however, about the marketing of
both products. There has been large-scale orange planting in many areas of
China. Orange output increased by 20% in 1990 alone, resulting in a 30%
decrease in prices. This trend is likely to continue since most of the recent
plantings have yet to reach full production. However, project subborrowers
generally have special varieties and good stands, and most are expected to
remain competitive in the future. In the case of shrimp production, world
market prices currently seem to have stabilized at a moderate level.
Moreover, Chinese shrimp growers are, in the future, likely to be able to
produce shrimp at a reasonable profit, albeit less than anticipated at
appraisal. Some of the agroprocessing plants should ultimately be self-
sustaining but others need to introduce managerial and technical changes or
should be closed. Long-term lending has not become a major component of ABC's
portfolio. Most of the recycled funds are used for working capital loans, and
it is therefore unlikely that the subprojects will be a sustainable source of
long-term investment credit.
11.   With the expanded physical scope of the project, the potential impact on
production, income and employment generation and poverty alleviation would be
greater than originally estimated. An estimated 54,200 and 75,600 full time
jobs were created in Fujian and Hunan, respectively. This compares to
appraisal estimates of 16,000 direct employees and 61,000 full time jobs.  The
project has had a significant impact in those areas where it has been most
active e.g., along the Fujian coast and near Dongting Lake in Hunan.
Experience and Lessons Learned
12.   The project completion reporting exercise provides useful experience and
lessons for similar projects. These include:
13.   The size of the original project may be materially changed by exchange
rate adjustments. In this case, it resulted in a large increase of
investment, with mixed benefits. The increase caused pressure on local
counterpart funds and the additional portfolio was weaker than the originally
appraised one.



v
14.   Drastic changes in input and output prices indicate the need for more
rigorous sensitivity analysis during financial and economic appraisal. The
assumptions of a maximum of 20% potential increase in input cost or a maximum
of 20X decrease in output value were unrealistic. No switching values were
calculated. In addition, a number of feed mills and cold stores operated well
below capacity, showing negative IRR's.
15.   When a series of similar proiects are launched within a short period of
time (4 Rural Credit projects within 7 years), there is a risk that second
generation problems in subprojects are not adequately addressed, because the
focus is directed to the preparation of the next project. Particularly in
agroprocessing subprojects, problems tend to appear shortly after the facility
goes into operation. At the least at this critical stage, issues such as
design flaws, poor working capital management, inadequate quality and hygiene
standards and poor marketing strategies need to be addressed and improvements
implemented. On the positive side, lessons learned during the early implemen-
tation stages of RCI were incorporated without delay into the other projects.
16.   Staff of ABC Guangxi provincial branch (RCI) were seconded to train the
other provinces' Rrolect staff. While this was convenient, other provinces
avoided to bring in foreign consultants for training seminars.
17.   ABC and its subborrowers have been very reluctant to incur any cost for
consulting services. It appears that ABC and its clients only think of
technical assistance in terms of hard sciences such as engineering. However,
the major shortcomings are related to marketing and financial management. The
training system in China is quite strong technically, but has significant
weaknesses in fields such as marketing. China's biggest successes have come
from joint ventures, where both technical and marketing expertise have been
provided by foreign owners. Internally, many officials from ABC and
government planning committees responsible for investments have yet to move
from a production-oriented focus to a marketing focus.
18.   ABC's role remains somewhere between being the rural financing arm of
government and an independent banking agency. IDA needs to recognize that, at
present, ABC - despite significant improvements in its appraisal capacity -
has only a limited voice and control over subproject selection and that ABC
headquarters has limited control of its lower levels.
19.   Without improved raining and closer monitoring, lower ABC levels and/or
planning committees at these levels will not always know or follow procurement
and approval rules.
20.   ABC headquarters project staff of eleven is inadequate in number and
skill composition to supervise the implementation of the projects.
21.   ABC has little control over the management of unsound borrowers.  While
it has identified weak management in a number of the subprojects reviewed,
little was done to change such management. ABC seemed in fact prepared to
support such borrowers by providing additional funds.
22.   With changing economic conditions in China, ongoing credit projects
probably face more uncertainty than those already completed. It is, there-
fore, necessary that ABC performance be improved. Otherwise excessive volumes
of credit could be used for unproductive purposes.



1
PART 1
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Proiect Completion Report 21
A.    Proiect Identity
1.    Project Name              Second Rural Credit Project (RCII)
Credit No.               1642-CHA
RVP Unit                 East Asia and Pacific
Country                  China
Sector             .     Agriculture
Subsector                Rural Credit
B.    Background
2.    At the time of project formulation, China's agricultural sector had been
the focus of substantial policy reforms. These reforms had contributed to the
sector's exceptionally good performance since 1979. In addition to improved
incentives to producers such as price increases and widespread introduction of
free markets for agricultural commodities, a major policy component was to
expand the flow of credit to rural areas, principally through the Agricultural
Bank of China (ABC). Priority in commercial lending was given to the
expansion of livestock, fisheries, horticultural and other high-value goods to
meet the rapidly rising demand resulting from increasing per capita incomes.
In land-scarce China, effective development of the agricultural sector
required higher yields from existing cropped areas, efficient development of
the few areas of underutilized land, diversification into higher value non-
foodgrain crops, livestock and fisheries, increased facilities for
agricultural processing and marketing, fuller use of the rural labor force,
and the use of improved technology.
3.    The rural financial sector had undergone reforms of similar signifi-
cance. The Government had actively encouraged expansion and diversification
of the rural financial system, organized specialized banks to initiate genuine
financial intermediation, promoted competition among banks to broaden the
range and efficiency of services offered, provided greater autonomy to banks
in lending decisions and allowed increased use of interest rates to encourage
financial savings and more efficient resource allocation.
4.    Since 1980 China has received extensive support from the Bank in both
agricultural and financial sector development. The agricultural sector has
been strengthened mainly through activities in irrigation and drainage, higher
education and research, land reclamation and introduction of modern farming
technology and inputs, planting and replanting of major tree crops, support of
21 This report is based on findings of a PCR mission which visited China
in November 1991. Members of the mission were Mrs Naomi K. Hill and Messrs
Juergen M. Voegele (EA2AG), Kheng Hoe Yeow (ASTAG), D. Brian Argyle, James G.
Brown, Andrew Kaelin and Shil Kwan Lee (consultants).



2
seed production and establishment and management of forest plantations. Rural
financial sector issues were among the intended areas of focus of an FY88
rural sector adjustment project (see PCR dated 8/91). The China Investment
Bank (CIB) has received five loans for industrial subprojects and a number of
projects have channeled funds through local financial intermediaries.
5.    ABC is the leading bank in agricultural sector lending and, along with
the Rural Credit Cooperatives (RCCs), handles most of the banking activities
in China's rural areas. It has a network throughout China with offices in
almost every township and in most larger state farms and rural industrial
complexes. Prior to changes in financial policies in the 1980's, though, ABC
had been little more than a channeling agency transferring funds as directed
by the planning authorities. ABC's main borrowers are marketing cooperatives
(60% of loan portfolio), township enterprises (12%), industry (7%), state
farms (5%), collectives and farmer groups (7%). Its funds come mainly from
individual savings in rural towns and cities, the People's Bank of China and
the RCCs. By its orientation, ABC is primarily an intermediary for reaching
larger rural enterprises, state farms and collectives. The RCCs, which are
local entities, provide short-term loans to farmers and township and village
enterprises. Their funds are mainly derived from farmer deposits.
6.   The project is the second of four Rural Credit projects (RC I to RC IV)
financed by the Bank Group and implemented by ABC. The main objectives of RC
I (Credit 1462-CHA) were to a) support a three-year lending program of ABC in
Guangxi Autonomous Region as part of a high priority government effort to
increase agricultural and rural production and incomes through the diversifi-
cation and modernization of agricultural production and agroprocessing and b)
assist ABC in developing and implementing procedures and methodologies in
appraising development projects. The project was successfully implemented
without major problems. RC III (Credit 1871-CHA) and RC IV (Loan/Credit
3265/2182-CHA) were approved in FY88 and FY91, respectively.
7.    Under China's policy to decentralize economic decision making,
allocation of credit by sector and subsector is still largely determined by
government representatives at the various levels. Within this context, ABC
and other banks rapidly expanded their lending programs through most of the
1980's and at the same time became somewhat more autonomous in their lending
decisions at the lower levels. The two to three years of the stabilization
program (1989-91), however, saw increasing financial difficulties of many
state farms and other enterprises. The financial pressures generated, as well
as the overall tightening of government control of the economy, resulted in
increasing input by local governmental institutions into decisions on
individual loans. Thus, factors outside of financial viability came to play
an increasingly important role in decision making.
C.    Project Obiectives and Description
8.    The objective of the Second Rural Credit project (RCII) was to expand
IDA's support of ABC's lending for investments to increase farm and rural
output and incomes through the diversification and modernization of agricul-
tural production and processing. It provided funds to ABC for medium- and
long-term loans to individual farmers and households, collective units and
enterprises owned by collectives and local government entities in the two
provinces of Fujian and Hunan. The objective of the technical assistance (TA)



3
component was to ensure effective and efficient project implementation and to
strengthen the operational capacity of ABC.
9.    The project was prepared by IDA with the assistance of ABC officials in
November 1984 and appraised in April 1985. Five project components were
identified and estimates made of the likely size of each component:
(a)   The aquaculture component was to expand production of freshwater
fish, mainly grass, common and bighead carp and tilapia, and
marine species, such as shrimp, mullet, oysters, clams and other
shellfish. It was to comprise the construction and improvement of
some 12,300 ha of ponds including supporting infrastructure and
equipment.
(b)   The orchard component was to provide for the establishment and
improvement of some 14,000 ha of orchards of mainly orange, litchi
and longan. Plantations were to be established mainly on
previously uncultivated sloped lands and to be intercropped with a
range of vegetables during the initial unproductive years.
(c)   The agroprocessing component included the construction and equip-
ment for plants for freezing and cold storage; processing fish and
poultry feeds, fish, poultry and fruits; fruit storage, including
facilities for sorting, waxing and grading fruit; orange and other
fruit juice extraction and concentration.
(d)   The livestock component was to support investments in the
production of poultry, goats, pigs and cattle.
(e)   The Technical Assistance (TA) component entailed training of ABC
staff and provision of supporting equipment, machinery and consul-
tant services. Staff training was to be provided in project
preparation, appraisal and implementation methodologies based on
ABC's project appraisal manual, as well as in auditing,
statistics, finance, management and data information systems.
D.    Proiect Design and Organization
10.   The project was designed within the context of a still largely planned
economy in which all entities, including banks, supported the overall plan.
Coordination at each level was organized in committees or 'leading groups'
comprising representatives of key government bureaus. As part of this system
broad credit allocation was also carried out by committees. In the Second
Rural Credit project a Project Management Committee (PMC) was established in
each province. It was essentially comprised of representatives of the bureaus
responsible for implementing the provincial development plan. Although not
specified in the appraisal report, similar groups at lower levels were formed
to give guidance to individual subprojects. Committees also assisted with
arranging funding, provision of inputs in short supply, technical extension
support and training. Due to the decentralized structure of ABC, substantial
decision making power over subprojects is located at the county level. At
this level the influence of the ABC manager appears to vary substantially
depending on his standing in the committee.



4
11.   The project design was basically adopted from the first rural credit
project (RCI). Primary responsibilities for project implementation and
management were given to ABC provincial branches under the supervision of ABC
headquarters. Various technical bureaus at the regional, prefecture and
county levels provided assistance to ABC concerning project identification,
preparation, appraisal and supervision. An International Department dealing
with foreign funds was created in ABC provincial branches, within which the
World Bank Project Management Offices (PMO's) were established. Based on the
information available at appraisal the project concept was clear and appropri-
ate. Overall, the project was well prepared, timing and scope were adequate.
12.   Agreement was reached at negotiations whereby the foreign exchange risk
of the IDA credit was the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance (MOF).
The IDA credit was lent in foreign currencies to MOF which in turn disbursed
to ABC in local currency, except for a few loans made for direct import of
equipment, where the risk would be borne by the subborrower.
E.    Proiect Implementation
13.   Implementation of most project components far exceeded the appraisal
estimate in terms of physical scales. A total of 3,503 subprojects was
approNed in both provinces. With the exception of a few minor cases, all
civil works and plantation works were satisfactorily carried out. No major
delays were experienced. In fact, many of the subprojects were implemented
ahead of schedule resulting in a rapid disbursement and completion of the
project three months ahead of the expected closing date.
14.   During project implementation the Yuan was devalued several times from
an exchange rate of Y2.8 to US$1 at appraisal to Y5.3 to US$1 at the time of
completion. The average exchange rate was Y3.7 to US$1. During the same
period, the ratio of the US$ to SDR varied but averaged approximately 1.30
against 1.07 at appraisal - a decline of 18%. Thus, the Yuan/SDR exchange
rate increased by about 60% from 3.0 to 4.85. This increased the IDA contri-
bution from Y252 million to Y407 million. The original IDA contribution of
SDR 84 million and a slightly reduced IDA disbursement ratio of 33.8% (SAR
35%) were maintained, increasing local financing from Y467 million at apprais-
al to Y797 million. The total project investment size went up from Y719
million at appraisal to Y1203 million at completion, leading to a substantial
expansion of physical scale of major components.
15.   At appraisal, the mission estimated the establishment or improvement of
10,500 ha of orange orchards which at completion had expanded to 23,400 ha.
The area planted with other fruit trees increased from 3,500 ha to 9,000 ha.
Freshwater fish ponds, estimated at 9,000 ha at appraisal, increased to 17,500
ha, while the area of salt water ponds more than doubled from 3,300 ha to
7,600 ha. The investment for agroprocessing increased from an estimated Y130
million to about Y454 million, resulting in a more than doubling of capacity.
A relatively small amount of Y56 million was estimated for livestock with
actual investment of only Y31 million. An unsatisfactory decline occurred in
technical assistance from an estimated Y13 million at appraisal to Y8 million
actual.
16.   During implementation substantial changes occurred in the distribution
of investment among components. The most significant changes were the sharp
increase of agroprocessing in Hunan, the reduction in livestock where the beef



5
and goats sub-components had to be dropped due to a lack of investors, and the
sharp decline in the use of funds for technical assistance (Table 1).
Table 1: Distribution of Investments
Appraisal                   Actual Disbursement
Forecast                 Fujian       Hunan        Total
(%)                      (%)         (%)          (%)
Aquaculture                 38                       50           15           33
Orchards                    35                       26           27           26
Agroprocessing              18                       21           55           38
Livestock                    8                        2            3            3
Technical Assistance       1.9                      0.7          0.6          0.7
17.   Initially fruit and aquaculture subprojects were given high priority and
the first Y620 million were disbursed mainly for these components. With
increasing funds available, the project made a drastic switch to agroproces-
sing, reflecting the opinion of both ABC and IDA that this component required
further expansion and improvement.
F.    Proiect Results
18.   In general, the orchard component, accounting for about 26% of total
investment costs, was implemented well, showing promising initial production
levels. Many fruit subprojects are not yet in full production but income was
generally satisfactory for 1991. Concerns remain on future prices. Within
the current price structure31 FRR's and ERR's are between 19% and 21%,
respectively4/. At present, a 30% decrease of farm gate prices can be
tolerated, before the FRR drops below 12%.
19.   The aguaculture shrimp subcomponent in Fujian has had a number of major
setbacks due to disease, storms and a sharp fall in foreign market prices.
Income was well below expectations in 1990 and early 1991, but reasonable
returns for end-1991 and future years are expected. The reestimated FRR of
this component is between 18% and 22%. The intensive fish pond component in
Hunan has been very successful. High yields and reasonable market prices have
resulted in a FRR of about 30% to 33%.
20.   The livestock component mainly supported the establishment of several
medium- to large-scale poultry units. The two hatcheries visited showed FRR's
between 14% and 18%. Due to the existing overcapacity in pig production and
poor returns to cattle and goat production, little enthusiasm was encountered
with regard to this component.
31 FRR's and ERR's were reestimated applying constant 1991 prices
41 In Table 8 in Part III of this report appraisal and updated estimates
of the financial and economic rates of return of all project components are
summarized



6
21.   The agroprocessing component, which increased from 18% to 38% of project
investment demonstrated more mixed results. A large feed mill investigated in
Fuzhou showed very robust FRR's (base calculation >40%) based on high capacity
utilization and a superior quality product with very little marketing prob-
lems. Small feed mills, however, faced serious problems. Although the base
calculation showed a FRR of 19%, at 75% utilization or with a 20% increase in
costs, the rate of return was negative. This is an accurate reflection of
conditions currently being experienced by project mills. The FRR of fish
freezing and cold storage was 20% for the base case with 82% capacity utiliza-
tion (the highest encountered during the visit). At lower rates of capacity
utilization (60%) the FRR is negative. In fact, many project facilities
operated at these lower levels experiencing poor results.
22.   Investment planning showed three characteristics which are reflected in
the strength and weaknesses of the present portfolio: a) The emphasis on
physical rather than financial performance, b) Local plans are developed
without consideration of the investment plans of other jurisdictions, many of
which may adopt similar targets and c) Ignorance of the market element:
markets simply have been assumed, either because of growing domestic
purchasing power or because the state marketing agency is expected to take
care of the output. Another reason may have been the overly rapid approval of
agroprocessing subprojects when disbursements changed course. Some of these
appear not to have been well prepared or carefully reviewed. Full details of
the results of processing plants (about 400 subloans to a diverse range of
enterprises) were not available to the mission: thus, the overall performance
of the component cannot be assessed and an overall FRR and ERR cannot be
estimated reliably.
23.   Part B of the project provided for improving ABC's operational capabili-
ty in such areas as project preparation, appraisal and implementation, finance
and management, by including a program of staff training in China and
overseas, with provision of overseas fellowships, consultants' services and
equipment. Credit funds of SDR400,000 were allocated for overseas fellowships
and consultants' services (Category 2) and SDR1,810,000 for equipment for Part
B (Category 3). Disbursements of SDR124,932.70 and SDRI,959,080.65 represent
31% and 108%, respectively, of the allocations.
24.   All disbursements for Category 2 were made for overseas tours and none
for consultants. Hoping to persuade ABC to use available funds to hire
consultants, IDA indicated that it would be difficult to reallocate the unused
technical assistance funds to the credit program (Part A - subloans).
However, as ABC drew down funds in mid 1991, the credit was closed and
SDR583,386 was charged to the account for the exchange rate fluctuations
between the SDR and US$ between the time of initial deposit to the Special
Account and the time of documentation of the Account. Thus, ABC avoided
further expenditures on training.
25.   Provincial and prefectural ABC branches and central subbranches provided
details of loan recoveries based on reports from county subbranches. However,
data recorded payments made by the county level branches to higher level
branches, and not actual recoveries from subprojects which may have been much
lower. Provincial level ABC branches recorded recoveries at December 1990 as
follows:



7
Table 2: Recoveries of Principal and Interest by end of 1990
Principal                                          Interest
Past   Recov                           Past      Recov
Disb.    Due   Pd.   Due   Rate % a/         Due    Pd       Due      Rate %
- (Yuan million) -                    - (Yuan million) -
Fujian  409    162   148    14    91.6             86       74      13       84.8
Hunan   400      34    39      2   113             89       73      16       82
a/ The recovery rate of principal (as compared to the recovery rate of
interest) is fairly high because subloans with overdue principal are resched-
uled fairly rapidly.
26.   Some loans at the end of 1990 were not yet due for repayment of
principal. ABC normally applies terms of about a two-year grace period with
interest only, followed by payment of approximately 10% principal in year 3,
20% in year 4 and 30% p.a. in subsequent years. Repayments appear
satisfactory from the above data but, as noted above, the actual recoveries
are lower. More detailed data indicate for Fujian that Y64 million or about
16% of total loans are overdue. In Hunan, the audit report prepared by the
State Audit Administration for 1990 indicates overdue loans of Y42 million or
65% of total repayments due. In some cases, repayment is made possible by
granting of working capital loans from recycled project funds or from domestic
funds. Overall recovery without this factor seems below 50%. ABC provincial
offices do not have a full picture of actual recoveries or projects in
difficulty.
27.   Of the funds recovered (i.e. repaid from lower level), ABC has withdrawn
the 50% it contributed to the original investments (most of which is in fact
overdue) and is recycling the funds originating from IDA. More than 80% of
these funds have been utilized as working capital for projects financed under
stage I. Already half of these second stage funds have been repaid and have
been reused for short-term lending.
G.    Proiect Sustainability
28.   The investments in fruit orchards and aquaculture appear to be self-
sustaining. The subprojects have been carried out well and most subborrowers
are capable operators. There are concerns, however, about the marketing of
both products. There has been large-scale orange planting in many areas of
China. Orange output increased by 20% in 1990 alone, resulting in a 30%
decrease in prices. This trend is likely to continue since most of the recent
plantings have yet to reach full production. However, project subborrowers
generally have special varieties and good stands, apply improved management
practices and most are expected to remain competitive in the future. In the
case of shrimp production, world market prices currently seem to have
stabilized at a moderate level. Moreover, Chinese shrimp growers are, in the
future, likely to be able to produce shrimp at a reasonable profit, albeit
less than anticipated at appraisal.



8
29.   Some of the agroprocessing plants should ultimately be self sustaining
but others need to introduce managerial and technical changes or should be
closed. Of particular concern is the situation in ramie processing in Hunan
province. In 1987, a considerable share of project funds was invested in
primary and secondary ramie processing facilities, after the government had
increased the price for ramie fourfold. Producers responded immediately and
ramie production increased severalfold during the next growing season. In
1988, prices dropped by about 50% and have not recovered since. As a result
the ramie processing industry now has to cope with overcapacity and a sluggish
international market. The provincial government has asked for funds under
RCIV to reactivate the industry, but market conditions need to be examined in
greater detail before the sustainability of this component can be assessed.
The international market for ramie is very narrow and prices will most likely
remain low in the forseeable future.
30.   The livestock component was designed mainly to supply urban communities
and the Hong Kong market. Generally, capacity exceeds demand but as most
producers are state enterprises, the price of inputs is modified as necessary
by the authorities to ensure such operations make a small surplus. As the
Chinese economy moves toward broader application of market principles, state-
owned enterprises will be less protected from input price adjustments and the
problem of below-standard financial performance may become more frequent in
the short-term.
31.   Long-term lending has not become a major component of ABC's portfolio.
Most of the recycled funds are used for working capital loans, and it is
therefore unlikely that the project will be a sustainable source of long-term
investment credit.
H.    Proiect Impact
32.   With the expanded physical scope of the project, the estimated impact on
production, income and employment generation and poverty alleviation will be
greater than originally forecast. An estimated 54,200 and 75,600 full time
jobs were created in Fujian and Hunan, respectively. This compares to
appraisal forecasts of 16,000 direct employees and 61,000 full time jobs. The
project has had a significant impact in those areas where it has been most
active, e.g. along the Fujian coast and near Dongting Lake in Hunan.
33.   The project contributed a significant share of total investment carried
out in some of the subsectors in both provinces during the period of project
implementation - 58% of incremental shrimp ponds and 4% of citrus, 10% of
litchi and 9% of longan orchards in Fujian and 17% of the intensive fish ponds
in Hunan. In many cases individual incomes have been increased several-fold.
34.   The project has to date had a positive impact on ABC's financial
position (Annex 3). However, the longer term results will depend mainly on
the development of recovery rates. Many subprojects are in arrears and some
will have long-term difficulties in repaying. While ABC has guarantees for
nearly all its loans from state farms, townships and other sources, these may
be difficult to collect, particularly if the guarantor has either financial
constraints or competing demands for other priority funding. Bad debts of
1.5% per annum have been assumed for future years, a figure well above ABC's
normal allowances but considered realistic. If this level of bad debt is not
exceeded, ABC will make a small profit on the project.



9
I.    IDA Performance
35.   The project became effective in April 86 and was supervised in September
'86, October '87, October '88, November '90, and April '91. In addition,
detailed discussions were held with ABC on general matters relevant to RC II
during the preparation and the appraisal of RC IV in August and November 1989.
A mission to review SOE's in China reviewed RC II procedures in September
1989. During the period of greatest disbursement, the project was supervised
approximately annually. By October 1988, the credit was 82% disbursed and
virtually fully committed.
36.   IDA missions identified - and brought to ABC's attention - most key
issues and problems (details in section J) relating to the project and
provided continuous managerial and technical advice to improve the situation,
but responses by ABC were not always satisfactory. IDA has been active in
providing and promoting courses in procurement and monitoring and evaluation.
IDA staff assisted in the design of tables introduced in 1991 to monitor
overdues and problem loans. However, follow-up on some persistent issues
could have been more intensive, particularly given the very rapid project
implementation. More frequent supervision would have been advantageous, given
the management limitations of ABC headquarters and the ongoing decentraliza-
tion of authority in ABC.
37.   During appraisal and early implementation of RC II, the main focus of
IDA supervision was on agricultural development and technical issues. With
the approval of RC III and RC IV and an increasing number of participating
provinces (17 provinces in 1991), the institutional constraints of ABC to
supervise RC II became more prominent and IDA's emphasis shifted gradually
towards improving ABC's management and supervision capabilities. This shift
in priorities was not adequately appreciated by ABC staff at all levels,
however.  On the other hand, IDA's objective to significantly improve ABC's
operations at all levels may have been rather ambitious.
38.   Initially, under RCI, IDA had requested that ABC would establish a
separate project unit within the International Department at all levels to
manage the project. While this has been complied with, experience during
implementation indicated that this unit developed a life of its own, with only
limited coordination and cooperation with other ABC departments. IDA,
therefore, repeatedly proposed to reintegrate this unit into the main ABC
structure, also with the view of having an impact on ABC's overall lending
performance. This has not occurred.
J.    Borrower Performance
39.   ABC implemented a large lending program in a very short period of time.
Naturally this had an impact on its project preparation and supervision
performance. The range of issues discussed during the mission is summarized
below.
40.   During supervision the speed of implementation was discussed several
times to little apparent avail. The rapid approval of subprojects in 1986,
1987 and 1988 proved a considerable strain on project offices. It appears
that projects were approved too quickly, not always taking into account all
factors. Each county was anxious to lock in its allocated share of money,



10
leading in some cases to excessive haste. Inadequate appraisal and the
selection of unsuitable processing projects led to a range of financial and
technical problems.
41.   Technical and financial appraisal was carried out on a routine basis;
however, two constraints have been identified. Frequently, subprojects were
prepared and reviewed by the same institution, often even by the same office.
Secondly, technology transfer was hampered by a strong bias towards local
production methods and familiar technology. While this might be acceptable
for certain output targeted to the domestic consumers in a state-controlled
market situation, it often prevented the sub-borrower from being able to
successfully compete in the domestic market or entering the international
market.
42.   A major misunderstanding appears to exist between IDA and ABC concerning
the role of Division I of the ABC International Department at Beijing head-
quarters. In IDA's view this project management unit is responsible for
overall supervision and guidance of the project. In ABC's view, Division I is
responsible for setting policy, writing general guidelines and organizing
training classes. Division I regards itself purely as an administrative unit
rather than a management and steering body. In addition, the unit is severely
understaffed. ABC has a total staff of only 11 persons at headquarters
managing the World Bank/IFAD program of five projects. With the program
totalling about US$620 million, this number is inadequate. The ABC
International Department has issued broad and general guidelines to be refined
by the individual provincial branches before introduction within these
provinces. This approach not only leads to a whole range of different
management procedures within the projects, it also deprives ABC headquarters
of the chance to introduce an efficient monitoring system covering all levels.
ABC Division I agrees that part of its role is project supervision, but, apart
from accompanying IDA supervision missions, no visits were made to any
province for any of the projects in 1991. ABC has obviously placed less focus
on this issue than the Bank sees as useful. What is relevant is whether ABC
headquarters should provide guidance and supervision at the senior level or
whether it should be mainly a facilitator between the Bank and the individual
provinces. It appears that ABC sees the role of project headquarters as the
latter. This fits within the Chinese pattern of devolution of authority to
lower levels. Only about 0.1% of ABC's total staff is at its Beijing
headquarters. This process, however, causes variable results and at times non-
compliance with conditionality by the provincial and lower levels.
43.   The situation is similar at the provincial level.  ABC provincial
branches rely on information sent by prefectures, who in turn rely on county-
level progress reports. Most of the actual project preparation, appraisal,
supervision and evaluation work occurs at the county level. The information
flow to the provincial level is not always appropriate, and timely monitoring
of project progress and problem projects is rudimentary. Only the county
level branches know, for instance, the amount of working capital given to the
subprojects. While a substantial number of subborrowers have postponed
financial problems by additional working capital borrowing, such information
is not transferred to higher ABC levels. In Hunan, only the county level
branches had accurate figures of loan recovery and overdue loans.
44.   Interest rates were an issue for all supervision missions.  County
subbranches are used to flexibility in their application of interest rates.



11
Rates quoted to missions were sometimes above or below those prescribed by the
loan conditionality. It is not clear whether instructions were not issued,
did not reach lower levels, or were ignored. Neither ABC headquarters nor the
provincial project units have followed up closely on such matters - probably
reflecting the independence of county subbranches.
45.   ABC has been quite reluctant to adopt major procedural Bank require-
ments. It has over a long period onlent funds at interest rates lower than
those agreed with IDA, has avoided LIB procedures by splitting contracts, has
failed to submit proposals for larger investment to IDA for review and has not
adequately addressed issues raised in qualified audit reports. Even after 10
years of cooperation between IDA and ABC through four credit projects there
remains an unsatisfactory degree of non-compliance with the legal agreements.
46.   ABC headquarters failed to issue clear guidelines or follow-up on
procurement until 1990. While the provincial staff were aware of the credit
agreement, limited effort was made to ensure that procurement was carried out
in line with conditionality. Wherever possible, contracts for equipment and
machinery were broken down into units below US$50,000 to avoid LIB. Except
for several joint ventures supported under the project, there appears to have
been very little, if any, procurement from foreign sources. In a number of
cases, equipment procured from domestic sources was obsolete and inefficient,
leading to less successful investments. Packaging of equipment into small
contracts also led to mismatching. There clearly was strong reluctance to use
credit funds to import any equipment into China. While greater use of LIB
might not have led to significant foreign importation, it could have led to
the purchase of better Chinese-made equipment.
47.   ABC tends to allocate additional amounts of working capital to projects
with marketing and/or management problems, if funds are available, to bolster
their cash flow. ABC maintains an overly optimistic view that these projects
only have temporary problems and merely need funds to overcome their liquidity
crisis. No cases were reported of ABC actually stopping disbursement to
uneconomic operations.   Successful enterprises, on the other hand, which
frequently lack working capital, were being told that they did not need it.
In Hunan, it was a standard practice to lend working capital to enable weak
subborrowers to pay back both interest and principal.
48.   During supervision several marketing studies were requested: fresh water
fisheries in Hunan in 1987, in 1988, in 1990 and in 1991 and a review of the
shrimp industry in Fujian in 1990 and 1991. Despite these frequent requests
and serious concerns about marketing, none of these studies materialized. The
studies were to be a joint effort of ABC and the Fisheries Bureau. It does
not seem that ABC was very active in promoting or following up on this issue.
Neither ABC headquarters nor provincial staff appeared to want to get involved
in areas such as marketing, seeming to believe that these were outside their
responsibilities. This attitude might well result in ABC's continuing to
finance production of unmarketable commodities until gross over-supply occurs.
K.    Experience and Lessons Learned
49.   The project completion reporting exercise provides useful experience and
lessons for similar projects. These include:



12
50.   The size of the original project may be materially changed by exchange
rate adjustments. In this case it resulted in a large increase of investment,
with mixed benefits. The increase caused pressure on local counterpart funds,
and the additional portfolio was weaker than the originally appraised one.
51.   Drastic changes in input and output prices indicate the need for more
rigorous sensitivity analysis during financial and economic appraisal. The
assumptions of a maximum of 20% potential increase in input cost or a maximum
of 20% decrease in output value were unrealistic. No switching values were
calculated. In addition, a number of feed mills and cold stores operated well
below capacity, showing negative IRR's.
52.   When a series of similar projects is launched within a short period of
time (4 Rural Credit projects within 7 years), there is a risk that second
generation problems in subprojects are not adequately addressed because the
focus is directed to the preparation of the next project. Particularly in
agroprocessing subprojects, problems tend to appear shortly after the facility
goes into operation. At the least at this critical stage, issues such as
design flaws, poor working capital management, inadequate quality and hygiene
standards and poor marketing strategies need to be addressed and improvements
implemented. On the positive side, lessons learned during the early implemen-
tation stages of RCI were incorporated without delay into the other projects.
53.   Staff of ABC Guangxi provincial branch was seconded to train the other
provinces' project staff. While this was convenient, other provinces avoided
bringing in foreign consultants for training seminars. Due to the complex
structure of ABC, the county level officer in charge of project appraisal,
supervision and monitoring received training from a county level colleague,
who had been trained by a prefecture level staff, who had received training
from a provincial level officer, who had attended a training course given by a
Guangxi ABC staff member, after having been trained from ABC headquarters or
participating in one of three EDI courses held in Shanghai between 1983 and
1985. Since these courses averaged about ten days only, quality of project
analysis is variable.
54.   ABC and its subborrowers have been very reluctant to incur any cost for
consulting services. It appears that ABC and its clients only think of
technical assistance in terms of hard sciences such as engineering. However,
the major shortcomings are related to marketing and financial management. The
training system in China is quite strong technically, but has significant
weaknesses in fields such as marketing. China's biggest successes have often
come from joint ventures, where both technical and marketing expertise have
been provided by foreign owners. Internally, many officials from ABC and
government planning committees responsible for investments have yet to move
from a production-oriented focus to a marketing focus.
55.   Devolution of authority in China resulted in a rush of projects from
every county, leading to rapid commitment and disbursement. In order to allow
adequate time for appraisal and analysis a more constant investment flow would
be desirable. Action is required to ensure that rushed project approval does
not lead to unsatisfactory projects. Better project analysis is a require-
ment.
56.   ABC's role remains somewhere between being the rural financing arm of
government and an independent banking agency. IDA needs to recognize that, at



13
present, ABC - despite significant improvements in its appraisal capacity -
has only a limited voice and control over subproject selection and that ABC
headquarters has limited control of its lower levels.
57.   Without improved training and closer monitoring, lower ABC levels and/or
planning committees at these levels will not always know or follow procurement
and approval rules.
58.   ABC headguarters Rroject staff of eleven is inadequate in number and
skill composition to supervise the implementation of IDA - supported projects.
The limited supervision which does occur seems acceptable to ABC's management
and the government, however. Headquarters staff have also had difficulties in
providing appropriate guidelines promptly and monitoring the project effec-
tively. ABC headquarters has been unable to provide the required.leadership
in studying the prospects of the different activities it is financing. While
IDA would prefer to see ABC in a more active role, ABC or government have
tended to see this as a function of government ministries and other entities.
59.   ABC has little control over the management of unsound borrowers.  While
it identified weak management in a number of the subprojects reviewed, little
was done to change such management. ABC seemed, in fact, prepared to support
such borrowers by providing additional funds.
60.   The quality of construction and equipment in agroprocessing enterprises
is generally acceptable. Most elements are well designed. However, design
flaws in raw material flow occur, and energy conservation and preventive
maintenance need to be improved. Buildings and facilities tend to be larger
than necessary.
L.    Prolect Documentation and Data
61.   While most of the covenants of the Credit and Project agreements were
complied with, important exceptions in areas such as interest rates and
procurement occurred from time to time (see para 45 above). The record of
compliances with the covenants is available in Table 9 (Part III).
M.    Recommendations
62.   The following recommendations evolved from discussions with the Chinese
counterparts:
63.   Implementation is generally extremely rapid in rural credit projects in
China, leading to rapid and limited appraisals. Whether a more careful review
would result in better subprojects is unclear, as the planning groups may
either determine the project must go ahead or have unrealistic assumptions
that may not change with more study. However, IDA should encourage a steady
rate of disbursement, while emphasizing better subproject preparation and
analysis.
64.   From a production standpoint the aquaculture component has been very
successful. However, in Hunan the lack of freezing facilities, cold stores
and ice machines remains a serious constraint to the economic utilization of
fresh water fisheries investments. It is strongly recommended that funds are
made available (possibly RC IV funds) to improve post-harvest facilities.



14
65.   It is evident that some agroprocessing investments are unsound and that
production of some commodities is reaching saturation. The major problems are
weak management, weak markets and low quality goods. ABC has not shown much
interest or skill in analysis of these key factors. Before further agropro-
cessing projects are approved, it is proposed that the following be agreed
upon:
a)    ABC would require a market study by an outside entity (e.g.,
university) for every processing project; and
b)    ABC would invite international consultants to review prospects for
commodities already largely reliant on foreign trade, such as
shrimp, ramie, and lean pork. Given the huge supply of oranges a
study of prospects of orange juice and other fruit exports should
be carried out.
66.   IDA procurement terms ran counter to the government's tendency to favor
purchase of only Chinese equipment and also to the personal preferences of
county procurement committees, which may want to stimulate or help local
industry or merely choose equipment already known to the technicians. In any
case IDA needs to take a firmer stand on procurement protocol enforcement in
the future. It is suggested that procurement be reviewed in detail and
appropriate remedies applied in the ongoing RC III and RC IV projects. Unless
such action is taken, it seems likely that this will remain a problem in
ongoing projects.
67.   During RC II implementation, a relatively small and often inadequate
amount of the IDA funds was utilized for working capital. The definition of
working capital as used by ABC was for many subprojects excessively
restrictive e.g., excluding fertilizer for new orchards in years 2-4. While
this greatly increased the physical scope of the project, it resulted in a
very large increase in requirements for working capital from other sources -
namely, ABC's domestic resources and, more recently, recycled funds from RC II
and new funds from RC IV. However, much of the working capital funds are
instead being used for financing repayment of the RC II first stage loans and
for offsetting losses of unprofitable enterprises. In many cases, these
working capital loans are being given years after implementation. Clear
guidelines are now required. The following procedures are recommended for
working capital loans for IDA funded subprojects:
a)    working capital from recycled RC II funds, RC III or RC IV should not be
given to make repayments of 1st stage RCII loans;
b)    working capital loans should not be given to enterprises to offset
operational losses, unless ABC is convinced the project will make
profits during the upcoming year;
c)    working capital should only be used for justified incremental require-
ments e.g., increase in raw materials over what is on hand;
d)    working capital should not be utilized for increase in stocks of
finished products beyond normal levels or to pay down debts arising from
existing stocks or non-payment by purchasers;
e)    Project working capital should not be a part of the current ABC triangu-
lar debt adjustment exercise;
f)    all working capital loans should be approved at provincial level ABC,
above Y500,000 cumulative at ABC headquarters and above Y1 million by
IDA; and



15
g)    ABC should report quarterly to IDA the detailed amounts of working
capital loans to project beneficiaries. This should be included in the
form of a specific table. ABC headquarters should prepare clear guide-
lines, to be approved by IDA, and distributed as soon as possible.
68.   IDA would like a more active and forceful ABC headguarters staff role as
discussed earlier. Regardless of the level of supervision, ABC headquarters
need more staff for faster preparation of guidelines and better monitoring of
the ongoing projects. An increase of perhaps five or six persons would help,
provided they were recruited very soon.
69.   Currently ABC has not been following up provincial audit reports
carefully, even when the auditors pointed out serious problems. It was
disturbing to find little follow-up even at provincial levels. ABC headquar-
ters has been requested to present a follow-up on the 1990 audit reports and a
record of actions taken by the end of February 1992. In subsequent years, a
follow-up should be prepared and forwarded to IDA by the end of October for
all provincial audit reports which are due and generally available by June for
the preceding year, which ends on December 31st.
70.   With changing economic conditions in China and the expectation of
greater autonomy for financial institutions, ongoing credit projects face
probably more uncertainty than those already completed. It is, therefore,
necessary that ABC performance be improved. Otherwise excessive volumes of
credit could be used for unproductive purposes.



16
PART II
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Part I of the project completion report prescribed by the Operations
Evaluation Department of World Bank has been carefully reviewed and evaluated
by the First Division of International Business Department of the Agricultural
Bank of China. On the whole, the factual information contained in Part I are
objective and accurate, and we agree to your main point on the problems and
lessons raised in the contribution, but there are also some ideas in the Part
I, from which we have different ideas and judgement. Here we would like to
take the opportunity to offer our comments on some of the completed
operations.
2.    The Part I states that orange output increased by 20% in 1990 resulting
in a 30% decrease in price. Actually the price drop was not so drastic in
1990 and 1991, there was a big increase in orange output in Fujian province,
and the price went down a little during the harvesting seasons but later on
remained at the same pace with that of 1989. It is impossible that the orange
price in the city would drop by a big margin.
3.   According to Part I, the project design was based on the demand of
planned economy. This is unrealistic. The project coordinating committee was
formed at the instigation of the World Bank. Its duty was to oversee the
implementation of the project and to ensure coordinated planning and execution
of project operations between ABC and the line agencies. The World Bank at
appraisal confirmed the acceptability of the subprojects we proposed, such as
fresh water fisheries, fruit development, poultry raising, livestock and agro-
processing. One of the considerations in selection of these sub-project was
potential market demand for the expected output. Most of the subprojects were
selected by our division with the participation of WB missions, and approved
with the considerations of the marketing economy.
4.    The Part I states that ABC are not willing to follow the World Bank
procurement guidelines and has avoided LIB procedures by splitting contracts.
This is not true. The Agriculture Bank of China made some mistakes in
practising the procurement guidelines made by the WB due to the
misunderstanding of the procurement procedures, and lack of the training on
the procurement concept. That doesn't mean that ABC violate the procurement
rules deliberately. The WB paid close attention to equipment procurement, but
didn't provide practical guidance. Project units wanted to follow procurement
procedures, but didn't know where to begin. The World Bank provided training
classes on appraisal and supervision, but neglected to give training on
procurement, especially in inland procurement. World Bank once held a seminar
but mainly focusing on LIB procurement, giving a very little talk on the media
and small-sized domestic procurement which constitute the major procurement in
our project. As a matter of fact, project units welcomed the LIB, and have
already obtained satisfactory results from LIB practice through familiarizing
and deep-understanding the procurement concept. Great advances have been made
in the procurement activities.



17
5.    Considering Zhangpu fruit juice plant as an example, limited
international bidding was adopted for equipment procurement, in conformity
with the procurement guidelines of the World Bank. We are confident that in
near future more and more international bidding will be put into practice.
6.    Part I states that ABC tended to use the long-term loan as short-term
loan. There is some dispute with this statement. In reality ABC treasured
the long-term loan from WB very much for its long-term investment. Some
individual projects used WB loan as working capital mainly in the period
between 1988-1990, resulted by the austerity situation in China after 1990,
ABC clearly regulated the WB loan and recovered loans as long-term investment.
Lessons Learned:
7.    Project units concentrate their management efforts on the initial phase
of preparation and implementation, and pay less attention to the activities at
the later phases of the project which is unfavorable to the normal operations
of World Bank financed projects.
8.    Working capital should be provided under the project at the beginning of
implementation, subloans were earmarked for capital construction and no
arrangements were made for working capital. This resulted in shortage of
funds of orchard management and processing industries.
9. Marketing analysis should be adequate in project selection, especially on
some sectoral analysis. The marketing studies were mainly done in the field
of domestic markets, neglecting the international markets, which led to some
deficiencies in design in some agroprocessing projects.
10.   The rapid implementation of the project resulted in inadequate appraisal
and selection of unsuitable projects.
11.   Less attention was given to the sensitivity analysis, some appraisal
work was done with the optimistic estimation, neglecting the price-lowering
and the cost-rising effects, many risk factors were not taken into the risk-
studies, which resulted in the poor IRR of some subprojects.
12.   The RC II now comes to the end.  Though there were some problems and
mistakes in the project implementation, ABC takes a satisfactory overview of
the project implementation. The completed operations of the project not only
provided the valuable long-term funds for ABC to develop the rural economy,
but also introduced the most advanced World Bank loan management into ABC,
which are even more important than the loan itself. ABC appreciate the result
of the completed operations for having prepared ABC to join the main stream of
international financial competition.
13.    During the project implementation and evolution the Bank offered very
effective help in project selection, appraisal, monitoring, training etc.
Without Bank support the success of the implementation of the project could
not be achieved. ABC is very satisfied with the good relationship between the
Bank and ABC, relating to the understanding of each other, respect to each
other, and very effective co-operation between each other.



18
PART III
STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1
CHINA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT II
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Related Bank Loans and/or Credit
Loan/Credit       Purpose                    Year of            Status            Comments
Title                                        Approval
Rural Credit I   Provision of medium and    FY84                completed         rated satisfactory
long term loans in Guangxi                                      by PCR mission
for investment in
aquaculture, orchards,
agroprocessing, livestock
and technical assistance.
Rural Credit III  Provision of mediun and    FY88               Under             mainly disbursed,
long term Loans in six                       implementation    project has a
provinces of Guizhou,                                           number of problems
Sichuan, Yunnan, Anhui,
Henan and Hubei for
investment in tree crops,
livestock, aquaculture and
agroprocessing, and also for
institutional deveLopment
of ABC
RuraL Credit IV   Provision of mediun and    FY91               Under
Long term loans in nine                      impLementation
provinces of Jilin,
Liaoning, Shaanxi, Jiangxi,
Guangdong, Inner Mongolia,
Hunan, Guangxi, Hebei and
Beijing Municipality for
investment in tree crops,
livestock, aquaculture and
agroprocessing, and also for
institutional development
of ABC
-- -   -- - -   -- - -- -- . -- -- . -- -- - -- - . . -- - . - -- -- - - . .   . . - . . - -- -- - . - -- -



19
Table 2
CHINA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT 11
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Project Timetable
Item                                  Date               Date
Planned            Actual
Identification
(PB)                                  n/a                April 1984
Preparation                           n/a                 October 1984
Appraisal Mission                     n/a                 April 1985
Negotiations                          n/a                 November 1985
Board Approval                        n/a                  12/17/85
Signing Date                           12/15/85            01/03/86
Effective Date                         12/15/86            04/18/86
Closing Date                           12/31/91            09/16/91
Completion Date                        06/30/91            06/30/91
Source of Information: Project Supervision Timetable
and the Project Files



20
CHINA                                         TabLe 3
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT II
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
.... . .. .............
Loan/Credit Disbursements
(USS miLlion)
Bank FiscaL Year               1986   1987          1988          1989         1990         1991          1992
Semester                -      2nd   1st    2nd   1st   2nd   1st   2nd   1st   2nd   1st   2nd   1st
Appraisal Estimate                 0.0    0.9   5.4  13.5  23.4  35.1  48.6  62.1  74.7  84.6  90.0  90.0
Actual                             8.0   12.3  29.8  50.7  71.1  89.7  97.0 106.1 107.8 107.8 108.3 108.9
Actual as X of Estimate           n/a  1366.7 551.9 375.6 303.8 255.6 199.6 170.9 144.3 127.4 120.3 121.0
Date of Final Disbursement        9/14/91



1;Orl;;2;8wOpl4O4s                                      21
Table 4
CHINA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT It
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Project ImpLementation
Appraisal          Actual
Indicators         Unit               Estimate
Orange             ha                   10,500             23,400
Plantations
Longan           ha                 n/a                   2,750
Litchi           ha                 n/a                   2,080
Pomelo           ha                 n/a                     109
Grape            ha                 n/a                      22
Peach/Plin       ha                  n/a                     85
Red dates        ha                  n/a                    431
Other fruit a/  ha                   n/a                  3,240
Subtotal         ha                    2,500              8,717
Fresh water        ha                    9,000             17,500
Fishery
Salt water         ha                    3,300              7,600
ponds
Marine             ha                    2,500 b/              177 c/
fisheries
Livestock          y million             56                 31
Agroprocessing    y mitlion             130                454
a/ includes banana, bayberry, pomegranate, persimmon, Loquat etc.
b/ oyster, clam and other shellfish culture
c/ only sea breams and groupers were cultivated in 117 net-cages
with a total production of 826 tons by 1991



22
CHINA                                  Table 5
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT 11
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Project Cost
Appraisal Actual  Actual  Expenditure            X Oistribution
Estimate  Fujian  Hunan   Total                  ActuaL   Appraised
a/                           b/
------------------   (Y million)   ------------------
AquacuLture
Freshwater fish           167.1      67.5    88.1       155.6                12.9      23.2
Marine products           103.9    237.9                237.9                19.8      14.4
Subtotal                     271.0    305.4    88.1    393.5                   32.7      37.7
Fruit
Orange                     184.2      99.5   154.8    254.3                  21.1      25.6
Other                       64.2      56.8      6.7      63.5                 5.3       8.9
Subtotal                    248.4    156.3   161.5    317.8                    26.4      34.5
Agroprocessing
Coldstore                  35.6       47.5      8.8      56.3                 4.7       4.9
Fruit/Food proc.           33.3        -       79.5      79.5                 6.6       4.6
Feed miLLs                  19.8     33.5       9.6      43.1                 3.6       2.8
Other c/                    41.8      47.0   227.4    274.4                  22.8       5.8
SubtotaL                     130.5    128.0   325.3    453.3                   37.7      18.1
Livestock
Poultry                    38.6       11.9    17.4       29.3                 2.4       5.4
Other                       17.4                1.9       1.9                 0.2       2.4
SubtotaL                      56.0      11.9    19.3       31.2                 2.6       7.8
Technical Assist.             13.4       4.1      3.8       7.9                 0.7       1.9
Total                        719.3    605.7   598.0   1203.7                  100.0    100.0
a/ Appraisal estimate in SAR
bl Actual costs at completion
c/ IncLudes wide variety of agroindustries



23
TabLe 6
CHINA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT 11
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Project Financing
~~~~~~~.... ..... .. .... .....
Labor      Construct. Equipment  Land        Others     Total
Source of Fund                         Material               Exprop.    ActuaL
----------------------    (Y million)       ----------------------
IDA
Fujian                            27.5       79.3       44.6         2.7       49.7       203.8
Hunan                              3.0       68.3        72.3        1.3       58.3       203.2
Subtotal                          30.5      147.6       116.9        4.0      108.0       407.0 a/
ABC
Fujian                            27.5       79.3       44.6         2.7       48.1       202.2
Hunan                              3.0       72.8       75.8         1.3       44.7       197.6
Subtotal                          30.5      152.1       120.4        4.0       92.8       399.8
SELF RAISED
Cash/Kind
Fujian                            18.1       18.9        12.2        2.0       23.4        74.6
Hunan                             11.8       22.2        12.4        1.7       24.9        73.0
Subtotal                          29.9       41.1        24.6        3.7       48.3       147.6
LABOR SERVICES
Fujian                            45.7                                                     45.7
Hunan                             79.6                                                     79.6
Subtotal                         125.3                                                    125.3
INVEST. BY GOV'T/FIN
Fujian                             0.4        6.0        4.5         0.1        3.4        14.4
Hunan                                        14.6         6.0        0.9       13.2        34.7
Subtotal                           0.4       20.6        10.5        1.0       16.6        49.1
OTHER LOCAL SOURCES
Fujian                             4.8        4.9        15.1        0.1       33.7        58.6
Hunan                                         2.4         3.1        0.2        9.5        15.2
Subtotal                           4.8        7.3        18.2        0.3       43.2        73.8
TOTAL SELF RAISED
Fujian                            69.0       29.8       31.8         2.2       60.5       193.3
Hunan                             91.4       39.2        21.5        2.8       47.6       202.5
Subtotal                         160.4       69.0        53.3        5.0      108.1       395.8
TOTALS
Fujian                           124.0      188.4       121.0        7.6      158.3       599.3
Hunan                             97.4      180.3       169.6        5.4      150.6       603.3
PROJECT TOTAL                    221.4      368.7       290.6       13.0      308.9      1202.6
. . .............    ....................... .......................................................
a/ equivalent to SOR 84 million



24
TabLe 7
CHINA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT II
.......................
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
.......    ..... _   .......
Direct Benefits
Appraisal          Estimated at       Estimated at
Indicators                   Estimate           Nov. 1991           FutL DeveLopment
Households
Benefited                      16,000             170,000            170,000
Jobs Created                   61,000             184,000            184,000
Incremental
Annual Incmo  CY)            1,000 - 1,500          2,000            > 2,000
per Household
Incremental
TotaL Profit                    378.0 a\            364.0 b\           223.4 c\
(Y miLLion)
a\ Estimated incrementaL output vaLue, no incremental profit was estimated
b\ Figure avaiLabLe for Fujian onLy
c\ Figure availabLe for Hunan only
Note: Estimated by ABC
C:\pcr\tabte7.wkl



25
CHINA                                       Table 8
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT II
..... .......... .. ..
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Economic and Financial Rates of Return
..............-- - - -- -  .....................     . .
Economic Rate of Return    Financial Rate of Return
Appraisal    Estimate at   Appraisal    Estimate at
Indicators                    Estimate a/  Completion b/ Estimate a/  Completion b/
....................................................................................
AquacuLture
Freshwater fisheries              40%            35%            26%           33%
Shrimp production                 36%            23%            24%            22%
Orchards
Orange                            30%            21%            22%            19%
Livestock
Poultry breeding and
egg production                  27%          n/a              25%            10%
Hatchery                         n/a             18%           n/a             17%
Agroprocessing
Fish freezing and
coldstore                       44%           23%             40%           20%
Large feedmill                   n/a            >40%           n/a           >40%
Small feedmill                    39%            16%            39%            19%
Meat processing                  n/a             20%           n/a             23%
a/ Estimated at Appraisal and source, SAR.
b/ Estimated by PCR mission.
Note: Rates of return were reestimated based on information gathered
during the PCR mission in November 1991. A sample of
cases of each main category of investment was made
and ERR and FRR were estimated based on 1991 prices. All
historical cash flows were adjusted using the actual Inflation
and converted Into economic vaLue using appropriate conversion
factors.



26
Table 9
CHINA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT II
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Status of Covenants
Status
Covenant                                 Yes     No     N/A          Remarks
Devetoprent Credit Agreement
1. Section 3.02                                   X
Goverrmient to ensure that                                 In a number of cases this is
interest spread on subLoans                               still not met
to be at Least 2% p.a.
2. Section 3.05                            X
Goverrment to maintain
Project Management Conmittee
with cor'position and functions
acceptable to IDA.
3. Section 3.06                            X
Government, IDA and ABC to
exchange views on interest rates
to be charged by ABC on its
onLending operations.
Project Agreement
4. Section 2.01 (b)                        X
ASC to establish and thereafter
maintain a Project Unit to supervise
and monitor all aspects of subproject
implementation.
5. Section 2.02 (a)                        X
ABC to obtain IDA approval                                 subloans were split to
for sub-loans above the free Limit                         avoid exceeding the
in accordance with the provisions                          free Limit
of Part A of the Schedule.
6. Section 2.02 Cc)                        X
ABC to make subloans on terms                              ABC's Lending rates for IDA assisted subloans
set out in Part B of the schedule                          were consistently below the prevailing rates
until they were increased in 1988
7. Section 2.04                            X
ASC to submiit semi-annual
progress reports.
8. Section 3.01                                  X          Apppraisal and supervision of RCIII + RCIV
ABC to carry out its operations                            overloaded ABC headquarters staff from 1988 on.
and conduct its affairs in                                 IDA requested additional staff to be
accordance with sound adiiinistrative                      assigned, but ABC did not comply
and financial practices under the
supervision of qualified and experienced
management assisted by corpetent staff
in adequate nunbers
8. Section 4.01 - 4.02                     X
Financial covenants including                              Audit reports were delivered
audit of project accounts                                  late and little follow-up
and financial statements of                                was done at headquarters and
ABC Hunan and ABC Fujian                                   provinciat level branches
by independent auditors
--..    ---.......-------..-..----.   .---....-----..-.--....  ...  ...    .   .-.  .---._    ---  ---    ...-------..-.---.---..-.--- __



27 _
CHINA                        Table 10
RURAL CREDIT II PROJECT
................ .................... .
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Use of Bank Resources
...................
(Staff Input - Staff weeks)
Stage of Project Cycle   FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92 Total
Preappralsal              39.6                                                        39.6
Appraisat                 61.0   12.8                                                 73.8
Negotiations                       7.2                                                 7.2
Supervision                       15.3    7.4    5.6    4.6    0.5   15.8    0.2   49.4
Total                    100.6   35.3    7.4    5.6    4.6    0.5   15.8    0.2  170.0
Source: CAM C As of Novemtber 30, 1991)



28
Table 11
CHINA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT II
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Use of Bank Resources
(Missions)
Stage of              Month/     No of   Days in   SpeciaLization            Performance
Project Cycle         Year       Persons  FieLd e/   Represented             Rating
.... ............. ...... ..... ...... .................. ................ .................................................. .
Reconnaissance              84      n/a
Identification        ApriL 84      n/a
Preparation           Oct. 84         2        20
Appraisal              Apr. 85        7        20   Credit; Economics;            -
Aquaculture; Orchards;
Agroprocessing; Livestock
Supervision 1          Sep. 86        2        10   Credit; Economics             1
Supervision 2  a/      Oct. 87        1         7    Credit                       1
Supervision 3  b/      Oct. 88        4         5    Credit; Aquaculture;         1
Agroprocessing; Orchards;
Supervision 4  c/      Aug. 89        1         3    Credit                       1
Supervision 5  c/      Nov. 89        3         4    Credit; Orchards;            1
Aquaculture
Supervision 6  d/      Nov. 90        5         3    Credit; Orchards;            1
Aquaculture; Agroindustries;
Livestock
Supervision 7 d/       Apr. 91        1         3    Credit                       1
PCR Mission    d/      Nov. 91        6         8    Credit; Agric. Economics;
Aquaculture; Agroindustries;
Economics
.  ......  ...  .......... ...................... .................................................. .... ...... ... .
a/ combined with prenegotiations of RC III
b/ combined with identification / preparation of RC IV
c/ combined with preparation / appraisal of RC IV
d/ combined with supervision of other RC projects
e/ although most missions combined several tasks, this is the estimated



29
CHINA                                Annex 1
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT II
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HUNAN AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
. . . i. .. . .. . .... . .
Background Information
~~~~~~~~.... ..... ..... ......... .. .... 
Item                          -       1980               1985              1990
Population
Total Population (million)          52.8              56.2               61.3
Rural Population (% of total)      87.3               85.8               84.0
Land Area
Cultivated Area ('000 ha)        3425.0             3405.0 c/          3312.2
Irrigated area ('000 ha)         2743.0             2803.0 cl          2676.3
Cropping Index                      2.3                2.3 cl           n/a
Gross Value of Agriculture
Total CY million) a/            11900.0             15822.0           39740.0 bl
% Crops                            67.0               64.4                55.2
% Forestry                          4.7                 4.6                5.5
X Livestock                         17.8               22.0               29.5
% Fishery                            1.1                2.4                5.5
X Sideline activities               10.4                6.6                4.3
Crop Production
Grain: Area ('000 ha)            5122.0             5161.0             5365.7
Yield (tons/ha)          4.1                4.9                4.9
Production(C000 t)  21000.0             25143.0            26514.0
Oitseeds : Area ('000 ha)         254.0              404.0               705.2
Yield (tons/ha)          0.6                1.1                1.0
Production('000 t)    144.0               423.5              722.0
Sugarcane: Area ('000 ha)           15.0               25.0              24.1
Yield (tons/ha)         50.6               58.9               53.0
Production('000 t)    734.0              1478.4             1278.0
Fruits     Area ('000 ha)          84.0               96.0              191.1
Yield (tons/ha)          1.3                2.6                2.9
Production('000 t)    107.4               256.5              566.1
Livestock d/
CattLe     ('000 heads)          3252.8              3491.0            3992.0
Pigs       ('000 heads)         20321.7             24417.0           27983.0
Fisheries
Total Production ('000 t)          159.1              319.9              530.1
a/ In 1980 constant prices.
b/ In current 1990 prices
d/ Year-end stock.



30
CHINA                                Annex 2
.....                                .................
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT It
.. ....................
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
......... .       ......
FUJIAN AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
...... ... .... ........
Background Information
....... ............ . ..
Item                                 1980               1985              1990
............................ ............................................................. _. __....___________ ........................._ ._
Population
.............
Total Population (million)         25.2               27.2              30.4
Rural Population (% of total)      85.5               83.5              79.D
Land Area
Cultivated Area ('000 ha)        1291.0             1279.6 d/         1238.5
Irrigated Area ('000 ha)          881.1             804.2 cJ           933.6
Cropping Index                      2.0                1.8 cl          n/a
Gross Value of Agriculture
Total (Y million) a/             4100.0             7089.0           22870.0 b/
X Crops                            61.0               53.7              44.8
2 Forestry                          6.3               10.7               9.4
% Livestock                         9.7               16.5              23.3
% Fishery                           4.5                8.3               7.0
% Sideline activities              18.5               10.8              15.4
Crop Production
Grain       Area ('000 ha)       2175.0             1888.0            2080.6
Yield (tons/ha)          3.7               4.2                4.2
Production ('000 t)  8047.0             7944.0             8796.0
uilseeds   Area ('000 ha)         130.0              106.0             111.6
Yield (tons/ha)          1.0                1.6               1.4
Production ('000 t)   134.8               173.9             160.0
Sugarcane: Area ('000 ha)          47.0               73.0              49.9
Yield (tons/ha)         74.7              73.2               68.5
Production ('000 t)  3512.0             5366.7             3443.0
Fruit       Area ('000 ha)         37.0              141.0             298.4
Yield (tons/ha)          3.4               2.1                2.5
Production ('000 t)   126.6              294.1              757.8
Livestock d/
Cattle     ('000 heads)           994.0             1184.0            1295.0
Pigs       ('000 heads)          6870.0             8368.0            9308.0
Fisheries
Total Production ('000 t)         471.3              760.6            1186.4
% Marine                           96.4               93.6                92
% Freshwater                        3.6                6.4                 8
a/ In 1980 constant prices.
b/ In current prices
c/ 1984 figures
d/ Year-end stock.



China                                                              Annex 3
Rural Credit II Project
Agricultural Bank of China
Project Income and Expenditure
-----------------   Actual  ----    -------------------  Projections ----------------------------------------------------------------------
1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005
Income
Interest           932  19134  36609  60793  51922  67300  53910  46370  39470  33580  28610  24100  20880  18120  15520  12420   9940   7450   4970   2490
other                      136    176      54      60
Subtotal           932  19270  36785  60847  51982  67300  53910  46370  39470  33580  28610  24100  20880  18120  15520  12420   9940   7450   4970   2490
Expenditure
Interest           795  17795  31385  46110  54658  48460  36920  31250  26170  21900  18350  15200  12540  11070   9350   7430   5830   4290   2810   1380
Manrgovent         309   1280   2010   1812   1655   6730   5860   5040   4290   3650   3110   2620   2270   1970   1670   1350   1080    810    540    270
Taxes                             723   2261    803
Bad Debts                         251   1178    474  10080   8790   7560   6470   5470   4670   3930   3410   2950   2510   2030   1620   1220    810    410
Subtotat          1104  19075  34369  51361  57590  65270  51570  43850  36930  31020  26130  21750  18220  15990  13530  10810   8530.  6320   4160   2060
Met               -172    195   2416   9486  -5608   2030   2340   2520   2540   2560   2480   2350   2660   2130   1990   1610   1410   1130    810    430
a/ Interest Income through 1989 based on accrued. In 1990 based on collections at subproject level in Hunan.
Estimates for 1991 onwards based on interest due at existing rates
b/ Interest based on existing rates for IDA funds ex NoF and average cost of local funds
c/ Management - Actuals Include costs of project units but not atl costs associated with project. Projections include an estimate
of overatt costs at 1X. This is higher than ABC average costs and reflects above average time requirements.
d/ Bad debts - there is onty limited data available to Include the final level of bad debts.
Assumed are 1,5X of outstanding per amum equivalent to about 5X of loans and interest as bad debts.



