Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
Repwt No. 5810-CHA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
SECOND RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
November 25, 1985
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
I  ths duueag bas a rMoMi ijutlb.. aM may be mad by rntsleub oly In the perfornance of
their oWld  doi& lb mknt  way so odhrwis be dicbosed witwot World BDank aborlaon



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Yuan (Y) 1.00   =  US$0.36
Y 2.80          =  US$1.00
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)          =   3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)    =   0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)       =   2.47 acres (ac)
=   15 mu
1 kilogram (kg)      =   2.2 pounds (lb)
=   2j in
I ton (t)            =   1,000 kg
-   2,205 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ABC      -   Agricultural Bank of China
BOC      -   Bank of China
RCCs     -   Rural Credit Cooperatives
PBC      -   People's Bank of China
MAAF     -   Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and Fisheries
PMC      -   Proiect Management Committee
PO       -   Project Office
PU       -   Project Unit
IFAD     -   International Fund for AgriculturaL Development
p.a.     -   per annum
cu m     -   cubic meter
mm       -   millimeter



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
CHINA
SECOND RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  BACKGROUND ...............................................         1
Agricultural Sector .......    ...........................      1
Bank Assistance to Agriculture .................... ....       2
Project Rationale                  ....    4
II. AGRICULTURAL BANK OF CHINA                 ..                       5
Objectives                      ..                             5
organization                     ...    5
Staffing         ..............................................  6
Training   ..............................................      6
Operating Policies and Procedures .....................         7
Interest Rates .............. ................    .. O...      8
Sources and Uses of Funds               . . .                  9
Accounting Systems and Auditing .................... . ...     10
III.  PROJECT AREA AND BENEFICIARIES .................... .......       11
Location ...............................................       11
Agricultural Situation ..............................          11
ABC Organization and Operations .....     ..................   12
Other Agricultural Support Services ...................        13
Project Beneficiaries                 ..                      13
IV.  THE PROJECT ...............................................       14
Objectives .......................................................  14
Description ............     .........                            14
Cost Estimates and Financing               ..                     17
This report is based on the findings of a project preparation mission and an
appraisal mission which visited China during November 1984 and April 1985
respectively. Members of the preparation mission were S.J. Khoo, E.
Zuckerman, W.P. Ting (IDA), M. Johnson, M. Dendy and J. Cowley
(consultants). The appraisal mission comprised S.J. Khoo, R. Deshpande, E.
Zuckerman (IDA), R. Koo, T.S. Chang, L.C. Chen and C. Crorberg (consultants).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by rcpicnts only in the performance of
their ofricial duties. IIs contents may not otherwise be disdosed without World Bank autborization.



Page No.
Procurement ...............................................           19
Disbursements                ...............    20
V.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ....................................            21
Organization and Management                   ..                      21
Subloan Terms and Conditions ..............................           23
Accounts, Audit, Monitoring and Evaluation            .     .         24
Environmental Impact                      ..                          25
VI.  MARKETS, PRICES AND FARM INCOMES ..........................            25
Market Prospects                       . . .    25
Prices ....................................................           26
Farm Incomes and Employment                  . . .                    27
VII.  BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS .........................            27
Production Benefits                     . . .                         27
Other Benefits                 .         .         ...........  28
Financial Analysis                      . . .    28
Economic Analysis                    ........  29
Risks .....................................................           30
VIII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ................     ....       31
ANNEXES
1. Table 1: Consolidated Balance Sheet of the Agricultural Bank of China,
1983-1984
Table 2: Consolidated Income Statement of the Agricultural Bank of
China, 1983-1984
2. Agriculture in the Project Areas: Fujian and Hunan
3. ABC's Operations in Fujian and Hunan
4.  Principal Input and Output Prices and Conversion Factors
5.  Table 1:  Freshwater Fisheries (New)
Table 2:  Freshwater Fisheries (Improvement)
Table 3:  Shrimp Production
Table 4:  Orange Orchard
Table 5:  Litchi Orchard
Table 6:  Poultry Breeding and Egg Production
Table 7:  Fish Freezing/Cold Storage
Table 8:  Fish Feed Processing
6.  Estimated Disbursement Schedule
7. Related Documents and Data in the Project File
MAP
IBRD 18971



- lli -
CHINA
SECOND RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:           People's Republic of China
Beneficiary:        Agricultural Bank of China (ABC)
Credit Amount:      SDR 84 million (US$90 million equivalent)
Credit Terms:       Standard
Relending Terms:   From Government to ABC:  20 yRars, including five years
grace, with interest at 3Z p.a. and commitment fees of 0.5%
p.a. Repayment of principal by ABC would be the amount of
Renminbi used and the SDR equivalent of the foreign
currency used.
From ABC to subborrowers: Interest at prevailing rates,
currently ranging from 5.76% to 10.08Z p.a. with maturities
and grace periods depending on subproject cash flows.
Where ABC extends subloans using foreign currency, ABC
would pass on the foreign exchange risk to subborrowers.
Project
Description:      The project would expand the Bank Group's support of ABC's
medium and long-term lending for the diversification and
modernization of agricultural production and processing
which was initiated by the ongoing first Rural Credit
Project (1462-CHA). Project subloans would be provided by
ABC to individual farmers and households, collective units,
and enterprises owned by local government entities and
collectives in the two provinces of Fujian and Hunan to
finance investments for the development of aquaculture,
orchards, agro-processing and livestock enterprises. A
technical assistance component is included in the project
for effective project implementation and to strengthen the
operations of ABC. At full development, the value of the
incremental output of the project would be about US$140 mil-
lion per annum. The project would benefit directly some
16,000 families from increased production and incomes, and
generate additional employment equivalent to 61,000 full-
time jobs. The project faces no significant technical or
administrative risks.



- iv -
Estimated Costs:
Local       Foreign        Total
- - --- (US$ million) --
Aquaculture                                     89.1          7.7          96.8
Orchards                                        79.9          8.8          88.7
Agro-processing                                 27.9         18.7          46.6
Livestock                                       15.9          4.1          20.0
Technical assistance                             1.5          3.3           4.8
Total Project Cost                      214.3         42.6.         '56.9 /a
Financial Plan:                              Total   (US$ million)
IDA                            90.0
ABC                            90.0
Subborrowers                   77.0
Total                       257.0
Estimated Disbursement:
IDA FY       1987       1988       1989       1990       1991
Annual                    5.4       18.0       25.2       26.1       15.3
Cumulative                5.4       23.4       48.6       74.7      90.0
Rate of Return:   28%
/a   Taxes and duties of about $7 million are included in the cost estimates.



CHINA
SECOND RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
1.01      The Government of China has requested an IDA credit of US$90 million
equivalent to finance a second rural credit project (Rural Credit II Pro-
ject). Project funds would be channelled through the Agricultural Bank of
China (ABC) to finance investments for the development of aquaculture,
orchards, agro-processing and livestock in the two provinces of Fujian and
Hunan (attached Map IBRD 18971). The project would be an expansion of the
Bank's support of ABC's medium and long-term lending for investments to
increase farm and rural output and incomes through che diversification and
modernization of agricultural production and processing initiated by the on-
going first Rural Credit Project (Credit 1462-CHA) which finances similar type
investments in the Guangxi Autonomous Region (para. 1.09). The project would
also include a technical assistance component for effective project implemen-
tation and to strengthen the operations of ABC.
Agricultural Sector
1.02      Agriculture, including livestock, forestry and fisheries, provides
sustenance to China's population of over one billion people and is the main
source of livelihood for the rural population of some 800 million. Only about
100 million ha of China's land area of 960 million ha are arable. Farming
systems are intensive with large inputs of labor and organic fertilizers and,
more recently, chemical fertilizers and other agricultural chemicals. Nearly
half of the arable land is irrigated and more than half of this area grows at
least two crops per year. Foodgrains occupy about 80Z of the cropland and
account for 65% of total agricultural output. This intensive system of food
production allows China to meet the basic food requirements of its population
(about 22% of the world's total) from less than 8% of the world's arable
land. Following the introduction of the production responsibility system in
1979 (para. 1.05), collective farming has been largely abandoned and
agricultural production is carried out mainly on household-managed farms
within a framework of collective or state ownership of land and major fixed
assets.
1.03      Agriculture, which accounts for about 35% of the country's CDP, has
been accorded high priority since the founding of the People's Republic.
Despite a virtually unchanging area of cultivated land due to the limited
availability of additional arable land, efforts to develop China's agriculture
have been successful. The value of agricultural output has grown at an annual
average of about 7% since 1979, or more than twice the rate achieved over the
previous two decades. Output of foodgrains increased by about 3.4% annually
over the last decade, reaching a record 407 million tons in 1984. Net grain
imports, which had risen to about 15 million tons p.a., have begun to de-
cline. In nominal terms, per capita incomes of farmers in 1983 were 2.3 times
those of 1979. There has also been a substantial diversification of the



- 2 -
agricultural sector in recent years with the rapid expansion of cash crops,
such as oilseeds, cotton, sugar, fruits, livestock and fisheries.
1.04      The basic long-term objective for the agricultural sector is to
increase the production of food and economic (industrial) crops to meet
requirements created by population and income growth and export demand.
Priority is given to accelerating the expansion of livestock, fisheries,
horticultural and other higher value foods to meet their rapidly tising demand
resulting from increasing per capita incomes (para. 6.01). Achievement of the
basic long term objective will help realize other development goals of expand-
ing rural employment, improving the quality (nutrition) of food consumption,
raising living standards and minimizing the use of foreign exchange for food
and agricultural raw material imports. In land-scarce China, attainment of
the production objective requires higher yields from existing cropped areas,
efficient development of the few areas of underutilized land, diversification
of production into higher value non-foodgrain crops, livestock and fisheries,
increased facilities for agricultural processing and marketing, fuller use of
the rural labor force, and use of improved technology to increase the effici-
ency of agricultural production.
1.05      Improved incentives to producers are also essential and have been at
the heart of policy reforms instituted in recent years. These reforms, which
together have been a major contributing factor to the exceptionally good
performance of the agricultural sector since 1979 (para. 1.03), include:
(a) introduction of the production responsibility system, a generic name for
various contracting arrangements between the owners of assets (state, collec-
tive, or private) on the one hand and managers of these assets (essentially
individual or groups of households) on the other, which would permit the
latter to retain production in excess of some agreed level; (b) increased
producer prices; (c) lengthening the lease periods for use of farm assets,
e.g. up to 15 years for land growing annual crops and up to 50 years for land
growing tree crops; (d) reducing the number of agricultural commodities sub-
ject tc production quotas and/or price controls and allowing market forces to
determine the prices of an increasing number of commodities; (e) lifting
restrictions on rural "free" markets and widening the range of farm products
permitted in local trade; (f) encouragement of private or joint public-private
enterprises in rural agro-processing, transport and commerce; and (g)
expanding the flow of credit to rural areas, principally through the
Agricultural Bank of China.
Bank Assistance to Agriculture
1.06      The Bank's lending to China's agricultural sector is designed to
support the Government's efforts to raise and diversify agricultural produc-
tior. through more efficient use of land, water and labor resources and through
improvements in support services such as credit, research and agricultural
education. Projects are selected for their demonstration effect in addition
to income generation. Suitable opportunities have been found among a wide
range of activities and locations.
1.07      The North China Plain Agriculture Project (Cr. 1261-CHA), the first
Bank Group operation in the agricultural sector, will provide irrigation and



- 3 -
drainage for 200,000 ha covering parts of nine counties in three provinces; it
is the first large-scale attack on soiL salinity and waterlogging in China.
The AgricuLtural Education and Research Project (Cr. 129i-C!fA) supports the
Government's program to strengthen higher- education and research in the agri-
cultural sector by providing technicaL assistance and equipment to selected
agricultural colleges and research institutes. The Heilongjiang Land Reclama-
tion Project (Ln./Cr. 2261/1347-CHA) is developing some 200,000 ha of new Land
through land reclamation and introduction of modern farming equipment in the
Northeast. The Rubber Development Project (Cr. 1417-CHA) in Guangdong
Province involves new pLanting of about 25,000 ha and replanting of some
15,000 ha of rubber with high yielding cLones. The first Rural Credit Project
(Cr. 1462-CHA) finances investments in the development of orchards and other
economic tree crops, agro-processing, livestock and aquaculture through the
Agricultural Bank of China in Guangxi (para. 1.09). The Second Agricultural
Research Project (Cr. 1516-CHA) will expand and improve 15 agricultural
research centers and include a pilot project for 10 agro-technical extension
centers. The Seeds Project (Cr. 1577-CHA) will modernize facilities at
18 seed production, processing and distribution centers in 12 provinces and
two autonomous regions to increase the supply and improve the quality of
certified seeds. The Forestry Development Project (Cr. 1605-CHA) would esta-
blish about 82,000 ha of forest plantations and improve the management and
exploitation of 122,000 ha of existing forests in Guangdong, Heilongjiang and
Sichuan, and strengthen forest research facilities and extension services.
The Pishihang-Chaohu Area Development Project (Ln./Cr. 2579/1606-CHA) would
improve irrigation and flood control drainage on about 710,000 ha in the
Pishihang and Chaohu areas in Anhui Province.
1.08      Other projects at various stages of processing are an aquaculture
project and a red soils area development project. Future project possibil-
ities include livestock, agro-industries, and land development in the
Northwest.
1.09      The First Rural Credit Project (Credit 1462-CHA).  The project pro-
vides funds to the Agricultural Bank of China (ABC) for medium and long-term
loans to individual farmers and households, cqllective units and state-owned
enterprises in the Guangxi Autonomous Regionl for investments in orchards and
other tree crops, aquaculture, livestock and agro-processing; and technical
assistance to ABC. The major objectives of the project were to (a) support a
three-year lending program of the ABC which would be part of a high priority
government development effort to increase agricultural and rural production
and incomes through the diversification and modernization of agricultural
production and processing, and (b) assist ABC in developing and implementing
procedures and methodologies for appraising agriculture and rural development
projects. Other objectives were aimed at expanding rural employment and
making fuller use of the ample rural labor force, alleviating rural poverty,
raising the value added of agricultural production, improving production
1!   At the time of appraisal ot this project, the Bank also appraised on
behalf of IFAD a similar type project which supports ABC's medium- and
long-term Lending for agricultural diversification in Hubei Province.
The proposed Rural Credit IT Project would in effect be the third such
project for ABC.



- 4 -
efficiency, and increasing the supply and quality of agricultural produce,
including processed foods, to consumers.
1.10      Total project costs were estimated at about $142 miLlion of which
IDA financed $50 million (35%), ABC $30 million (21Z), the Government $20 mil-
lion (14%) and subborrowers $42 million (30%). The project, which is sche-
duled to be completed by the end of June 1988, became effective on November 1,
1984.  Implementation of the project has been proceeding well and project
lending is ahead of schedule. ABC had as of the end of April 1985 already
appraised 449 sublaans for Y 221 million of which 210 subloans for Y 86 mil-
lion (31Z of tocaL project funds) were approved as of the end of 1984
(para. 1.13).
1.11      To facilitate preparation of the project, a team of ABC senior staff
visited development banks in Pakistan and Mexico prior to project appraisal to
learn about their experiences in preparing and managing Bank-financed credit
projects. The project is also inancing three overseas study tours to a tocal
of six countries to allow project staff to observe rural credit project impLe-
mentation in countries with experienced development credit institutions and
Bank-financed projects. The first such tour to India and the Philippines was
completed in June 1985. In addition, five local training courses have been
conducted since November 1983 mainly for ABC Guangxi staff. To facilitate
preparation and implementation of the Rural Credit II Project, over 30 ABC
staff from Fujian and Hunan also attended the Guangxi courses. Of the five
training courses, two were on agricultural investment analysis, two on
agricultural finance and accounting and one on project appraisal mechods. The
ABC Project Appraisal Manual was the primary training material in these
courses. The training was conducted by ABC Guangxi staff who had earlier
attended the EDI training courses in Shanghai (para. 2.08).
Project Rationale
1.12      As part of China's effort to diversify, modernize and enhance the
efficiency of its agricultural sector, the Government is increasing the role
and autonomy of the banking system and making more use of credit instead of
grant finance of development projects. ABC has a large staff and a wide
network of offices which serve households, collectives and state enterprises
throughout the rural areas of China. ABC's capacity to lend for projects
aimed at agricultural diversification is constrained, however, by the limited
availability of medium and long-term funds and by its lack of experience with
sound technical, financial and economic analysis of developmenc projects. The
major rationale for the Bank's expanded involvement with ABC is therefore to
assist ABC both in expanding the availability of medium and long-term funds
for agricultural diversification and in developing and implenienting improved
project appraisal techniques.
1.13      Under the first Rural Credit Project (para. 1.09), considerable
progress has been made in upgrading the technical and financiaL expertise of
ABC in Guangxi. A project appraisal manual has been prepared with the assi-
stance of the Bank and distributed to offices throughout Guangxi as well as
other provinces and regions and a series of training courses in the use of the
manual have been held. The technical capabilities of ABC have also been



- 5 -
enhanced by secondmenc to ABC of experts from various technical bureaus. The
quality of project preparation and appraisal is improving and project imple-
mentation is proceeding well.
1.14      Under the Rural Credit II Project, it is proposed to extend the
experience gained in the appraisal and supervision of subprojects in the first
project to two other provinces, Fujian and Hunan. In addition, more emphasis
will be placed on training of ABC staff in appraisal of agricultural and agro-
processing investments and the dialogue with ABC headquarters on its overall
financial situation and future role in a reformed financial system. This will
complement the study on investment finance in China that the Bank will shortly
be initiating.
II. AGRICULTURAL BANK OF CHINA
Objectives
2.01      The Agricultural Bank of China (ABC) is the dominant institution in
the mobilization of rural savings and the financing of agriculture and rural
development. ABC's general objective is to contribute to the effective execu-
tion of Government economi': policy throughout the rural areas of China. Its
activities extend beyond agricultural lending to include financing rural com-
mercial and industrial activities which support agricuLture and -Tural develop-
ment. In addition to its main tasks of mobilizing rural financial resources
and excending credit and a wide range of banking services to the rural areas,
ABC provides leadership to the large network of rural credit cooperatives
(para. 2.33) and financial guidance to collectives (communes, production
brigades and production teams) and other rural organizations. The communes
and production brigades have recently been renamed townships (xiang) and
villages (cun) respectively.
Organization
2.02      ABC is headed by a President who is assisted by four vice presi-
dents. It has 12 departments (planning, personnel, staff supervision, agri-
cultural credit, rural industrial and commercial credit, external affairs,
accounting, rural credit cooperatives, investigation and studies, technology
and education, research, and general affairs). The planning department plays
a major coordinating role in ABC's operations and is also responsible for the
collection of statistics. The agricultural credit and rural industrial and
commercial credit departments are responsible for appraising and recommending
agricultural loans and rural industrial and commercial loans respectively.
The rural credit cooperatives department oversees the management and opera-
cions of the rural credit cooperatives (para. 2.04). A basically similar
organizational structure exists in ABC's provincial and regional branch
offices (para. 2.03).
2.03      At the end of April 1985, ABC had 28 branch offices in the capital
cities of the provinces and autonomous regions and the two municipalities of
Shanghai and Tianjin, 304 central subbrqnches at the prefecture or district
level, 174 business offices in major urtL.n centers, 2,260 subbranches at the



- 6 -
county level, 25,350 offices at the township (commune) level, 1,090 offices on
state farms and 405 savings offices in urban areas. The bank is therefore
represented at all administrative levels with close to 30,000 offices spread
throughout China. In addition to the above network, there are about 56,000
rural credit cooperatives (RCCs) which, although collectively owned and
managed, operate effectively as part of the ABC network (para. 2.04). This
means that virtually all of China's 53,000 townships and 2,000 state farms
have at least one ABC office or RCC in their area. This extensive national
coverage is a major strength in ABC's operations and reflects ABC's role as a
banker to the rural community as well as its responsibility as the financial
agent of the central and local governments for the rural areas of China.
2.04      RCCs play a major role in the mobilization of savings and provision
of credit at the township (commune) and lower levels. Between 1979 and 1983,
RCC deposits more than doubled from Y 21.5 billion to Y 48.7 billion while
subloans disbursed increased fourfold from Y 4.8 billion to Y 16.4 billion.
Lending by the RCCs is generally focussed on short-term loans to individual
farmers, households and collectives, whereas the larger and longer-term loans
are usually provided by ABC. RCCs are required to deposit at least 30% of
their funds with ABC (para. 2.15). ABC supervises the management and opera-
tions of the RCCs, including carrying out periodic inspection of the accounts
and training staff.
Staffing
2.05      ABC has a total staff of some 328,000.  Of this total, nearly one-
fourth are women. The staff at the head office in Beijing is small (about 400
persons) reflecting the decentralized character of the bank. In addition to
the ABC employees, the RCCs employ some 250,000 staff on a full or part-time
basis. A small proportion of the ABC staff (less than 5%) are university
graduates. Local office managers and department heads are usually middle
school graduates with professional training at the banking schools
(para. 2.06).
Training
2.06      Most ABC and RCC staff at the local level have had many years of
experience in rural finance. For training of its staff, ABC generally relies
on the two year courses offered by the banking schools of the People's Bank of
China (PBC) or in-house training and part-time courses at local colleges or
universities. The PBC banking schools, of which there is one in each
province/autonomous region, provide training for the staff of PBC, ABC, China
Investm-nt Bank and the Bank of China. With the increasing importance
accorded to training of its staff, ABC has in recent years established 163 in-
house training centers of which 134 are for staff at the county level and
below, 27 for staff in the capital cities of the provinces and autonomous
regions, and 2 for senior management staff. Although the major emphasis of
both formal and in-house training continues to be on accounting and banking,
project appraisal methodologies are being introduced to the curricula
beginning with the training of ABC staff in Guangxi, Hubei, Hunan and Fujian
which have or are expected to have credit projects financed by the Bank and
IFAD (para. 2.08).



2.07      In recent years ABC has also been attempting to improve the quality
of its project appraisal work. Emphasis continues to be placed on ensuring
that projects conform to the state plan and overall government policy, chat
the necessary supplies and materials are available and that there are markets
for the project output. However, most of the project proposals are still not
reviewed in much detail; there is little examination of issues of scale, tech-
nology, location and timing of proposed projects, and formal financial or
economic anaLysis using discounting techniques is usually Lacking, althougn
pay-back periods are calculated and used as supplementary criteria for invest-
ment decisions. This deficiency is because the Large majority of ABC staff
are generally not trained in project appraisal methodology and therefore have
little experience with technical, financial and economic analysis of develop-
ment projects.
2.08      To help address this issue and to ensure that ABC staff can under-
take proper appraisal of subloans under the first Rural Credit Project
(para. 1.09) and the proposed Rural Credit II Project, the Economic Develop-
ment Institute (EDI) conducted in Shanghai three training courses on agricul-
tural investment analysis and financing for about 100 ABC staff in 1983, 1984
and 1985. Twelve staff from the Ministry of Agriculture and cher Government
agencies also participated in the training courses. However, Lne staff
trained by EDI can meet only a small proportion of ABC's needs. ABC itself
will carry out similar training courses to fully meet its requirement of
trained project appraisal staff. A start on this was made by ABC in the five
training courses it has conducted since November 1983 mainly for ABC staff
involved in implementing the first Rtural Credit Project and preparation of the
Rural Credit II Project (para. 1.11).
2.09      To improve its project appraisal, ABC with the help of Bank staff
recently prepared a Project Appraisal Manual (para. 1.13). The Manual
provides guidelines for project appraisal and is also being used in ABC's
training of project appraisal officers. The appraisal of subloans under the
Rural Credit II Project would be based on the Manual as in the case of sub-
loans under the first Rural Credit Project. Some 150,000 copies of the Manual
were printed and distributed in December 1984 to all ABC offices involved in
project appraisal work throughout China.
Operating Policies and Procedures
2.10      ABC now has considerably more authority regarding individual invest-
ment decisions at the local level than it did several years ago and is playing
an increasingly important role in rural investment financing with the switch
in emphasis from grant to loan financing of rural development projects. With
increasing autonomy granted to ABC on investment decisions, sound project
appraisal by ABC has therefore become more important. Large projects requir-
ing funds from ABC, especially those in industry and commerce, still require
approval by local government planning committees and relevant line agencies as
well as by ABC. For smaller projects and almost all agricultural projects,
however, the planning committee decides only on the total amount of loans to
be made (taking into account available materials and supplies and other
sources of finance). ABC then approves the allocation of those resources
among different types of projects and different areas and townships.



- 8 -
2.11      Procedures for loan approval by ABC offices at different levels have
been established by ABC Beijing and are uniform throughout the country. At
present ABC and RCC offices at the township level and on state farms have
authority to approve agricultural loans of up to Y 10,000 to individuals/
households and up to Y 30,000 to collective units and other borrowers. Loans
in excess of these limits but less than Y 500,000 require the approval of
ABC's county offices. Loans of Y 500,000 to Y 800,000 would need to be
approved by ABC's prefectural offices. Loans larger than this amount and up
to Y 2 million require approval by ABC's provincial offices, while loans
exceeding Y 2 million require approval by ABC Beijing.
2.12      ABC is placing increased emphasis on project supervision and
monitoring. It enters into a formal contractual arrangement with the borrower
which stipulates the loan amount and disbursement schedule, specifies the
type, quality, quantity and delivery time for the equipment, indicates the
repayment schedule for the borrower and requires the timely repayment of the
loan. The contract also provides for remedies in the event of default, such
as suspension of loan disbursements, acceleration of loan maturity and penalty
interest. The State Council recently promulgated Loan Contract Regulations
which stipulate and confirm these provisions. On completion of a project, ABC
compares the actual use of funds with the stated intent and measures produc-
tion achievements against targets. ABC plans to assess the lending experience
gained under the first Rural Credit Project as a guide to further loan opera-
tions and monitoring.
Interest Rates
2.13      Recent economic reforms, including banking system reforms, have
increased the role of interest rates in the Chinese economy and lending and
deposit rates have been raised significantly. During 1985 ABC increased its
lending rates twice, in April and August. ABC's present lending rates range
from 5.76Z to 10.08% p.a. The average rates for loans of three to five years
and more than five years are 8.28Z and 9X respectively. These rates are about
four times the rate (2.16Z) charged in 1981 and are positive in real terms.
ABC expects its lending rates to remain positive.
2.14      During the last three years there have been a series of increases in
the interest rates payable by ABC on individual deposits with the latest
increase in August 1985 when interest rates on time deposits were raised by
0.72-1.44Z p.a.  Demand deposits of individuals now earn interest at a rate of
2.88% p.a. and rates on time deposits range from 6.12% p.a. for a six-month
deposit to 10.44% p.a. for an eight-year deposit.  Interest rates payable by
ABC on deposits of organizations range from 2.7% p.a. for dpmAnd deposits to
5.8% p.a. for a three-year time deposit. China has had a history of generally
positive real interest rates on deposits and recent increases are expected to
contribute to greater savings mobilization in rural areas.



-9-
Sources and Uses of Funds
2.15      ABC's sources of funds mainly comprise deposits and capital contri-
butions from the central government. Major deposits (both demand and time) as
of December 31, 1984 were those of the RCCs (Y 37.2 billion), rural commer-
cial, industrial and state-owned enterprises (Y 16.3 bilLion), individuals
(Y 9.7 billion), local governments (Y 3.5 bilLion), and other deposits
(Y 3.4 billion). The capital contribution from the central government (net of
write offs) totalled Y 21.1 bilLion at the end of 1984 as against Y 20 billion
at the end of i980. Sources of RCC financing incLude deposits from indivi-
duals and coLlectives (township and village enterprises), operating profits,
member subscriptions and Loans from ABC (para. 2.16).  In general, RCC
deposits with ABC exceed ABC loans co the RCCs i.e., they are nec suppliers of
funds to ABC. Deposit policy of both the ABC and the RCCs emphasizes volun-
tarism in deposits and withdrawals, confidentiaLity, and payment of interest
on all deposits by individuals and collective units.
2.16      ABC's tgtal loans outstanding as of the end of 1984 amounted to
Y 112.4 billion.2   The majority of the portfolio are short-term loans.  Loans
to rural commercial and industrial enterprises (mostly short-term loans to
supply and marketing cooperatives) accounted for 63% of the portfolio, loans
to collective units 21%, loans to state-owned agricultural enterprises 6%,
loans to individuals 4%, loans to the RCCs 3%, and other loans 3%. Until
recently, ABC also acted as an agent for PBC in a number of fields, of which
the most important were loans to the commercial departments of the Ministry of
Food and Commerce for the purchase of agricultural commodities from producing
units. The amounts on-lent by ABC on a commission basis, have been substan-
tial (Y 48.0 billion at the end of 1984). As the former agency activities are
expected to be increasingly funded by ABC with its own funds, the relative
importance of its major sources and uses of funds, and items of revenue and
expenditure would undergo significant changes in the future. Recent interest
rate reforms would enable ABC to supplement its resources by greater deposit
mobilization and to safeguard its profitability through improved interest
spreads (paras. 2.14 and 2.19).
2.17      The RCC loan portfolio has grown rapidly - more than doubling (103%)
between 1979 and 1983 - largely reflecting 34arp increases in loans to commune
and brigade enterprises and to individuals.-   By the end of 1983, loans to
individuals were 71Z as large in total volume as all agricultural loans to
communes and brigades. It was 48% at the end of 1979. As production on pri-
vate plots increases and as the production responsibility system expands, RCCs
are likely to become increasingly important in generating deposits and making
loans. Loans to individuals are among the fastest growing elements in the RCC
loan portfolio. The continuing rapid growth in RCC lending is reflected in
its year-end total loans outstanding of Y 16.4 billion in 1983 compared with Y
12.15 billion in 1982, a substantial increase of 35%.
2/   This does not include loans by the RCCs.
31   Data for 1984 are not yet available.



- 10 -
2.18      ABC reported a profit of Y 1,755 milLion in 1984.  Revenues were de-
rived mainly from interest earnings, agency fees and interest from deposits
(Y 8,084 million). Expenditures were mainly for interest paid (Y 5,856 mil-
lion), and administration, including salaries (Y 1,239 miLlion). Administra-
tion costs of about 22 of total resources employed are reLatively low by
international standards and reflect generally Low salaries.
2.19      ABC estimates that bad debts currently are less than 2% of Loans
outstanding. ABC has recently issued a set of guidelines to its branch
offices on treatment of bad debts in its agricultural loan portfolio and pro-
cedures for their write-off. Under the guidelines, subloans for failed enter-
prises and activities which cannot be collected from the guarantors or by sale
of mortgaged properties must be written off annually. ABC's county, prefec-
tural and provincial leveL offices are aLLowed to write off individual bad
debts of up to Y 1,000, up to Y 10,000 and up to Y 100,000 respectively. A
reporting procedure has aLso been introduced for monitoring the assessment and
write-off of bad debts. During 1984, ABC wrote off bad debts amounting to
about Y 880 million by utiLizing a part of its equity provided by the Govern-
ment. The majority of the bad debts were due to loans made during the Cul-
tural Revolution (1966-1976) when appraisal and supervision of loans were
lacking and which are now therefore uncollectable. It is expected that ABC
may have to write off from the outstanding loan portfolio a further sum of
Y 1.0 billion over the next few rears. However, in view of its sizeable
equity (Y 21.1 billion), ABC's overall financial condition after the write off
would remain satisfactory. Also, to help maintain and improve its loan
recovery performance ABC now places more emphasis on subproject appraisal and
full and timely repayment of its loans. ABC's overall liquidity and profit-
ability are closely monitored by PBC and the Ministry of Finance.
Accounting Systems and Auditing
2.20      In most provinces ABC has an adequate number of accounting and
statistical staff at all levels. Few of these are experienced in comprehen-
sive financial analysis, but they prepare timely, consistent and detailed
records. ABC requires the financial accounts to be balanced daily at each
office. Summary details are reported by township-level offices every two
weeks by telephone to the county office and township-level accountants come to
the county once per month to reconcile accounts. County offices report
monthly to provincial offices which in turn send detailed accounts to head-
quarters every six months. Statistics on loan operations, which vary from
province to province but which always compare actual operations with loan
targets in the credit plan, are forwarded to provincial levels on a similar
schedule. These statistics are quite detailed with reference to types of
investments financed, geographic location of subprojects, expected incremental
production, etc.
2.21      The accounts of ABC headquarters are audited by the Ministry of
Finance, although the auditing appears to be only a fairly cursory check.
Recent moves to restore auditing in China, especially the establishment in
September 1983 of the State Audit Agency (SAA), and emphasis on financial
accountability are expected to lead in the future to a satisfactory external
auditing of ABC accounts and improvement of its internal auditing. Directly



- 11 -
accountable to the State Council, the SAA has indicated that it has started
auditing all projects financed by the Bank and other multilateral agencies but
that its capabilities will only be built up gradually and over an extended
period because of its lack of experienced auditing staff. In this regard, the
Bank conducted a seminar on auditing for the SAA staff and is planning to
further assist the SAA in the training of suitably qualified auditing staff.
III. PROJECT AREA AND BENEFICIARIES
Location
3.01      The geographical scope of the proposed project would comprise the
provinces of Fujian and Hunan (attached Map IBRD 18971). These two provinces
were selected because:
(a) Both are relatively poor provinces in which alleviation of rural
poverty is a priority objective of the Government.
(b) The provincial governments and local leadership have expressed
strong support for the project and the proposed subprojects are to
be included in the provincial development plans. This would also
ensure the adequate and timely provision of local funds and other
inputs required by the project.
Cc) The ABC offices and government technical bureaus (agriculture, aqua-
culture, livestock, etc.) in the provinces are keenly interested in
and have initiated steps to participate in the project, including
determining the proposed subprojects and training staff.
(d) The agro-climatic conditions in both provinces are suitable for
growing a wide range of crops and for fish culture.
3.02      Fujian is located along the southeast coast of China, facing the
Straits of Taiwan to the east, and bordering on the provinces of Zhejiang to
the north, Jiangxi to th2e west and Guangdong to the south. The province has a
total area of 120,000 km  and a population of 27 million as of the end of
1984. Hunan, with a total area of 210,000 km2, is in south-central China
bordering on the south side of the Yangtze River and Dongting Lake (China's
second largest lake). It had a population of 56 million at the end of 1984.
In terms of per capita rural income, Fujian's was below and Hunan's about the
same as the national average. The agricultural situation and the operations
of the ABC in the two provinces are described below and further details are
given in Annexes 2 and 3.
Agricultural Situation
3.03      Fujian province has a subtropical climate with average temperatures
ranging from 120C in January to 280C in July. Annual rainfall exceeds
1,630 mm and typhoons occur frequently along the coastal areas. Two important
rivers, the Min to the north and the Jinlong to the south, cut across the



- 12 -
province and flow into the Straits ot Taiwan. Most of the province is hilly
or mountainous and 75X is covered by forest. About 10Z of the totaL land area
is cultivated and almost two-thirds the cultivated area is irrigated. The
cropping intensity is 180Z. Crop production, livestock, forestry and aquacul-
ture accounted for 46%, 122, 9% and 6% of the gross value of agricuLtural out-
put in 1984 with the remaining 27% accounted for by househoLd sideline activi-
ties. Rice is the major grain produced. Important cash crops include sugar-
cane, fruits (mostly citrus). vegetables, tea, tobacco and spices. Fujian's
large marine fisheries output includes fish. prawns and shellfish. rhe
provincial development plan emphasizes the fucure production of forestry,
livestock, aquaculture and cash crops.
3.04      Hunan province also has a subtropical climate, with average
temperatures ranging from 50C in January to 290C in July and with annual rain-
fall exceeding 1,400 mm. Hunan contains the drainage basin of the Xiang River
which empties into Dongting Lake to the north. The Dongting Lake area has
excellent rice-growing conditions and is also one of China's most important
freshwater aquaculture areas.  However, Hunan's terrain is predominantly (88Z)
hilly with only 7% covered by flat land and 5% by water areas. Over 80% of
the cultivated land is irrigated and the cropping intensity is 230%. Crop
production, livestock, forestry and aquaculture accounted for 592, 20Z, 5% and
3Z of the gross value of agricultural output in 1984 with the remaining 13%
accounted for by household sideline activities. Rice is the main grain crop
and ramie, cotton, tea, rapeseed, fruits (mostly citrus), jute and tobacco are
important cash crops. Hunan is China's chief producer of ramie. Aquatic
output consists mainly of freshwater fish and plant products such as lotus
roots and seeds.
ABC Organization and Operations
3.05      The ABC organization in Fujian includes one branch office in Fuzhou,
two municipal offices under provincial jurisdiction in Fuzhou and Xiamen,
seven prefectural offices, 72 county and municipal offices, and 785 township
and state farm offices. In addition, there are 902 RCCs with 767 branch
offices and 8,068 credit stations which provide services at the township and
village levels. ABC has a staff of about 8,600, 56% of whom work at the town-
ship and state farm levels. RCC staff total about 5,900. The majority of ABC
and RCC staff have been involved in banking for more than 20 years and 27% of
ABC staff have university qualifications. In 1983 ABC Fujian established two
Banking Schools in Fuzhou and Xiamen to provide courses in rural finance for
staff. ABC staff are also trained in rural finance at the Fujian Agriculture
Institute and at the Fujian Banking School of the People's Bank of China
(PBC). ABC Fujian's sources of financing comprise mainly deposits
(Y 2,285 million at the end of 1984), including RCC funds (Y 849 miLlion).
Loans outstanding at the end of 1984 amounted to Y 2,794 miilion. About 95%
are short-term loans. ABC Fujian reported a profit of Y 28 million for 1984.
3.06      The organization and operations of ABC in Hunan follow a similar
pattern to that in Fujian although the network coverage and staffing situation
is more extensive reflecting a much larger provincial popuLation. Under the
provincial office there are 14 municipal and prefectural offices, 103 county
and municipality offices, and 947 township and state farm offices. In



- 13 -
addition, there are 3,531 RCCs with 548 branch offices and 38,465 credit sta-
tions. ABC Hunan has a scaff of about 14,800, 58Z of whom work at the town-
ship or state farm level. The total RCC staff is about 15,000. En 1983 ABC
Hunan established a Banking Scluol to provide courses in rural finance for
staff. ABC Hunan also has four secondary technicaL banking schools in
Changde, Hengyang, Loudi and Xiangtan to train staff at the grass-roots
level. The provincial Banking School run by PBC also provides training in
rural finance to ABC staff and assists the ABC Banking SchooL with short-term
and in-service training. At the end of 1984, ABC Hunan's sources of funds
comprised mainly deposits (Y 2,390 million), including RCC funds (Y 1,234 mil-
lion). Loans outstanding were Y 3,867 million of which about 95Z are short-
term. ABC Hunan reported a profit of Y 75 million for 1984.
Other Agricultural Support Services
3.07      Research and Extension.  En both provinces ABC relies heavily on the
agricultural, livestock, fisheries and light industry bureaus for technical
guidance and assistance. These bureaus are supervised by appropriate minis-
tries in Beijing and have offices at provincial, prefectural and county
levels. These offices are responsible for supervising local research, experi-
ment and agro-technical extension stations and providing technical guidance at
the township and village levels. The technical bureaus and offices at appro-
priate levels will play a critical role in project appraisal and supervision
(see para. 5.06).
3.08      Marketing.  In both provinces there is a network of supply and
marketing cooperatives reaching down to the township, village and state farm
levels which supply fertilizers, pesticides, feed and equipment to households,
collectives and state enterprises and purchase agricultural outputs. There
are also specialized companies supplying seeds, various types of machinery,
etc., and purchasing certain specialized products such as citrus. Rural free
markets play an increasingly important role ant individual and joint state-
collective enterprises are beginning to engage in suppLy and marketing
functions.
Project Beneficiaries
3.09      Project beneficiaries would be mainly individual farmers/households
and collective units or enterprises (para. 2.01). Collectives in agriculture
have been undergoing major changes in organization and management in recent
years and the production responsibility system is now in operation in most of
the enterprises owned by the collectives and local government entities. The
right to use collectively-owned land and water areas for crop and animal
production and aquaculture is also increasingly being granted by the collec-
tives to individual farmers and households through appropriate term leases
(para. 1.05) often with fixed annual fees. This would provide the farmers and
households with even greater incentive to raise the output and officiency of
agricultural production. In support of these reforms, ABC will, under the
project, provide medium and long-term loans directly to individuals, special-
ized households, collectives and local government enterprises. In both
provinces, there is also an increasing number of agricultural enterprises
under joint ownership of local government entities and collectives some of



- 14 -
which include specialized househoLds. These are particuLarly important in the
agro-processing sector as well as in fisheries and livestock. They are
usually large-scale operations which fulfill a demonstration as well as a pro-
duction function. Some of the project funds will be used to assist these
enterprises.
IV. THE PROJECT
Objectives
4.01      The proposed project wouLd be an expansion of the Bank's support of
the Agricultural Bank of China's (ABC) lending for investments to increase
farm and rural output and incomes through the diversification and moderniza-
tion of agricultural production and processing. It would provide funds to ABC
for medium- and long-term loans to individual farmers and households, collec-
tive units, and enterprises owned by collectives and local government entities
in the two provinces of Fujian and Hunan to finance investments for the deve-
lopment of aquaculture, orchards, agro-processing and livestock enterprises.
ABC expects that of the total project loan funds, some 80 would be utilized
by farmers (as members of households and collectives) and the remaining 20% by
local government entities, including enterprises jointly owned by these
entities and the collectives (para. 3.09). The project would also finance a
technical assistarce component to ensure effective and efficient project
implementation and to strengthen the operations of ABC.
Description
4.02      Aguaculture.  This component would finance investments to expand the
production of freshwater fish, mainly grass, common, silver and bighead carp
and tilapia, and marine fisheries, such as shrimp, mullet, oysters, clams and
other shellfish. It would comprise construction of new fish ponds and
improvements to existing fish ponds, including supporting infrastructure and
equipment such as dykes, drains, canals, sluice gates, pipes, hydraulic struc-
tures, roads, pumping stations, manure holding pits, fishing gear, aerators,
boats, hatcheries, and floating platforms or rafts for culture of oysters and
clams. The areas to be converted into fish ponds are swamp, marsh and other
low-lying poorly-drained land unsuitable for crop production and their conver-
sion would represent the most productive use of such land which otherwise
would remain idle. Fish and shrimp ponds would also be constructed on lands
formerly under shallow waters located along the edges of large water bodies,
such as sea inlets or bays, lakes and reservoirs.
4.03      The improvements to existing fish ponds would include partitioning
the ponds for more efficient operation, raising the dykes and excavating
ditches, deepening and leveling pond bottoms and canals, and constructing
additional sluice gates. The investments to be financed would also incLude
production of green manure and the purchase of fry, organic manure, fertil-
izers, lime, pesticides and feed required to produce the first harvest from
the ponds.



- 15 -
4.04      A total of some 12,300 ha of ponds would be developed of which about
three-fourths would be new ponds and the remaining one-fourth existing
ponds. Fresh water ponds would account for about three-fourths of the total
area of ponds to be developed. The greater part of fresh water fish pond
development would be in Hunan Province and would be centered on Dongting Lake
and the surrounding area. The development of salt water (incLuding brackish
water) fish and shrimp ponds would be located along the coastal region of
Fujian Province. These ponds would account for about one half of the pond
development in the province. In addition to these ponds, about 2,500 ha of
coastal water surface would be utilized for oyster, clam and other shellfish
culture. All the project ponds and facilities would be owned and in many
cases also managed by collectives and enterprises belonging to the counties
and municipalities who would be the main subborrowers. However, operation of
the ponds (fisheries production) would be carried out by individuals and
specialized households involving a total of some 18,000 persons (about 10-
15 mu per person) under contractual arrangements with the collectives and
enterprises based on the production responsibility system.
4.05      Orchards.  This component wouLd provide for the establishment of new
plantings and improvements to existing plantings amounting to some 14,000 ha
of orchards of which about three-fourths would be orange (mainly mandarin
orange). The other fruits would include litchi, longan, banana, plum, peach,
persimmon, loquat, bayberry and pomegranate. Most of the new plantings would
be on slope lands of up to 20 which are generally uncultivated. The main
investment costs would be for land preparation (clearing, leveling and terrac-
ing), access roads, establishment of cover crops, irrigation works and equip-
ment, planting material, fertilizers, pesticides, spraying equipment, other
small hand tools and labor. Production inputs, until the initial crop is
produced, would also be financed. Newly established plantings would in some
cases be intercropped with peanuts, soybeans and other vegetables over the
first few years until the area is sufficiently shaded over by the fruit trees.
4.06      Although land for the new orchard plantings would be owned by col-
lectives and farms belonging to the counties and other local government enti-
ties, development and operation of the new orchards would be undertaken by
individual farmers and specialized households under long-term leases of up to
50 years or contractual arrangements based on the production responsibility
system. Similar arrangements would also apply to the production of fruits on
all collective and local government-owned farms participating under the pro-
ject. A total of some 20,000 farmers would be involved in the development of
this orchard component. Subborrowers would comprise individuals and house-
holds, coLlectives and local government-owned farms.
4.07      Agro-processing.  This component would include (a) the construction
and equipping of plants for freezing and cold storage; processing fish and
poultry feeds, fish, poultry, and fruits; fruit scorage, including facilities
for sorting, grading and waxing of fruits; and orange and other fruit juice
extraction and concentration; and (b) procurement of trucks (some with refrig-
eration) and other vehicles to support the operations of the above plants and
the marketing of project output. These plants would help meet the rapidly
growing demand for their output and wouLd provide the project with the
required production inputs, such as fish and poultry feeds, and improve the



- 16 -
quality, increase the value added and facilitate the marketing of the project
output, e.g. freezing and cold storage plants to reduce spoilage and preserve
quality of fisheries output (shrimp, fish, etc.) and to facilitate their
marketing. Improvements to existing similar type processing plants would also
be financed.
4.08      Freezing and cold storage, fish feed processing, and fruit storage
plants, with annual throughput capacities of about 300-400 tons, 1,500-
3,000 tons and 100-300 tons respectively, would account for about two-thirds
of the total investment cost of this component. The investments would be
undertaken mainly by collectives and enterprises owned by local government
entities.
4.09      Livestock.  This component would finance the production of poultry
(including ducks, geese and turkeys), goats, pigs, and beef/draft cattLe.
Major investment items would include procurement of improved breeding stock to
upgrade local stock, construction of cattle and goat sheds, pig and pouLtry
pens, incubators, feed storage, and veterinary facilities; establishment of
improved pastures mainly an slopeland presently under wild grasses. and pro-
curement of supporting equipment, such as feed choppers, watering facilities,
hauling carts, etc. The cost of establishing improved pastures would be main-
ly for land preparation, fencing, seed, fertilizers, manure, lime and labor.
The costs of chicks, kids, piglets, calves, feedgrains and labor required to
raise the initial batch of livestock for sale would also be financed.
4.10      Development of goats and beef/draft cattle would be based on
improved pastures to provide most of the feed input in the form of low-cost,
high-quality forage so that little or no costly feed concentrates would be
required. Poultry and goats would account for about 852 of the total invest-
ment cost under this component. Egg laying farms which would account for the
bulk of poultry production would be relatively large-scale and are therefore
expected to be undertaken by enterprises owned by local government entities
mostly as joint enterprises with specialized households and collectives.
Development of ducks, geese, turkeys, goats, draft/beef cattle and pigs would
be carried out mainly by individual farmers and specialized households.
4.11      Technical Assistance.  This component would entail the training of
ABC staff and provision of supporting equipment and machinery and consultant
services. Staff training would be provided in project preparation, appraisal
and implementation methodologies based on ABC's Project Appraisal Manual
(para. 2.09), auditing, statistics, finance, management and data information
systems. About 1,500 staff are expected to receive such training during 1986-
89 at an estimated cost of about US$100,000. Trainers will be chosen from ABC
staff who have completed the Agricultural Investment Analysis and Finance
courses conducted in Shanghai by EDI (para. 2.08) and from experienced faculty
of the PBC Banking Schols and the Fujian Agricultural Institute. Training
courses would be conducted primarily at ABC Fujian's and Hunan's Banking
Schools. To support the long-term institutional development of ABC, training
under the project would include staff from the non-project prefectures and
counties in Fujian and Hunan. ABC project managers and senior operational
staff will also participate in overseas study tours to observe rural credit
project management and implementation in other countries with experience in



- 17 -
development credit institutions and Bank Group financed projects. About three
study tours for each of the two provinces at an estimated total cost of
US$300,000 are envisaged.
4.12      Consultant services wouLd be financed to assist the project in
resolving specific technicaL problems, especially in agro-processing, and in
the introduction and implementation of improved technoLogies. About 10 man-
months of short-term consultants would be provided at a total cost of about
US$100,000. The cost of consultant services would be borne by .he
subborrowers.
4.13      Equipment and mechinery procured under the technical assistance
component would support the training and institution-building of the newly
established ABC Banking Schools (paras. 3.05-3.06) and ABC Fujian and Hunan.
Training equipment would consist mainly of audio-visual items such as video
recorders, video cameras, TV sets and tape recorders to facilitate the train-
ing programs at the ABC Banking Schools which are based on the National TV
University's curriculum in banking and finance. Other training equipment
would include overhead projeccors and photocopiers. Office equipment and
machinery wouLd comprise microcomputers, room air-conditioning units for the
microcomputers, photocopiers, telex and telephone-message machines, and
calculators. Details of the training and technical assistance program were
confirmed during negotiations. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that the training under the project would be carried out in accordance with a
program agreed between ABC and IDA and the consultants would be employed in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the use of consultants.
Cost Estimates and Financing
4.14      Cost Estimates.  A summary of the cost estimates by project com-
ponents is presented in Table 4.1 below:



- 18 -
Table 4.1: SUMMARY PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Foreign
---- (Y million) ----  --- (US$ million) ---    (Z)
Aquaculture
Freshwater fish culture        153.7    13.4   167.1   54.9       4.8    59.7
Saltwater fish culture          95.8     8.1   103.9   34.2       2.9    37.1
Subtotal                    249.5    21.5   271.0   89.1        7.7    96.8       8
Orchards
Orange                         165.9    18.3   184.2   59.3       6.5    65.8
Other fruits                    57.8     6.4    64.2   20.6       2.3    22.9
Subtotal                    223.7    24.7   248.4   79.9        8.8    88.7      10
Agro-processing
Freezing/cold storage plants  21.3    14.3    35.6    7.6         5.1    12.7
Fruit storage                   19.9    13.4    33.3    7.1       4.8    11.9
Fish feed processing plants   11.7       8.1    19.8    4.2       2.9      7.1
Trucks and other vehicles        4.5     3.2      7.7    1.6      1.1      2.7
Other processing                20.8    13.3    34.1    7.4       4.8    12.2
Subtotal                     78.2    52.3   130.5   27.9    18.7    46.6        40
Livestock
Poultry                         30.8     7.8    38.6   11.0       2.8    13.8
Other livestock                 13.8     3.6    17.4    4.9       1.3      6.2
Subtotal                    44.6    11.4    56.0   15.9        4.1    20.0      20
Technical Assistance               4.1     9.3    13.4    1.5       3.3      4.8     69
Total Project Cost           600.1   119.2   719.3  214.3    42.6   256.9        17
4.15      The cost estimates are in December 1985 prices.  Taxes and duties of
about $7 million are included in the cost estimates.  No allowance was made
for contingencies as it is expected that any cost changes would lead to an
adjustment in the number of subloans. The subsectoral distribution of sub-
loans shown in the summary project cost estimates is intended oniy as a guide-
line. This guideline would be reviewed annually in light of the disbursement
experience, and adjustments would be made as appropriate to insure that the
subsectoral distribution of onlending is consistent with market demand.



- 19 -
4.16      Financing.  The project is estimated to cost about $257 million of
which some $43 million (17%) would be the foreign exchange cost. Of the total
project cost, IDA would finance $90 million (35%), ABC $90 million (35X), and
subborrowers $77 million (30%). The IDA funding would cover the foreign
exchange cost and some 22Z of the local currency component. Some local cost
funding for the project is justified in view of the small foreign exchange
component and the need for IDA to make a meaningful contribution to project
costs.
Procurement
4.17      In both Fujian and Hunan, individual farmers, households, collec-
tives and state enterprises purchase fertiLizers, pesticides, animal feeds,
hand tools and other sm13l equipment items from the Federation of Supply and
Marketing Cooperatives - and from local enterprises belonging to individuals,
specialized households, and collectives. Seeds are purchased from the County
Seed Company or local seed farms, and machinery and larger equipment items
from the County Agricultural Machinery Company or other local agricultural
machinery companies. Except for the local enterprises, these organizations
are represented in each county and serve as intermediaries for retailing of
items distributed through national or provincial wholesale systems. There is,
however, a growing trend toward product specialization in the distribution
system and direct marketing by producing enterprises. Consequently, specia-
lized households and collective or state enterprises which procure inputs in
some quantity can, for example, purchase feed from local mills or a Feed
Supply Company, breeder chicks from various poultry breeding farms, cattle
from individual cattle raisers or an Animal Products Company, fertilizer from
local factories, etc.
4.18      Civil works, including earthworks and construction of structures,
would be undertaken mainly by the collectives with labor input provided by
their farmer members. Some of the civil works, especially for the farms and
facilities belonging to local government owned entities, may be contracted out
to a local construction team (work brigade) selected primarily on the basis of
its ability to carry out the job satisfactorily and within a specified time.
However, local competitive bidding for civil works has recently been intro-
duced as indicated by the increasing use of price quotations as a major deter-
minant in the selection process.
4/   A cooperative marketing organization responsible for the distribution and
sale of most agricultural inputs and consumer goods in rural areas. The
organization is also engaged in the procurement of agricultural products
and in price stabilization operations.



- 20 -
4.19      Project investment items for the aquacuLture, orchards and livestock
components would be varied, generally small and widely scattered and would be
procured by subborrowers as and when required by them, and spread over several
years. This makes bulk procurement impractical. Procurement of these invest-
ment items would therefore not be suitable for international competitive bid-
ding. Moreover, familiarity with Local machinery and equipment, their ready
availability, including spare parts and repair services, and the need for
standardization, strongLy support the general preference of the users for
locally manufactured over imported items. The investment items, including all
civil works, would therefore be procured locally and in accordance with pre-
sent procedures indicated in para:.. 4.17 and 4.18 above which are acceptable
to IDA. There are many Locai suppiiers and increasing numbers of representa-
tives of foreign suppliers in China of vehicles, machinery and equipment for
the agro-processing facilities and technical assistance component. Procure-
ment of these investment icems would be as follows:
(a)  Contracts for purchase of investment items of up to US$50,000 would
be awarded after comparison of price quotations from at least three
qualified suppliers.
(b) Contracts for purchase of investment items with costs exceeding
US$50,000 would be awarded through limited international bidding
procedures on the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids invited
from a list of at least four suppliers from at least three countries
in accordance with the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans
and IDA Credits."'
(c) Award of contracts exceeding US$500,000 would require prior review
by IDA.
The agricultural inputs and other investment items required by the project
would be readily available.
Disbursements
4.20      Project subloans are expected to cover a three-year commitment
period commencing in the first half of 1986. Estimated disbursements of the
IDA funds of US$90 million would be extended over a five-year period ending in
June 1991. The estimated schedule of disbursements is given in Annex 6. In
preparing the disaursement schedule, consideration was given to the establish-
ment of a special account to accelerate project lending (para. 4.22), the
measures already undertaken by ABC, including completion of the appraisal of a
significant number of subprojects, which would facilitate project implementa-
tion, performance of project lending under the on-going first Rural Credit
Project (para. 1.10), and the disbursement profile for Bank Group operations
in agriculturaL credit.



- 21 -
4.21      oisbursements of the IDA credit proceeds would be as follows:
(a) 50% of subloans made by ABC;
(b)  100X of expenditures for overseas fellowships and consultant
services; and
(c) for machinery and equipment under the technical assistance compo-
nent, 100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory), and 75% of local expenditures for other items procured
locally.
Disbursements against expenditures for machinery and equipment under the tech-
nical assistance component will be fully documented for contracts exceeding
US$200,000. For contracts of up to US$200,000 disbursements will be made
against statements of expenditure. Disbursements for subloans will be made on
the basis of statements of expenditure listing subloans made, and disburse-
ments for overseas fellowships and consultants will be made based on state-
ments of expenditure certifying that the expenditures rwere incurred on the
basis of a training program agreed with IDA and rhat the consultants have been
employed in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the use of consul-
tants. Supporting documentation for statement of expenditure disbursements
would be retained by ABC and made available to IDA staff for review during
supervision missions.
4.22      As in the case of the ongoing first RuraL Credit Project, a special
account would be set up for disbursements of the IDA credit under this proj-
ect. The special account would facilitate implementation of project lend-
ing. It would be set up and maintained in US dollars. The initial deposit of
the US dollar equivalent of SDR 5.6 million represents the average estimated
disbursements of the IDA credit for any four months. Applications for reple-
nishment would be submitted quarterly, or whenever the special account is
drawr down to 50% of its initial deposit, whichever comes first.
V. PROJECT IMPLEHENTATION
Organization and Management
5.01      The project would be carried out by ABC under a Project Agreement
with IDA, with funds onlent by the Government (para. 5.10). State Council
approval of the Project Agreement and the Development Credit Agreement would
be a condition of credit effectiveness.
5.02      The project organization to implement the project in each province
will comprise a Project Management Committee (PMC), a Project Office (PO) in
ABC's provincial office and Project Units (PU) in each of ABC's county offices
participating in the project.
5.03      The role of the PMC is to oversee the implementation of the project
and to ensure coordinated planning and execution of project operations between



- 22 -
the ABC and other concerned government departments and agencies, especially
with regard to ensuring the adequate and timely provision of local cost
funding, improved production inputs, technical extension support, and train-
ing. Both the PMCs for Fujian and Hunan have recently been established. Mem-
bers of the Fujian PMC consists of the head of the provincial Agricultural
Commission as the Chairman, the President of ABC Fujian, and senior Level
representatives from the Provincial Planning Commission, Provincial Economic
Commission, Provincial Finance Bureau, ProvinciaL Bureaus of Agriculcure,
Livestock and Aquaculture, Provincial Water Resources and Electric Power
Bureau, Provincial Foreign Economic and Trade Commission, Provincial Goods and
Materials Corporation, and the Min River ValLey Development Corporation.
Members of the Hunan PMC are the Provincial Vice Governor as the Chairman, the
President of ABC Hunan, the manager of ABC Changsha, and senior Level repre-
sentatives from the office of the provincial government, Provincial Planning
Commission, Provincial Economic Commission, Provincial Foreign Economic and
Trade Commission, Provincial Scientific and Technology Commission and
Provincial Bureaus of Agriculture and Forestry. The membership of the PMCs as
constituted can be expected to enable the two committees to carry out their
assigned roles effectively.
5.04      Under the direction of the PMC concerned, the PO will be responsible
for the implementation and management of the project, including provision of
technical guidance to the Project Units (PU), assisting them in their
appraisal and supervision of subprojects, and supervision and coordination of
their lending operations. The PO would have a core staff comprising a mana-
ger, two economists, two financial analysts, an accountant/bookkeeper, one
aquaculturist, one horticulturist, one livestock expert and an agro-processing
specialist. Additional technical experts will be provided by the Technical
Bureaus concerned as and when required. The POs have also been recently
established.
5.05      In addition, a Project Unit (PU) will be established in each of
ABC's county offices (subbranches) participating in the project to supervise
and monitor project implementation. The PU would appraise and supervise
project subloans, ensure the proper utilization of project funds and procure-
ment of project investment items, maintain separate accounts for the project
and record the progress of the project with support from the POs. Generally,
all subloans for Y 0.2 million and above will be subject to approval by the
POs and those for Y 2 million and above by ABC Beijing. The POs and PUs would
also be responsible for monitoring and evaluating the economic benefits and
impact of project lending. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
the PMCs would be maintained, that the POs would be maintained each with a
core staff acceptable to IDA, and that a PU wouLd be established and main-
tained in each of ABC's county offices participating in the project.
5.06      The PU would rely on staff from che local government technical
bureaus (agriculture, livestock, aquaculture, etc.) for guidance and assist-
ance on the technical aspects of project preparation, appraisal and super-
vision. This would be an appropriate arrangement and has worked well during
the preparation and appraisal of both this project and the ongoing first Rural
Credit Project. The available technical expertise would be adequate co meet
project needs.



- 23 -
5.07      Project investments would be evaluated in terms Gf their technical
feasibility and financial and economic viability based on incremental
returns. The appraisals will be car-ied out using the procedures and criteria
set out in ABC's Project Appraisal Manual (para. 2.09).
5.08      For larger investments, Lhe appraisal procedures would include field
investigations by ABC staff to assess the capability of the subborrowers,
competence of their technical staff, suitability of the project or subproject
sites, including their designs and layout, availability of raw material
inputs, market prospects and other related matters. The PU would also under-
take regular field visits to supervise the progress of project investments and
with the assistance of the local government technical bureaus provide tech-
nical support to subborrowers. This would include assistance to subborrowers
to (a) raise the efficiency of production through better techniques of produc-
tion, design, layout and utilization of facilities, (b) ensure that construc-
tion of facilities meets approved design standards (e.g. for fish pouds), and
(c) improve quality control of both the project inputs and outputs.
Subloan Terms and Conditions
5.09      Based on its present administrative costs, ABC would need a 2Z
interest spread to cover the costs of project lending. An assurance was
obtained during negotiations that the Government would take steps necessary to
enable ABC to achieve at least a 2% interest spread between the cost to ABC of
the project funds (IDA funds and ABC's counterpart contribution) and the
project lending rates. ABC would obtain an interest spread of about 2.6Z p.a.
based on the present cost of ABC's counterpart contributions and the present
average rate of lending estimated at 5.8% and 7.0% p.a. respectively and given
the cost of the IDA credit to ABC at 3% p.a. The interest spread would be
adequate to cover the cost of project lending and the commitment charges on
the IDA credit. In addition, an assurance was obtained during negotiations
that the Government and ABC would periodically exchange views with IDA con-
cerning ABC's lending rates in light of ABC's cost of funds and profitability
and taking into account inflation and other interest rates in China.
5.10      Project funds of $90 million from IDA would be provided to the
Government at the prevailing standard terms and conditions. Under a Subsi-
diary Loan Agreement acceptable to IDA to be csncluded as a condition of
credit effectiveness, the Government would make these funds available to ABC
for onlendi"g by its offices in Fujian and Hunan to subborrowers. The
Subsidiary Loan would be repaid in the currency used (SDR equivalent of
foreign currency used or renminbi) over 20 years, including 5 years grace
(para. 5.11), with commitment charges to be borne by ABC and at an interest
rate of 3% p.a. (para. 5.09). Assurances on the above were obtained during
negotiations. The foreign exchange risk on renminbi funds onlent would thus
be borne by the Government.
5.11      ABC would onlend project funds to subborrowers with the same
interest rate that it charges subloans for similar purposes and with similar
maturities. Where ABC extends subLoans using foreign currency, ABC would pass
on the foreign exchange risk to subborrowers. Subborrowers would be required
to contribute a minimum of 30% of the total project costs. In addition, the



- 24 -
repayment periods of the subborrowers will be determined by ABC's cash flow
estimates of their subloans but not exceeding 15 years. Based on the cash
flow estimates of selected major subprojects and given that the project funds
(IDA and local counterpart funds) wouLd be disbursed over five years
(para. 4.20), the cash flow estimated for the project as a whole indicates
that ABC's repayment period of the total project funds should be 20 years,
including 5 years grace. Assurances on the lending rates, and subborrower
contributions were obtained during negotiations.
5.12      The project would finance a large number of different types and size
of subprojects under the four project components: aquaculture, orchards,
livestock and agro-processing. Selected subprojects have been appraised by
the appraisal mission to provide some indication of the financial and economic
viability of the major types of subprojects. However, the selected subprojects
cannot be regarded as representative of all subprojects within a similar
category since prevailing conditions and the size of subprojects within each
category vary significantly. ABC will therefore need to appraise all sub-
projects not appraised by the appraisal mission using the procedures and
criteria set out in the ABC Project Appraisal Manual (para. 2.09).
5.13      In connection with the above:
(a) Subprojects which have already been jointly appraised by ABC and the
appraisal mission and found viable should be financed by ABC without
further review by IDA.
(b) ABC will appraise all subprojects in accordance with the ABC Project
Appraisal Manual, and individual subloans in excess of $500,000
would require IDA's prior approval. This is to assist ABC in
ensuring that for the larger subprojects, all the procedures and
criteria set out in the project appraisal manual have been followed
and correctly applied. It is estimated that about 30 subloans,
accounting for about one-fourth of the total project funds, would be
above this free limit.
(c) Subloans for fish and shrimp ponds would be provided only where the
designs and layout of the ponds, especially water supply canals and
disposal drains, have been approved by the provincial Fisheries
Bureaus of Fujian and Hunan.
(d) Subloans for the establishment of orchards would be provided only
where planting materials and soils (including topography) are con-
sidered suitable by Fujian's and Hunan's Academies of Agricultural
Sciences.
Assurances on (b), (c) and (d) above were obtained during negotiations.
Accounts, Audit, Monitoring and Evaluation
5.14      The Project Units (PU) in ABC's county offices in the project area
would maintain detailed accounts of the project subloans and expenditures
(para. 5.05). These accounts and other data relating to the implementation



- 25 -
and progress of the project would be collated by the Project Offices. The
accounts, including the statements of expenditures, and ABC Fujian's and
Bunan's total operations would be audited annually by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA. These are expected to be from the State Audit Agency
(para. 2.21). The audited accounts together with the annual accounts (balance
sheets and income statements) of ABC's total operations would be submitted by
ABC to IDA within six months of the close of each financial year. In addi-
tion, ABC would forward to IDA half-yearly reports covering the project's
progress within two months following the end of each reporting period.
Assurances on the above were obtained during negotiations.
5.15      ABC would also prepare a project completion report (PCR) on the
project not later than six months following the completion of credit disburse-
ments. The PCR which would be submitted to IDA should include an assessment
of the operating results and impact of the project, performance of ABC Fujian
and Hunan and the major reasons for their achievements and deficiencies with a
view to drawing lessons which may usefully be applied to the preparation and
implementation of similar type projects in the future (para. 2.12).
Environmental Impact
5.16      The project would be designed to minimize adverse environmental
impacts. The agro-processing plants would conform to appropriate Bank
Environmental Guidelines for the various processing operations. An assurance
on the above was obtained during negotiations. Where appropriate guidelines
do not exist, the best practical control schemes will be used.
VI. MARKETS, PRICES AND FARM INCOMES
Market Prospects
6.01      Project lending would respond to the growing demand for investment
capital in high value agricultural production and processing (para. 1.05) and
would be targeted to increase production for the domestic market of products
which have long been in short supply. Local consumption of fisheries pro-
ducts, poultry, meat and eggs has been severely constrained by supply limita-
tions. As indicated for some major project outputs in Table 6.1 below, even
where long-term production g ,wth rates have been high, as with red meat
(primarily pork), current per capita consumption levels are quite low; only
about 10Z of per capita protein intake is from animal sources compared with
the world average of 35% and 21% for deveLoping countries. Project outputs
are typically specialty products with high income elasticities so that their
demadd will continue to expand at least as rapidly as family income levels.
6.02      Orange and the other fruits would generally find their major markets
in provinces to the north where climatic conditions do not permit local pro-
duction. During the Cultural Revolution (1966-76), citrus production remained
virtually stagnant at about 0.6 million tons, due to government emphasis on
production of foodgrains, and although citrus production has increased since
1976 to about 2.6 million tons in 1984, the per capita annual supply continues



- 26 -
to be low at 1.25 kg. Demand currently exceeds supply and fresh fruit and
juice concentrates accordingly fetch high prices in all the major domestic
markets.
6.03      Other subprojects have been selected after appraising potential
expansion in export markets for specialty products. These include shrimp,
oysters, and other marine fisheries, with an increasing demand in export mar-
kets, and early-ripening mandarin oranges, litchi and Longan which are
marketed to Chinese communities in Hong Kong, Macau and elsewhere.  The export
market for meat and fresh fish is relatively restricted, but their domestic
demand is strong.
Table 6.1. INDICATORS OF DOMESTIC MARKET POTENTIAL
Projected per capita
Annual                         demand/consumption in the
production                        year 2000 with per capita
growth rate 1982 per capita           annual GNP growth
1979-83     consumption                      of
Product                 (Z)           (kg)              3.5%            5.5%
Meat (pork, beef and
mutton)                7.2           12.8             19.8            24.1
Poultry meat             n.a.           1.0              6.5            10.3
Eggs                     n.a.           2.2              4.3             6.6
Fish /a                  2.8            4.9             34.6            35.6
/a   1976-1983.
Prices
6.04      Producers would receive state established prices for products
procured by government trade organizations and free market prices if procured
by other buyers. For all major products, state prices are increasingly
approaching free market prices and obligatory quota sales by state or collec-
tive enterprises are being replaced by contractual arrangements to insure
government procurement.
6.05      In recent years the free market has absorbed an increasing
proportion of products such as meat, fruit, fish and eggs. Whereas the free
market sales represented only 27%, 20%, 42% and 20% of the total saLes volume
of beef and mutton, eggs, poultry and aquatic products respectively of the
total marketing in urban areas in 1981, most of these products today are sold
at free market prices.
6.06      The average farm gate or ex-factory prices used in the financial
analysis of the project are weighted averages of free market prices prevailing



- 27 -
at appraisal (April 1985) and the prices offered by government trade organiza-
tions under recent contractual arrangements (Annex 4). Consumption of the
project output by producers would be minimal and is ignored.
6.07      For the economic analysis of the project all project inputs and
outputs were evaluated at border prices or at appropriate conversion factors.
Since Bank Group projections of future prices are avaiLable for only a limited
number of the project's inputs and some of its outputs, relative prices at
full development were assumed to remain unchanged from those prevailing at
appraisal. The farm-gate prices are based on data from Local trading organi-
zations or Bank Group commodity price forecasts, adjusted for qualitv,
international and domestic transport, and processing costs. Prices used for
the financial and economic analysis are given in Annex 4. All other products
and non-traded inputs, except for labor, are evaluated at financial prices for
want of comparable world price data from which to compute border prices.
6.08      The prevailing wage rates are Y 2.0-2.5 per day for unskilled labor
and Y 3.5 per day for skilled labor, or Y 600-1,050 per year. The economic
cost of labor is assumed to be Y 1.20/man-day for unskilled labor and Y 2.80/
man-day for skilled labor. The relatively Low economic vaLue for labor,
especially unskilled, in the project area reflects the existing large element
of unemployed or underemployed labor. Job opportunities in other sectors or
regions are insignificant in number. Consequently the financial wage rates
are considered to substantially exceed the value of labor's marginal product,
either because they include welfare transfers or, in the case of individual
household activities, elements of rent on communal land or interest on own
investment.
Farm Incomes and Employment
6.09      The project would lead to a net job creation of about one full-time
job equivalent per US$3,000 invested. New jobs in enterprises with state
participation would pay wages at the prevailing rate of Y 2.0-2.5 per day for
unskilled labor and Y 3.5 per day for skilled labor, or Y 600-1,050 per
year. Project households, mainly in participation with collectives under the
production responsibility system (para. 1.05) would on average obtain an
estimated net annual return, after taxes and debt service, of Y 1,000-1,500.
VII. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
Production Benefits
7.01      At full development, the value of the incremental output of the
project would be about US$140 million per annum. The project would increase
the production of higher value foods which are in short supply and for which
demand is growing rapidly, and thereby improve the quality of local diets.
Increased annual production would include about 65,000 tons of aquatic pro-
ducts (mainly shrimp and fish) and 266,000 tons of fruits. In addition,
lending for the establishment or expansion of poultry breeding and egg produc-
tion and fish nurseries would help satisfy the growing demand from individual



- 28 -
households for improved stock, whiLe increasing the supply of poultry and
table eggs.
Other Benefits
7.02      The project would benefit directly some 16,000 families, or
74,000 individuals from increased production and incomes. The annual demand
for labor would increase by about 18.4 million man-days, equivalent to 61,000
full-time jobs, thereby absorbing part of the surplus rural labor force
(para. 6.08). The projecc would also put to productive use land which at pre-
sent is mostly wasteland or low productivity land. The ABC would benefit from
institutional strengthening through improvement in the efficiency of its over-
all credit operations and its capability to undertake proper appraisal and
supervision of project investments.
Financial Analysis
7.03      The financial rates of return (FRR) of the project components based
on typical subproject investments in each component are given in Table 7.1
below and in Annex 5. The FRR would average about 28% for the proposed total
lending portfolio and would range from 21% for litchi orchards to 40% for fish
freezing and cold storages. The analysis shows that all the investment
models could sustain either decreased benefits of 10Z or increased costs of
102 and considerably more (20%) in most cases. Even if a 10% decrease in
revenues occurs together with an increase of 10% in costs, the FRRs would
remain well above ABC's rate of interest for project lending. Generally,
rates of return for agro-processing tend to be sensitive to major variations
in both costs and benefits and therefore these investments will have to be
subjected to a case-by-case appraisal to ensure cost efficiencies and improved
output both through greater capacity utilization and efficient management. A
guideline in ABC's Project Appraisal Manual provides that subprojects will not
be considered financially viable if they do not have at least a 10% FRR.



- 29 -
Table 7.1: FINANCIAL RATES OF RETURN
(X)
Base    Revenues      Costs        Revenues -10Z
Component                         case   -1OZ  -20%   +10%  220%   costs +10%
Fisheries
Freshwater fisheries (new)        26     19    12      19    14          13
Freshwater fisheries
(improvement)                  34      23    13      25    17         15
Shrimp production                 24     16      8     17    11          10
Orchards
Orange                            22     19    16       19    17         16
Litchi                            21     19    17      19    17          17
Livestock
Poultry breeding and
egg production                  25     20    16      21    17          16
Agro-processing
Fish freezing and cold
storage                        40      26      8     28    14         11
Fish feed processing              35     22      8     23    13          10
7.04      The cash flow estimates of the typical subprojects listed in
Table 7.1 indicate that they would require loan repayment periods ranging from
7-10 years, including 1-2 years grace. Most of the subprojects would require
loan repayment periods of 10 years, including 2 years grace.
7.05      A cash flow analysis for the project as a whole was performed,
taking the subprojects listed in Table 7.1 as representative of their catego-
ries, and assuming onlending to subprojects a.t the average rate of 7.0%, with
repayment periods, including grace periods, based on their cash flow esti-
mates. Given the proposed mix of lending, the ABC would have a steady net
inflow of funds beginning in year 3 through year 16, and would have no
difficulty in repaying principal and interest to the Government within
20 years, including a 5 year grace period.
Economic Analysis
7.06      All economic values were converted to local currency at the official
exchange rate of Y 2.8 = US$1.00. Economic price conversions were applied to
major outputs, traded inputs, and labor (paras. 6.06-6.07). Using the fore-
going assumptions and discounting costs and benefits over 15-25 years, the
aggregate economic rate of return (ERR) to the project would be about 34%. At
a discount rate of 12%, which is considered ta approximate the opportunity
cost of capital in China, the net present value of the project's aggregate



- 30 -
financiaL benefits is estimated at some Y 1.1 billion and the benefir-cost
ratio at about 1.4:1 which are satisfactory.  The ERRs f,or typical subpro-
jects. shown in Table 7.2, would be highest for freshwater fisheries (50!) and
lowest for litchi (232).  The ERRs generally exceed the FRRs due primarily to
the low economic cost of labor and other inpucs (Annex 4).
TabLe 7.2: ECONOMIC RATES OF RETURN (X)
Base    Revenues         Costs        Revenues -10Z
Component                    case   -10%  -20%    +10%  +20%       costs +10%
Fisheries
Freshwater fisheries (new) 40       33    26        34    28          27
Freshwater fisheries
(improvement)             50      40    30        40    33          32
Shrimp production           36      29    24        30    26          25
Orchards
Orange                       30     27    25        28    26           25
Litchi                       23     20    18        21    19           19
Livastock
Poultry breeding and
egg production            27      23    18        23    20          19
Ad-:o-processing
Fish freezing and
cold storage              44      31    16        32    21          19
Fish feed processing        39      29    18        30    22          20
Risks
7.07      No major risks are anticipated.  As the sensitivity analysis
demonstrates, all the typical subprojects are able to sustain significant
increases in costs and reductions in revenues and still give satisfactory
rates of return. The technological improvements envisaged for the subprojects
are already widely in use and will accordingly be readily available so that
the risks in this regard would likewise be minimal.



- 31 -
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      At negotiations agreement was reached on the following principal
points:
(a)  training would be carried out in accordance with a program agreed
between IDA and ABC, and consultants would be employed in accordance
with the Bank's Guidelines for the use of consultants (para. 4.13);
(b)  the Project Management Committees would be maintained, the Project
Offices would be maintained each with a core staff acceptable to
IDA, and a Project Unit would be established and maintained in each
of ABC's county offices participating in the project (para. 5.05);
(c)  the Government would take steps necessary to enable ABC to achieve
at least a 2Z interest spread between the cost to ABC of the project
funds and the project lending rates (para. 5.09);
(d)  the Government would onLend the proceeds of the IDA credit to ABC
for 20 years, including 5 years grace, at an interest rate of 3Z
p.a. with commitment charges to be borne by ABC (para. 5.10);
(e)  ABC would onlend project funds to subborrowers with the same
interest rate that it charges subloans for similar purposes and with
similar maturities, subborrowers' contribution will be at least 30%
of the total project costs, and where ABC extends subloans using
foreign currency, ABC would pass on the foreign exchange risk to
subborrowers (para. 5.11);
(f)  individual subloans in excess of US$500,000 would require IDA's
prior approval (para. 5.13b);
(g)  subloans for fish and shrimp ponds would be provided only where the
designs and layout of the ponds, especially the water supply canals
and disposal drains, have been approved by the provincial Fisheries
Bureaus of Fujian and Hunan (para. 5.13c);
(h)  subloans would be provided for the establishment of orchards only
where planting materials and soils (including topography) are
considered suitable by Fujian's and Hunan's Academies of
Agricultural Sciences (para. 5.13d);
(i)  ABC would maintain separate accounts for the project.  The accounts,
including statements of expenditures and the accounts of ABC
Fujian's and Hunan's total operations, would be audited annually by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA. The audited accounts
together with the annual accounts (balance sheets and income state-
ments) of ABC's total operations would be submitted to IDA within
six months of the close of the financial year (para. 5.14).



- 32 -
(j) ABC would forward to IDA half-yearly reports covering the project's
progress within two months following the end of each reporting
period (para. 5.14); and
(k) the agro-processing plants would conform to appropriate Bank
Environmental Guidelines for the various processing operations
(para. 5.16).
8.02      Conditions of credit effectiveness would be:
(a) State Council approval of the Project Agreement and Development
Credit Agreement (para. 5.01); and
(b) the execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement, acceptable to IDA,
between the government and ABC incorporating the Government's
lending and repayment terms of the IDA credit to ABC (para. 5.10).
8.03      With the above assurances, the project would be suitable for an IDA
credit of SDR 84 million (equivalent to US$90 million) on standard terms. The
borrower would be the People's Republic of China.



- 33 -                                           ANNEX I
Table I
CHINA
RURAL CREDIT II PROJECT
Consolidated Balance Sheet of the Agrlcultural Bank of Chlna, 1983/84
(Y billion)
Oec 31  Dec 31                                              Dec 31  Dec 31
1983   1984/t                                               1983   1984/a
Deposits                                                    Loans
Deposits of rural credit                                    Loans to rural commercial and
cooperatives                   39.13   37.19                Lndustrial enterprises /b    46.87   71.44
Deposits of Ludividuals           6.70    9.70              Loans to collectives             16.39   23.40
Deposits of rural commercial                               Loans to state-owned
and industrial enterprises   10.54   16.31                  agrlcultural enterprises        3.55    6.39
Deposits of government                                     Loans to rural credit
agencies                        3.91    3.49                cooperatives                    1.63    3.13
State budget grants               1.17    1.15             Loans to Individuals               1.88    4.38
Other deposits                    1.45    3.42              Loans for crop advances           0.67    0.67
Other loans                       0.65    3.03
Subtotal, ABC deposits      62.90   71.26                   Subtotal, ABC loans         71.64  112.44
Met interbank balances             27.93   72.28           Loans on behalf of other
organizations plus
Reserves for interest due          12.82   15.39              deposits with PBC /c             55.48   69.1A/d
State equity contrlbution          22.02   21.14
Accumulated net gain                1.45    1.75
Total                      127.12  181.82                   Total                       127.12  181.82
/a   The figures for 1984 are subject to adjustment after usual verificatlon and audit in ABC.
/b   Include unlts of the National Federatlon of Supply and Marketing Cooperatives.
/c   The ABC acts as the Government's fiscal agent ln passLng these funds to commerclal departments of the
Ministry of Food and Commerce for the purcbase of graLis and other agrlcultural products from producing
units.
/d   Include deposits with PBC at Y 21.08 billion.
Source: Planning Department, ABC, Beijing.



CHINA
RURAL CREDIT II PROJECT
Consolidated Income Statement of the Agricultural Bank of China, 1983/84 /a
(Y million)
Income              1983    1984 lb           Expenditure                               1983    1984 /b
Interest received on        3,335      4,355           Interest paid on savings deposits    1,678          2,125
ABC loans
Interest paid on loans from PBC
Agency fees and interest                                 and agency fees paid                   2,785       3,731
earned on deposits at
at higher levels          3,216      3,729           Compensation paid to RCC for losses         37          34
Other income                  299        865           Administration and operational
costs excluding salaries                427         609
Salaries and bonuses                      386         344
Construction and maintenance of
branch offices                           54          65
Other expenditures                         37         286/c
Total                  6,850     8,949                  Total                             5,404       7,194
Accumulated Net Gain              1,446       1,755
/a ABC losses on loan write-off due to national disasters are met through state budgetary grants provided to
another account.
/b  The figures for 1984 are subject to adjustment after usu.3l vertircation and audit in ABC.                                0 
TE  Include staff training costs.                                                                                             n z
a -
Source:  Planning Department, ABC, Beijing.                                                                                   Ji'



-35-                          ANNEX 2
Page 1
CHINA
RURAL CREDIT II PROJECT
Agriculture in the Project Areas: Fujian and Hunan
1.        Some basic data on the population, laud area, agriculture and
climate for Fujian and Hunan are presented in the tables of this annex.
A. Fujian Province
General
2.        Fujian province is located along the southeast coast of China,
facing the Straits of Taiwan to the east, and bordering on the provinces of
Zhejiang to the north, Jiangxi to ihe west and Guangdong to the south. The
province has an area of 120,000 km and a population of 27 million (at the end
of 1984). Almost 85Z of the population is rural, comprised of some
4.7 million households. In terms of per capita rural income, Fujian's was
below the national average.
Climate, Topography and Soils
3.        Fujian has a subtropical climate.  It experiences some of the
heaviest rainfall in China and frequent typhoons along the coast. The annual
average rainfall exceeds 1,630 mm and heavy rains fall from February through
September. Average temperatures range from 120C in January to 280C in July.
Sunshine duration ranges from one to two hours daily in February to about
eight hours daily in July. Generally Fujian is frost-free.
4.        Fujian has a mainly mountainous terrain.  Of the total area, moun-
tains and hills cover 80Z. Only 10% of the land is cultivated and much of it
is on terraced hillsides. Nearly all of the province's low mountains, hills
and plains have yellow-red soils, slightly to moderately acidic, and suitable
for growing a wide range of agricultural crops.
Agricultural Production and Labor Force
5.        In recent years, Fujian has been diversifying agricultural produc-
tion and emphasizing the development of forestry, livestock, aquaculture and
cash crops in this order. In 1984, crops, livestock, forestry and fisheries
accounted for 46%, 12%, 9% and 6% respectively of the gross value of
agricultural output (GVAO) with the remaining 27% accounted for by house.iold
sideline activities. The total GVAO at constant prices doubled from V 4.10
billion in 1980 to V 8.15 billion in 1984. Of the total cultivated land area
of 1.3 million ha, 804,000 ha are irrigated and the cropping index is about
1.8. There are 8.6 million ha of forest land and some 55,000 ha of fresh and
marine fish culture.



- 36 -                        ANNEX 2
Page 2
6.        Crop production has pertormed well in recent years.  Although the
area sown to grain, mostly rice and oiLseed, has decreased since 1980, the
output of these two crops increased bv 8% and 11% respectively. In the same
period, sugarcane production increased by 33% and fruit production by 60Z.
Fujian is well-known for its tropical fruits, including Litchi, longan, citrus
and pineapple. The province is also an important producer of sugarcane and
tobacco, supplying 11% and 8% respectively of national production.
7.        Other subsectors have maintained steady or improved output.  Live-
stock production increased by 15% since 1980 while fish production (marine and
freshwater) expanded by aLmost a third from 1980 to 1984. Forestry production
increased bv 25%. Fujian is an important national producer of various tvpes
of trees. especially pine, fir, fig, tung and tea oil, nanmu, cinnamon and
bamboo. iousehoLd sideline production expanded to 27% of GVAO in i984 From
19% in  980.  7ertLlizer use increased by about 50% but use of agricuLturai
machinery ana equipment grew more slowly and the number of large and mea.;m;i-
sized tractors in use has been declining since 1981. The number if pedestrian
tractors has increased from 65,000 to 90,000 (38%) between 1980 and 1984.
8.        Most of the rural Labor force of 8 million until recently belonged
to 849 communes, 14,000 brigades and 170.000 teams. rn July 1984, the Fuiian
government began restoring separate township and village party, administrative
and economic entities. These entities had existed prior to the nationwide
reorganization into communes of the late 1950's. By early 1985, Fujian's
entire rural labor force belonged to these township and village structures.
State farm units have remained intact with 479 in total in Fujian, comprised
of 179 administered by the province and 300 by counties. Over 98% of house-
holds affiliated with townships, villages and state farms have contracts under
the personal responsibility system. Many of these contracts are with house-
holds designated as "key" and "specialized", i.e., households producing fixed
quotas of specified products and specializing in certain crops or animaLs due
to comparative advantage. There has also beer. an increase in the number of
specialized enterprises urder various forms of joint state-collective owner-
ship.
Infrastructure and Other Services
9.        Fujian is served by a relatively well-developed system of physical
infrastructure. Highways cover 33,830 km and railways 1,400 km. There are
3,900 km of shipping lanes along four rivers and four important ports, Fuzhou,
Xiamen, Quanzhou and Zhangzhou. Fuzhou and Xiamen airports have flights to
and from major domestic cities and Hongkong. All townships and villages are
accessible to motor traffic and many are served by railway lines.
B. Hunan Province
General
10.       Hunan, located in southcentral China, lies on the south side of the
Yangtze River (China's longest river) and Dongting Lake (China's second
largest lake).  The province has a totaL area of 210,000 km2 and had a popula-



- 37 -                           ANNEX 2
Page 3
tion of 56 million at the end of 1984, 86% rural. Per capita rural income in
Hunan is about rhe same as the average for China's 29 provinces.
Climate, Topography and Soils
11.       Hunan has a moist monsoon-influenced subtropical climate.  Tempera-
tures range from 50C in January to 290C in July with average annual rainfall
exceeding 1,400 mm. The heaviest rains fall between April and July. Sunshine
duration ranges from two to three hours daily in April to about eight hours
daily in August. Hunan experiences frost from two to four months per year.
The topography of Hunan is characterized by a U-shaped basin surrounded on
three sides by mountains and opening to the north. Mountains and hills cover
88Z of the total area, while plains and water areas account for 7% and 5%
respectively. Dongting Lake in northern Hunan is actually broken up into a
system of smaller Lakes -- Western Dongting Lake, Southern Dongting Lake,
Datong Lake and many other small lakes. It is one of China's most important
freshwater aquaculture areas and its silt build-up has created excellent
rice-growing conditions. Most soil in Hunan is red, moderately acidic, and
suitable for growing a wide variety of agricultural crops.
Agricultural Production and Labor Force
12.       In 1984, crop production, livestock, forestry and aquaculture
accounted for 59Z, 20Z, 5% and 3% respectively of the GVAO, with the remaining
13% accounted by household sideline activities. The total GVAO of V 19 bil-
lion in 1984, increased 61% since 1980, indicating rapid recent growth in
Hunan's agricultural sector. Of the total cultivated land area of 3.4 mil-
lion ha, 82% or 2.8 million ha are irrigated, and the cropping index is 2.3.
There are 6.6 million ha of forest land and 346,000 ha of freshwater fish
culture.
13.       Crop production performed well in recent years.  While grain output
increased only moderately (24%) from 1980 to 1984, sugarcane, oilseed and
fruit production increased by 47%, 130% and 156% respectively. Hunan is
China's second major producer of rice after Sichuan. Important cash crops
include ramie, cotton, tea, rapeseed, fruits (mostly citrus), jute and
tobacco. Hunan is China's most important producer of ramie, a nettle grown
for its fiber and oil, and the province ranks second in tea output.
14.       Aquatic output consisting of freshwater fish and plant products such
as lotus roots and seeds increased by 73% between 1980 and 1984. Livestock
and forestry production increased moderately during this period. Major forest
products are tirber from fir, pine and camphor trees as well as tung and tea
oil. Hunan ranks second in provincial output of tung oil. While fertilizer
use increased 15% from 1980 to 1984, use of large and medium-sized agricul-
tural tractors declined. Pedestrian tractor use increased 62% during this
period.
15.       Hunan's rural labor force of 22 million comprises 46% of the rural
population of 48 million, a proportion 10% greater than the national aver-
age. Reorganization of rural communes, brigades and teams was begun in 1980
in Hunan, four years earlier than in Fujian, and was completed in early



- 38 -                          ANNEX 2
Page 4
1984. Since then, Hunan's entire rural labor force belongs to township and
village organizations. There are 86 state farms, of which 13 are administered
by the province, 5 by districts and 68 by counties. About 98% of rural house-
holds have contracts under the personal responsibility system. The number of
"key" and specialized households (para. 8) and joint state-collective enter-
prises has been growing rapidly in recent years.
Infrastructure and Other Services
16.       Hunan's physical infrastructure is well-developed.  Changsha,
Zhuzhou, and several other major national railway junctions dot the province
and railways cross the length and breadth of Hunan. In 1983, the cotaL rail-
way mileage equalled 3,000 km and highway mileage equalled 55,500 km.  Ninety-
nine percent of all townships and villages are accessible to motor traffic.
Inland waterways cover 10,000 km.



- 39 -                                  ANNEX 2
Page 5
Table 1:  SOME BASIC DATA ON FUJIAN
1980      1981      1982       1983      1984
Population (year-end)
Total population (million)                            25.2      25.6      26.0       26.0      26.8
Rural population (Z of total)                        85.5       85.1      84.9      84.7       84.2
Number farm households (million)                      4.2        4.3       4.5        4.6       4.7
Land Area
Cultivated area (O000 ha)                         1,291.0   1,289.0   1,284.5   1,282.7   1,279.6
Irrigated area ('000 ha)                            881.1      836.1     812.6     819.1      804.2
Cropping index                                        2.0        2.0       1.9        1.0       1.8
Gross Value of Agricultural Output (Y billion) /a        4.1       5.83      6.24       6.68      8.15
Crops (Z of GVAO)                                    61.0       56.3      55.7       51.2      46.3
Forestry (Z of GVAO)                                  6.3        7.4       7.2        7.9       8.6
Livestock (Z of GVAO)                                 9.7       11.6      11.8       12.4      12.3
Fisheries (Z of GVAO)                                 4.5        6.1       6.3        6.9       6.3
Sideline activities (Z of GVAO)                       18.5      18.6      19.0       21.5      26.5
Crop Production
Foodgrains
Area ('000 ha)                                  2,175.0   2,138.0   2,001.0   2,009.0   2,017.0
Yield (ton/ha)                                      3.7        3.8       4.2        4.3       4.3
Production ('000 tons)                            802.0      810.0     848.5     858.0      864.5
Oilseeds
Area ('000 ha)                                    130.0      136.0     135.0      108.0     102.0
Yield (ton/ha)                                      1.0        1.4       1.5        1.3       1.5
Production ('000 tons)                            134.8      185.0     200.7     144.2      149.9
Sugarcane
Area'('000 ha)                                     47.0       51.0      53.0      49.0       61.0
Yield (ton/ha)                                     74.7       76.0      75.2      70.3       76.5
Production ('000 tons)                          3,512.0   3,881.0   3,984.3   3,442.3   4,662.0
Fruits
Area ('000 ha)                                     37.0       43.0      43.0      49.0       54.0
Yield (tontha)                                      3.4        4.6       4.0       4.0        3.8
Production ('000 tons)                            126.6      196.4     170.9     194.5      203.1
Livestock
Cattle
No. on farm ('000)                                994.0   1,038.0    1,86.0   1,093.0   1,118.0
No. sold ('000)                                    32.0       25.5      25.5      25.3       26.3
Pigs
No. on farm ('000)                              6,870.0   6,963.0   7,340.0   7,449.0   7,611.0
No. sold ('000)                                 4,015.0   4,151.0   4,337.0   4,597.0   4,662.0
Fisheries
Production Total ('000 tons)                        471.3      484.4     521.2     606.2      610.0
2 Marine                                           96.4       96.1      96.0      96.0       95.8
Z Freshwater                                        3.6        3.9       4.0        4.0       4.2
Agricultural Inputs
Sales of chemical fertilizer ('000 tons)          1,288.6   1,960.0   2,025.3   2,003.9   1,869.7
Large/medium agricultural tractors ('000)             7.5        9.5       8.1        7.9       7.8
Pedestrian tractors ('000)                           65.0       72.1      80.3      85.5       90.0
/a In constant 1980 prices.
Source: ABC Fujian Branch



ANNEX 2
- 40 -                                      Page 6
Table 2:  SOME BASIC DATA ON HUNAN
1980      1981       1982       1983       1984
Population (year-end)
Total population (million)                              52.8      53.6       54.5       55.1       55.6
Rural population (Z of total)                          87.3       S7.1       85.0       85.6       86.0
No. farm households (million)                           10.7       10.8      11.0       11.1       11.1
Land Area
Cultivated area ('000 ha)                           3,425.0   3,421.0   3,417.0   3,400.0   3,405.0
Irrigated area ('000 ha)                            2,743.0   2,753.0   2,760.0   2,773.0   2,803.0
Cropping index                                           2.3       2.3        2.3        2.3        2.3
Gross Value of Agricultural Output (Y billion) /a         11.9       13.6       15.4       17.2      19.1
Crops (X of GVAO)                                       67.0      64.5       63.8       63.8       58.8
Forestry (Z of GVAO)                                     4.7       5.6        4.9        4.6        4.6
Livestock (Z of GVAO)                                   17.8       17.1      L8.6       18.4       19.9
Fisheries (Z of GVAO)                                    1.1        1.8       2.3        2.3        2.8
Sideline activities (Z of GVAO)                         10.4      11.0       11.0       10.9       13.4
Crop Production
Foodgrains
Area ('000 ha)                                    2,360.0   2,316.0   2,319.0   2,378.0   2,460.0
Yield (ton/ha)                                         8.9       9.5       10.5       11.4       10.6
Production ('000 tonp')                          21,000.0  22,000.0  24,400.0  26,500.0  26,130.0
Oilseeds
Area ('000 ha)                                      254.0      370.0      395.0      356.0      329.0
Yield (ton/ha)                                         0.6       0.8        1.0        0.9        1.0
ProdUction ('000 tons)                              144.0      357.5      457.2      309.0      331.0
Sugarcanes
Area ('000 ha)                                        15.0      17.0       19.0       20.0       20.0
Yield (ton/ha)                                       50.6       52.2       50.8       49.0       55.4
Production ('000 tons)                              734.0      892.0      964.0   1,000.0   1,080.0
Fruits
Area ('000 ha)                                       84.0       84.0       86.0       86.0       84.0
Yield (ton/ha)                                         1.3       1.6        2.0        2.9        3.3
Production ('000 tons)                              107.4      132.9      170.6      252.7      273.5
Livestock
Cattle
No. on farm ('000)                                3,252.8   3,270.1   3,289.2   3,246.7           n.&
No. sold ('000)                                       n.a.       n.a.       n.a.       n.a.       n.a.
Pigs
No. on farm ('000)                               20,321.7  19,634.9  20,780.6  22,330.4  23,371.0
No. sold ('000)                                  17,785.4  17,586.2  17,913.9  19,131.5  22,105.0
Fisheries
Production: Total ('000 tons)                          159.1     178.5      204.5      234.9      275.0
Z Marine                                              0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Z Freshwater                                        100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0
Agricultural Inputs
Sales of chemical fertilizer ('000 tons)            3,610.4   3,712.0   3,963.8   4,215.2   4,153.0
Large/medium agricultural tractors ('000)               19.5      19.8       19.8       19.9       18.3
Pedestrian tractor ('000)                               61.8      69.1       76.6       89.8       98.6
/a In constant 1980 prices.
Source: ABC Fujian Branch



Table 3   KrETEOROLOGICAL DATA FOR FUJIAN AND HVNAN
Nonthly
Years        Jan       Feb      Mar       Apr       May       Jun      Jul       Aug       Sep       Oct       Nov      Dec       Total    average
FuJian. Fuzho  Cit         1981 - 83
Tesperature FY                          in.1      10.2      13.5      18.0     22.3       7.4      28.2      28.8       5.7     22.4      17.9      11.8       234.8      19.6
Rainfall (mm)                           34.9      8'.2    155.7    221.4    197.2    186.2         h9.9    100.5    157.2       34.3      25.4      16.8    1,319.0    110.0
Hours of sunshine                      100.4      45.9     70.6      99.1     129.2    122.4    220.6    216.6    152.2    135.0    131.3    137.3    1,582.8    131.9
Fujian, Zhangpu County   1982 - 83
Temperature TC)                         13.5      12.9      15.6     19.6      23.9      26.3      28.6      27.9     26.8      24.4      19.5      14.8       253.6      21.2
Rainfall (mm)                           63.i    190.0    246.8    281.9    276.1    167.7          92.5    296.1    146.0       16.9    107.9        3.5    1,945.9    162.2 t
Hours of *unshine                      133.6      48.7     71.2    113.8    170.5    194.7    256.1         98.2    220.5    184.0    169.5    187.7    2,019.8    168.3
Hunan, Changsha Cit          1981-83
Temperature (C)-11-1-1-1-                4.7       6.4      11.4     17.0      22.3      25.3      29.2     28.7      23.8      19.1      12.5       6.6       211.7      17.6
Rainfall (am)                           71.7    122.0    135.2    166.9    166.9    249.3          75.4     42.6      85.6    117.8    116.6        31.7    1,381.7    115.1
Hours of sunshine                       82.7      44.8     69.1      62.9    157.2    131.1    232.0    232.4    130.0    101.5           80.1    131.0    1,464.8    122.1
Hunan, Dontin   Lake Area  1980-83
Temperature (C)                          4.5      78.7      10.0     16.8      22.0      26.1      28.5      28.2     23.5      18.3      13.0       8.1       277.7      23.1
Rainfall (an)                           52.6      36.9     78.7    149.4    177.8    222.1    208.2    176.2          64,0    115.4       56.4    128.9    1,466.6    122.2
Hours of sunshine                       87.7      97.8     84.2    122.3    158.1    173.4    213.1    212.9    178.5    155.0    130.6    128.9    1,742.5    145.2
Sourceas ABC Fujian and Hunan Branches.
~1



- 42 -                       ANNEX 3
Page 1
CHINA
RURAL CREDIT II PROJECT
ABC's Operations in Fujian and Hunan
A. Fujian
Organization
1.        The ABC Branch Office of Fujian Province is located in Fuzhou, the
provincial capital. Under the branch office, there are a total of 868 offices
comprising two municipal offices under provincial jurisdiction in Fuzhou and
Xiamen, seven prefectural offices, 72 county and municipality offices, 785
township and state farm offices and two business offices in the ABC Banking
schools. In addition, there are 902 RCCs with 767 branch offices and 8,068
credit stations which render credit services at the township and village
levels. The organizational setup of the offices at the different levels is
shown in Table 1 below.
Staffing
2.        At present ABC Fujian has a total staff of 8,615, of whic\ 56Z work
at the township and state farm levels and 44% at the county level and above.
5,875 persons are employed by the RCCs.
3.        Of the total ABC staff, 27% have university/college level training,
72% have senior/junior school training, and 1X have only elementary school
training. A substantial number of the staff have long banking experience with
some 60% having worked in a bank for more than 20 years and another 20% for
periods of between 10 to 20 years. RCC staff have somewhat lower training
qualifications; only 1% are university/college graduates, 85% are high school
graduates and the remaining 14% have graduated from elementary school. The
distribution of ABC staff at the branch office and lower level offices and the
educational qualifications of ABC and RCC staff are shown in Table 2 below.
Training
4.        In recent years, ABC Fujian has developed a substantial staff
training program, consisting of both in-house and external courses. Expansion
of the program will continue throughout the 1980s. About 80Z of ABC Fujian
staff have already received some training. They are trained at the following
institutes: (a) senior managers at the newly-established ABC Management
Institutes in Tianjin and Wuhan and at ABC Fujian's Fuzhou and Xiamen Banking
Schools (para. 5 to 8), (b) managers and branch and prefecture operational
staff at the Fuzhou and Xiamen Banking Schools, the Fujian Agricultural
Institute (para. 10) and the PBC Fujian Banking School (para. 11), and (c) ABC
and RCC staff employed at the municipal county, township and village levels at
ABC Fujian county schools (para. 9).
5.        The Fuzhou and Xiamen Banking Schools were opened in 1983-4 as part
of an LBC nationwide plan for each provincial branch to operate one or more
training institutes to cater to ABC staff exclusively. Since the Fuzhou and



ANNEX 3
Page 2
Xiamen Banking Schools were established only recently, and their construction
is still incompLete, courses will be introduced gradually and full capacity
enrollment will be reached only in 1988.
6.        At present, training is concentrated primarily on the National TV
University curriculum in finance. Courses are videotaped and the TV lectures
are rebroadcast in combinacion with tutorials and group discussions led by
trainers. At the Fuzhou Banking School, 200 students are presently enrolled
in this program. All students are ABC staff still receiving regular salaries,
and scholarships are provided to those students whose examination resuLts
surpass 802. (Scholarship funds are prc;ided from an ABC bonus pool which
would have been awarded to a comparable number of working staff.) The student
body is young, ranging in age from 19 to 35 years and averaging 22 years. The
teaching staff is at present mainly seconded from the Fujian Agricultural
Institute. ALl students must pass nati-nal examinations. Table 3 below
presents che three-year curriculum for finance of the National TV
University. Outstanding students are being groomed to remain as trainers at
the Fuzhou Banking School.
7.        In 1988, when the Fuzhou Banking School achieves capacity enrollment
of 1200, che annuaL breakdown of the student body will be as follows:
-    450 in the three-year National TV University curricuium.
-    300 in a two-year secondary technical level program in rural
finance.
-    150 in a one-year accounting program.
-    100 in a one-year course for subbranch directors in management.
-    100 in a one-year a course for planners.
-    100 in a one-year course for credit specialists.
8.        Table 4 below presents the two-year secondary technical level
curriculum for finance at the Fuzhou Banking School. The training program at
the Xiamen Banking School will have a similar configuration.
9.        ABC Fujian subbranches offer short-term seminars for ABC and RCC
staff employed at the municipal, county, township and village levels: 150 ABC
subbranch directors are trained annually in one-month seminars; 200 ABC county
section chiefs attend two-month seminars annually; 600 ABC operational staff,
including new recruits, are trained annually in six-month courses; and 1000
RCC staff participate annually in six-month courses.
10.       The Fujian Agriculture Institute (FAI) introduced its Rural Finance
specialty in 1982 with partial financial support from Fujian ABC. FAI
reserves at least half its enrollment places for ABC staff and designs its
courses to meet ABC's needs. About half of the 135 present enrollees in the
two-year college level curriculum are ABC staff. Table 5 below presents this
curriculum. FAI also takes in 60 ABC managerial and operational scaff
annually in its continuing education courses in rural finance.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
11.       ABC staff also aLtend secondary technical level courses in ruraL
finance at the PBC Fujian Banking School which is administered and funded by
the People's Bank of China for PBC. ABC, ICBC and Bank of China staff. -he
Banking School trains 120 ABC Eull-time students annually in two-year courses
and another 950 ABC and RCC staff enroll in the Banking Schools three-year
evening school curriculum.
Financial Operations and Performance
12.       ABC Fujian's total loans outstanding as of the end of ;984 amounted
to Y 2,794 million of which loans for rural industrial and commercial
activities accounted for 422, loans to township and village agricultural
collectives 23%, and Loans to township and village enterprises 22%. The
remaining Loans supported state agricultural enterprises and crop advances.
The bulk of the loans were short-term and mainly for financing working capical
and agricultural production inputs.
13.       Sources of financing these loans was composed primarily of deposits
of Y 849 million from RCCs. ABC Fujian reported a profit of Y 28 million for
1984. Its balance sheets and income statements for 1983 and 1984 are shown in
Tables 6 and 7 beLow.



- 45 -                          ANNEX 3
Page 4
Table 1: ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE FUJIAN BRANCH OF
ABC AT DIFFERENT LEVELS /a
Fujian Branch              { - General Administration Office
Office (1)                { - Personnel and Staff Supervision Bureau
{ - Agricultural Credit Bureau
{ - Planning Bureau
{ - Education Bureau
{ - Rural Industrial and Commercial Credit Bureau
{ - Collective Credit Bureau
{ - Rural Credit Cooperative Bureau
{ - Accounting Bureau
{ - Savings Bureau
{ - Foreign Funds Bureau
{ - Rural Finance Research Bureau
District and Provincial    { - General Administration Office
Municipality Offices (9)  { - Personnel and Staff Supervision Division
{ - Planning Diviaion
{ - Education Division
X - Rural Industrial and Commercial Credit Division
{ - Collective Credit Division
{ - Rural Credit Cooperative Division
' - Accounting Division
{ - Savings Division
r - Rural Finance Research Division
County and Municipality    { - General Administration Office
offices (72)              { - Personnel Section
{ - Planning Section
{ - Rural Industrial and Commercial Credit Section
X - Collective Credit Section
X - Rural Credit Cooperative Section
{ - Accounting Section
Township and State Farm    { - Manager
Offices (785)             { - Deputy Manager
{ - Accountant(s)
{ - Cashier (teller)(s)
{ - Auditor(s)
{ - Loan Officer(s)
Rural Credit Cooperative   { - Manager
Offices and Branches      { - Accountant(s)
(1,669)                   { - Loan Officer(s)
Credit Stations (8,068)    { - Credit Agent
la Number(s) cf offices at each level are within brackets.



-46 -                            ANNEX 3
Page 5
Table 2: EDUJCATIONAL QUALIFICATIONS OF ABC STAFF iN FUJIAN
Type of                 No. of      No. of          Qualifications of staff /a
office                offices        staff       Level         Number        X
Branch                      1           153         A              81         53
B             71         46
C              1          1
District and                9           464         A             193         41
Provincial Muni-                                    B             253         55
cipality                                            C              18          4
County and                 72         3,104         A           1,047         34
Municipality                                         B          1,979         64
C             78          2
Township and              785         4,815         A             996         20
State Farm                                          B           3,812         79
C              7          1
Banking School              2            79         A              29         37
B             47         59
C              3          4
Total              869        8,615          A           2,346         27
B          6,162         72
a            107          1
RCC Offices               902         5,875         A               7          1
B          4,981         85
C            887         14
/a A = University/college level training
B = Senior/junior high school level training
C = Elementary school level training
Source: ABC Fujian Branch.



ANNEX 3
- 47 -                           Page 6
Table 3: CURRICULUM OF THE NATIONAL TV UNIVERSITY RURAL FINANCE PROGRAM
(3 years)
Group/course                                              Course hours           %
Basics (Compulsory)                                          2,240              54
Political Economy
Accounting
Statistics
High-Level Mathematics
Economic Laws and Statutes
Economic Geography of China
Contemporary Economic History of China
Introduction to National Economic Management
Logic
Philosophy
Chinese Composition
History of the Communist Party of China
Professional (Compulsory)                                    1,380              34
Introduction to Banking Regulations
Banking Management and Accounting
Bank Credits and Loans
Auditing
Money Circulation and Planning
Socialist Rural Finance
Computer Principles and Uses
English
Industrial Accounting
Industrial Enterprise Finance
Professional (Optional)                                        500              12
Auditing
Money and Credit
National Economic Planning
Foreign Banking Systems
International Finance
Source: ABC Fujian and Hunan, ABC Fuzhou Banking School and the ABC Hunan
Banking School.



- 48 -                          ANNEX 3
Page 7
Table 4: CURRICULUM FOR FINANCE AT THE ABC FUZHOU BANKING SCHOOL
(2 Years)
Group/course                                             Course hours           %
Basic (Compulsory)                                            820              48
Political Economy
History of the Communist Party of China
Philosophy
Composition
Modern Economic History of China
Calculus
Tabulation Techniques
Accounting
Introduction to National Economic Management
Statistics
Chinese Economic Geography
Introduction to Economic Laws
Logic
Professional (Compulsory)                                     490              29
Money and Banking
Commercial Accounting
Finance
Money Flow and Planning
Banking Credit
Commercial Enterprise Finance
Auditing
Management Accounting
Economic Analysis of Commercial Enterprises
Professional (Optional)                                       390              23
International Finance
Introduction to Insurance
Foreign Banking
Bank Accounting
National Economic Planning
Rural Finance
Chinese Language
Political Thought
Total                                                  1,700
Source: ABC Fujian and the ABC Fuzhou Banking School.



ANNEX 3
49 -                            Page 8
Table 5: C0RRICULUM FOR RURAL FIN.:KCE AT THE FUJIAN AGRICVLTURAL INSTITUTE
(2 Years)
Group/course                                             Course hours            Z
Compulsory                                                   1,265              76
Political Economy
Philosophy
Chinese Language Composition
High-Level Mathematics
Foreign Language
Use of Computers
Finance
Statistical Principles and Economic Statistics
Rural Enterprise Accounting
Rural Economics
Rural Finance
Agricultural and Technical Economics
Noney and Credit
Banking Operations and Mangement
Physical Education
Optional                                                      390              24
Bank Accounting
Introduction to Insurance
Introduction to Economic Laws
Foreign Trade and International Finance
Foreign Agricultural Finance
World Economy
Economic Forecasting
Marketing
Economic Ecology
Resources Economics
Total                                                    1,655              100
Source: Fujian Agricultural Institute.



Table 6: BALANCE SHEET OF ABC FUJIAN AS OF DECEMBER 31, 1983 AND 1984
(million Y)
Source of funds                           1983       1984          Applications of funds                    1983       1984
Deposits                                                           Loans
State allocations /a                     29.04     27.73           State agricultural enterprises           31.46     62.12
Rural agricultural, industrial and                                 Township and village agricultural
commercial enterprises                439.71    735.29             collectives                           475.30    636.06
RCCs                                    781.31    848.51           Township and village enterprises        319.09    603.48
Rural household savings                 354.55    494.32           Rural industrial and commercial
State agencies                          135.85    109.75             enterprises                           660.82  1,159.78
Other deposits                            6.79     69.73           Short- and medium-term loans             90.62    106.68
Crop procurement loans /c                16.64      15.90
Other loans                             121.39    210.38
Subtotal                          1,747.25  2,285.33               Subtotal                           1,715.32  2,794,40
Funds received from Industrial and                                 Loans on behalf of Industrial and                          0
Commercial Bank of China /b           118.65    123.29             Commercial Bank of China /b           514.95    478.88
Funds received from People's Bank                                  Loans on behalf if People'siBank
of China                                 -      948.92             of China                              232.23    725.56
Funds received from local govern-                                  Cash and bank balances                   47.18      91.01
ments /c                               88.68    184.48           Others                                   68.18      95.35
Funds from ABC Beijing /d               500.00    492.76
Other items                              90.28    122.92
Accumulated net gain                     33.00     27.50
Total                              21577.86  4,185.20              Total                              2,577.86  4,185.20
/a From the Ministry of Finance and the Fujian Bureau of Finance.
7b_ ABC acting as agent for the ICBC.
7c  Province and counties.                                                                                                  00
7i  Allocated by ABC Beijing from equity.
e  Advances to rural households and collectives.                                                                               W
Source: ABC Fujian Branch.



Table 7:  INCOME STATEMENT OF ABC FUJIAN, 1983 AND 1984
(Million Y)
Income                                         1983      1984       Expenditure                                     1983      1984
Interest received on ABC loans                 58.01    86.16       Interest paid on deposits                       45.03    59.89
Agency interest and handling fees /a          173.84   239.83       Agency interest and handling fees /a           135.55   216.53
Other income, including state grants to                             Compensation paid to RCC for losses              0.30      0.92
compensate for negative interest rate
spread /b                                     2.55      9.12     Other interest expenditure                        0.07      0.30
Administration expenses /c                       7.50      9.08
Salaries and bonus                               4.20      4.98
Other expenses /d                                8.75    15.91  W
Subtotal                                 201.40   307.61
Accumulated net gain                            33.00    27.50
Total                                   234.40   335.11             Total                                     234.40   335.11
/a  ABC Beijing acting as agent for other banks without branches in rural areas.
T_  Grants from the Ministry of Finance and ABC Beijing.
Tc  Office overhead and staff travel but excludes salaries.
7-i  Includes fixed capital depreciation.
Source:  ABC Pujian Branch.



- 52 -                       ANNEX 3
Page 11
B. Hunan
Organization
14.       The ABC Branch Office of Hunan is located in Changsha, the capital
of Hunan Province. Under the -3ranch office, chere are a cotal of 1,064
offices comprising 14 offices in discricts and municipalities under provincial
jurisdiction, 103 offices at councy and municipality levels and 947 offices at
township and state farm levels. In addition, there are 3,531 RCCs with 548
branch offices and 38,465 credit stations providing credit services at the
township and village levels. The organizational set up of the offices and
distribution of staff at the different levels are shown in Table 3 below.
Staffing
15.       ABC Hunan has a total staff of 14,725 of whom 8,524 (58%) are
employed in the township and state farm offices while the remaining 6.201
(42%) work in offices at the county level and above. The RCCs have a total
staff of 14,940.
16.       Of the total ABC staff 37% have university/college level training,
54% have senior/junior high school training and the remaining 9Z have
elementary school training. A substantial number of the staff have long
banking experience with some 50Z having worked at ABC for more than 20
years. RCC staff have somewhat Lower training qualifications; only 6% are
university/college graduates, 74% are high school (mainly junior high)
graduates and 20% have compLeted eLementary school. The distribution of ABC
staff at the branch office and lower level offices and their educational
quaLifications are shown in Table 9 below.
Training
17.       ABC Hunan's training program is quite similar in structure to that
existing in Fujian (paras. 4 to 11). Staff receive training at the following
institutes: (a) senior managers at ABC's newly-established Management
Institutes in Tianjin and Wuhan and at the ABC Hunan Banking School (paras.
18-20), (b) managers and branch Level operational staff at the ABC Hunan
Banking School and the PBC Hunan Banking School (para. 21), (c) prefecture and
municipality level staff at Hunan municipal schools, and (d) ABC and RCC staff
employed at the county, township and village levels at ABC Hunan county
schools.
18.       The ABC Hunan Banking School opened its doors in 1983 as part of an
ABC nationwide plan for each provincial branch to operate one or more training
institutes to cater to ABC staff exclusively.  Since it was established only
recently and construction is still incomplete, courses will be introduced
gradually and full capacity enrollment will be achieved only in 1990. In
1985, 674 students are enrolled at the School, comprised of 300 in the
National TV University three-year cu--iculum in finance, 60 in a 2-year
program in rural finance, and 314 in banking seminars for managers. Fifteen
of the 23 professors and lecturers have been seconded on 2-year contracts



- 53 -                           ANNEX 3
Page 12
from the Hunan Finance and Economic Institute (operated by the provincial
Finance Bureau) while the school grooms its own teachers.
19.       The content of the National TV University finance curriculum is
presented in Table 3. Courses are videotaped and the TV lectures are rebroad-
cast in combination with tutorials and group discussions led by the teaching
staff. All students are ABC staff still receiving regular salaries, and
scholarships are provided to those students whose examination results surpass
80%. (Scholarship funds are provided from an ABC bonus pool which would have
been awarded to a comparable number of working staff.) The student body
enrolled in this program is young, ranging in age from 20 to 28 years and
averaging 23 years. All students must pass national examinations. The
20 most outstanding graduates will be selected to remain at the school as
trainers.
20.       The curriculum of the ABC Hunan Banking School's two-year course in
rural finance is presented in Table 10. Operational staff with a few years of
experience are eligible to enroll. Managers attend one-to-three month semi-
nars in groups of 60 participants. Of a total of 314 provincial ABC managers,
240 have already attended the ABC Hunan Banking School seminars. Seminar
content varies according to need but always includes the three core themes of
bank credit, bank accounting and money and banking.
21.       ABC staff also attend secondary technical level courses in rural
finance at the PBC Hunan Banking School which is administered and funded by the
People's Bank of China (PBC) for PBC, ABC, ICBC and Bank of China staff. The
Banking School trains 120 ABC full-time students annually in two-year courses
and many ABC and RCC staff enroll in either the Banking School's three-year
evening school curriculum or in correspondence classes. Table 11 presents the
PBC Hunan Banking School rural finance curriculum.
22.       In the four municipalities of Changde, Hengyang, Loudi and Xiangtan,
ABC Hunan operates rural finance schools for operational staff at the prefec-
ture and municipality levels. Finally at the county level, training is pro-
vided for both ABC and RCC staff.
Financial Operations and Performance
23.       ABC Hunan reported Y 3,867 million of total loans outstanding at the
end of 1984. Of this amount 75% supported loans for rural industry and com-
merce while 9% went to township and village agricultural collectives and 12%
to township and village enterprises. The remaining loans were made to state
agricultural enterprises. Most of the loans were short-term and mainly for
financing working capital and agricultural production inputs.
24.       Deposits of Y 2,390 million and equity funds of Y 971 million from
ABC Beijing financed these loans. In addition, ABC Hunan's transactions with
the People's Bank of China amounted to Y 1,993 million. Of the total
deposits, RCCs accounted for 52%, rural agricultural, industrial and commer-
cial enterprises 20%, and state agencies, 7Z.
25..      ABC Hunan reported a profit of Y 75 million in 1984.  Its balance
sheets and income statements for 1983 and 1984 are shown in Tables 12 and 13
below.



- 54L -                         ANNEX 3
Page 13
Table 8:  ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE HUNAN BRANCH
OF ABC AT DIFFERENT LEVELS /a
Hunan Branch Office (1)        { -  General Administration Office
{ - Personnel and Staff Supervision Bureau
{ -  Planning Bureau
{ - Agricultural Credit Bureau
{  -  Rural Commercial Credit Bureau
{ - Rural Credit Cooperative Bureau
{ -  Accounting Bureau
{ -  Foreign Finance Bureau
{ - Rural Finance Research Bureau
District and Provincial        { -  General Administration Office
Municipality Offices (14)    {  -  Personnel and Staff Supervision Division
{ -  Planning Division
( - Agricultural Credit Division
{ -  Rural Commercial Credit Division
{ - Rural Credit Cooperative Division
{ - Accounting Division
{ -  Foreign Finance Division
{ - Rural Finance Research Division
County and Municipality        { -  General Administration Office
Offices (103)                 { -  Personnel Section
{ -  Planning Section
{ - Agricultural Credit Section
{ -  Rural Commercial Credit Section
{ - Rural Credit Cooperative Section
f - Accounting Section
Township and State Farm        {  -  Manager
Offices (947)                 {  -  Deputy Manager
t  -  Accountant(s)
{ -  Cashier (teller)(s)
{ -  Auditor(s)
4  -  Loan Officer(s)
Rural Credit Cooperative             N -  Manager
Offices and Branches          { -  Accountant(s)
(4,079)                       { -  Loan Officer(s)
Credit Stations (38,465)       { -  Credit Agent
/a  Number(s) of offices at each level are within brackets.



ANNEX 3
- 55 -                             Page 14
Table 9: EDUCATIONAL QUALIFICATION OF ABC STAFF IN HUNAN
Type of                 No. of       No. of          Qualifications of staff /a
office                offices        staff        Level         Nu-mer        %
Branch                       1          160          A              96         60
B              62         39
C               2          1
District and               14           770          A             300         39
Province Muni-                                       B             424         55
cipality                                             C              46          6
County and                103         5,271          A           5,104         37
Municipality                                         B           7,449         54
Township and              947         8,524          C           1,242          9
State Farm
Total            1,065        14,725          A           5,500         37
B          7,935         54
C           1,290          9
RCCCs                   3,531        14,940          A             896          6
B         11,056          74
C          2,988          20
/a A = University/college level training
B = Senior/junior high school level training
C = Elementary school level training
Source: ABC Hunan Branch.



- 56 -                           ANNEX 3
-~ 56 -Page 15
Table 10:  CURRICULUM FOR RURAL FINANCE AT THE ABC HUNAN BANKING SCHOOL
(2 Years)
Group/course
Basics
Political Economy
Philosophy
History of the Communist Party of China
Chinese Language and Literature
English
High-Level Mathematics
Physical Education
Accounting
Communist Morality
Professional
Rural Economics
Rural Accounting for Enterprises
Rural Fnterprise Management
Rural Finance
Agriculture Technology and Economics
Money and Credit
Industrial and Commercial Credit Management
Banking Management
Accounting for the ABC Banking System
Insurance Principles
History of Chinese Finance
Foreign Finance
Western Banking Operations
Computer Applications
Marketing
Economics
Economic and Statistical Principles
Sources: ABC Hunan and the ABC Runan Banking School.



ANNEX 3
- 57 -                         Page 16
Table 11:  C[JRRICULUM FOR RURAL FINANCE AT THE PBC BANKING SCHOOL OF HUNAN
(2 Years)
Group/course                                             Course hours            Z
General                                                        491              25
Chinese
Mathematics
English
Physical Education
Political Thought                                              368              18
Political Economy
Philosophy
History of the Chinese Communist Party
Political Thought
Basics                                                         490              25
National Economic Planning
Economic Laws
Basic Financial Knowledge
Basic International Finance
Professional                                                 1,174              32
Money and Banking
Accounting Principles
Statistical Principles
Tabulation Techniques (Abacus)
Marketing
Computer Applications
Rural, Industrial and Commercial Credit
Agricultural Economics and Management
Agricultural Banking Accounting
Agricultural Credit and Allocations
Rural Enterprise Accounting
Rural Enterprise Finance
Rural Money Flow and Planning
Economic Information
Total                                                 2,523             100
Source: ABC Hunan.



Table 12:  BALANCE SHEET OF ABC HUNAN AS OF DECEMBER 31, 1983 AND 1984
(million Y)
Source of funds                            1983      1984           Application of funds                      1983       1984
Deposits                                                            Loans
State allocations /a                     59.61      52.14           State agricu1tural enterprises           100.37    132.b2
Rural agricultural, industrial and                                  Township and village agricultural
commercial enterprises                379.12    468.78              collectives                           380.45    362.73
RCCs                                  1,132.34  1,234.35            Township and village enterprises         273.58    471.61
Rural household savings                 249.03    362.18            Rural industrial and commercial
State agencies                          226.41    165.57              enterprises                         2,283.01  2,889.09
Other deposits                            18.96    106.86           Crop procurement loans /e                 12.06      10.53
Subtotal                           2,065.47  2,389.88               Subtotal                           3,049.47  3,866.58
Funds received from Industrial and                                  Loans on behalf of Industrial and
Commercial Bank of China /b            13.54    107.58              Commercial Bank of China /b         1,445.62  1,501.50
Funds received from People's Bank                                   Cash and bank balances                    91.22    192.24
of China                            1,149.97  1,993.02            Deposits with People's Bank of
Funds received from local govern-                                     China                                     -      321.29
ments /c                              141.09    356.10            Ot.iers                                    7.22    192.41
Funds from ABC Beijing /d               892.43    971.49
Other items                             240.96    180.65
Accumulated net gain                     90.07      75.30
Total                              4,595.53  6,074.02               Total                              4,593.53  6,074.02
/a  From the Hinistry of Finance and the Fujian Bureau of Finance.
7W  ABC acting as agent for ICBC in rural areas.
7T  Province and counties.
7d  Allocated by ABC Beijing from equity,
7ie  Advances to rural households and collectives.
Source:  ABC Hunan Branch.



(
Table 13:  INCOME STATEMENT OF ABC HUNAN, 1983 AND 1984
(Million Y)
Income                                       1983      1984      Expenditure                                    1983      1984
Interest received on ABC loans              160.84   188.41      Interest paid on deposits                      38.85    79.81
Agency interest and handling fees /a        193.41   337.87      Agency interest and handling fees /a          197.27   368.30
Other income, including state grants                             Other interest expenditures                     0.10      0.26
to compensate for negative interest
rate spread /b                             11.11    49.33      Administration expenses /c                      8.03      9.02
Salaries and bonus                             9.75    11.95
Other expenses /d                             21.29    30.97
Subtotal                                     275.29   500.31
Accumulated Net Gain                          90.07    75.30
Total                                  365.36   575.61           Total                                    365.36   575.61
/a ABC Beijing acting as agent for other banks without branches in rural. areas.
7b Grants from the Ministry of Finance and ABC Beijing.
/C Office overhead and staff travel but excludes salaries.
7d Includes fixed capital depreciation.
Source:  ABC Hunan Branch.



- 60 -                                    ANNEX 4
CHINA
RURAL CREDIT II PROJECT
Principal Input and Output Prices and Conversion Factors
Financial        Conversion      Economic prices
Unit         price            factor /a      1985        1990
(yuan)                         (yuan)      (yuan)
UnsKilled labor              man-day        2.0-2.5             0.60      1.2-1.5    1.2-1.5
Skilled labor                man-1ay            3.5            0.80           2.8         2.8
Lumber                          m             240.0             1.37        329.0       329.0
Electricity lb                 kWh              0.2            0.94          0.18        0.18
Concrete pipes                 each            50.0             1.37         68.5        68.5
Corn                            mt            360.0             1.60        576.0       504.0
Soyabean cakes                  at            400.0             0.80        360.0       320.0
Rice bran                       mt            200.0             0.80        160.0       160.0
Fishmeal                        Mt            700.0             0.50        350.0       350.0
Organic manures                 at             20.0             0.50         10.0        10.0
Urea                            Mt            560.0             1.60        895.0       895.0
TSP                             Mt            552.0             1.19        656.0       656.C
Potash                          mt            377.0             1.19        449.0       449.0
Oranges                         mt            600.0 (1988)      -           600.0       600.0
Passion fruit                   at            700.0             -           700.0       700.0
Bayberries                      Mt            800.0             -           800.0       800.0
Pineapples                      mt            600.0             -           600.0       600.0
Litchi                          mt          1,000.0             -         1,000.0    1,000.0
Grass carp                      kg              2.7             -             2.7         2.7
Snail carp                      kg              3.0             -             3.0         3.0
Common carp                     kg              2.8             -             2.8         2.8
Wuchang fish                    kg              2.7              -            2.7         2.7
Goldfish                        kg              2.7             -             2.7         2.7
Silver carp                     kg              1.5             -             1.5         1.5
Bighead carp                    kg              1.5             -             1.5         1.5
Shrimp (unprocessed)            Mt         9,000.0              -         9,000.0    9,000.0
Shrimp (processed)              mt         22,680.0             -        22,680.0   22,680.0
Crabs                           mt         4,300.0              -         4,300.0    4,300.0
Pomfret                         mt          4,800.0             -         4,800.0    4,800.0
Eggs                            kg              1.2             -             1.2         1.2
/a  A composite conversion factor of 1.37 has been used for construction activity based on
conversion rates for unskilled labor; steel; timber; cement; machinery; and non-traded
goods and services, see China: Pishihang Chaohu Area development Project, Staff
Appraisal Report No. 5538-CHA, May 15, 1985.
/b Economic price based on long-run marginal cost of thermal power at retail level, see
China: Second Power Project, Annex 19 of Staff appraisal Report, No. 5147-CHA,
January 22, 1985.



Amiux S
RURlOlMT 11  AoJBcT
lrs orn
_I     - 1,15 ba
Without                                         1throct
Itrm                                      project  YrV_Tt      Tr 2    7r 3   Yr 4   Tr 3   Yr 6   Yr 7   Yr 8   Yr 9  tr 10  Yr 11-14  tr IS
Productina pond arn  Csu)                   252       232       402     722    722    722    722    122    722    722    722       722       722
Iare.ry area (su)                            35         35      108     10    108    10I    108    108    106    1O0  e08    1to            103
Expected yield (kg/=)                        70        140      250     500    375    375    450    450    100    300    300       500       500
Tbtml production ('000 kg) /b                18        35       100     215    270    270    325    123    3S0    360    360       360       360
Soesame
Gron output valu- e  T 1.35/kg Lb          35         54      155     333    419    419    504    504    558   538    558         558      558
Grams Incom wfro nurery                    13         13       39      52     52      58     56     65      65     65    63       65        65
Subtoral fl)                        68        67       194     285    471    417    562    569    623    623    623       823      623
btat
Inveutsnt Cost. Le
tkrery pode                               -        16        32       -      -      -       -      -      -       -      -       -        (.)
Production ponds                          -       224       185       -      -      -       -      -      -       -      -       -      (205)
lotak. and draina   canal.                -        22        22       -      -      -       -      -      -       -      -       -      (22)
liter Inlets end dralel                   -        12        26       -      -      -       -      -       -      -      -       -      (20)
Gravel read                               -        25         -       -      -      -       -      -      -       -      -       -       (111
Brtdga                                    -                  -        -      -      -       -      -      -       -      -       -         1
Hatchlnag/spaning tanks                   -         3         -       -      -      -       -      -       -      -      -       -        (4)
lkin nd secodary inter gates             -         6         6       -      -      -       -      -       -      -      -       -        (3)
Wrebouse                                  -         9        23       -      -      -       -      -      -       -      -       -       (16)
ftshing equtpnt nd trucks                 -        28         -       -      -      -       -     28      -       -      -       -        (-)
Pelleting mechinee                        -         5         9       -      -      -       -     14      -       -      -       -        (5)
Folr IL ne end traneformr                 -         -        16       -      -      -       -      -      -       -      -       -        (8)
Subtotal (2)                         -       351       319                            -      42      -
Operating Coenta
Production Foods
_ Ie                                    7         8        25      43     45     45      47     47      49     49     49      49        49
fiteerlrnge                             4         4        12      11     14     14      25     15      -       -      -       -         -
Foeds                                   3         6        22      45     75     75    118    1I1    130    130    130       130       130
bouren. grace and choelcal
fertilizers                           7         7       32       45     53     53      58     58     65      65     45      65       65
Traneport  nd utitlies                 3         3         7      13     13      15     16     16      17     17     17      17        17
ItLnteoance                             I         1         2       4      4      4       4      4      4       4      4       6        4
Leae rant                               7        10        43      43     43     43      43     43     43      43     43      43        43
Subtotal (3)                        32        39       143     204    249    249    301    301    301    308    308       308      308
Nsrcery Fonda
Usges                                 2.0       2.0       5.0     5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0       5.0      5.0
fry                                   0.5       0.5       1.1     1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1       1.1      1.1
reed.                                 0.7       0.7       2.1     3.2    3.2    4.9    4.9    6.5    6.5    6.5    6.5       6.5      6.5
anures. grass  nd cheecaw l
fertilizers                         1.0       1.0      3.6      3.6    3.6    3.6    3.6    3.6    3.6    3.6    3.6       3.6      3.6
Utilities  lice. etc.                 0.3       0.3       1.2     1.Z    1.2    1.2    1.2    1.2    1.2    1.2    1.2       1.2      1.2
Lease rent                            2.0       2.0      6.5      6.5    6.5    6.5    6.5    6.5    6.5    6.5    6.5       6.5      6.5
Subtotel (4)                       6.5       6.5     19.5    20.6   20.6   22.3   22.3   23.9   23.9   23.9   23.9    23.9        23.9
T74.s (5)                                 1.0       2.0       3.0    16.0   20.0   20.0   24.0   25.0   29.0   29.0   29.0    29.0        29.0
Total Coets (2+34+5) (6)          39.5     398.5    484.5   240.6  239.6  291.3  347.3  391.9  360.9  360.9  360.9   360.9        63.9
Net Revenue (1-6)                  8.5   (3315)  (290.5)  144.4  181.4  185.7  214.7  177.1  262.1  262.1  262.?  262.1    559.3
Increental Revenus                            -    (340.0)  (299.0)  135.9  172.9  177.2  206.2  168.6  253.6  253.6  253.6   253.6    550.6
Financing
Subborreoers' contribution (301)            -       102        90       -      -      -       -      -       -      -      -       -         -
long-term Ienn (701)                        -       23B       209       -      -      -       -      -       -      -      -       -         -
Total                                -       340      299        -
Debt Serlce
Rapaysent of long-tern loan /d              -         -         -       -     70      70     95    100    112       -      -       -         -
Interest on long-rarn loan (7               -         -         -      82     32     27      22     15      8       -      -       -         -
Intereat on working capital (82)            -         -         -       5      5      8       8     10     10      10     10      10        10
Teotl                                -         -         -      87    107    105    125    125    130       10     10      10        10
Not revenu  After debt service                -         -         -      57     74     81      90     52    132    252    252      252       252/s
nR - 262
x - 402
/a  Boeed on Usqihobu far  in I-roog County. Pawn Province.
7i  Average earketable yield could range betwen 80-90S of optimum production. but tb  -ale price at * 1.55/kg represents the average for the
total production.  The ctoal price on slected fLab and varietioe  could be higer or lowr than the average.  7be average   l  price.
vitblot project, asurwd at t 1.95/kg.        -
/c  5ktilld labor at * 3.5/sn-day: unskilled labor at T 2.5/ec-day; pond  xcavation at Y 265.4/n; canal excavation at * 13.4/u; fill lIne
xcavctioon at T 21.,ag; road cosatruction at T 50S/.
/d  Repyort periods for fishpond development would range betusn  5 and 10 years depending upo  the tnveetest sine and net benfitc. both of
whieb would very by ubproject.
la Excludes, slvage value of project-financed inveetenta.



ANNFX 5
Table 2
CHINA
RTItAL CREnIT I1 PRnJF.CT
Freshwater Pisheries (Improvement) In
I a. - !!15 ha
Wi thott                                          With prolct
Item                                 project   Yr I   Yr 2    Yr 3  Yr *   rS  Yr h  YIr 7    Yr R    Yr e  Yr In  Yr  11-14  Tr IS
Production pond area (mu)              1.40on    .4no 1,400   1,400 1,400 1.40n 1.40n 1,40n   1,40o  1,40n  1,400    I.41JO    1*,400
Expected yield:  kR/mu                   ISn     150   250       300   375   375   45n   45n        50n    5no    5on        5nn       50s
Total productlon ('000 kg)               2I11    21n   350       420   525   525   630   630         700    700    7no       7nn       70tl
Revenue
Crams output value at
r 1.55/kg lb (1)                    326      126   543       652   814   814   977   977   1,085  1,nR5  i.nR5   1,nR5    i,rG.5
Costs
Investment Costs
Pond and canal excavation /c           -   606.1      -        -      -     -      -      -       -       -       -        -      (2m)
water Inlets                          -      4.8      -        -     -      -      -     -        -       -       -        -        (1)
Drains                                -    19.2       -        -      -     -      -     -        -       -       -        -        (5)
Bridgrs                               -    24.2       -       -      -      -     -      -                                 -      (12)
Motor and pumpsets                    -      3.6      -        -      -     -      -     -        -       -       -        -        (-)
Pump station and power supply         -    81.1       -        -      -     -      -     -        -       -       -        -       (4n)
Cinder road                           -        -    5n            -      -         -     -        -       -       -        -       (25)
Warehouses                            -        -    12         -     -      -      -     -        -       -       -        -       (16)
Water tower                           -        -    15         -     -      -      -     -        -       -       -        -        (9)
Trucks                                -        -    28         -     -      -     -    28         -       -       -        -
Nets and fishing equipeent            -        -    In         -     -      -      -     -        _       _       _        _        C-
Subtotal (2)                      -   539.0   135         -      -     -      -    28         -      -       _        -      (1IJ
operating Costs
Wages                                70       70    77        R4    8RR 8         91    92       95      95      95       95
Fingrrlings                           -        -    42        22    28    28    2R    2R          -       -       -        -        -
Feeds                                31       31    63        87   146   146   22R   72R        252    252     25       252       25' 2
Seeds, mnnures nnd
chemical fertilizers               49       49    71       73   102   1'2   122   126         126    126    126       126       126
Transport and electriettv            19       19    25        25    28    28    31    31         32      32      32       32        32
Maintenance                           7        7      7        7      7     7      7      7       7       7       7        7         7
LCSCe rent                           84       F4    84        84    84    R4    84    S4         R4      84     84       1(4       84
Subtotal (3)                    260     260   369       381   4R3   483   581   581         596    596    596       596       596
Taxes (4)                                6       6    17        27    33    33    40    4n         5n      50      S0       50        sn
Total Corts (2+344) (5)         266      8n5   521      408   516   516   621   649        U46    646    U46        h46       336
met Revenue (2-5)                6n    (479)   22       244   298   298   356   328         439    439    439       439       749
Incremental Revpse                         -    (53q)  (38)    IR4   23B2  21P2  296   248           379    379    379       17q       68B
Financing
Subborrowera' contributinn (3(n1)        -     164    40         -      -     -      -      -       -       -       -        -
Long-term loan (7n:)                     -     375    95/d       -      -     -      -     -        -       -       -        -
Total                             -      539   135        -         -   -     _      _        -      _       -        _         -
Debt Service
Repnyment of long-term loan              -       -      -       40   105   In5  l11   l2n           _       _       -        _         -
Interest on long-term loan (7Z)le    -           -      -       85    35    25    15   i1           -       -       -        _         -
Interest on worling capital (8?)        -        -      -        5    I1    10    IS    15         2n      20      2n       2n        2(
Total                             -        -     -      l3n   15n   14n   140   115          2n     20      2n       2(        2n
Se c revenue after dcht service            -        -     -      114   14R   148   216   193        ;19    419    4iq        419       '24/f
FRR - 14%
ERR - s0n
/a  Based on the proposed subproject at Lusthu farm In Yuaonjing Countv, Uinano Provtnce.  Thle subprolect would upirade etistlm.g
fishponds to national standards by deepening the production ponds to a depth of 2.5 m, ra iing the dike height tn 1 a and
Improving the dike slope to a 1:2 ratio.  In addition, the eubproject woald fund:  deepening of existing canals; excavation
nf ftill line ditches and drains; installation of a pismping station; and construction of a well and a storage building.
/b  Based on average free market prices for a combination of fish production includinR grass carp (352); silver carp (1S';
con  carp (In2); bighead carp (82); and other fish (12?).
/c  Includes pond excavation e T 265.4/ru; canal excavation e Y 3.34/i  and fill line excavation and pavement P Y 1 n7/u.
7Td  Capital outlay in Yr 2 will be financed up to 7n(1  from the subloan.
7T   Subloan repayment period for fishpond improvement would range between 5 and I n years depending upon the investment size and
net benefits which would vary by subproject.
if Excludes salvage value of project-flnanced Inwestments.



- 63 -                                                                          Tanb 3-
CNINA
RUAL CREDIT 11 r3Ccr
hirl-P Prodution i'
(Y'000>
3I -  - 1115 ba
WI thcot                                                  With- proect
It_                                project   Tr I        Yr 2    Tr I       Tr 6       Tr 5       Tr.        Tr I      rr a    Tr 9   Tr 10   Ire I IS9          . 2e
Production arms () Lb                       1 .500    3.90O    1.90    1*900       1.900       1.900      1.900      13900   1.900   13900   1.900         i*900        1.900
Prawn yIeld (hgl)                              30         -        65       70        70          75         7S          75      8o0       so     8a           bO          o1
Total produetion (.000 t)                      AS         -    123.5       133       113       142.5      142.5      342.5       352      152       '         1S7         I t
vevnue
Arose output value I Y 9.000/t (1)          405              1 .112   1.197    13197   13282.5  13282.5  1282.5   3.368  1I31, h              3.1       1.361       I.168
gto
LCost.  mtCot
invmmiumnt Colts
In:akm/dralnagm  carals                     -      681         -        -         -            -          -          -        -        -        -          -        (340)
tin dtike                                   -        77        -        -         -            -          -          -        -        -        -          -         (35)
Secondary dikem                             -       347        -        -         --                                                                                 (85)
ltin  mlutice gates                                  3         -        -         -                                                                                   (7)
secondary mlulce gates                              I 35       -        -         -            -          -          -        -        -        -          -         (75)
Offten buildtings                                   65         -        -         -            --                             - 
Truck (A ton)                                        28        -        -         - 2-
Subtotal (2)                          -    1.190          _       z -        -                                          Z        Z -  -
gt2tnn  Costa
WageJ/t                                   b63         -        86      86        86           86         8b         86       86       8b       lb         86          86
Larvae                                     30        -        48       57        57           "7         57         '7       57       51       57         57          57
Foods Id                                  ISO         -      494      512       5IZ          532        SIZ        512      532      512      53Z        512         532
Toole                                      is         -        39      39        19           19         39         39       19       19       19          39          19
Lnd rent                                    -        50       50       50        50           SO         SID        SO       so       so       so         ill         so
inttn*re                                   is         -       28       38is      38           38         38         38       38       38       38         38          38
Hiscmllooa,a /a                            11         -       28       38        38           38         38         38       38       38       3N         38           38
Subtotal (3)                        314        SO       753     820        820         820        820        820      820      870      820        S70          o7n
Tars  (4)                                    32         -        35      3V         37 33 37               37        37                 37        3?        37           37
Total Costa (2+3+4) (5)             326    1.240        788     857        857         857        857            857   o         57 7Si  as?        S7          282
Net Revenue (1-5)                    79   (1.24')       324      340       340       425.5      425.5      425. 5          5si  sui      At!        1I        a.o8e
ncremstal  Ienue                                -   (t1319)       245     261       261        346.5      346.5      346.5       .32     432      432        432       1.007
inaoscing
Subborrovera' contribution (302)              -       396         -       -          -           -          -          -
ang-tern loan (702)                           -       923         -       -          -           -          -          -        -        -        -          -
Total                                 _     3.319                  -         ---                                -       Z         -
Debt Service
Eauayment of long-terit  loan                 -         -        70      73         80         35S        150        200      200         -       -
Interest on long-tere loan (72)               -        35/f     65       60        54           50         39         28       28        -        -          -            -
Interest on workIng CApital (82) /R            -       30        1        0         30          is          IS       15        35                t s5        I5          15
TotAl                                 -        65       145      143       166         215        204         243     243        IS       15         15          15
Net revenue After debt service                  -         -       179      197       196       230.5      221.5      182.5      268      496      496        496         496/h
FIU - 242
CER - 362
/a  lEned on the proposed deeelopjent of a prawn rearing pond In the Weoutang  mrine  recla_tion area at Changchun Villag  in Ziapu Cunty. Fuzman Province.
7ii  leboilding of 1.500 mu of existing prawn pools and construction of owM poole on an additional 400 mu.
77   Unskilled labor at Y 2.5/mn-day and skilled labor at Y 3.50/an-day.  For pond  anagemnt. one sklled worker/20 ma.
77-  15-20 kg of lw  value flb for 0.5 k4  of prwn production or 2.5 kg of blended forage I Y 1.6014k.
7;   Include chesicals for cleaning ponda after harvest.
77   Payable from subborroera' nonproject reeourcee.
ABC would provide working capital tbrough annual loans.
__   Excludes salvage value of project-financed inveatments.



IIINAL 01112? IX P80.1310?~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~T1171 X
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ mu -                                 S3/  - 4a
Itimw cmrnTs 11 rWU
Without                                           111th prolet
project   Tr I  Tr 2    Tr 3   Tr 4   Tr 5Tr 6  Yr        rSr 9 Tr 10 Tr -I9l-l  Tr 2n-24   Yr 25
Are. planted (au)                              -       100      1o0       100   l00         InO 300   100   300  100   i0n   00       tO0      Ion
Yie ld (1/mu)                                  -         -       -       -    0.25   0.50  0.75   1.0  1.50  1.50  1.50      1.50     1.20      1.2n
Total productton (t)                           -         -               -      25    50   75  Inn   150   I50  35n          31        120      320
Revenue
Cram  output 'imli  * Y 600lt
(rTooo) (1)                                -         -       -       -    15.0  30.0  45.0  60.0  s0.0  90.0  90.0    90.n        72.11    72.0
olrsts ent Cota
Land preparation  a                        -       10.0          -       -                              -       - _5Sn)
Irrtgation Gymtm_b                         -      17.4       -       -                              -                               -     (4..)
Plsntlng mterial 1                         -        4.5
11achinery (tractors mad                   -       n.5    1.7    0.9         --                                                     -     il.2)
sprayers)
Subtotal (2;                              -      32.4    3.7      0.9       --    (10.6)
Operation Coat.
prat.                                      -        2.5    10.     0I.n   12.5  12.S  12.5  12.5  13.8  13.8  13.8    13.9       12.5     12.S
Fertilizers and anurem                     -      158      6.5      .5        9.4   9.4   9.4   9.   13.2  11.2  11.2    11.2     11.2     13.2
7ula  weter nd *lectricty                  -       0.6     0       0.      0.    0.9  0.9   0 9   1.1  1.1  1.1          1.1       3.0      3.0
Omical and peticides                       -         -     0.6     0.6     1.5   1.5  1.5   1.5  1.81  I.   1.8          1.8       1.8      R.A
Ltus* tools. etc.                          -        0.8    0.7    0.7       3.0   1.0  1.0   1.0   1.2   1.2  1.2         1.2       1.0     1.0
ns .cellaneoua                             -        0.8    0.5     0.5      0.6   0.8   0.8   0.8  1.0  1.1   1.n         1.0      0.6      0.9
Subtotal (3)                              -      2.3    19.1   19.1   26. 1  26   26.1  26.1  32. 1 32.3  32.1    32.1           30.3    30.3
Tax   (4)                                    -         -       -       -       -    0.4  1.9   3.4  6.3   6.3  6.3         6.3       4.2      4.2
Total COnats (2344) (5)                   -       52.7   22.8   20.0   26.1  26.5  28.0  29.5  3R 1.4  3R.4  38.4    38.4        34.5    23.9
lNt Renue (1-S)                           _      (52.7)  (22.8)  (20.0)  (11.1)   3.5  17.0  30.5 51.6  51.6  51.6               37.5    48.1
rinanclee
Subborro_ers contribution OO()               -       15.8    6.8    6.0      3.3                                             -         -        -
Long-te-r  loan (702)                        -      36.9   16.0   14.0 -   7.8                           -- 
Total                                   -       52.7   22.8   20.0   11.1                                               -         -        -
Debt Srvilce
Pepayment. of lo-rrnz loan                   -         -       -        -      -      -     -  18.0  18.0  18.0  20.7        -
Interest on long-tem loan (7M)/              -       1.      1.1    4.3      4.9   5.2   1.2  5.2   1.9  2.7   1.4
Interest on working capitsl (86Z7f           -         -       -       -       -   0.4   0.6  1.0  2.0   2.0  2.0          2.0       2.0      2.0
Total                                   -        1.3    3.1     4.3    *.9    5.6   5.6  24.2  21.9  22.7  24.1       2.0       2.0      2.0
yet renue aft.'r debt service                  -         -       -       -       -      -     -   6.3 27.7  28.9  27.5    49.6        35.5    46.11j
FRp - 221
ERR - 30t
/a  50 man-daya/au e T 2/ma - .
7ii Include  reservoir (300 e)  dlatribatton pool (80 m); *nRtn roa  (14 in) and Irrigaton canal (400 *).
7c AveraRes S0 *apiinaae/u e T 0.61aaplitn. On more levl' land, up to 120 saplings/no is possible.
7;d  Includeo replaceesnt of wornot machinery.
7T  Interest during the grace period would be paSd from  ubborrowrsr  nonproject resources.
T7F ABC would provide working capital through annual loans from yr 5 onwards.
T- Excludes salvane value of project-finsnced investments.



NWrx 5
T hYl 5
- 65 -
RURAL CtEDIT TT PROJECT
1.A teh  Orchard
I mu - 1/IS ha
Without                                              With proect
project    Yr I       Yr 2      Yr 3-6   Yr 7   Yr 8   Yr 9  Yr 10  Yr 11-13  Yr 14-20  Yr 21-24   Tr 25
Area planted (au)                          -       5.non      5,0Sn     5,000    50onn  5.000  5.000  5.000   5,000       5,000      5,000o    S,n0
YTield Ct/mu)                              -           -          -         -     n.25   n.25   n.40   n.40    (40         n.60n       (.75      0.75
Total produrtion (t)                       -           -          -         -    1.250  1,250  2,000  2,000   2,000       3,00       3,750      1.7511
Revenue
Crore output value CT t,000/t) tl)       -           -          -         -    1.250  1.250  2.000  2.000   2.000       3,00o      3.750      1,750
Coats
Invesflert Costa
Land preparation /a                    -         600          -         -        -      -       -      -        -         -          -       (3n1)
Saplings lb                            -        100           -        -         -      -      -       -       -          -          -        (20)
Pamticide Latka /e                     -           -       41.2         -        -      -       -      -        -         -           -       (10)
Sprayers                              -          -        15.0        --
Pickup trucks /a                       -          20       4n.0         -        -      -       -      -        -         -          -          -
Subtotal (2)                         -        720        96.2        -         -
Oprnratjqgfoeta
OlzsFetety ats 7f-                               165        150       210      210    210    270    270      270        333        405        4n5
Fertilizer and pentieidee              -        120         170      145       195    195    220    220      220        265        290        290
Toole and equipment                    -         40          15        30       30     30      30     U0       30        1n         40         4n
Management epenseeLR                   -         20          35        35       35     35      35     35      35         35         25         25
Transport expenses                     -           5         15        15       15     15      20     20      20         25         2S         25
Subtotal (3)                         -        350         3R5      485       4R5    485    575    575      575        683        785        735
Taxes (4)                                -          -           -         -     62.5   62.5    100    1on       Ion       IE0     3117.5      IA7.5
Total Costs (2+3+4) (5)              -       J 070      481.2      485    547.5  547 5    675    675       675        R33      972.5      6425.
Net Revenue 11-5)                    -     (1t070)    (4311.2)    (45)   702.5 702.5  13325  1325   1.325           2.167    2,t77d 5   3jO7.5
Financing
Subborroeers= contribution (302)         -         320      144.2       145        -      -       -      -       -          -
Lent-ter  loan (702)                     -        750       337.0      340         -      -       -      -       -
Total                                _      1070        481.2      485         -      -       -      -       -          -          -          -
Debt Service
Repayment of lonr-term loan              -           -          -         -      450    450    750    797         -
Intereat on long-term loan (72) /h       -         30          65      135/i   175    140    110        60       -
Intereet on working capital (tR)         -          -           -         -        5      5       5      5        5         5          5          5
Tbtal                                -         30          65       135      630    595    865    862        5          5          5          5
Net revenue after .sbt aervice             -         (30)/h     (65)/h  (135)tb  72.5  107.5    460    463   1,320        2,162    2,772.5   2.772.%5/
FRI - 212
ERR - 232
/a  40 man-day/ou et Y 3/mn-dav, an average for unskilled and sae-skilled labor.
71; 20 *aplings/mu at Y 1/sapling.
7;W  250 pesticide tank,. I.e., one tank/20 mu at T 250!tank.
71i 150 bigh-pressure hand sprayers, I.e. one sprayer/33 su at Y 100/sprayer.
7W  Three 1.75-ton Toyota lI-I30  pickup trucks at Y 20.000/truck.
7?  For orchard tending.  Eleven en-daym/mu at Y 1/man-dav.
3i Includes maintenance.
S Subborrowers to pay intereat for years 1-6 from  noproject remources.
7  Annual average for four yeara.
f Excludes salvage value of project-financed investments.



44,~~~~~~:
gm
EVEAL LE3fl T? 21puosr
poeltry uadisa angd Ir  Pr*isctim s  M
Without                                                With ar lc
Ite                                      piraJet  fTr I     TI        Tr3       Tr&      TrS     Tr          7     Tr 3      _ *Im rel       it 1r  trY Wf l- lTr :.1
-nft2ir?f f  i. *f bird.)                   -      5.       10   ono1001  10,000 10 00 im O      20,000   I0 100    10.00 i0 Io0nnn   In.n0n   C.900    10n1nnn
Cmerial lar tlra (C00 birds)                  -    -       100       200       2110n200          2011    200      220       201     2nn0    20         2nn
NeciG  cb cke   pee)                   -          -      0.75       1.46     2.46     2.46     1.4    I2.44      1.44     2.46     1.44     2.46      I.44
Cartial egms ('000 km)                 -         2.5      2.5        2.1      1.1      2.5      I.S      I.S      2.5      I.5      2.5      2.5       2.1
1.t" kida 1-000 Pa.)                   -         0.6       6.9      12.5     12.5    12.1    12.5    12.15        2.1     12.5    17.1    17.1        12.%
bsarclal asa (toon  k)                 -           -     22.4    2,951       .o,60    5,330    5,40    5         .110    S,AW0  *.Un         S.I 92
Cal.  kirda (000)                                 - _       _        210      220      220      22n     22n       220      220      22      2*2n       70n
ruesdqfte
iii-reh d      T 0.7/chiek)            -          -    511.0   2.n22.0  2,022.0  2,02.0  2,022.0  I.n22.C  2.022.0  1.022.n 1..122.      n  1     .022.F.
Comrcial saga (0 I 1.21/t)             -         1.6                          2.3      I.3      1.6      2.3      2.6      1.4      i.      I. 
Odle bird.                             -        0.7      29.2      517.2     57.2    57.2    57.2      5.        517.2    57.12     7.2    57.2      57.2
thers fb                                -        2.5       ..0               11. IS.0    22.0    I2.0    21.0     1         ..0  250  1.0   2 1   1. 0 I IA
subiotal (12                                  ).      510.0   1.094.0  1.0".0  2.04.0  1.n 94.0  1.0*1.0  1.1104.0  2.4.0n   2.o4.0  I.119.0  1.cn*.n
Coarcial *fa 'T 1.*2/U                    -                 25.5   1,437.0  7,252.5  7,212.5 7,252.5  7,32.S  7,232.1  7,232.5  7,232.1  7,232.1  7,212.5
Ca1led bids                                                   -     510.0  i.0I20.0  2,020.0  1         0020.0  1 I020.0  2,020.1202n.0  2.0222.0 2I. 0.0   I D n 2n.n
nt   b                                    -         - L.5 11  23.0   233.5   231.5   213.5   233.5    233.5   231.5   213.S   253.5    211.5
Skbtot (l2                           -          -       411.0   4.13140  3.486.0  3,416.0  1,484.0  6,464.0  11.486.0  8.406.0  8,416.0  8U4E4.0  P.u44.0
TOW 1h oums (1i2) (3)                -4.0   54                       30.0  9.om.     0   .56110  9.350.0  9.0.0  9.561.0  9. o.n.n 0  9380.0   9.1O.n
Ibatonts     t.
..-r rwew
laS                                               21m       -          -        -        -       _   -         -        -        -        -   .       .20
CLie  _ft.                             -       1.840        -         -        -        -        -        -        -        _        _        -       (92n)
flhisary ad  qupoet                     -       441         -         -         -        -       -       noo       -         -       -        -       [nn)
Truka                                  -         Go         -         -         -       -        -       GO        -
Pasr cssetia_                           -         40        -          -        -        -        -       -         -        -        -       -        ()
Niecellolsouw                         -        235         -         -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -         -
Sebtotal (6)                         Lz       i4s.00z    (1.061
Mbld                                    -        65         -          -        -        -       -         0       -         -        -       -        (452
ul1l -h                                -      *.91          -         -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -    i795)
Macbbwry d  eqapsoat                    _         _    1,              - _         _       _            750        _         _        _               (?%I)
Trucks                                 -          -       120         -         -20
utliacseso,                             -        63         -          _        _        _        _        _        _       -         _        _        _
Sbotal (5)                           -       5119     523135                                          670                                         (1.410)
TotalJE!fleLota~ (6.0) (4)            -      !7,U      3.155                                    -    2.00         - 
Opsrotieg Omata Is
lrosder Par
11-4ue   fleck P T 1.12/bir             -         20       40         40       40       4n       40      40        40       40       60       40       an
5-20 sek  nflock   T  .75/btrd         -         24        47        47        47      41       47       67        17      67       47       47        67
21-71ie  ncelockTl 1Y./bird             -          9       220       220       220      220      20      2        220      22un     220      220       22U
Sebtetel (7)                          -        5        301       JO?      l17       307     1117     21       107      27       307      37        1m
Layer Puts
0-4  aee   noch9  T 2.24/br          -          -       262       524      524      524       2       524      324      524      524      524       124
5-20 _sok  fo   0 Y1  .2bird         -         -       341        722      722      722     722      722       722      722      722      727      72n
21-71 se.  fleck 0 115.65/bird        -         -        132     .127     3.170    1.170    3.1mn.170 32170 2          5.17270    1.i70    3.170    2 1,12
Subtotal (3)                                            717     6,43 J    4Jj    4.4*  1    4 .42   6.414    4 414    a4.2 *    4j1    4 .62      A 4.62
T.hte1 n.-rati  Coats (7.6) (9)       -          5    I,         4723    4725    4.3    4           4.723    4.2       4.723    4 72     4 .723   4.723
Tbas
Er  dr                                -         -        25         33       55 Is    I        is      ss       Ss       Is       is        1         21
Laer fare                             -          -        5        217   UA          424      424     224       424      424      424      424      624
sebtotal (10)                         -                            272      L7       479     479       679      479      479     479       479       79
Tortl bat (r09410) (11)               -      7 13     4. 229    4A995    5 202    1.302    5.202   4232    I.202    5.202    13 202   1.202          112
Net Es.eeas (3-li)            _              7.615)   (w3.52       435    4f  48  *  378   4 373      3 _74    IL-373    A373    4.376    4 37       '
ZISeorratros.' csetrlktloe (3S)          -       2.143     2.n71
tanrtOtU lees (702)                              5.470    2.,49
Total                                        7.613     3.1U5
Dkbt SrIcs
REpasast of oer-trs lon                  I_O -                -          -       M.01    2.7an   2.900    2,4         -
latrst an  o-tare lose (72)               -         -         -         -    2J335       S        311      I
IerZot - sarki        pial lIoan (S      -                    -        1-Z)  Inn  Ina    20o     2o1      2D        lo2     3no      Inn       2n        1
Tmtal                                           -           -  -   10              1300 1.300    1-245 1I11              100     1001    100        1011
Nat resa afltr dbt         l                -         -          -       335      943    1.070   1I.N3    1.732   4.273    4,273    4,.21      4,273  : .1U3/n
mP - 232
En - 271
j/ e - a propod projaet at 'loegise  auaa  Preetca.
/alel7 poutry ear..
lbelude coat of feed. labor. utilitles snd iaminost.
PsClua ao1sdwas Vole of proleat-rfieacd te.aonte.



Table-
- 67 -
CHINA
RURAL CR?.DrT IT PRnJWCT
FlSh Flee ing/Cold Storage
Y 000)
Without                                            with project
Item                                      project Tr I        Yr 2    Yr 3   Yr4   Tr 5   Yr 6   Tr 7   Yr R   Yr 9  Tr IO  Yr 11-19  Yr 20
Capecity:  Freezer (kg/hr)                                    41n       400    400    400    400    40n    4no    400    4nn          400      4nn
Cold stormae (,2)                                  200      20n    2an    20n    2nn    2n0    200    21n0   2nn          2n0      20n
Revenue /a
Shrimp (C.he-ded)                           -        _         -   2.585  2,585  3,447  4,109  4,309  4,523  4,523  4,523   4,523    4,523
Crabs                                       -        -         -     505    505    675    643    843    885    8R5    885          885       R85
Poefrut                                              -              1- ,140  1,14n  1,520  1.900  1.90n  j,9q5  1,995  3,9S   1,995   13995
Ice                                                            -      30      30      40     50      5n      5n     50      50       50       50
Subtotal (1)                             --    ,260  4260  5.682  7.102  7.102  7.3 7_4.653  7.453   7,53    7453
mtn
Investment roat.
Land                                      -      10n         -       -       -       -      -       -       -      -       -       -      (Inn)
Civtl works                               -      510      335        -       -      -       -       -       -      -      -        -      (35M)
Equipment                                 -      170    1,noo        -       -       -      -    1IO        -      -    Inn        -      (260)
Installation                              -      100      100        -       -      -       -       -      _       _      _        _         _
Refrigerated trucke                       -        -       100       -       -       -      -      qo       -      -       -       -       (20)
Technical aessistance                     -       25      100        -       -       -      -       -      -       _       -       _         -
MiScellaneous                             -       25        45                       -      -       -       -       -                        -
Subtotal (2)                                   930    1.680                                       9                    100-       -      (731)
Operating Costs
Raw materials lb                          -        -         -   2,723  2,723  3,631  4,539  4,539  4,539  6.539  4,519   4,539    4,539
Packaging aterials                        -        -         -     248    248    321    414    414    414    414    414          416       414
Wages and manuogment overhead Ic          -        -         -      78      78    103    130    130    1301   130    130         130       130
Electricity                               -        -        -       31      31      42     52      52      52     52      52      52        52
Water                                     -        -         -       6       f      In     in      In      in     10      10     3in        in
Transport                                 -        -        -       36      36     48      60      6n     60      60    fi        6n        60
Maintenance                               -        -         -      38      38      sn     63      63      63     63      63      63        63
Export comnsiomon                         -        -        -      126    126    167    210    21n    21n    210    210          2in       210
Miscellaneous                             -        -         -      14      14      14     18      18      18    I1       18      IR        38
Subtotal (3)                             -       -         -   3.300  3.300  4.386  5,496  5.496  5,496  5,496  5,696   5.46    s.496
Taxes (4)                                   -        -         -       50     50      65     65      65      65     65      65      65        65
Total Costs (2+3+4) (5)                  -    (930)  (1.680)  3.350  3.350  4.451  5.561  5.751  5.561  5.S61  5.661   5.561    4.831
Net Revenue (1-5)                        z    (930)  (1.80)    910    930) 1,231  1.541  1.351  1B92  1,892  1.792   1.892    2.622
Finanecng
Subborrowers' contrihution (300)            -      280       505        -      -       -      -       -       -      -       -       -         -
Long-term Inan (70?)                        -      650    1,175         -      -       -      -       -       -      -       -       -
Total                                    -      93n    1            z -                                                                     -
Debt Service
Repayment of long-term loan                 -        -         -      2n0    325    40n    650    451         -      -       -       -
Interest on long-cerm loan (72)             -        -         -     24n    115       90     65      35      -       -       -       -
Intereat on working capital (8?)            -        -         -       95    12   I0  150 1          5 150    150    1150    150    150      150
Total                                    -        -        -      535    560    640    665    635    iS0    150    150          ISn       151
Net revenue after debt service                -        -         -      375    350    591    R76    716  1,742  1,742  1,642   1,74R    1,748/d
FRR - 402
ERR - "4
la  At 602 capacity in Yru 3 and 4; 8(11  In Yr 5; and 1011  from Yr 6 onwards.  At full development, the production would include:  shrip -
190 tons  T Y 22,680/tons; crabs - 196 tons P Y 4,300/ton; pmfret - 396 tons P t 4,800/ton; and ice - 1,000 tons e   Y 50/ton.  In Yr A,
a productivity ISprovement of 52 ia expected.
/b  Raw materials at full capacity will include shrimp (315 t P Y 9,000/t); crabs (200 t P Y 2,800/t); and pomfret (400 t P Y 2,A60 t).
7T   Unskilled labor at Y 2.5/man-day; skilled labor ut T 3.5/man-day; and management overhead at T 50,000 at full development.
7i Excludes salvage value of project-financed Investments.



AMM5
TableT
- 68 -
CPR
RIURAL CREDIT II PROJECT
Viuh Fe       s reei ng
( 1000)
Without                                        With prolact
Item                                       project    Tr I    TrZ   Yr 3   Tr       Tr     Tr6    r 7   Tr8   Tr 9  Tr 10  Yr 11-14  Yr 15
capacity tt/day)                              -          5       5       5      5      5       5      5       5      5      5        5        5
Production (t)&                               -          -     600  1,200  1,500  1,500  1,500  1.50f  1.500  1,500  1.500   1,500    1.500
Revenue
Crone output value ST 900/t (1)             -          -     540  1 080  1.350  1.350  1 0  1,35i  l3l50  1.350  1.350   1.35    1.350
Costs
Inve-tment Coste
Land                                     -         100       -       -      -      -       -      -      -       -      -       -      (100)
Civil works                              -        240        -      -       -      -      -       -      -      -      -        -      (120)
Equipment /b                             -          36     296      -       -     50      -       -      -       -     5n       -      (150)
Installation                             -          -       60      -       -      -      -       -      -      -       -       -         -
Vehicles /c                               -         56       -       -      -      -       -     56      -       -      -       -         -
Utiltses 7d                              -         ion       -      -       -      -      -       -      -      -       -       -         -
Technical assistance le                  -           -      42       -      -      -       -      -      -       -      -       -         -
Subtotal (2)                            -        532      398      -       -     50      -      56      -      -      50       -      (37n)
operat ioA Cante
Raw materials /f                         -           -     322    650    820    R20    R20    820    820    020    820        820       820
Electricity and coal                     -          -        6     12      15     15     15      15     15     15      is      1s        is
Wages and manaement overhead &s          -           -      16     34      40     40     40      40     60     40      4n      40        40
Maintenance                              -           -      20     40      50     S0     50      50     50     50      50      50        50
Packagiag materials                       -          -       6      12     15     15      15     15     15      15     15      15        15
miacellaneo.                             -           -       8     20      20     20     20      20     20     20      20      20        20
Subtotal (3)                            -           -     384    768    960    960    960    960    960    960    960        960       960
Tame x 4)                                  -          -        6      8      10     10     10      10     10     10      10      10        1n
Total Coat, (2+344) (5)                 -         532     78M    776    970  1M02    970  1 026    970    970  1,020         970       600
Ket Revenue (1-5)                       -        (532)   (246)   304    380    330    380    324    380    380    330        380       750
Pinancin*
Subborrovers' contribution (30:)           -         160      75       -      -      -       -      -      -       -      -       -         -
Long-rerm  loan (70%)                      -         372     173       -      -      -      -       -      -      -       -       -         -
Total                                   -         532     248       -      -      -      -       -      -      -       -       -         -
Debt Service
Repaynent of long-term loan                -           -       -      75    100    130    125    100      45       -      -       -         -
Interest on long-term loan (7Z)            -           -       -     83      45     40     30      25     15       -      -       _
Interest on working capital (oZ)           -           -       -     20      25     25     25      25     25      25     25      25        25
Total                                   -           -       -    178    170    165    180    150       85     25      25      25        25
Net revenue after debt service                -          -       -    126    110    If5    200    174    295    355    305        355       355/h
FRB - 35%
ERR - 39%
/a  Booed on an average of 300 operating days/year.  Thie requires 5 t/day of pellettzed fish feed with 302 protein.
7b- Includes importe4 cquipment for mixing, pelletizing, cooling and extruding fish feed CY 280,000).
V   Two 4-ton trucks.
5i water, stem, and electricity Installations.
We  Expatriate consultant(s) to assist in machinery installation and initlal operation of the plant.
7F  At full capaclty, raw ateriala wvoud Include: corn (270 t); wheat bran (250 t); toya bean coke (450 t): rice bran (700 c); fith meal
(350 t); bonear l (40 t); salt (40 t); and additives (100 t).
I Wages: unskilled labor at * 2.5/man-day and skilled labor at Y 3.5/man-day. Management overheads: 1 6,400 tn 'r 1; Y 11,800 in Yr 2
and T 16,000 from Yr 3 onwarde.
/b Exclude. salvage value of project-financed inveetments.



5310 WI97
HUBEI                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CHINA
RURAL CREDIT 11 PROJECT
ANHUI       ~~ ,m Nwu
*  -a
SICHUA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'i
M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                      .
* * 4.  *  /..X-NM
JULY 1961






