OFFICIAL CREDIT NUMBER 1642 CHA
DOCUMENTS
Project Agreement
(Second Rural Credit Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
AGRICULTURAL BANK OF CHINA
Dated                              ,1986


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1642 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated            3, 1986, between
INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT   ASSOCIATION  (the  Association)   and
AGRICULTURAL BANK OF CHINA (ABC).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between People's Republic of China (the Borrower) and
the Association, the Association has agreed to make available to
the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
eighty-four million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 84,000,000), on
the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that ABC agrees to undertake
such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this
Agreement;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and ABC, the proceeds of the credit provided
for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made available
to ABC on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary
Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS ABC, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement and in
the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective mean-
ings therein set forth.
TIRTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) ABC declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity


﻿-2-
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and agri-
cultural practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paTagraph (a)
of this Section, ABC shall carry out the Project in accordance
with the Implementation Arrangements set forth in Part A of the
Schedule to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Association and ABC.
Section 2.02. (a) ABC shall approve and present Sub-loans to
the Association for approval, or in the case of free-limit Sub-
loans, for authorization to withdraw from the Credit Account, in
accordance with the provisions of Part B of the Schedule to this
Agreement.
(b) ABC undertakes that, unless the Association shall
otherwise agree, each Sub-loan shall be made on terms whereby ABC
sball obtain, by written contract with the Sub-borrower or other
appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests
of the Association and of ABC, including the terms and conditions
and rights set forth in Part C of the Schedule to this Agreement.
(c) ABC shall exercise its rights in relation to each
Investment  Project  in  such manner   as   to: (i) protect the
interests of the Association and of ABC; (ii) comply with its
obligations under this Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment; and (iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Part D of
the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. ABC shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services,
plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.05. ABC shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, ABC shall not take or concur in any action


﻿- 3 -
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement to affect the provisions of
Section 3.01 (b) of the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.06. (a) ABC shall, at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the pro-
gress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) ABC shall promptly inform the Association of any condi-
tion wh .h interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress
of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit,
or the performance by ABC of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ABC
Section 3.01. ABC shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial,
and agricultural practices under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers.
Section 3.02. From time to time, at the request of any one
of them, the Borrower, the Association and ABC shall exchange
views on the interest rates to be charged by ABC in its lending
operations in light of ABC's cost of funds and profitability, as
well as inflation and other interest rates in China.
Section 3.03. ABC shall inform the Association of any
changes in the laws referred to in Sectio7a 4.01 (c) of the
Development Credit Agreement which relate to the ability of ABC
to carry out the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) ABC shall maintain, or cause to be main-
tained, records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices: (i) the operations, resources
and expenditures in respect of the Project; and (ii) the opera-
tions and financial condition of ABC-Fujian and ABC-Hunan.


﻿-4-
(b) ABC shall:
(i)  cause to be audited in accordance with appropriate
auditing   principles  consistently   applied,   by
independent auditors acceptable to the Associa-
tion, for each fiscal year: (A) the Project
accounts referred to in sub-paragraph (a) (i) of
this  Section; (B) the    ac.'unts  and  financial
statements of ABC-Fujian and ABC-Hunan (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements); and (C) the Special Account;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, certified copies of:
(A) said financial statements of ABC-Fujian and
ABC-Hunan for such year as so audited; (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and (C) the consoli-
dated financial statements (balance sheet and
statement of income and expenses) of ABC for such
year; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said accounts and financial statements
as well as the audit thereof and said records, as
the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, ABC shall:
(i) maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this
Section, separate records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the Associa-
tion has received the audit report for the fiscal
year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;


﻿-5-
(iii) enable    the  Association's   representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by said auditors as to whether the pro-
ceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of such
expenditures were used for the purposes for which
they were provided.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of ABC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) the date 20 years after the date of this Agree-
ment.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accQrdance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
ABC of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between


﻿- 6 -
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been dily given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                   Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For ABC:
Agricultural Bank of China
25 Fuxing Road
Beijing
People's Republic of China
Cable address:                   Telex:
1053                              22017 ABC CN
Beijing
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of ABC may be taken or executed by its
President or such other person or persons as ABC's President
shall designate in writing, and ABC shall furaish to the Associa-
tion sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿7-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
By  /  -Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
AGRICULTURAL BANK OF CHINA
By
Authorized Representative


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE
Project Implementation
Part A: Project Implementation Arrangements
Except as the Association and ABC may otherwise agree:
1.   ABC shall cause ABC-Fujian and ABC-Hunan each to maintain a
Project Office, with staffing acceptable to Association and ABC,
to supervise and monitor the implementation of the Project in the
respective Province, and to assist the county-level Project
Units, under the guidance of the Project Management Committees.
2.   ABC shall cause each of the county offices of ABC-Fuijan and
ABC-Hunan in which Investment Projects are proposed to establish
and thereafter maintain a Project Unit to supervise and monitor
all aspects of implementation of each sLch Investment Project.
3.   ABC shall carry out the staff training under Part B of the
Project under a training program agreed between the Association
and ABC.
4.   ABC shall furnish to the Association semi-annually the pro-
gress reports referred to in Section 9.06 (a) (iii) of the
General Conditions within 60 days of the end of each six-month
period.
Part B:   Appraisal   of  Investment  Projects  and   Approval  of
Sub-loans
1.   Investment Projects shall be appraised by ABC in accordance
with the procedures and criteria set out in its project appraisal
manual (August 1984). In addition, as part of this appraisal ABC
shall ensure that:
(a) planting materials, soils and topography included in
Investment Projects under Part A (2) of the Project shall be
acceptable to the Fujian and Hunan Academies of Agricultural
Sciences, respectively;
(b) agro-processing plants included in Investment Projects
under Part A (3) of the Project shall be designed in accordance
with sound environmental practices as specified in the Environ-
mental Guidelines issued from time to time by the Bank; and


﻿-9-
(c) Sub-loans for fish and shrimp ponds under Part A (1) of
the Project shall be made only after the design and layout of
ponds, including water supply canals and disposal drains, have
been approved by the Fisheries Bureaus of Fujian Province and
Hunan Province, respectively.
2.   When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit Sub-
loan) to the Association for approval, ABC shall furnish to the
Association, an application, in form satisfactory to the Associa-
tion, together with:
(a) a description of the Sub-borrower and an appraisal of
the Investment Project;
(b) the proposed terms and conditions of the Sub-loan,
including the schedule of amortization therefor; and
(c) such other information as the Association shall reason-
ably request.
ABC shall approve such a Sub-loan only after the Association has
notified ABC of its approval.
3.   Each request by ABC for authorization to make withdrawals
from the Credit Account in respect of a free-limit Sub-loan shall
contain:
(a) a summary description of the Sub-borrower and the
Investment Project; and
(b) the terms and conditions of such free-limit Sub-loan.
Part C:   Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans
1.   Sub-borrowers shall contribute not less than thirty percent
(30%) of the total cost of Investment Projects.
2.   Except as   the Association   shall otherwise   agree, Sub-
borrowers shall pay interest from time to time on the principal
amount of Sub-loans withdrawn and outstanding, at ABC's prevail-
ing interest rate for similar loans for similar purposes.
3.   Amortization periods for Sub-loans shall be determined by
ABC based on the estimated cash-flow of the Investment Project
financed, and shall provide for an appropriate period of grace.


﻿- 10 -
4.   The Sub-loan contracts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of
this Agreement shall provide, inter alia, for the right of ABC
to:
(a) require the Sub-borrower to carry out, and, where
appropriate, operate the Investment Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial
and agricultural standards, and to maintain adequate records;
(b) require that the goods and services to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Sub-loan: (i) be procured in accordance
with Part D of this Schedule; and (ii) be used exclusively in the
carrying out of the Investment Project;
(c) inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of
the Association, if the Association shall so request, such goods
and the sites, works, plants and construction included in the
Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant
records and documents;
(d) require that the Sub-borrower, if appropriate, take out
and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against
such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound
business practice;
(e) obtain all such information as the Association or ABC
shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing, to the admin-
istration, operations and financial condition of the Sub-borrower
(where the Sub-borrower is not an individual) and to the benefits
to be derived from the Investment Project; and
(f) suspend or terminate the right of the Sub-borrower to
the use of the proceeds of the Sub-loan upon failure by such
Sub-borrower to perform its obligations under its contract with
ABC.
Part D:   Procurement Procedures
1.   Goods, works and services required for Investment Projects
under Parts A (1), (2) and (4) of the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured according to
local procedures acceptable to the Association.
2.   Goods for Parts A (3) and B of the Project shall be procured
as follows:


﻿- 11 -
(a) items or groups of items estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $50,000 or less per contract may be procured under con-
tracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
solicited from at least three qualified suppliers eligible under
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines), in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Association; and
(b) items or groups of items estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of more than $50,000 shall be procured under contracts
awarded through limited international bidding procedures on the
basis of evaluation and comparison of bids invited from a list of
at least four qualified suppliers, from at least three different
countries, eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance with
the procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines
(excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
3.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract for Parts A (3) and B of
the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more,
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply. Where p&yments for such contract are
to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to
the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in
respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract for Part B of the Project
not governed by the preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth
in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply.   Where payments for such contract are to be made out of
the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure
that the two conformed copies of the contract together with the
other information required to be furnished to the Association
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Associa-
tion as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to para-
graph 4 of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the


﻿- 12 -
basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be re-
tained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agree-
ment.
(d) The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
4.   In order to assist ABC in carrying out Part B of the
Project, ABC   shall employ   consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Con-
sultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Execut-
ing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the  3         day of          ,
198 .
FOR SECRETARY


