OFFICIAL        CREDIT NUMBER 1642 CHA
DOCUMENTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Rural Credit Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                 3      , 1986


﻿CREDIT RMBER 1642 CHA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                  3          , 1986, between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the orrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT 'SSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) the Project will be carried out by Agricultural Bank of
China (ABC) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to ABC proceeds of
the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association
and ABC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the
respective  meanings   therein  set   forth  and  the   following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "ABC" means the Agricultural Bank of China, a special-
izfd banking institution established and operating under the laws
of the Borrower, including, inter alia, the 1979 State Council
Circular and the 1983 State Council Decision;
(b) "1979 State Council Circular" means the Circular of the
Borrower's State Council on the Restoration of the Agricultural


﻿-2-
Bank of China, dated February 23, 1979 (State Council Document
No. (1979) 56);
(c) "1983 State Council Decision" means the Decision of the
Borrower's State Council on the Exclusive Exercise of central
Bank Functions by the People's Bank of China, dated September 17,
1983 (State Council Document No. (1983) 146);
(d) "ABC-Fujian" and "ABC-Hunan" mean the branches of ABC
established and operating in Fujian Province and Hunan Province,
respectively;
(e) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and ABC of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(f) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and ABC pursuant to Sec-
tion 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from
time to time, such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement and "Subsidiary Loan" means the subsidiary loan
provided for in the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(g) "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
ABC out of the proceeds of the Credit and out of its own funds to
a Sub-borrower for an Investment Project and "Free-limit Sub-
loan" means a Sub-loan, as so defined, which qualifies as a
Free-limit Sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.02
(b) of this Agreement;
(h) "Sub-borrower" means an individual farmer, farm house-
hold, joint   household, collective    enterprise, joint    state-
collective enterprise or state enterprise to which ABC proposes
to make or has made a Sub-loan;
(i) "Investment Project" means a specific development
project to be carried out by one or several Sub-borrowers uti-
lizing the proceeds of a Sub-loan or Sub-loans;
(j) "Renminbi" means the currency of the Borrower;
(k) "Foreign currency" means any currency other than the
currency of the Borrower;


﻿-3-
(1) "Project Management Committees" means the World Bank
Loan Project Management Committee established by the People's
Government of Fujian Province, pursuant to its General Document
No. (1985) 168, dated March 28, 1985, and the Leading Group for
the Utilization of World Bank Loans, established by the People's
Government of Hunan Province, pursuant to its Document No. (1984)
82, dated December 26, 1984, respectively; and
(m) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various curren-
cies equivalent to eighty-four million Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 84,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account, in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
frc;h time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation, for amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so agree,
amounts to be paid) by ABC:
(i) on account of withdrawals made by a Sub-borrower
under a Sub-loan to meet the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for the Investment
Project in respect of which the withdrawal is
requested; and
(ii) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for Part B of the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) A free-limit Sub-loan shall be a Sub-loan to a Sub-
borrower for an Investment Project in an amount to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit and out of ABC's own funds
which shall not exceed the sum of $500,000 equivalent, when added
to the amounts of any other Sub-loans made or proposed to be made
to the same Sub-borrower for the same Investment Project and not
repaid, the foregoing amounts being subject to change from time
to time as determined by the Association.


﻿-4-
(c) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in a bank and on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.    Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1991
or -uch later date as the Association shall establish. The Ass,o-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such
places as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this, Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semi-annually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each May 15
and November 15, commencing May 15, 1996, and ending November 15,
2035. Each installment to and including the installment payable
on November 15, 2005 shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall
be one and one-half percent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.


﻿-5-
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restric-
tion upon any of its other obligations iaider the Development
Credit Agreement, shall: (i) cause ABC to perform in accordance
with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations
of ABC therein set forth; (ii) take and cause to be taken all
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable ABC to
perform such obligations; and (iii) not take or permit to be
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such per-
formance.
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to
ABC under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and ABC, under terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Association, which shall include: (i) repay-
ment of principal by ABC in the currency used within 20 years,
including 5 years of grace, such principal amount to be the
amount of Renminbi used and the SDR equivalent of the foreign
curl.-ncy used; (ii) interest to be paid by ABC at the rate of
three percent (3%) per annum; and (iii) commitment charges to be
paid by ABC at the rate of one-half of one percent (0.5%) per
annum.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the pur-
poses of the Credit, and except as the Association shall other-
wise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement to affect the provisions of
paragraph (b) above.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall take steps necessary to
enable ABC to achieve a difference of at least two percent
between:


﻿- 6 -
(a) the weighted average of the interest rates referred to
in paragraph C.2 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement; and
(b) the weighted average of the cost of funds available to
ABC for the purposes of the Project from all sources, including
ABC's own funds and the Subsidiary Loan,
both such weighted averages to be calculated in a manner
acceptable to the Association.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule
to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05,
9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to in-
surance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records
and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively)
shall be carried out by ABC pursuant to Section 2.04 of the
Project Agreement.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall cause the Provinces of
Fujian and Hunan to maintain the Project Management Committees
with composition and functions acceptable to the Association, to
assist ABC in carrying out the Project with coordination and
assistance from the relevant departments and agencies of the
Borrower.
Section 3.06. From time to time, at the request of any one
of them, the Borrower, the Association and ABC shall exchange
views on the interest rates to be charged by ABC in its lending
operations in light of ABC's cost of funds and profitability, as
well as inflation and other interest rates in China.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. Ptvsuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the fol41;owing additional events are specified:
(a) ABC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.


﻿- 7 -
(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situa-
tion shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that ABC
will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agree-
ment.
(c) The laws of the Borrower applicable to ABC, including
the 1979 State Council Circular and the 1983 State Council Deci-
sion shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of
ABC to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agree-
ment.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of ABC or for the suspensionx of its operations.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 (d) of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are speci-
fied:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower; and
(b) the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of
Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and ABC; and
(b) the Borrower's State Council has approved the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General


﻿-8-
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by ABC, and is legally binding upon ABC in accordance
with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly autho-
rized or ratified by the Borrower and ABC and is legally binding
upon the Borrower and ABC in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Section
3.06 of this Agreement and the provisions of Section 4.02 of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on the date 20
years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the
earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing
People's Republic of China
Cable address:                        Telex:
FINANMIN                            22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing


﻿-9-
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                        Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE I
Withdraval of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items Lo be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Sub-loans under
Part A of the
Project                  75,000,000        50%
(2) Overseas fellow-
ships and
consultants'
services                    500,000        100%
(3) Goods for Part B
of the Project            2,800,000        100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 75% of local
expenditures for
other items
procured locally
(4) Unallocated                5,700,000
TOTAL               84,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of apy country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services sipplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and


﻿- 11 -
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement; or
(b) in respect of a Sub-loan unless: (i) the Sub-loan has
been approved by the Association; or (ii) the Sub-loan is a
free-limit Sub-loan for which the Association has authorized
withdrawals from the Credit Account.


﻿-12-
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in
increasing agricultural and rural production and incomes through
the diversification and modernization of agricultural production
and processing, by supporting the medium- and long-term lending
programs of ABC-Fujian and ABC-Hunan, and by assisting in the
institutional development of ABC.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A: Investment Program
A program of Sub-loans by ABC-Fujian and ABC-Hunan to Sub-
borrowers for Investment Projects in:
(1) freshwater and marine aquaculture development;
(2) orchard development;
(3) construction and equipping of agroindustrial facilities
for processing, storage and transportation of, inter
alia, fruit, poultry and fish; and
(4) livestock development, including expansion of poultry,
cattle and pig breeding.
Part B: Institutional Development
Improving ABC's operational capability in such areas as
project preparation, appraisal, and implementation, finance and
management, including a program of staff training in China and
abroad, through provision of overseas fellowships, consultants'
services, and equipment.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1991.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2) and (3) as set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equi-
valent to SDR 5,600,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclu-
sively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provi-
sions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amou ts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible


﻿- 14 -
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Asso-
ciation from the Credit Account under the respective eligible
Categories and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably request,
showing that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals can be made directly by the
Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section
2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to the eligible Categories, minus the amount
of any outstanding special commitment entered into
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eli-
gible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Except as the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree, such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice have been or will
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2


﻿- 15 -
of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence fur-
nished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless
otherwise agreed by the Association, no further deposit by the
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the
Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any' time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day ofl  4    ,
198k.
FOR SECRETARY


