                                               Documentof
                                             The WorldBank

                                     FOROFFICIALUSEONLY

                                                                                ReportNo: 38697-AR




                                           PROJECTPAPER

                                                   ONA

                         PROPOSEDADDITIONAL FINANCINGLOAN

                              INTHEAMOUNTOFUS$lOOMILLION

                                                     TO

                                   THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC

                                                  FORA

                       BUENOSAIRES URBANTRANSPORT PROJECT

                                           February27,2007




Finance, PrivateSector and InfrastructureDepartment
CaribbeanCountry ManagementUnit
LatinAmerica andthe CaribbeanRegion

This document has a restricted distribution and may be usedby recipients only inthe performance o f their
official duties. Its contents mav not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                         CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS

                (ExchangeRateEffectiveFebruary21,2007)


                        CurrencyUnit = AR Peso
                            AR$1.00 = US$0.32
                                US$1 = AR$3.1

                                 FISCALYEAR
                           January 1     - December31



                   ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS

AMBA   Metropolitan Area of the Great Buenos Aires
AR$    Argentine Peso
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy
CNRT   National Commission for the Regulation of Transport (Comisidn Nacional de
       Regulacidn del Transporte)
EL4    Environmental Impact Assessment
ESMM   Environmental and Social Management Manual
GBA    Great Buenos Aires
GOA    Government of Argentina
IBRD   InternationalBank for Reconstruction And Development
IFPA   Integrated Fiduciary Performance Assessment
INDEC  National Instituteof Statistics and Census (Instituto Nacional de Estadisticay
       Censos)
IRR    Internal Rate of Return
MTA    Metropolitan Transport Agency (AgenciaMetropolitana de Transporte)
PIU    Project ImplementationUnit
PTUBA  Buenos Aires UrbanTransport Project (Proyecto de Transporte Urbano de Buenos
       Aires)
RAP    Resettlement Action Plan
RPF    Resettlement Policy Framework
SEPA   Procurement Plans Executing System (Sistema de Ejecucidn de Planes de
       Adquisiciones)
ST     Secretariat of Transport (Secretariade Transporte)
UEPEX  Automated Accounting System for ExecutingUnits

                        Vice President: PamelaCox
           CountryManagedDirector Axel van Trotsenburg
                        Sector Director Laura Tuck
                       Sector Manager Jose Luis Irigoyen
                         Sector Leader Juan Gaviria
                    Task Team Leader Andres Pizarro

                                                                                                             FOROFFICIAL USE ONLY
                                                                        ARGENTINA
                               BUENOS AIRES URBANTRANSPORT PROJECT
                                                        ADDITIONAL FINANCING

                                                                          CONTENTS



           A .     INTRODUCTION           ...............................................................................................................................        1
           B.      BACKGROUNDAND RATIONALEFORADDITIONAL FINANCING                                                                           ...................................  1
              1.     COUNTRYCONTEXT..........................................................................................................................                    1
              2.     THEORIGINAL LOAN           .........................................................................................................................        1
              3.     PROJECTOBJECTIVE          ..........................................................................................................................        2
              4.     COMPONENTS. SCOPE. AND DESIGNOFTHE PROJECT                                     ........................................................................     3
              5.     PROJECTPERFORMANCE               ....................................................................................................................       3
              6.     RATIONALE AND REASONS FOR REQUESTING THE ADDITIONAL FINANCING                                                      ....................................... 4
           C .     PROPOSEDCHANGES                  .....................................................................................................................        5

           D       CONSISTENCYWITH CAS                       .............................................................................................................       7

           E..     APPRAISALSUMMARY                     ..................................................................................................................       8
              1.     ECONOMICEVALUATION                .........................................................................................
              2.     TECHNICAL   ........................................................................................................................................        8
              3      FIDUCIARY.........................................................................................................................................          8
              4                                                                                                                                                                 10
              5      ENVIRONMENT      .................................................................................................................................         11
              6....  SOCIAL............................................................................................................................................

                     SAFEGUARD POLICIES           ......................................................................................................................        12

            F      EXPECTEDOUTCOMES                      ...............................................................................................................        12
            G
            ..     BENEFITS AND RISKS                ...................................................................................................................        13
            H
            I IMPLEMENTATIONARRANGEMENTS
            ..     FINANCIAL TERMS AND CONDITIONSFORTHE ADDITIONAL FINANCING                                                                                       ..............14
                                                                                     ....................................................................................       15
            ANNEX 1:DESCRIPTIONOF PROJECT COMPONENTSAND SUB-PROJECTS                                                                                   ........................ 16
            ANNEX 2: ECONOMICEVALUATION                                 .................................................................................................       19
            ANNEX 3: FINANCIAL MANAGEMENTARRANGEMENTS                                                           ...........................................................     23
            ANNEX 4: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS                                             ................................................................................      25
            ANNEX 5: SAFEGUARDPOLICY ISSUES                                   ...........................................................................................       28
            ANNEX 6: FINANCINGPLANAND DISBURSEMENTSCHEDULE                                                                   ...............................................    33




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties.Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.


                                        ARGENTINA

                   BUENOS AIRES URBANTRANSPORT PROJECT
                                ADDITIONAL FINANCING

                            PROJECT PAPERDATA SHEET




Does the restructured or scaled-up project require any exceptions from Bank  No
policies?
Have these been approved by Bank management?                                 NIA
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                 No




For Loans/Credits/Others:
Total Bank financing (US$m): 100
Proposed terms: FSL
Years to maturity: 15, including a grace period of 5 years.




IBRD                                                       100.00          0.00  100.00
Total:                                                     132.80          0.00  132.80


                                           ARGENTINA
                   BUENOSAIRES URBANTRANSPORT PROJECT
                                  ADDITIONAL FINANCING


A.      INTRODUCTION

1.      This Project Paper seeks the approval o fthe Executive Directors to provide an Additional
Financing in an amount o f US$ 100 million to the Argentine Republic to be used for the Buenos
Aires UrbanTransport Project, Project IDP039584, LoanNo. AR4163.

2.      The proposed additional loan would finance the costs associated with: (i)          covering
a financing gap derived from the reallocation o f loan resources to respond to Argentina's
social emergency in 2002, and to cover unanticipated higher costs for civil works; (ii)
financing implementation o f modified project activities as part of a partial project
restructuring; and (iii)   financing the implementation of additional activities to scale up
the project's impact and development effectiveness.


B.      BACKGROUNDAND RATIONALE FORADDITIONAL FINANCING

1.      CountryContext

3.      Argentina i s one o f the most urbanized countries in Latin America. Over 89 percent o f its
total population lives in urban areas o f 2,000 or more inhabitants. Despite its high level o f
urbanization, Argentina i s still experiencing significant growth in its urban population. Between
1980 and 1991 urban areas grew from 23.2 million to 28.4 million inhabitants (1.9 percent per
year). Today 13 million people live, or almost 38 percent o f the country's population, are
concentrated inthe Buenos Aires Metropolitan Area (AMBA).Population densities are highwith
nearly 14,800 people per km2 in the city o f Buenos Aires. The city population (3 million) i s
growing at a rate o f 0.7 percent a year. Yet some o f the suburban municipalities are growing at a
rate ten times faster (7 percent per year). Sound urban transport management i s critical for
meeting the growing transport needs o f the AMBA.

4.      The effects o f increasing urban population, growing motorization, suburbanization,
inadequate transport and traffic management, and worsening congestion and air pollution have
been evident in many metropolitan areas and medium size cities. Bus transport i s deteriorating
and, despite significant improvement in the nineties, suburban rail services in the Great Buenos
Aires have become overcrowded, unreliable and subject to much criticism, in part due to lower-
than-expected investment levels and the obsolescence o f roadrail crossings which generates
many traffic safety and service quality issues. Traffic safety and personal security have become
serious issues that impact the whole urban transport system. Because o f these factors, and the
2001 economic crisis and subsequent reduction in investment, public transport has lost around
50% o f its ridership since the early nineties, aggravating the problems o f congestion and pollution
insome areas, andthose ofpoor access andmobility inothers (the povertyzones).


2.      The OriginalLoan




                                                                                                   1

5.      The ongoing PTUBA project was approved in 1997 for a total amount of US$200
million. Project initiation was delayed 20 months between late 1996 and mid-1998 due to various
ministerial reorganizations and the project implementation unit.          Project implementation
accelerated between late 1998 and the beginning of 2000. Unfortunately, in early 2000, as a
result o f the prolonged recession, the Government reduced budget allocations for investment
projects, forcing a slowdown of the execution of the Project's ongoing contracts. In 2001, the
situation worsened and budget allocation for this Project was eliminated, and all Project
components came to a standstill. Given the importance attached to the Project, the Federal
Ministry of Economy tried without success to find alternative institutional arrangements whereby
the City could carry-on the project. Furthermore, a fiduciary fund was created to involve the
private sector operator of the subway infinding a solution albeit for the subway related contracts.
However, none of these attempts succeededand when the crisis of December 2002 developed, the
project had been classified as unsatisfactory for 2 years, and reached a standstill. In October
2002, the project was amended to permit the financing o f the health and nutrition components of
Argentina's social emergency program, through the reallocation of US$50 million of loan
proceeds for said purpose.

6.      A turnaround in implementation was reached after May 2003 when the incoming
administration assigned a high priority to completing the Project, positively resolving the
ownership issues that had previously paralyzed its execution, and allocating counterpart funds
commensurate with the Project requirements. Since then, the Project has been implementing at a
strong pace and achieving its development objectives.

7.      As part of the effort of bringingthe Project back to a normal implementation status, the
project was restructured inearly 2004. Inview of the higher than expected civil works costs, and
considering the combined effect with the changes inrelative prices after the 2002 devaluation, the
loan cost sharing was reduced inJuly 2005 to enable Bank participation inall works planned for
execution. The financing of the rehabilitation of Line A was reduced from 70% to 55%, and the
financing of roadrail crossings and transfer centers from 48% to 35%. All civil work contracts
were finally renegotiated by mid-2004, after almost 3.5 years of work stoppage or slowdown due
to the impact of recession and then the economic crisis and devaluation. Additional civil work
contracts were awarded in 2004 and 2005 for the construction o f seven roadrail crossings and
one budrail transfer center, and an origin-destination survey to establish a sound basis for future
transport planning in Great Buenos Aires. Most of these contracts, with very positive impacts on
road safety, have now been completed, with the last remaining crossing (San Fernando/Tigre) to
be completed by March 2007. The contract for the public transport origin-destination survey was
signed inJanuary 2006 and the field work and data processing is to be carried out between April
2006 and June 2007.

8.      The current loan was originally scheduled to close on December 31, 2003, and was
granted successive extensions until June 30, 2007, based on the project's significantly improved
implementationperformance, inorder to enable the authorities to hlly meet the objectives of the
project.

3.      ProjectObjective

9.      The current project's development objectives are to: "(a) support the private-public
partnership in improving the service quality and coverage of mass transit; (b) support
infrastructure improvements defined in the concession agreements between the Government and
the private sector; (c) assist in improving the conditions of trafJic safety and environmental



                                                                                                 2

quality; and (d) help in developing an integrated urban transport (road and rail) system in the
AMBA."

4.       Components,Scope, andDesignof the Project

10.     Inparticular, the PTUBA's project description inthe PADincludes "apackage of actions
and investments aimed at thefollowing:
    (a) finance the rail equipment and infrastructure which are critical for the upgrading of
    public transport services;
    (b) promote the integration of the transport system by upgrading transfer stations among rail
    lines, building better transfer facilities between rail and road-based transport, and generally
    improving road access to rail stations;
    (e) improve traffic safety and environmental conditions through the construction of grade
    separations at high-volume crossings, the enhancement of controls at roadhail grade
    crossings, the development of a complementary program of road safety actions, and the
    introduction of systematic air pollution monitoring, and
    (d) strengthen the institutionalframework which would ensure the continued operation of an
    economically and environmentally sustainable transport system in the metropolitan area."

11.     The works and technical assistance activities under the PTUBA were grouped under five
components:
    (a) support o f the basic investment program o f the Metrovias concession (36% o f total
    project costs net o f project administration)
    (b) rehabilitation o f subway Line A (31%)
    (c) integration o f the transport system (including transfer centers; improvements o f rail
    stations to ease access to buses, pedestrians, bicycles, etc.) (9%)
    (d) environmental monitoring and traffic safety program, including roadrail grade
    separations (16%); and
    (e) strengthening o f the institutional framework (8%).


5.      ProjectPerformance

12.     Since 2003, this       project has benefited from successful implementation. The
outputs/outcomes and results recorded in the two most recent ISRs reveal that its impact thus far
has been consistent with the expectations set out in the Project Appraisal Document. The ISR
ratings over the last 12 months, including those for implementation progress (IP) and
development objectives (DOs), have been consistently satisfactory. The last ISR rated the IP as
highly satisfactory. There are no unresolved fiduciary, environmental, social or other safeguard
problems.

13.     Moreover the Borrower and the Project Implementing Unit are committed to the project
as evidenced by the level o f budgetary resources allocated to the Project by the GOA, as well as
the level o f commitments and disbursements in the last three years, which after the project's
restructuring in early 2004 had a disbursement ratio o f 41% inFY04, 41.2% in FY05 and 37.3%
in FY06. The Borrower's request for additional financing further explains the Government's
commitment to the project.




                                                                                                 3

6.      Rationale and reasons for requesting the additional financing

14.     According to OP/BP 13.20, the Bank may provide additional financing through
additional loans in the context of ongoing, well-performing projects. The GOA requested an
additional financing of US$lOO million. The initial reason behind this request was that the
reallocation of US$SOmout of the original loan amount of US$200 to meet the need arising from
the social emergency in October 2002, led to a scaling-down of the project. Therefore, some
components and sub-projects were not finalized as originally planned. Subsequently, as has been
mentioned, the project became highly successful earning recognition within Argentina and the
Bank, and a high-impact component was considered a candidate for scaling-up to increase its
positive impact. Finally, the ongoing policy dialogue with the country inthe sector warranted the
inclusion of additional strategic studies that would improve our knowledge of the sector given
recent policy developments, and allow better backgroundfor future dialogue.

15.     Consequently, the additional financing request i s structured around three eligible
categories contemplated inthe policy:

  (i)     Financing Gap:approximately US$30 million to address a financing gap that resulted
          as a combination of (i)   the authorities' decision to restore part of the original project
          objectives scaled down following the 2002 reallocation of US$SOm to meet the need
          arising from the social emergency in October 2002, and (ii)    unanticipated higher costs
          for civil work contracts linkedto the on-going economic recovery;
  (ii)    Project Restructuring: approximately US$5 million to finance implementation of
          modified project activities to be included as part of project restructuring. The modified
          project activities are being included to address changed circumstances that emerged
          during project implementation including the establishment in 2002 of an urban
          transport subsidy scheme financed by the GOA to alleviate the impacts of the crisis,
          and increased needs to address urban transport improvements in cities other than the
          Great Buenos Aires metropolitan area. The on-going dialogue between the Bank and
          the GOA regardingthe urban transport sector has recently concentrated on the national
          subsidy policy. This project is not the vehicle to further develop the discussion on this
          issue as it was not inherently part of the original project, and the nature of the
          Additional Financing i s that of supporting successful components in successful
          projects, not developing broad policy dialogue. However, within the scope of this
          project several studies and analyses will be carried out that will allow for the
          improvement of sector knowledge to frame the on-going dialogue with the Government
          on urban transport policy issues. These have been included under the restructuring
          category; and
  (iii)   Additional Financingfor Project Scale-up: approximately US$65 million to finance
          the implementation of some additional activities that were part of the broader original
          project scope and would scale up the project's impact and development effectiveness.

16.     Other instruments were considered before opting for the Additional Financing, such as a
Repeater Project and a standard SIL. The fact that the project had suffered a significant financing
gap during the crisis meant that a number of components, which were part of the original loan
scope and which had been appraised, were dropped. These can now be completed as originally
planned through the additional financing; this contrasts with the nature of a SIL and a Repeater
Project, which would be fully used for newly-identified activities. Furthermore, there were
significant costhime-effectiveness and procedural gains to be obtained from an Additional
Financinginstrument duringpreparationas opposed to a new loan albeit Repeater.



                                                                                                   4

C.       PROPOSEDCHANGES

17.      The eligible categories o f the proposed additional financing, will include a series o f
subprojects that correspond to the original project component classification. Below the
subprojects included are distributed inthe corresponding eligible categories:

    A) Category under Financing Gap: Works: (i)roadrail separated crossing inthe Buenos
                                                        1
    Aires metropolitan area (AMBA); (ii)Accessibility improvements to suburban railway
    stations in AMBA; and (iii)    Continuation o f minor rehabilitation works in subway Line A
    stations. Technical assistance: (i)Complete the origin-destination and household surveys
    initiated under the PTUBA project, and set up and calibrate a traffic forecast model for the
    GBA, botho f which were includedinthe original project design.

    B) Category under Project Restructuring: Technical assistance: (i)Studies to review the
    federal government's urban public transport fare and financial assistance framework; and (ii)
    Provide technical assistance to cities other than Buenos Aires to prioritize and design urban
    transport projects, especially the cities that will benefit from the GEF Regional Sustainable
    Transport Project (Tucuman, Rosario, Cbrdoba, Posadas).

    C) Category under Project Scale-up: Works: 6 additionalroadrail separated crossings inthe
    AMBA that are being studied through an on-going study funded under the project. Technical
    assistance: Support through expert advice the creation o f the Great Buenos Aires
    Metropolitan Transport Agency.

18.      The subprojects have been organized according to the original project components as
shown in Table 1. The type o f subprojects correspond to a concerted effort to improve public
transport efficiency in the AMBA; the suburban railway accessibility works have as principal
motivation the improvement of transport conditions for the lower-income population who are
more largely dependent on suburban rail, and as corollary, to improve patronage with improved
physical integration o f road based public transport and rail. The roadrail crossings have been
seen to significantly contribute to the improvement o f railway operations and reduce accidents.
Therefore, the project will scale up this approach and with the technical assistance and study try
to develop an overall strategy for the remaining roadrail crossings inAMBA.

19.      The studies and technical assistances are all geared to improving strategic approaches to
project development in AMBA, in particular to the development o f transport planning
capabilities. Equally, this approach i s extended to some provincial cities who have sought support
and who are involved in significant urban transport improvement schemes.




   Project Component             Bank(US$)            Argentina       Total EstimatedCost (US$)
                                                         (US$)
Component A: Transport                 23.5               9.4                     32.9
Integration
A1: Improvement works to               21.9               9.4                     31.3
suburbanrailway stations in
the AMBA: 80
A2: Supervisionof                       1.6                                        1.6


                                                                                                 5

improvement works
ComponentB: Traffic                   36.8                14.7                       51.5
Safety
B1: Seven roadrail separated          34.3                 14.7                      49.0
crossinginthe BuenosAires
metropolitan area (AMBA)
B2: Supervisionof works                2.5                                           2.5
ComponentC: Subway                     0.7                 0.3                        1.o
LineA
C1: Line A rehabilitation              0.5                 0.3                       0.8
works
C2: Line A supervision o f             0.2                                           0.2




TOTAL ESTIMATED PROJECT COST: approx. US$132.8 million


20.      The activities proposed are fully consistent with the PDOs, and compliant with Bank
policy for additional financing. The existing monitoring indicators and arrangements are adequate
for the proposed operation. The proposed component o f technical assistance to other cities would
imply a geographical expansion beyond the scope of the original loan; however, the significance
o f this component in monetary terms i s limited while the development impact o f the design o f
sustainable urban transport programs inthese cities would be crucial, and would help secure GEF
funding and prepare the Urban Transport Project for Metropolitan Areas inArgentina. The new,
complete fifth PDO outcome for the project would be: "help in developing integrated urban
transport strategies inArgentina's largest Metropolitan Areas."

21.      The proposed operation can be accommodated in the context o f the ongoing project,
relying on the PTUBA PIU which has proven its ability to handle such contracts with good
results. The proposed additional activities are expected to be completed within a maximum o f
three years o f the current closing date o f the loan, which i s consistent with the Bank's policy on
additional financing.



                                                                                                   6

D.       CONSISTENCYWITH CAS

22.      The proposed additional activities under this operation are fully consistent with the
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS') discussedby the Board on June 6, 2006. The three pillars of
the 2004 CAS2-sustained growth with equity, social inclusion and improved governance-have
beenretained as central to support the country's efforts to shift from a focus on crisis responseto
medium-term growth. Improvement of infrastructure assets is a fundamental element of the
CAS'Spillar of sustained economic growth, particularly with respect to establishing growth that
i s more equitable and pro-poor. More than one-third of lending operations proposed in the
indicative lendingprogram inthe CAS are ininfrastructure, with the bulkof these inthe transport
sector.

23.      The proposed operation seeks to improve the inclusion of the poor into the urban
transport service network in GBA and finds its rationale in the ever-increasing importance of
cities, both as carriers of economic growth and magnets for low-income people seeking better
opportunities, and in the recognition of urban transport as a sphere of confluence o f three
essential aspects o f development today:


(i) Economicgrowth:Qualitytransportservicesandinfrastructureenhancetheproductivity
and competitiveness of cities through numerous avenues. At the macroeconomic level, they
generate growth by facilitating trade and by increasing access to the gamut of amenities and
services crucial to the development of human capital, including health and education. At the
microeconomic level, transport improvements lower the price of labor, capital and technology
inputs,thereby contributingto productivity gains; they also increase access to markets and hence
the diversification of outputs. The quality o f transportation infrastructure and public transport
services affects the location decisions made by firms and individuals and the efficiency o f the
labor market.

(ii)     Poverty alleviation: The rapid expansion of urban areas in Argentina has placed
increased pressure on its transport infrastructure and services, and raising associated accessibility
problems. For many urban dwellers, thejourney to work has become excessively long, unsafe and
uncomfortable, especially so for some of the very poor. The proposed project i s a partial response
to some of the more intractable problems associated with urban poverty, not only in terms of
access to economic opportunity, but also in terms of the broader dimensions of social exclusion
associatedwith a lack of access to schools, health facilities, and wider social interaction.

(iii) Environmentalquality:Theincreaseincarownershipandtheinefficientmanagement
o f an aging public transport fleet, combined with the proliferation of old and polluting micro-
buses and deficiencies in bus inspection and maintenance have led to increased congestion and
high levels of traffic-generated air pollution. The proposed project will improve traffic flows
through the removal of traffic bottlenecks such as roadrail at-level crossings.

24.      In addition, through its institutional component, especially through supporting the
creation of the Metropolitan Transport Agency for the Great Buenos Aires, the project will

'Country  Assistance Strategy for the Period 2006-2008, May 4,2006. Report No. 34015-AR
  Report No. 27340-AR


                                                                                                   7

address transport-related governance issues and improve the coordination o f public sector
activities in land use, transport planning, air quality, infrastructure investment, traffic
management, and public transport franchising.


E.       APPRAISAL SUMMARY

25.      For the sake o f clarity and given the structure o f the project components the appraisal was
carried out on all the activities included without differentiating among activities that
corresponded to financing gap, scale up or project restructuring.


1.       Economic evaluation

26.      The cost o f subprojects o f component A, improvements to around eighty suburban
railway stations, are low (less than $500,000 on the average) and are expected to yield substantial
economic benefits. Only projects with IRR above 12% will be selected and prioritized from a
batch o f projects based on their NPV. The economic evaluation methodology will be acceptable
to the Bank and will be further developed as the sub-project designs are further defined.

27.      The component B subprojects, the roadrail crossings, considered for the scaled-up
project have been subject to an economic evaluation, usingthe same criteria as the one used for
the appraisal o f the original project. The economic analysis procedure calculates time and cost
savings for road and rail operators and passengers, as well as accident cost savings.             The
calculations also take account o f the effects on road and rail system users during the period o f
construction, including those o f reduced speed o f rail operations and diversion o f road traffic to
other crossings in the interim period. As a result o f the economic studies carried out for 22
candidate projects so far, eight crossings have been identified with IRRs between 12 and 29
percent. Those with the highest rankings are now undergoing final design, and one i s being
tendered. Details o f this evaluation are shown inAnnex 2.


2.       Technical

28.      The design and construction criteria of the roadrail crossings are the same as for the
original project, and their implementation will benefit from the lessons learned during the last
three years when six similar crossings were completed. The engineering departments o f AMBA
municipalities have been responsible for identifying and designing the access improvements to
outlying railway stations; these include the rehabilitation o f roads, sidewalks and street lighting,
the design o f traffic engineering schemes, and o f facilities improving access conditions for buses,
pedestrians and bicycles. Metrovias (the Buenos Aires subway concessionaire) and the
supervision consultants contracted under the loan have already designed the rehabilitation works
that need to be completed in Subway Line A stations and are included inthe on-going contracts
that are inexecutionunder the original loan.


3.       Fiduciary

29.      Financial Management. The Financial Management (FM) arrangements for the
additional financing to the Buenos Aires UrbanTransport Project meet Bank requirements. Those


                                                                                                    8

FM arrangements and mitigating measures, which are summarized inthe present paragraph, are
based upon the FM risk assessment and the lessons learnt from the implementation o f the initial
project.

    0   Implementing entity and capacity, The implementing unit o f the Secretariat of
        Transport (PTUBA Implementing Unit) will be responsible for project accounting, FM
        reporting, internal control, disbursements and interaction with the Bank and the external
        auditors on FM issues. FM staff from PTUBA implementing unit is qualified; has gained
        experience from the implementation o f the initial project; and has the capacity to manage
        additional financing project funds.
    0   Flow of funds & Disbursement. The project will operate a designated account in U S
        dollars located at the Banco de la NacidnArgentina and inwhich funds receivedfrom the
        Bank for payments o f project eligible expenditure will be deposited. Payments will be
        made from an Operational Account in AR Pesos also managed by the PTUBA
        Implementing Unit and located at the Banco de la Nacidn Argentina. The recommended
        maximum authorized allocation for this operation i s US$ 8 million. Replenishment o f the
        Designated Account will be made inaccordance with standard Bank procedures.
    0   Accounting and Internal Control. The accounting and internal control policies and
        procedures comply with Bank standards. Financial statements will be preparedusingcash
        basis. All project funds will be processed in the Government-wide project execution
        system UEPEX, commonly used for externally h d e d projects in Argentina and
        acceptable to the Bank, and will be supported by documentary evidence for related
        works, goods and services procured inline with Bank guidelines for the proposed project.
        The Operational Manual o f the project will include (i)    the internal control system and
        procedures to be implemented; (ii)     Chart o f Accounts for the project; (iii)format and
        contents o f the annual financial statements and annual financial management reports; and
        (iv) terms o f reference for the external auditing. The Operational Manual has also been
        updatedwith regards to relevant Bank policies currently applicable.
    0   External Audit. Project Designated Account, Statement of Expenditures and Financial
        Statements and accounts will be subject to annual audit carried out byAuditoria General
        de la Nacidn. Audit report shall be presented to the Bank no later than six months after
        the close o f the fiscal year.
    0   Bank Supervision. The project will be subject to annual Integrated Fiduciary
        Performance Assessment (IFPA) supervision missions as requested by the Argentina
        Fiduciary Action Plan. Inaddition, the Bank will carry out annual supervision missions
        focused on implementing audit recommendations and completing Action Plans
        addressing potential audit issues.

30.     Fiduciary Risk. The Fiduciary Risk (combined FM and Procurement) o f the project is
rated as Modest. FM risk i s rated as modest due to the overall adequate FM arrangements. The
FMriskassessment is detailed inthe Financial Management Annex (RiskAssessment & External
Audit).Procurement riskis assessedas average.

31.     There are no fiduciary issues under the project as evidenced by the Audit Reports and
procurement and financial management supervision missions and ex-post reviews. The
Additional Financing will be implemented according to provisions defined in the Loan
Agreement, which includes the Bank Procurement and Consultant Guidelines dated M a y 2004,
and provisions related to the Fiduciary Action Plan agreed upon between the Government o f
Argentina and the Bank. The Loan Agreement will include Special Procurement Conditions
aimed at increasing transparency, competition, and social monitoring consistent with the above-



                                                                                                9

mentioned Fiduciary Action Plan (e.g. publication on the web of procurement documents and
feeding the Bank publicly accessible Procurement Plans Execution System, known as SEPA3),
and at addressing the aspects of domestic legislations that are not consistent with Bank
procurement policy. Prior review thresholds will be those currently inplace. Consistent with the
Fiduciary Action Plan, Procurement post review work will be carried out jointly with Financial
Management supervision work at least annually.

32.      Procurement. PTUBA has a well established implementation unit that i s fully familiar
with the procurement rules of the Bank; no changes are expected in the unit during the
implementation of the additional financing (except the hiring of four to six additional experts,
including a Procurement Specialist). A Procurement Plan for the additional financing is being
preparedand will be posted inthe SEPA soon. The thresholds for the procurement methods will
remain as per the 2004 restructuring amendment; the specific packages, procurement methods,
and prior review threshold by the Bank will be reviewed and approved in the procurement plan
prepared according to the guidelines of May 2004.

33.      Retroactivefinancing. The Bank will reimburse payments made up to one year before
the date of signature of the Loan Agreement, and on or after January 1,2007. These expenditures
would be paid in advance by the GOA, and should not exceed 20 percent of the additional
financing loan amount.


4.       Social

34.      The Project is expected to have positive impacts on living standards of the population as
it i s aimed at improving physical access and quality of public transport, improving sidewalks,
paving roads, adding lighting and urban furniture. Additionally, the project will improve traffic
safety through the construction of underpassesinexisting at-grade roadrail crossings.

35.      Nevertheless, the inhabitants of the neighborhoods where the works will bebuilt will face
some negative impacts during the construction phase, such as noise, dust and traffic disruption.
Given that these social impacts are related to the environmental management of the construction
of the works, they will be addressedthrough the Environmental and Social Management Manual
(ESMM)as it will be explained inthe next section.

36.      Ingeneral, the civil works under the project will follow the alignments of existing roads
and right-of-ways which will prevent any involuntary displacements. However, given that final
designs of most of the works under the Traffic Safety Enhancement component are not yet
completed, a Resettlement Policy Framework was prepared and i s part of the ESMM.Duringthe
screening process conducted in project preparation only one house was identified for potential
resettlement and a few street vendors will have to be relocated.

37.      The ESMM also includes guidelines for public consultation of the sub-projects and
discussions regarding the social and environmental measures. One consultation was carried out
during the preparation of the project for one of the roadrail crossings sub-projects (Av. San
Martin-Ruta 53 inFlorencio Varela).




  Sistema de Ejecucidn de Planes de Adquisiciones.


                                                                                               10

5.      Environment

38.     The project i s expected to have positive environmental impacts in the long-run, since it
aims at improving access and quality o f public transport and reducing conflicts between rail and
motorized traffic, which will reduce congestion and emissions, and improve traffic safety. The
detailed screening - using standard forms - o f the different sub-project sites has confirmed that
none are close to natural habitats or environmentally sensitive areas, nor do they require major
works that will result in irreversible long-term impact or displacement o f people. However, a
number o f short-term and long-term induced impacts trigger OP 4.01. The civil works in the
Great Buenos Ares Metropolitan Region include building grade-separated roadrail crossings in
the Buenos Aires metropolitan area (AMBA) are being selected from an existing short list o f 25
crossings, based on an economic and social and environmental assessment. The project also
includes small scale accessibility improvements to suburban railway stations in the AMBA. The
project will incorporate strategies to increase safety and incentives to reduce air pollution. The
main direct impacts are expected to occur during construction and cause localized negative
environmental impacts. Such impacts are expected to consist essentially o f noise, vibration, dust,
and traffic disruption. Additional negative impacts during construction will occur due to haulage
and final disposal o f materials. Most o f these impacts can be mitigated by proper designs and
environmental and social manuals that have to be followed.

39.     Given the interrelation between the social end environmental aspects inthis project, both
dimensions were integrated in one comprehensive approach. The preparation o f the social and
environmental aspects included the following activities: (i)    an assessment o f the environmental
and social management o f the ongoing PTUBA project in order to identify lessons learned and
improve these practices; (ii)  an environmental and social ranking o f the works included in the
Components A and B o f the project inorder to determine the magnitude and nature o f the impacts
and define those that need social and environmental assessment; (iii)evaluation o f the
environmental management capacity o f the PTUBA P I U and municipalities where the project will
have an intervention; (iv) screening o f priority subprojects in component B and a sample o f those
in component A; (v) five workshops were organized with participation o f municipalities from
AMBA involved to agree on the screening methodology and define an action plan; and (vi) an
EIA for the roadrail crossing at Av. San Martin in Florencio Varela. Based on these activities
the Environmental and Social Management Manual was prepared.

40.     Mitigation or compensation measures can be clearly identified in order to guarantee
social and environmental sustainability and can be easily identified and implemented with an
adequate environmental management system in place during the various phases o f the Project
cycle. The main impacts identified occur during construction phase like: air quality and noise
increase, traffic and pedestrian disruptions, access to commerce and businesses. Some works
might also require the relocation o f few street vendors and impact public space, including trees
and local vegetation. Finally, there might be some potential impacts on cultural property at
Subway stations along Line A.

41.     The Environmental and Social Management Manual (ESMM) provides adequate and
detailed prevention, mitigation and compensation measures to address the potential impacts
identified during sub-project preparation, implementation and operation. In the case o f Subway
Line A, special measures have been prepared to address the potential impact on stations that have
been declared historical heritage. The Manual specifies procedures and responsibilities o f
contractors and the environmental units in the municipalities involved and the PTUBA PIU to
minimize the environmental and social impacts during preparation, construction and delivery o f



                                                                                                11

  works. Contractors are required to submit environmental management plans and monitor works
  against this plan. The Environmental Unit of the PTUBA PIU will supervise the work o f
  contractors for compliance and post-work operation.

  6.        Safeguard policies

Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                                     Yes                No
EnvironmentalAssessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                                         1x1                11
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                                   [ I                [XI
Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                            [I                 [XI
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                       [I                 [XI
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, beingrevisedas OP 4.11)                           [XI                [ I
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20, being revised as OP 4.10)                          [ I                [XI
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                           [XI                [ I
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                     [ I                [XI
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                             [ I                [XI
Projects inDisputedAreas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                                       [ I                [XI

  42.       Based on the evaluation of the ongoing PTUBA project and screening of the proposed
  works on the additional financing, the Project has been qualified as "Category B", following the
  Operational Bank Policy OP 4.01.


  F.        EXPECTEDOUTCOMES

  43.       The expected outcomes of the project remain those established for the original PTUBA
  project and are described in the Staff Appraisal Report No. 15951 AR for Buenos Aires Urban
  Transport Project of April 11, 1997, in annex D,Table D2.However, the distribution of financing
  in the proposed additional financing does not mirror exactly the original project therefore we
  expect that the impacts will be greater on some of the originally expected outcomes than others.

  44.       For the impacts relative to the original project objectives we expect this additional project
  will contribute more significantly to: (i)  decrease in suburban railway crossing related number of
  fatalities; (ii)conversion of the Steering Committee into a permanent body responsible for the
  metropolitan transport policy; (iii)Increased professional capacity in the planning and
  management agency; (iv) Definition of results indicators for transport policy and planning, such
  as modal share targets.

  45.       Regarding the new additional objective this additional financing i s seeking to attain, i.e.
  "help in developing integrated urban transport strategies in Argentina's largest Metrouolitan
  Areas.  'I,we expect the outcomes to be: (i)    adoption of consistent and coherent urban transport
  strategies insuch cities as Rosario, Cordoba, Posadas, Tucuman and Mendoza.




  *
    By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice thefinal determination of the
  parties' claims on the disputed areas.


                                                                                                        12

G.       BENEFITS AND RISKS

46.      Benefits. Quantifiable and non-quantifiable benefits are expected from the proposed
project, including cost savings, time savings, and fewer accidents and fatalities as described inthe
economic appraisal o f the project.

47.      Improvement of the quality of suburban rail services: After major improvements in
the go's, suburban rail services have been deteriorating since the 2001 crisis, and these worsening
conditions are taking a heavy toll on train users, mainly lower income population from the GBA
(train services serve mainly lower-income neighborhoods). Fares are kept at very low levels but
users complain heavily about a lack o f reliability, delays, poor accessibility to train stations,
rundown trains and stations, long headways between trains, cancelled services, poor personal
security, etc. A pro-poor urban transport strategy needs to contemplate this issue, acting
simultaneously on bus-train physical integration4, accessibility to stations, rolling stock
improvements, roadrail crossings (roadrail crossings in some places and upgrading the at-grade
barrier system elsewhere will allow shorter headways). A combination o f all these actions will
greatly improve the quality (reliability, waiting times, commercial speed, headways) o f suburban
train services inthe GBA. There are already some on-going works of this type on some rail lines,
part o f it being financed by the PTUBA', which will be complemented by the works envisaged
under this operation (see ANNEX 1 for a list and description o f the works to be funded). Special
emphasis will be put on rail road crossing that have been and currently are a major source o f
serious car accidents for the following reasons: (i)        vehicles get stuck on the tracks due to the poor
quality o f the crossing, (ii)    in areas with high crime rates, car drivers tend to force their way
through the barriers to avoid being assaulted while stopped waiting for the barriers to be lifted,
(iii) closingtimesaresolong(duetoinefficient,outdatedandmis-designedsystem)that
     barrier
drivers and pedestrians just pass through, bypassing the barriers. The proposed component would
fund grade-separated crossings and optimize the functioning of at-grade crossings. It is worth
mentioning that the PTUBA, for its roadhail crossing component, was awarded the traffic safety
prize o f the Asociacidn Argentina de Carreteras in2004.6 .

48.      Risks. The proposed changes do not increasethe level o frisk o fthe project. There are no
additional risks that could jeopardize the achievement o f the restructured project development
objectives or outcome targets. Overall, the main risks are institutional and financial. The
experience o f the PTUBA project shows that time overruns are an important risk o f urban
transport projects. Also, the higher-level staff o f the municipalities tends to be rotated often with
the resulting need for new members to go through a learning process o f Bank procedures. More
specific risks that may arise and possible mitigating measures are summarized in the following
table:




  And in the medium-term, fare integration as soon as the Agencia exists or its institutionalization is sufficiently
advancedto facilitatethe implementationof an integratedfare system over the GBA.
'For example, on the Sarmiento line of the TBA network, the Bank has financed a bus-rail transfer center in Moreno
and roadrail crossings at Ituzaing6 and Tres de Febrero, while the Government, through TBA, is funding train fleet
improvements (double-deck trains that will increasecapacity by 40% and station refurbishing). Such a combinationof
WB and federal fundingwill bereplicated,pooling resourcesto maximizeimpacts.
 See: htto://www.transoorte.gOv.ar/otuba/Menciones/Mencion I/Mencion1.htm)


                                                                                                                13

                                                            Table 2
                                         Possible Risks and Mitigation Measures

Risk                                        Risk        Risk MitigationMeasure
                                            Rating
Untimely release o f counterpart funds           L      First year works have already been included in the Secretary o f Transport
                                                        budget for 2007.
The PIU is not staffed adequately and does       M      The PIU needs to be strengthened to reinforce its capacity in a few areas such
not perform well.                                       as procurement, traffic engineering, civil engineering, etc. To address these
                                                        specific technical weaknesses, the PIU will be staffed with some o f the
                                                        experts that have participated in the PTUBA project, and thus have valuable
                                                        experience for an adequate implementation o f this project, and some
                                                        additional professionals to meet the needs in the above-mentioned technical
                                                        areas.
Lack o f cooperation from private operators      L      Inall cases, it is expected that the works to be financed under the PTUBA will
during project implementation.                          positively impact the operating costs of private operators. In the specific case
                                                        o f suburban train operators, this additional financing project will replicate the
                                                        scheme used in the ongoing PTUBA, whereby roadrail crossing works will
                                                        not be initiated until the official signing o f an agreement between the
                                                        concessionaire, the Municipalities and the GOA to define the responsibilities
                                                        o f each party.

OverallRiskRating                          I     M     I



          49.       Project Age: The proposed three year extension will lead to a cumulative project lifetime
          that is longer than normal. The proposed lifetime o f 13 years would be an outlier among all
          lending operations. However, OP 13.20 places no specific limit on cumulative project lifetime,
          and there are objective reasons why the project has had a long lifetime, as explained inparagraph
          5 and 6 above; (i)the project initiation was delayed almost two years due to institutional
          rearrangements, (ii)     the project stood at a standstill before and duringthe Argentinean crisis, and
          did not really disburse for three years between 2000 and 2002. Thus one may contend that the
          projects real lifetime has been at best 7 years if one only considers the crisis delays, and five if
          one accepts the GOA'Sinitial implementation shortcomings. It i s believed, however, that the
          project's extended lifetime will have no negative consequence on the development objectives and
          may in fact have a positive effect, since it would provide continuity o f Bank support inthe sector
          with a new project for UrbanTransport proposed inthe CAS.


          H.        FINANCIAL TERMS AND CONDITIONSFORTHE ADDITIONAL
                    FINANCING

          50.       US$lOO.O million would be provided as a credit, through a fixed-term loan with a 15-year
          maturity, including a 5-year grace period.

          51.       The project will be executed inthree years counting from the closing date o f the existing
          project, inother words from June 30* 2007. As a result, the project execution speed i s paramount
          ifthe financing is to be successfully disbursed duringthe execution period. The team has verified
          the UEP disbursement history and believes that if implementation practices are not modified, the
          disbursements can be accomplished. Thus, existing implementation practices will be followed
          where possible and procurement has already been initiated to ensure meeting the implementation
          timetable.




                                                                                                                           14

I. IMPLEMENTATIONARRANGEMENTS

52.      The Borrower i s the Argentine Republic and the Executing Agency the Secretariat o f
Transport within the Ministry o f Federal Planning and Infrastructure. The management o f day-to-
day matters related to all stages o f project execution has been the responsibility o f a Project
Implementation Unit set up when the project was initiated. The main tasks o f which are described
inthe Staff Appraisal Report 15951AR, dated April 11, 1997, onpage 38, Annex B.This PIU is
a well established unit, which has performed satisfactorily during the last years o f project
implementation and which i s hlly familiar with Bank's rules.

53.      Although the execution o f projects through a PIU i s not the most preferable solution,
there are currently both institutional and legal constraints that limit the ability o f the GOA to
execute externally financed projects from line ministries, especially since staff recruitments are
frozen and the Secretariat o f Transport in-house skills required to execute this project are very
scarce or already assigned to other tasks within the Ministry. In addition, there i s a satisfactory
multi-year experience o f project execution with the PIU. Therefore, it seems reasonable to extend
the implementation arrangements as the project financing i s extended. Nonetheless, as originally
envisaged by the project, part o f the staff currently working for the PIU would be gradually
integrated into the urban transport planning agency for the Buenos Aires metropolitan area that i s
expected to be created in the coming years, with support from this project. Thus, the sectoral
institutions will capitalize on the experience gained by some o f the PIU staff.

54.      Inrecent years, the PIU size has diminished by 30% from its original size. However,
given the challenges presentedby this proposed operation it was recommended that between three
to six additional specialists (including a sociallenvironmental specialist, procurement specialist,
traffic engineer and civil works engineer) be added to its staff.

55.      The PIU will prepare progress reports every six months, replicating the current
arrangements. The PIU i s headed by a General Coordinator, assisted by various sub-coordinators
in the Works, Accounting, Technical Assistance and Administrative areas. The composition o f
the P I U i s submitted to the Bank's approval.




                                                                                                 15

       ANNEX 1:Description of Project Components and Sub-projects


The subprojects that compose the different components o f this project are described inthis annex.

Component A: Transport Integration (US$32.9M without contingencies). This component i s
comprised o f small engineering, urban and signaling projects around suburban railway stations.
The objective o f the subprojects i s to improve the physical access to and around stations for
pedestrians, cyclists and public transport users. The types o f works will include improving
sidewalks, paving roads, bikeways and sidewalks, adding lightingand urban furniture.

The municipal governments o f the AMBA have identified their needs and defined the types o f
subprojects they require. The PTUBA P I U has processed the requests on the basis o f objective
criteria which include: the number o f people with unmet basic needs (NBIor necesidades bbsicas
insatisfechas) in the area o f influence o f the station, the number o f passengers using the station,
and the estimated costs o f the works. On this basis, the P I U has ranked the subprojects and will
execute the works according to this list and practical packaging of the works. The idea is to
execute the works inpackages o f 8 to 10 stations which are geographically close.

Component B: Traffic Safety (US$ 51.5M without contingencies): This component i s
comprised o f about seven roadrail crossings. The objective o f the subprojects i s to facilitate the
crossing o f traffic over at-grade railway lines, improving the reliability and operation o f the
railway and reducing congestion o f traffic and reducing accidents at crossings. The types o f
works are underpasses replacing existing at-grade crossings.

The municipal governments o f the AMBA have identified the locations that according to their
knowledge o f local issues will benefit from a new roadrail crossing. The municipal governments
havepresented their requests with differing level o f detail to the PTUBA PIU. The PIU, through a
consulting company, carried out an economic evaluation o f the candidate subprojects (see Annex
2) and retained the eight candidate sub-projects deemed the most feasible according to the
economic evaluation. From these, seven will be financed and the final choice i s on-going. The
list i s given below:

                       Table A2-1 :List of R o a m a i l Crossings (Preliminary)

                 Name of the R o a m a i l
                        Crossing                      Municipality          Railway Line

            Av. SanMartin(Ruta 53)             Florencio Varela                  Roca
           1Ruta Nacional N"3                 1LaMatanza                   I Belgrano Sur   I
            Lisandro de la Torre               Tres de Febrero                SanMartin
            RutaNacional No202                 Malvinas Argentinas          Belgrano Norte
            Italia-Eva Per6n                   Berazategui                       Roca
           1Av. Julio A Roca (Ruta 201)       IHurlingham                  I   Urquiza      I
            Rodriguez A.                       Esteban Echeverria                Roca
            Dorrego Constanzo.                 Esteban Echeverria                Roca




                                                                                                   16

Component C: Subway Line A (US$ 1.OM without contingencies): This component is
comprised o f minor works in Buenos Aires Subway Line A stations. The component completes
the ongoing works contracts to rehabilitate stations and improve communication systems inthose
stations, which have been delayed due to unforeseen circumstances, including the acquisition and
utilization o f the equipment required.

Component D: Institutional Strengthening (US% 13.2M without contingencies). This
component comprises o f five subcomponents containing study, technical assistance and capacity
buildingactivities.

D1: Subcomponent: Transport Planning Studies and Technical Assistance (US$ 5.OM
without contingencies); This sub-component contains activities related to the improvement o f
transport planning capabilities for the Metropolitan Area o f Buenos Aires. They include: (i)
ENMODO: A household transport survey for the Metropolitan Area o f Buenos Aires (AMBA);
(ii) RECOBA: A study and inventory o f the bus transport system o f the AMBA. This activity
contains the acquisition o f counting and inventorying equipment, its installation, exploitation and
analysis. (iii)  CONTRAPI: A study and inventory o f private and individual transport in AMBA.
This study includes the acquisition o f passenger counting equipment, traffic counting campaigns
and data analysis. (iv) ENTRAPI:This is a survey o f private transport inAMBA. It will consist in
the design, execution and analysis o f the counts. (v) Transport Model: This activity consists o f the
hiring o f a number o f individual consultants over a three-year period to develop a transport
demand forecasting model in-house for the AMBA on the basis o f the data and the results o f the
studies mentioned in (i)   through (iv) herein. (vi) Capacity Building: This activity will include
several training sessions for ST staff on urban transport planning, and on the use and operation o f
transport modeling software and transport planning techniques.

D2: Subcomponent: Project Development Studies (US$ 2.6M without contingencies): This
sub-component will include carrying out engineering designs o f (i)about six o f the roadrail
crossing sub-projects; and (ii) the access improvements to suburban railway stations. It will also
include provision o f technical assistance regarding (iii) technical, financial, environmental and
social aspects o f transport, including strategic studies on the Borrower's financial assistance
framework in the urban transport sector at the federal level, and (iv) to carry out project
monitoring and ex-post project evaluation analyses.

D3: Subcomponent: Support to the development of the Metropolitan Transport Agency
(US$2.1M without contingencies): This subcomponent will consist o f technical assistance and
capacity buildingactivities inthe areas o f transport planning, operations, and on any other related
area which would contribute to improving the urban transport and environmental knowledge and
practices o f the future Metropolitan Transport Agency. These activities would strengthen the PCT
(Programa de Coordinacidn del Transporte,Transport CoordinationProgram) as a prior stage to
the creation o f the MTA and whose activities began in 2006. This program was initiated through
an invitation by the Transport Secretariat inFebruary 2006, in coordination with the Jefatura de
Gabinete de Ministros, to the Buenos Aires Province, the Autonomous City o f Buenos Aires, the
Comisidn Nacional de Regulacidn del Transporte (CNRT) and the participation o f the
ArgentineanFederation o f Municipalities (FAM).

D4: Subcomponent: ProvincialCities Studies and Technical Assistance (US$ 3.5M without
contingencies): This component will include studies and technical assistance to provincial cities
such as Rosario, Cordoba, Mendoza, Tucuman, and Posadas. The objective o f the studies i s to
help the cities move towards coherent and consistent transport planning strategies and projects, by


                                                                                                   17

providing assistance in the development o f an integrated urban transport strategy for each city,
and carrying out urban transport pre-investment and investment studies. In addition, this sub-
component will carry out specific studies on the Borrower's financial assistance framework inthe
urban transport sector at the provincial level.

Component E: Project Administration (US$ 3.OM without contingencies).: This component
includes resources for direct PIU staffing costs and functioning. It will simply be a continuation
o f the existing equivalent component o f the original PTUBAproject.




                                                                                              18

                            ANNEX 2: Economic Evaluation


This annex presents details ofthe economic evaluation of the project.

Component A: Transport Integration: The works to improve access to suburban railway
stations do not individually surpass US$500,000 per station and are expected to yield substantial
economic benefits. A methodology will be developed in line with the methodology for
component B, when more detailed preliminary designs are prepared and only sub-projects with
I R R s well above 12percent will be accepted.

Component B: Traffic Safety: Consultants contracted under the ongoing project carried out an
economic benefit-cost analysis o f 22 proposed roadrail crossings. The economic rates of return
vary between 0.89 and 29 percent, with eight crossings having an IRR o f over 12 percent, as
shown inTable A2-1.7

Economic Evaluation

Methodology. The road traffic base for the calculations was obtained from a 24-hour automatic
count, supplemented by a one-hour classified count during a working day. Where these counts
were undertaken by the consultants, they were done in conformity with a guide on counting
methods.

The rail traffic base for the study was obtained from the concessionaires. This consists of the
timetable of the trains, together with a calculation of numbers of passengers derived from
manipulation of an origin-destination matrix of passengers obtained from the concessionaire.
From the same sources, estimates were made of the times during which the barriers are closed to
allow the passage of trains and these were complemented with observations.

Information on accidents at level crossings was obtained from statistics provided by the rail
concessionairesand the Transport Secretariat.

Costs and benefits were estimated separately for effects during the period of construction of the
grade-separated crossings, directly associated with the construction process, and for the
subsequentperiod of operation of the crossings.

Effects during the Period of Construction. The major costs duringthe period of construction are
the economic costs (excluding taxes) of construction itself. Where the location of the new
crossing is the same as that of the existing crossing, that crossing would have to be closed during
the period o f construction. The calculation included the costs associatedwith extra travel distance
incurred when the existing crossing i s closed during construction. For this calculation, in the
absence of a comprehensive traffic model, a simple reassignment formula was used to assign
traffic to alternative crossings. On the basis of this reassignment, the increase in time and
operating costs associatedwith the works was calculated. Inthese cases there is also an associated
benefit in that the costs of guarding the crossing can be avoided immediately. Costs were also


  Estudio de Prioridadespara la Ejecucidn de Pasos a Distinto Nivel en el Area Metropolitana de Buenos
Aires, Evaluacidn Preliminar de Pasos, preparedbyIATASAfor the PTUBAPIU, December2006.


                                                                                                    19

calculated for the reduction in train speeds in the vicinity o f the works during the period o f
construction.

Effects during the Period of Operation. The benefits to road users include both vehicle operating
costs and time costs o f passengers. The operating costs o f private cars and trucks were calculated
on the basis o f the publication "Costos de Operacidn de Vehiculos", issued in 2005 by the
National Directorate o f Roads. For buses, they are based on the costing model o f the National;
Transport Regulatory Commission (CNRT).

Estimates o f the value o f time savings were derived from INDEC's Permanent Household
Surveys, carried out inthe second semester o f 2005, and usingvaluation criteria elaborated by the
World Bank.*

Accident rates were calculated on the basis o f the number o f expected accidents without the
improvements increasing at the rate o f increase o f vehicles o f 3 percent per annum for vehicular
accidents and at the rate o f population growth of 1.4 percent in the case o f pedestrian accidents.
These are conservative assumptions, as they make no allowance for the increase inthe number o f
potential conflicts which is also a hnction of the increasing number o f trains, and the risk
associated with a potential conflict which i s likely to be a b c t i o n o f train speed.

Each accident causes an interruption o f the rail service. This interruption was estimated, on the
basis o f historical data, to be 58 minutes in the case o f a vehicle-related accident and 30 minutes
inthe case o f a pedestrian-related accident. The number o f trains affected was calculated on the
basis of the train frequency and the accident type. Passenger time delays were then evaluated on
the basis o f the average load factors and time values discussed earlier.

Delays to vehicles at barriers were estimated using standard formulae reflecting average arrival
rates at the barrier, closure time o f the barrier, cycle time, and capacity o f the level crossing.
Estimates were also made o f the increased operating costs o f vehicles, particularly fuel
consumed, on account o f the low speed o f movement into and across the grade crossing.

Annual savings on the maintenance o f barriers replaced were estimated as US$9,600 per manual
barrier and US$4,800 per automatic barrier.

For the purpose o f the economic evaluation, a residual value o f 50 percent o f the original cost o f
the works was assumed at the end o f the period o f appraisal (20 years). Sensitivity analyses were
undertaken halving the value o f personal time savings.

Sensitivity Analysis

For the purpose o f the economic evaluation several sensitivity tests were carried out. Inparticular,
the analyses were sensitive to the present performance o f the at-grade crossing and the length o f
time the barrier stays closed. Secondly, it was found that the way in which the construction was
carried out and the temporary arrangements to deviate traffic had a cost that could have a
significant effect on the final evaluation. Therefore, additional analyses were carried out to
determine the impact o f the abovementioned elements.




* KennethGwilliam,The    Value ofTime inEconomicEvaluationof Transuort Projects,World Bank. 1997.


                                                                                                 20

      Traffic deviation during construction: The economic evaluation o f the roadrail crossings
      was carried out changing the construction scheme; a provisional road crossing structure
      was installed next to the construction. In this manner, the economic evaluation did no
      longer take into account time savings and cost savings o f vehicles being deviated but
      simply the installation cost o f a temporary barrier. The cost o f the temporary crossing used
      was US$400,000 except for the crossing at Dorrego-Constanzo where US$300,000 was
      used because the temporary crossing would be very near the existing road.

      Existing Barrier Closing Time: The economic evaluation o f the roadrail crossings was
      carried out changing the time the existing barrier stayed closed. Inthe initial evaluation, the
      time the barrier stays closed comes from observations. Inthis new analysis, the measures
      taken for 306 existing roadrail crossings were taken and averages were used for all
      crossings according to the type of barrier:

      - Automatic barrier more than 200m from the station: 01 min50 secs closing time
      - Automatic barrier less than 200m from the station: 02mins 09 secs closing time
      - Manualbarrier: 01 mins 38 secs closing time

Both tests were carried out and I R R s calculated; table A2-1 reports IRRl, IRR2,IRR3 and IRR4.
The first one, IRR1, corresponds to the basic original analysis; IRR2 corresponds to the analysis
with a temporary crossing structure during construction; IRR3 corresponds to the analysis with
more uniform barrier closing times; and IRR4 corresponds to the combination o f IRR2and IRR3.
As can be observed from the table, eight candidate subprojects are feasible inall analyses, and a
ninthwould be feasible according to the two proposed tests. As, the project will finance seven
roadrail crossings the choice amongst the best eight subprojects seems adequate.


         Table A2 -1Rankingof Grade Separations by IRR1, IRR2, IRR3 and IRR4


No        Location          Municipality           Railway        IRRl         IRR2        IRR3      IRR4

    (Ruta53)Ma*in        Florencio Varela            Roca         13.60        22.41       16.90     27.17

2   Ruta Nacional No3     La Matanza             Belgrano Sur     14.84        26.98       14.10     25.85
    Lisandro de la       Tres de Febrero          SanMartin       12.74         14.86      20.89     23.48
 .  Torre

4   Ruta Nacional No     Malvinas                  Belgrano
    202                  Argentinas                  Norte        29.23        29.23       23.00     23.00

5   Italia - Eva Per6n   Berazategui                 Roca          5.97         10.53      14.70     20.79

6   Av. Julio A Roca
    (Ruta No201)         Hurlingham                 Urquiza       10.51         13-23      14.64     15.50

7   Rodriguez A.         Esteban Echeveria           Roca         13.36        17.47       11.43     15.15

8   Dorrego
    Constanzo.           Esteban Echeverria          Roca         12.24        12.24       14.26     14.26

9   Av. HenryFord        Tigre                       Mitre        13.24        13.24       14.18     14.18
10  Espora               Quilmes                     Roca          8.25         9.88       4.38
11  Melo - Guemes        Vicente L6pez               Mitre         9.61        10.36       6.99

12  Montevideo San
                 -
    Juan                 Almirante Brown             Roca          7.67         7.67       9.22

13  Hudson               Florencio Varela            Roca          7.18         8.04       8.48



                                                                                                  21

14 Perdriel          SanMartin            Mitre     6.94   7.40   5.31
15 Las Flores        Avellaneda           Roca      6.74   7.48   3.18
16 Bahia Blanca      Avellaneda           Roca      6.40   6.71   3.63

17 Sarratea          Boulogne            Belgrano
                                          Norte     4.46   7.30   9.62

18 Florencio Varela  Quilmes -
                     Berazategui          Roca      4.41   7.85   5.04

19 Fader             Esteban Echeverria   Roca      2.91   2.91   2.49

20 Asamblea -
   Triunvirato       Tres de Febrero     Urquiza    2.63   2.63   3.27

21 La Guarda         Quilmes              Roca      1.39   3.41   1.81

22 Avellaneda (Sgto.
   Cabrall           San Martin           Mitre     0.89   0.89   2.94




                                                                      22

             ANNEX 3: FinancialManagementArrangements


RiskAnalysis

Risk                     RiskRating      Comments I MitigationMeasure
Inherent Risk            Modest
Country Specific         Modest          - Project   implemented at FederalLevel (Modest Risk according
                                         -toImplementation o f the Bank Fiduciary Action Plan
                                              Country FMAssessments)

                                         -- Satisfactory
                                              Experience in implementing Bank FundedOperations
                                                         Fiduciaryperformance inprevious operation

                                         - Existing adequate segregation of duties among
                                         FM/Administrative staff
                                         Measure: Staffjob description to be included inthe
                                         -OperationalManualf
                                              Adequate Flow o Funds mechanisms and related controls are
                                         inplace
                         Modest          ---- Operational
                                              Qualified and experienced staff
                                              Accounting on cash basis
&Internal Control                             Adequate internal control systems
                                                         Manual to be updated
Internal Audit          Modest           The InternalAudit Unito fthe MinistryofPlanning has the
                                         authority to audit Bank hnded projects and define-its own
                                         annual audit plan.
External Audit          Modest           Project Financial Statements were unqualified for Designated
                                         Account opinions and qualified for the financial statements.
                                         The audit qualifications didnot indicate substantial FMissues.
                                         Measure: Annual supervision missions focused on audit
                                         follow-uo.
Reporting and           Modest           - Adequate    Reporting & Monitoring System
Monitoring                               Measure: Annual Financial Management Reports
                                         - Executionthrough UEPEX system complying with Bank
                                         reauirements




External Audit
Acceptable audit reports o f the ongoing project were submitted to the Bank from the Ministry o f
Economy and Production. The audits were carried out by Argentina's Supreme Audit Institution,
Auditoria General de la Nacidn (AGN) and project audit reports were reviewed by the Regional
FM Team. 2003 to 2005 audit opinions for financial statements showed qualifications, whose
nature do not indicate substantial FM issues essentially related to accounting errors. Designated
Account opinions for the same period were unqualified. The project i s currently implementing
satisfactorily a follow up action planfor the audit of 2005 fiscal year.




                                                                                                     23

               Table A3-1: Audit Arrangements

Year    Auditor        Project FinancialStatements    Specialopinions
                                                    (DesignatedAccount)
                        PTUBA    -8zLoan
                                    SOE
                                         4163-AR
2005    AGN                      Qualified              Unqualified
2004    AGN                      Qualified              Unqualified
2003    AGN                      Qualified              Unqualified




                                                                     24

                                 ANNEX 4: ProcurementArrangements


       Summary Procurement Planfor FirstYear Activities


       1. Works

       (a) A list o f works contracts for the first year.

-1          2                   3                                     6                 7               8               9

Ref.    Contract           Estimated       Procure       P-Q     Domestic          Review            Expected      Comments
No.   (Description)           cost           ment               Preference         by Bank             Bid-
                                           Method                 (yeslno)      (Prior I Post)       Opening
                                                                                                       Date
1                                                                                                  0413012007    Post review
                                                                                                                 exceptionally
                                                                I
-
2                                                                                                  0611412008



     Argentinas
3    Suburban           I 3,900,000                                             Prior (b)          09/13/2007
     Railway Stations                                           +
     Accessibility -                                            -T--
-    Package 1
4    Suburban           I 3,900,000                                             Prior (b)          1010212007
     Railway Stations
     Accessibility -

5                                                                                                  1011712007
     Railway Stations
     -t
     Accessibility -
-    Package 3
6    Suburban           I 3,900,000                                                                1111612007
     Railway Stations
     Accessibility -
-    Packa e 4
7    Minor rehab          800,000                                              Prior               1110312007    Extension o f an
     works inLine A                                                                                              existing
-                                                                                                                contract

       (b) ICB contracts estimated to cost above US$8,000,000 for works and above US$500,000 for goods per
       contract, the first two contracts for works, goods and non-consultant services procured under NCB and
       shopping ,regardless o f their cost, and all direct contracting will be subject to prior review by the Bank.
       (c) Contracts for works estimated to cost below US$8,000,000 and contracts for goods estimated to cost
       below US$500,000 may be awarded through NCB procedures.
       (d) Contracts for works estimated to cost US$350,000 or less and contracts for goods estimated to cost
       US$lOO,OOO or less may be procured through shopping.




                                                                                                                   25

     2. Goods



 1          2                   3             4           5         6             7              8             9

Ref.    Contract           Estimated      Procure       P-Q     Domestic       Review        Expected     Comments
No.   (Description)           cost         ment                Preference     by Bank          Bid-
                                          Method                 (yedno)    (Prior / Post)   Opening
                                                                                               Date
1    RECOBA               1,000,000      ICB                  N o          Prior            10/30/2007
2    RETRAPI-             650,000         ICB                 No           Prior            12/03/2007
     CONTRAPI A


     3. ConsultingServices
     (a) List o f consulting assignments for the first year.

       1                   2                  3              4             5            6              7

    Ref. No.        Description of       Estimated        Selection    Review        Expected     Comments
                     Assignment             cost           Method      by Bank       Proposals
                                                                       (Prior I     Submission
                                                                         Post)         Date
        1        Supervision o f        362,903          QCBS
                 roadrail crossing                                                              through
                 Florencio Varela                                                               Existing
                                                                                                PTUBA long-
                                                                                                list,

       2         Supervision o f        350,000          QCBS
                 roadrail crossing at                                                           through
                 RN202 Malvinas                                                                 Expressions o f
                 Argentinas                                                                    IInterest
       3         Supervision o f        200,000                       Prior      I 11/03/2007 I Extensionof
                 rehabilitation works                                                           an existing
                 inLineA
       4         Detailed Design for    266,667          QCBS
                 roadrail crossjng                                                              through
                 RN202-Malvinas                                                                 Expressions o f
                 Argentinas                                                                     Interest
                                                                                 I 07/10/2007 1I
       5         Detailed Design for    266,667          QCBS         Prior                     Short list
                 roadrail crossing                                                              through
                 No. 3                                                                          Expressions o f
                                                                                                Interest
       6         Detailed Design for    266,667          QCBS         Prior        07/30/2007   Short list
                 roadrail crossing                                                              though
                 No. 4                                                                          Expressions o f

                                                                                 I 08/19/2007 1IInterest
       7         Detailed Design for    266,667          QCBS        Prior                      Shortlist
                 roadrail crossing
                 No. 5                                                                         IInterest
       8         Detailed Design for    266,667          QCBS        Prior       I 09/08/2007 I Short list
                 roadrail crossing                                                             Ithrough



                                                                                                          26

                                                                                               Expressionsof
                                                                                               Interest
 9                                              QCBS          Prior          09/28/2007     I1IShort list
         roadrail crossing

                                                                                               Interest
 10                                             QCBS          Prior          08/15/2007     I1 Short lists
         Transport Study

                                                                                               Interest
 11      CordobaUrban            680,000        QCBS          Prior          08/15/2007     1I Short lists
         Transport Study

                                                                                               Interest
 12      Posadas Urban           420,000        QCBS          Prior          09/15/2007     II Short lists
         Transport Study                                     I


                                                                                               Intkrest
 13      Mendoza Urban           800,000        QCBS          Prior          0911512007     II Short lists
         Transport Study

                                                                                               Interest
 14      Rosario Urban           800,000        QCBS          Prior          07/29/2007     II Short lists
         Transport Study                                                                       through
                                                                                               Expressionsof

 15      ENMODO A                750,000        FB            Prior
                                                                                               through
                                                                                               Expressionsof
                                                                                               Interest
 16      ENMODOB                 750,000        FB            Prior          10/24/2007     II Short lists
                                                                                               through
                                                                                               Expressionsof

 17      RETRAPI-                650,000        FB            Prior
         CONTRAPI B                                                                            through
                                                             I                                 Expressionsof
                                                                                               Interest
 18      RETRAPI-                600,000                      Prior          12/23/2007     II Short lists
         ENTRAP1


                                                                                            I
                                                                                            I  Interest
 19      Modelo A                130,000                                     10/24/2007        Short list
                                                ~

                                                                                               through
                                                                                               Expressionsof


(b) Consultancy services estimated to cost $200,000 or more per contract and single source selection of
consultants (firms) for assignments estimated to cost above $50,000 will be subject to prior review by the
Bank.




                                                                                                         27

                           ANNEX 5: Safeguard PolicyIssues

Introduction

This annex summarizes the key issues related to the Bank's environmental and social safeguard
policies triggered by the project and explains how these issues have been or are proposed to be
addressed inthe additional financing o f this project.

Environmental and Social Assessment of Additional Financing

Given the interrelation between the social and environmental aspects in this project, both
        dimensions were integrated inone comprehensive approach. The preparationof the social
        and environmental aspects included the following activities:
    (i)      Evaluationand lessons learned from the ongoing PTUBA;
    (ii)     Assessment o f a sample o fthe proposed works under the additional financing; and
    (iii)    Environmental and Social training activities for municipalities.

In summary the assessment and screening duringproject preparation was used to prepare a more
comprehensive Environmental and Social Management Manual (ESMM) and assisted the team
to:
    (i)      Identify the actual environmental and social impacts (positive and negative) o f the
             project and the measures that were implementedto mitigate the negative impacts and
             their results.
    (ii)     Improve the methodology o f the community consultation and participatory process
             and provide concrete inputs to the study o f alternatives and to the ESSM.
    (iii)    Assign clear roles and responsibilities to each actor in social and environmental
             management process and identify capacity needs.


Evaluation and lessonslearned from the ongoing PTUBA

An independent consultant was hired to review the roadrail crossings financed under the first
phase o f PTUBA and assess the positive and negative environmental and social impacts o f the
works, the effectiveness o f the methodology applied to identify and evaluate these impacts, the
adequacy o f the measures applied to mitigate and prevent these impacts, the institutional capacity
to monitor environmental and social impacts, and the concrete results o f public consultation
process. The consultant visited project sites, interviewed employees o f affected municipalities,
representatives o f the project implementation unit, NGOs, local community organizations and
inhabitants.

Seven roadrail crossing were constructed during the first phase o f the PTUBA, o f which a
sample o f three projects underwent a detailed assessment that, beyond the activities described
above, included the review o f bidding documents and environmental and social management
manual o f the contractor. The project was reviewed using a standard assessment form and
secondary information available. It i s important to mention that the Bank's Safeguards Advisory
Team (SAT) recently reviewed urban transport projects in the region and this project was
included. Main findings and recommendations by SAT were also reviewed by the consultant. The
main findings o f this evaluationare presentedinthe followingparagraphs.




                                                                                               28

Ingeneral terms, the environmental and social assessment and managementprocedures inplace
have demonstrated to be effective in identifying, mitigating andor preventing negative impacts.
However, it i s recommended to further integrate the public consultation process with the
environmental and social assessment and management process. It might be advisable in some
cases to involve an independent organization to mediate discussions between municipality and
affected population and compile the results and include mechanisms to incorporate the
environmental and social evaluations in the decision making, as well as design and technical
evaluation process. Furthermore, the ESMM has to include measures to ensure access and
minimize impacts on local populationdirectly affected by the works.

Regarding the public consultation process, most consultations took place several years prior to
execution of the project (mainly due to the standstill that the project had to face between 2000
and 2003). This greatly reduced the effectiveness of the consultationprocess and resulted in new
complaints and conflicts. Therefore, it i s important to establish validation period for public
consultation, after which a new consultation must be carried out or the existing one must be
updated following clear procedures.

The review also recommended that the PTUBA EnvironmentalUnit strengthens its capacity and
include staff to supervise the environmental and social aspects o f the project. An alternative is to
integrate staff from other national secretaries inthe process.

The review also suggests that the municipalities should be more closely involved in
environmental and social aspects of project preparation and supervision, and implement
informationprograms and provide grievance procedures.

The contractor manual will include guidelines to planthe constructionactivities inorder to reduce
disruptions to the community and specific recommendation regarding emergencies and
contingencies.

A detailed report (in Spanish) is available with a more detailed analysis and review of the
roadrail crossings and recommendations for future improvements in addressing social and
environmentalimpacts of this project.


Assessmentof a sample the proposedworks

Inorder to characterize the social and environmental impacts of the additional financing project,
two independent consultants assessed a sample o f the proposed works of Components A, B and
C. Based on the list of works, two criteria were defined to rank the projects according to the
potential environmental and social impacts: (i)nature of the works (such as painting, urban
furniture, elevators, fences, sidewalks, roadrail crossings, etc.), and (ii)socioeconomic
characteristics of the areas where the works will take place (such as'number of transport
customers, populationdensity and percentageof poor population).

Component A: Transport Integration:          Improvement of accessibility to suburban railway
stations

A detailed analysis of the accessibility improvements to train stations proposed under Component
A, showed that the specific works canbecharacterized as follow:




                                                                                                 29

    (i) Minimalornoimpacts:painting,parking,signalization,illumination,urbanfurniture,
            bus stops, ramps for disabled people, fences, bike parking facilities, and
    (ii) Minor impacts: sidewalks, pathways, drainage improvements; bike paths, road
            crossings near stations; and,
    (iii) Medium:pedestriantunnelsorbridges,paving.

The following table shows the results o f a preliminary classificationo f the proposed according to
the potential impacts.

              Table A5-1 Environmental Classification of Proposed Sub-projects

                                   Potential       Number of works
                                    impact
                                    Minimal                88
                                     Minor                 30
                                    Medium                 16
                                      Total               134

Based on the ranking above 10 sub-projects were selected for screening. The screening was
conducted by respective municipalities under supervision o f the consultants. The final review o f
the screening process confirmed that these works will have no significant impacts that cannot be
addressed through the measures o f the E S M M and, more specifically, through the Environmental
and Social Contract Clauses, and will not cause involuntary displacement.


ComponentB: Traffic Safety: RoaaYrail crossings

This component is comprised o f seven roadrail crossings. The detailed designs are yet to be
prepared. To date, only one project has a full detail design. Two independent consultants did the
screening o f the two priority projects that will be implementedinthe first year:
    (i)     Ruta Nacional No202 inthe Municipality o f Malvinas Argentinas
    (ii)    Av. San Martin (Ruta 53) inthe Municipality o fFlorencio Varela

Inaddition, two other roadrailcrossingswere selected for screening:
    (i)     Av. 14 de Julio - Avellaneda inthe Municipality o fLomas de Zamora
    (ii)    Av. Lisandro de la Torre inthe Municipality o fTres de Febrero

The assessment included consultations with local population and confirmed that the proposed
roadrail crossings will not have any irreversible impacts that cannot be mitigated through an
improved environmental and social management plan and improved public consultation process.
The consultants visited project sites, interviewed employees o f the involved municipalities,
representatives o f the project implementation unit, NGOs and local community organizations.
The methodology and results were discussed inworkshops involving municipal staff.

In addition, the Municipality o f Florencio Varela prepared a full Environmental Impact
Assessment (EM) for the tunnel at the Ruta Nacional No53 that was reviewed by the consultants
and recommendations were compiled with the outcomes o f the screening form. The EIA also
provides specific mitigation and monitoring measures for both construction and operation phases
and a communication plan.


                                                                                               30

Component C:Subway Line A

This component consists o f minor works in Buenos Aires Subway Line A stations, to complete
the ongoing works contracts to rehabilitate stations and improve communication systems inthose
stations, which were initiated under the original project. These improvements are likely to have
no or minor environmental and social impacts. However, due to the historic character o f the
Subway Line A, specific measures will be implemented to ensure that the cultural property i s not
adversely affected by the works under this component.

Environmental and Social training activities for municipalities.

During project preparation, the consultants also carried out five workshops to train staff from
municipalities o f AMBA. Overall 30 people attended the different workshops. The main objective
was to involve the municipalities inthe process and enhance their understanding and skills on the
environmental and social aspects of the project. The Bank's Safeguard policies were presented
and discussed. The screening instrument was analyzed and applied and the methodology for
public consultation agreedupon.


Environmental and Social Management Manual

Based on the environmental and social assessment during project preparation, the E S M M was
prepared. The E S M M contains: (i)institutional and regulatory framework o f AMBA and the
Bank's safeguard policies; (ii) explanation o f the screening process duringproject preparation and
main impacts identified; (iii)  responsibilities o f involved actors; (iv) manual with measures and
procedures to mitigate, prevent and manage environmental and social impacts associated with
proposed works financed by the project; (v) a public consultation guide; (vi) grievance
procedures; and, (vii) a resettlement framework.

The E S M M includes specific measures o f environmental management for activities directly and
indirectly related to said phase such as: design guidelines to minimize impacts, removal o f
vegetation and required arborization, management o f traffic, selection o f camping sites, material
lending, asphalt plants, machinery, qualification o f personnel, the required inputs to carry out
proposed work, soil movement, crossings o f water channels, civil works in general, fuel storage,
pesticides, paintings and grease removers, handling and disposition o f solid and liquid waste, etc.,
and abandonment phase.

The E S M M also includes measures required for handling activities directly and indirectly related
to maintenance and operation, including: road zone cleaning, pothole and shoulder repairing,
sealing o f pavement fissures and asphalt shoulders, repairing potholes in pavements and
shoulders o f superficial treatment, maintenance o f horizontal signaling, etc.

As part o f the ESMM, a Public Consultation Guide has been prepared to ensure close
involvement o f relevant stakeholders during all project phases (design, construction and
operation).  It i s expected that the guide will allow a more accurate identification o f possible,
negative and positive, effects of the sub-projects, related to the population and their activities. It


                                                                                                  31

will also allow for improvements in the ESMM for prevention, mitigation and compensation of
negative impacts and promote community participation and ownership.

Giventhat final designs of most of the works are not completed at appraisal stage, a Resettlement
Policy Framework was prepared and i s part of the ESMM.

CapacityBuilding

Specific activities to strengthen the capacity of PTUBA and municipalities regarding
environmental and social management and supervision are included in Component D -
Institutional Strengthening.

InstitutionalArrangements andBudget

                               TableA5-2 InstitutionalArrangements

 Task                                                          Responsibility
 Screening o f the sub-projectslworks                             Municipality
 Review of the screening                                          PTUBA PIU
 Inclusionof the Manual inthe Contract Clauses                    PTUBA PIU
 Application o f the Manual inthe Contract Clauses                 Contractors
 Supervision o f the sub-projectslworks                           PTUBA PIU
 Public Consultation and Communication                         Municipalities &
                                                                  PTUBA PIU

The implementation costs of the environmental and social measures will be part of the overall
contract costs. PTUBA PIU will assign staffhpecialists to ensure implementation of the
environmentaland social measu-esand activities, coordinate activities with the municipalities and
other stakeholders and supervise compliance by the contractors.




                                                                                              32

            ANNEX 6: FinancingPlanandDisbursementSchedule


                                Table A6-1- DisbursementSchedule
            Additional Financingof the BuenosAires Urban Transport Project


                                         figures in US$million)

      Source                                  Calendar Year
                           2007            2008              2009         2010          Total

Borrower                     1.o            12.0             16.8          3.0           32.8
IBRD                         7.0            33.0             45.0          15.0          100.0
Totalfinancing               8.0            45.0             61.8          18.0          132.8




                        Table A6-2 -FinancingPlanfor the Proposed
            Additional Financingof the BuenosAires Urban Transport Project


                                         figures in US$million)

                                                                   Amount of the    Yo of
                       ExpenditureCategory                         LoanAllocated Expenditures
                                                                      (US$)     to be financed
  ComponentA: Transport Integration
  (a) Civil Works                                                      21.9         70%
  (b) Goods
  (c) Consultants' Services, Non-Consultants' Services                 1.6          100%
  (d) Training
  (e) Incremental Recurrent Costs



  (a) Civil Works                                                      34.3         70%
  \ I
  (b) Goods
  (c) Consultants' Services, Non-Consultants' Services                 2.5          100%
  (d) Training
  (e) Incremental Recurrent Costs



  (a) Civil Works                                                      0.5          70%
  (b) Goods
  (c) Consultants' Services, Non-Consultants' Services and Training    0.2          100%
  (d) Training
  (e) Incremental Recurrent Costs

 /ComponentD: InstitutionalStrengthening



                                                                                              33

(a) Civil Works
(b) Goods                                                          1.65     100%
(c) Consultants' Services, Non-Consultants' Services and Training  11.35    100%
(d) Training                                                       0.20     100%
(e) Incremental Recurrent Costs

ComponentE: Project Administration
(a) Civil Works
(b) Goods
(c) Consultants' Services, Non-Consultants' Services and Training
(d) Training
(e) Incremental Recurrent Costs                                     3.0     100%




                                                                                 34



