Report No. PIC1992
Project Name              Argentina-Buenos Aires Urban Transport
Region                    Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                    Urban Transport
Project ID                ARPA39584
Borrower                  Argentine Republic
Implementing Agency       Transport Secretariat of the Ministry of
Economy and Public Works and Services
Date this PID prepared         March , 1996
Projected Appraisal Date       September 1996
Projected Board Date           April 1997
Background. The 12.4 million inhabitants of the Buenos Aires
Metropolitan Area (AMBA) are served by 15,000 buses belonging to 0
private companies, by a 44-km subway network, and by six suburban
railway operations 900 km in length. Due to rapidly increasing car
ownership, the public transport share of motorized travel declined from
75t in 1970 to 61t in 1994.   The area's 2.5 million private cars are at
the root of growing congestion, rising air pollution, and an increasing
number of traffic accidents. As part of its Railway Restructuring
Program, the National Government in 1991 issued tenders for operating
concessions and the physical rehabilitation of the subway and the six
suburban railways. In early 1994, 10-year concessions became effective
for three suburban railway subsystems, and a 20-year concession for the
subway combined with a suburban railway. With the transfer of the Roca
and Mitre/Sarmiento systems in January and May 1995, respectively, the
entire rail passenger system of Greater Buenos Aires is now operated by
the private sector. The initial results of private operation are
encouraging, with steady increases in train reliability and ridership:
the number of tickets sold in 1995 was 80 percent above the 1993 level
for the suburban railways, and 27 percent above 1993 for the subway.
Project Objectives. The overall objectives of the proposed project
would be to: (a) develop an
integrated urban transport (road and rail) system for the AMBA, aiming
at better environmental quality, traffic safety and economic efficiency;
(b) improve the service quality and coverage of mass transit to maintain
its role in assuring personal mobility in the AMBA; (c) help in shaping
a regulatory and financial environment within which transport
investments and services are provided by the private sector; and (d)
contribute to the financial obligations which the Government has assumed
under the concession agreements with the private sector.
Project Description. The project would consist of a package of actions
and investments aimed at achieving the above objectives, including:
(a)     support to the basic investment program of the Metrovias
concession, including the rehabilitation of track, electric



substations and transmission facilities, signal control, and
communications for the Urquiza line and subway lines B, C, D and E;
(b)     rehabilitation of the subway line A which, because of expected
bilateral support which did not materialize, had not been included
in the concession tender;
(c)     improved transfer facilities and other investments aimed at
better integration of the transport system;
(d)     a traffic safety program, combining the formulation of a broad
urban traffic safety strategy with an action plan to reduce
accidents at road/rail crossings; and
(e)     institutional strengthening, possibly through the creation of
a Metropolitan Transport Commission which would be responsible for
the formulation and control of common policies on pricing,
regulation, financing, and project evaluation and selection; it
would also support the development of a system to monitor air and
noise pollution.
Project Financing. A World Bank loan of $150 million is planned to
support the project. This would be complemented by Government
counterpart funds and potential finance arranged by the suppliers of
electrical and signalling equipment for subway Line A.
Project Implementation. Subject to confirmation by Government and Bank
headquarters, the Metrovias concessionaire would implement its basic
investment program and the rehabilitation of subway Line A. The other
components would be implemented by the Secretariat of Transport and
Energy, which would also be responsible for overall project
coordination.
Project Sustainability. The operating concessions include substantial
government investments to modernize the antiquated urban rail
infrastructure. The proposed project would assist with these
investments and also pave the way for complementary investments by the
private operators, since major improvements in infrastructure and
equipment are required to sustain a significant increase in public
transport patronage. Moreover, the project would address such issues as
environmental quality and road safety, as the sustainable functioning of
metropolitan mobility requires a comprehensive approach, within which
rail passenger transport would be only one'albeit an important'factor.
Lessons Learned. The proposed project would support the ongoing
privatization of the railway subsector and a comprehensive approach to
urban transport. Bank support for privatization is relatively new, and
thus there is little experience that is directly relevant. There is,
however, significant experience from the urban transport sector of
Brazil and the non-urban transport sector of Argentina, from which the
following lessons have been learned: (a) lack of counterpart funds is
one of the primary causes of project delays; (b) effective regulatory
agencies are critical to private sector participation; (c) clear
institutional responsibilities greatly improve the effectiveness of
implementation; and (d) any proposed investments or institutional
changes should occur in the context of an overall regional transport
plan.
Poverty Category. N/A
-2-



Environmental Aspects. The project is classified as category B for
environmental purposes. It is expected to reduce air pollution by: (a)
diverting trips from buses and cars to the less polluting railway; and
(b) introducing systematic air pollution monitoring. In addition, a
focused effort is planned to reduce the serious traffic safety problem.
Few adverse impacts are expected from the civil works since most
investments are for the rehabilitation of existing facilities, most of
them underground.
Program Objective Categories. The proposed project would support
private sector development by consolidating the privatization of urban
transit in Buenos Aires. It would also aim to improve (public) urban
management by addressing transport planning and road safety. Transport
demand management and air pollution measures would pursue environmental
objectives.
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 3 -



