Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4163-AR
Loan Agreement
(Buenos Aires Urban Transport Project)
between
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated December 10, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4163-AR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 10, 1997, between ARGENTINE REPUBLIC (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement, except that Section 6.03 
of the General Conditions is modified to read:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank. If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been suspended 
with respect to any amount of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, 
or (b) at any time, the Bank determines, after consultation with the Borrower, 
that 
an amount of the Loan will not be required to finance the Project's costs 
to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any time the Bank 
determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the 
Page  2
Loan, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the 
procurement or the execution of such contract, without the Borrower having 
taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the 
situation, and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank determines that the 
procurement of any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is 
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in the Loan 
Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Loan 
shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (f) the Bank shall have 
received notice from the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07 with respect to an 
amount 
of the Loan, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, 
terminate the 
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such 
amount.  Upon 
the giving of such notice, such amount of the Loan shall be 
cancelled.".
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"AMBA" means Area Metropolitana de Buenos Aires (the metropolitan area 
comprised of the city of Buenos Aires and surrounding municipalities);
(b)
"Implementation Letter" means the letter, of even date herewith, entered 
into between the Borrower and the Bank with respect to the timetable and indicators 
applicable to the carrying out of the Project;
(c)
"Integration Manual" means the manual referred to in Section 3.06 (a) of 
this Agreement;
(d)
"Integration Subproject" means a set of civil works and other actions to 
be carried out in connection with improvements to a given rail or subway station under 
Part B.1 of the Project, but only if such civil works and actions are not excluded 
from the Project pursuant to paragraph C.4 of the Social and Environmental Letter (as 
hereinafter defined);
(e)
"Metrovías" means the Argentine corporation to which the Borrower awarded 
the concession to operate all lines of the Buenos Aires subway system, as well as the 
Urquiza suburban rail line, pursuant to the terms of the Metrovías Concession Contract 
(as hereinafter defined);
(f)
"Metrovías Concession Contract" means the November 25, 1993 contract 
entered into between the Borrower and Metrovías (as amended to the date of this 
Agreement and as may be subsequently amended without prejudice to the terms of Section 
5.01 of this Agreement), which contract contains the terms of the concession awarded 
to Metrovías to operate all lines of the Buenos Aires subway system;
(g)
"Metrovías Line A Coordination Contract" means the January 22, 1997 
contract entered into between the Borrower and Metrovías (as amended to the date of 
this Agreement and as may be subsequently amended without prejudice to the terms of 
Sections 3.05 and 5.01 of this Agreement), which contract contains the terms whereby 
Metrovías shall cooperate with the Borrower so that the Borrower may effectively carry 
out Part A.2 of the Project;
(h)
"Monitoring System Arrangement" means the contract or administrative 
arrangement to be entered into between the Borrower and an entity with sufficient 
qualifications in the field, pursuant to Section 3.08 (a) of this Agreement, which 
contract or arrangement shall contain the terms whereby said entity shall participate 
in the carrying out of Part C.2 of the Project;
(i)
"Other Concessionaires" means those parties, other than Metrovías, to 
which the Borrower has awarded the concession to operate AMBA suburban rail lines that 
connect with the Buenos Aires subway;
(j)
"Other Concession Contracts" means the contracts entered into between the 
Borrower and each of the Other Concessionaires (as amended to the date of this 
Agreement and as may be subsequently amended without prejudice to the terms of Section 
5.01 of this Agreement), which contracts contain the terms of the concessions awarded 
to the Other Concessionaires to operate AMBA suburban rail lines;
Page  3
(k)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to the letter from the Bank to the 
Borrower dated August 2, 1996 (no. P-302-AR);
(l)
"Social and Environmental Letter" means the March 7, 1997 letter from the 
Borrower to the Bank with respect to certain social and environmental policies 
applicable to the Project;
(m)
"ST" means the Borrower’s Secretaría de Transporte (Secretariat of 
Transport) within the Borrower’s Ministerio de Economía y Obras y Servicios Públicos 
(Ministry of Economy and Public Works and Services);
(n)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(o)
"Traffic Safety Manual" means the manual referred to in Section 3.07 (a) 
of this Agreement;
(p)
"Traffic Safety Subproject" means a set of civil works and other actions 
to be carried out in connection with improvements to a given road/rail crossing under 
Part C.1 (a) of the Project, but only if such civil works and actions are not excluded 
from the Project pursuant to paragraph C.4 of the Social and Environmental Letter;
(q)
"UEP" means the unit (Unidad de Ejecución del Proyecto) referred to in 
Section 3.09 of this Agreement; and
(r)
"Work Certificate" means a certificado de obra issued by Metrovías to the 
Borrower to bill for work undertaken by Metrovías pursuant to the Metrovías Concession 
Contract.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agree\1fment, an amount equal to two 
hundred million Dollars ($200,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, works and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in Banco de la Nación Argentina on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.  The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
Page  4
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.06 
of this Agreement.
(iii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period:  (A) one 
half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or above) the 
London interbank offered rates, or other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund 
single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that include 
the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable June 15 and December 
15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall, with 
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
financial, technical and environmental practices, as well as in accordance with the 
Integration Manual, the Traffic Safety Manual and the policies and periodically 
adjustable timetable and indicators set forth in the Implementation Letter:
(i)
cause Part A.1 of the Project to be carried out by Metrovías 
pursuant to the terms of the Metrovías Concession Contract;
(ii)
carry out Parts A.2, B, C and D of the Project through ST; and
(iii)
coordinate execution of the Project as a whole through the UEP.
(b)
The Borrower shall provide or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, 
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Page  5
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare or cause to be prepared, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to 
the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a 
plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. (a) With respect to Part A.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall 
exercise its rights and comply with its obligations under the Metrovías Concession 
Contract in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and comply with its obligations 
under the Other Concession Contracts in such manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.05. With respect to Part A.2 of the Project, the Borrower shall 
exercise its rights and comply with its obligations under the Metrovías Line A 
Coordination Contract in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and 
the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank may 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or fail to enforce the 
Metrovías Line A Coordination Contract or any provision thereof.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower, through ST, shall carry out Part B of the 
Project according to the terms of a manual which sets forth how Integration 
Subprojects under Part B.1 of the Project and improvements under Part B.2 (a) of the 
Project will be prepared and carried out.  In case of any conflict between the 
provisions of said manual and those of this Agreement, the provisions of this 
Agreement shall prevail.  Said manual shall specify that, prior to commencing civil 
works for an Integration Subproject under Part B.1 of the Project, the Borrower, 
through ST, shall have, inter alia:
(i)
carried out, or caused to be carried out, public participation 
exercises to gather inputs with respect to the preparation and 
carrying out of the civil works for the station;
(ii)
prepared or caused to be prepared (taking into account inputs from 
the cited public participation exercises) an assessment of the 
possible environmental impacts of such civil works and a 
mitigation plan to address such impacts;
(iii)
made available or caused to be made available (taking into account 
inputs from the cited public participation exercises) compensation 
to parties (including residents and merchants) adversely affected 
by the civil works for the station, which compensation shall 
comply with the guidelines set forth in the Social and 
Environmental Letter; and
(iv)
entered into a legally binding written contract with the relevant 
municipality, rail service operator and (if necessary) province, 
which contract defines each such party’s rights and obligations 
with respect to the civil works for the station (including their 
obligation to facilitate the Borrower’s carrying out of the civil 
works, to permit or cause compliance with the plans referred to in 
subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, to permit or cause provision 
of the compensation referred to in subparagraph (iii) of this 
paragraph, to permit or cause compliance with the terms of this 
Agreement and to maintain the resulting infrastructure once 
completed).
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and comply with its obligations 
under the contracts referred to in Section 3.06 (a) (iv) of this Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower, the Bank and the adversely 
affected parties referred to in paragraph (a) (iii) of this Section and to accomplish 
the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or fail to enforce said contracts or any provision 
thereof.
Page  6
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower, through ST, shall carry out Part C.1 (a) of the 
Project according to the terms of a manual which sets forth how Traffic Safety 
Subprojects will be prepared and carried out.  In case of any conflict between the 
provisions of said manual and those of this Agreement, the provisions of this 
Agreement shall prevail.  Said manual shall specify that, prior to commencing civil 
works for a Traffic Safety Subproject, the Borrower, through ST, shall have, inter 
alia:
(i)
carried out, or caused to be carried out, public participation 
exercises to gather inputs with respect to the preparation and 
carrying out of the civil works for the crossing;
(ii)
prepared or caused to be prepared (taking into account inputs from 
the cited public participation exercises) an assessment of the 
possible environmental impacts of such civil works and a 
mitigation plan to address such impacts;
(iii)
made available or caused to be made available (taking into account 
inputs from the cited public participation exercises) compensation 
to parties (including residents and merchants) adversely affected 
by the civil works for the crossing, which compensation shall 
comply with the guidelines set forth in the Social and 
Environmental Letter; and
(iv)
entered into a legally binding written contract with the relevant 
municipality, rail service operator and (if necessary) province, 
which contract defines each such party’s rights and obligations 
with respect to the civil works for the crossing (including their 
obligation to facilitate the Borrower’s carrying out of the civil 
works, to permit or cause compliance with the plans referred to in 
subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, to permit or cause provision 
of the 
compensation referred to in subparagraph (iii) of this 
paragraph, to permit or cause compliance with the terms of this 
Agreement and to maintain the resulting infrastructure once 
completed).
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and comply with its obligations 
under the contracts referred to in Section 3.07 (a) (iv) of this Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower, the Bank and the adversely 
affected parties referred to in paragraph (a) (iii) of this Section and to accomplish 
the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or fail to enforce said contracts or any provision 
thereof.
Section 3.08. (a) With respect to Part C.2 of the Project, the Borrower shall 
enter into the Monitoring System Arrangement.
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and comply with its obligations 
under the Monitoring System Arrangement in such manner as to protect the interests of 
the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as 
the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or fail 
to enforce the Monitoring System Arrangement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.09. The Borrower, through ST, shall establish, and throughout the 
course of Project implementation maintain within ST, a unit that shall be responsible 
for coordinating execution of the Project.  Such unit shall be headed by a general 
coordinator and shall include consultants and permanent staff (in numbers satisfactory 
to the Bank and all with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank).
Section 3.10. (a) Throughout the course of Project implementation, and without 
limitation on the provisions of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, the Borrower, 
through the UEP, shall furnish to the Bank, by no later than each July 31 and January 
31 (starting on January 31, 1998), a semestral progress report on implementation of 
the Project, in form satisfactory to the Bank and based on the timetable and 
indicators set forth in the Implementation Letter.
(b)
As part of each January semestral progress report referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower, through the UEP, shall present to the 
Bank an action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for Project implementation during the 
calendar year in which said report is presented.  Each such action plan shall be 
carried out by the Borrower, through ST, during the calendar year in question and may 
Page  7
contain, inter alia, the periodic adjustment to the timetable and targets referred to 
in Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement.
(c)
Based, inter alia, on the contents of the semestral progress reports 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower (through ST) and Metrovías 
shall hold annual reviews of Project implementation with the Bank in November of every 
year during Project implementation, beginning in 1998.  Of said annual reviews, the 
one scheduled for November 1999 shall constitute a comprehensive Project mid-term 
review.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, including those for the Special Account, for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain or cause to be retained, until at least one year after the 
Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which 
the last withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out of the 
Special Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
thirty days have transpired since the Bank shall have informed the 
Borrower in writing that the Borrower, Metrovías, the Other Concessionaires, the 
Province of Buenos Aires, the Autonomous Government of the City of Buenos Aires and/or 
any of the other AMBA municipalities have taken any action (such as, inter alia, in 
connection with or in violation of the Metrovías Concession Contract, the Metrovías 
Line A Coordination Contract, the Other Concession Contracts, the Monitoring System 
Page  8
Arrangement, the contracts referred to in Section 3.06 (a) (iv) of this Agreement 
and/or the contracts referred to in Section 3.07 (a) (iv) of this Agreement), or shall 
have been subjected to any action or circumstances, so as to affect, in the opinion of 
the Bank, materially and adversely the efficient execution of the Project or the 
attainment of its objectives;
(b)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that Metrovías will be able to perform its obligations under the Metrovías Concession 
Contract and/or the Metrovías Line A Coordination Contract;
(c)
the Metrovías Concession Contract and/or the Metrovías Line A 
Coordination Contract shall have terminated, for any cause, prior to completion of 
Part A of the Project; and
(d)
the Integration Manual and/or the Traffic Safety Manual shall have been 
amended, suspended, abrogated or waived so as to affect, in the opinion of the Bank, 
materially and adversely the efficient execution of the Project or the attainment of 
its objectives.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely, that the events specified in 
paragraphs (a) or (c) or (d) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
that the UEP has been established and is fully operational;
(b)
that all action has been taken by the Borrower in order to permit that 
the procurement of goods, works and services to be financed with Loan proceeds be 
undertaken in accordance with the provisions set forth or referred to in this 
Agreement; and
(c)
that the unit referred to in Part D.5 of the Project shall have been 
established and is fully operational.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
on behalf of the Borrower, that the Metrovías Line A Coordination 
Contract has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf 
of, the Borrower and is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its 
terms; and
(b)
on behalf of Metrovías, that the Metrovías Line A Coordination Contract 
has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, 
Metrovías and is legally binding upon Metrovías in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date March 10, 1998 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Economy and Public Works and Services of the 
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Economía y Obras y Servicios Públicos
Page  9
Hipólito Yrigoyen 250
1086 Buenos Aires
Argentina
Cable address:
Telex:
MINISTERIO ECONOMIA
121942-AR
Baires
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Washington, D.C.
248423 (MCI),
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Buenos Aires, Argentina, as of the day and year first above written.
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By /s/ Roque Fernández
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Myrna Alexander
Acting Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean 
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
     % of
(Expressed in 
Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Metrovías concession
50,000,000
35% of the expenditures
payments for Part A.1
covered by each Work
of the Project
Certificate
(2)
Civil works for Part
65,000,000
65%
A.2 of the Project
(3)
Civil works (including
11,000,000
40%
Integration Subprojects)
under Part B of the Project
(4)
Civil works (including
19,000,000
40%
Traffic Safety Subprojects)
under Part C.1 of the
Project
Page  10
(5)
Goods for Part C.2 of
 1,500,000
70%
the Project
(6)
Goods for Parts A.2, B   1,700,000
70%
and C.1 of the Project
(7)
Technical assistance    22,000,000
       100%
and training (except as 
covered under Category 
(8) below)
(8)
Technical assistance for 6,300,000
100%
Part D.3 (b) of the Project
(9)
Refunding of Project
 1,500,000
Amounts due pursuant
Preparation Advance
to Section 2.02 (c) of
this Agreement
(10)
Unallocated
22,000,000
TOTAL            200,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "Metrovías concession payments" 
means those payments made by the Borrower to Metrovías, pursuant to the Metrovías 
Concession Contract, to compensate Metrovías for the expenditures, incurred by 
Metrovías, for goods and works required to carry out Part A.1 of the Project.  No 
disbursement of Loan proceeds for any Metrovías concession payment shall be made by 
the Bank, including a disbursement made as a replenishment of the Special Account, 
unless the Bank has received:  
(a)
a certified copy from the Borrower of the ST-approved Work Certificate 
with respect to said concession payment; and 
(b)
evidence that at least 95% of said concession payment from the Borrower 
has been deposited in an account held by Metrovías and that the remaining maximum 5% 
has been retained by the Borrower for future payment to Metrovías upon completion of 
Part A.1 of the Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above:
(a)
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures 
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount 
not exceeding the equivalent of $20,000,000 may be made on account of payments made 
for expenditures incurred within the twelve months prior to the date of this Agreement 
but after July 1, 1996;
(b)
(i) no withdrawals shall be made in respect of Category (3) of the table 
in paragraph 1 above unless the Integration Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, has been 
issued by ST and is in effect; and (ii) in addition to the condition set forth in 
subparagraph (b) (i) above, no withdrawals shall be made with respect to an 
Integration Subproject unless the Bank has received evidence from the Borrower, in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, that either:
(A) the requirements set forth in Section 3.06 (a) (i) through (iv) of this Agreement 
have been met with respect to said Integration Subproject; or (B) there are no 
adversely affected parties entitled to the compensation referred to in Section 3.06 
(a) (iii) of this Agreement with respect to said Integration Subproject;
(c)
(i)
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of Category (4) of the 
table in paragraph 1 above unless the Traffic Safety Manual, 
satisfactory to the Bank, has been issued by ST and is in effect; 
and (ii) in addition to the condition set forth in subparagraph 
(c) (i) above, no withdrawals shall be made with respect to a 
Traffic Safety Subproject unless the Bank has received evidence 
from the Borrower, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, 
that either:
(A)
the requirements set forth in Section 3.07 (a) (i) through 
(iv) of this Agreement have been met with respect to said 
Traffic Safety Subproject; or
(B)
there are no adversely affected parties entitled to the 
compensation referred to in Section 3.07 (a) (iii) of this 
Page  11
Agreement with respect to said Traffic Safety Subproject; 
and
(d)
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of Category (5) of the table in 
paragraph 1 above unless the Monitoring System Arrangement, satisfactory to the Bank, 
has been entered into and the Bank has received a legal opinion from the Borrower, 
indicating that the Monitoring System Arrangement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and is legally binding upon 
the Borrower in accordance with its terms.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts costing $8,000,000 
equivalent or less (in the case of civil works, but not including civil works covered 
by the first two contracts under the Project procured pursuant to Section I, Part C.1 
(b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement), $350,000 equivalent or less (in the case of 
goods, but not including goods covered by the first two contracts under the Project 
procured pursuant to Section I, Part C.1 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement), less 
than $100,000 equivalent (in the case of consulting firms) and less than $50,000 
equivalent (in the case of individual consultants), all under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  For purposes of 
withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of Part A.1 of the Project, statements of 
expenditure shall consist of both the items referred to in paragraph 2 (a) and (b) of 
this Schedule.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) support joint private sector-public 
sector initiatives to improve the service quality and coverage of mass transit in the 
AMBA; (b) support the carrying out of the infrastructure improvement obligations 
assumed by private concessionaires with respect to the AMBA passenger rail system; (c) 
assist in improving traffic safety and urban transport-related environmental quality 
in the AMBA; and (d) contribute towards the development of an integrated urban 
transport (road and rail) system for the AMBA.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Buenos Aires Subway Infrastructure Improvement
1.
Rehabilitation (including civil works supervision) of lines B, C, D and E of the 
Buenos Aires subway system, as well as of the Urquiza suburban rail line, by replacing 
portions of their track without deviating from the original existing track bed, 
renovating their electric substations and electric transmission systems, installing 
automatic signals and an operations control center for the lines, improving their 
passenger stations (such as by installing or rebuilding escalators), improving their 
mechanical workshops, ventilation systems and drainage systems and reconstructing 
approximately eight Urquiza line electric coaches.
2.
Rehabilitation (including civil works supervision) of Buenos Aires subway system 
line A by completely replacing its track without deviating from the original existing 
track bed, installing three new electric substations for the line, renewing the line’s 
power transmission system, renovating its signal and communications system, expanding 
the subway operations control center to include control of the line, replacing the 
line’s drainage pumps and ventilation system, installing or rebuilding its station 
escalators and merging its existing Lima and Piedras stations so as to improve 
passenger transfer conditions between Buenos Aires subway system lines A and C.
Part B:
Urban Transport System Integration
1.
Major improvements (including civil works supervision) of road/rail transfer 
facilities by carrying out Integration Subprojects (consisting of, e.g., building or 
improving bus terminals, transfer centers and car parks) at selected major AMBA subway 
and/or rail stations.
2.
(a) Minor improvements (such as, e.g., installation of bus-only lanes and other 
traffic flow enhancements, traffic signals, walkways, sidewalks and bicycle parking 
facilities) at outlying AMBA subway and/or rail stations, so as to ease bus, car, 
pedestrian and bicycle access to such stations; and (b) carrying out of a promotional 
campaign to encourage bicycle access to such stations.
Page  12
Part C:
Traffic Safety Enhancement and Environmental Monitoring
1.
(a) Conversion (including civil works supervision) of approximately twelve grade 
road/rail crossings in the AMBA into non-grade road/rail crossings, at or near the 
same sites as the original grade crossings (by carrying out Traffic Safety Subprojects 
involving tunnel or bridge construction); (b) installation or rehabilitation of 
automatic barriers at the sites of selected road/rail crossings in the AMBA that will 
not be converted to non-grade crossings; (c) carrying out of a study to develop a 
comprehensive strategy to improve the safety of road/rail grade crossings in the AMBA; 
and (d) implementation of other traffic safety measures in the AMBA (such as 
implementation of a traffic safety public education campaign).
2.
Installation and operation of an air quality and noise pollution monitoring 
system for the city of Buenos Aires.
Part D:
Institutional Strengthening
1.
Carrying out of an integrated urban transport study for the AMBA, which study 
shall include a transport survey and, on the basis of the results of said survey, 
subsequent preparation of a transport model suitable for quantitatively assessing the 
feasibility and comparative merits of alternative transportation strategies for the 
AMBA.
2.
Development of an AMBA traffic and street environment improvement program.
3.
Provision of technical assistance to ST on:  (a) technical, financial, 
environmental and social aspects of urban transport in general, as well as on the 
preparation, appraisal and carrying out of Integration Subprojects and Traffic Safety 
Subprojects in particular; and (b) general Project administration.
4.
Provision of training, in the fields of urban transport planning and economics, 
environmental management, traffic engineering and traffic safety management, to 
Argentine professionals working, or likely to work, in said fields with respect to the 
AMBA. 
5.
Establishment, maintenance and operation, throughout at least the period of 
implementation of the Project, of a public unit for AMBA urban transport planning.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)*
On each June 15 and December 15
beginning December 15, 2002
through June 15, 2012
10,000,000
Page  13
___________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, 
except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
(a)
Notification and advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $350,000 equivalent or more each and contracts for works shall be 
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $8,000,000 equivalent or more each.
(c)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Goods (other than those required for Part C.2 of the Project) estimated 
to cost less than $350,000 equivalent per contract or per bid package, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,800,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part C.1 (a), standard bidding 
documents acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
(b)
Works for Parts B and C of the Project estimated to cost less than 
$8,000,000 equivalent per contract or per bid package, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
In the procurement of works in accordance with this Part C.1 (b), standard bidding 
documents acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.
National and International Shopping
Goods (other than those required for Part C.2 of the Project) estimated to cost 
$100,000 equivalent or less per contract or per bid package, up to an aggregate amount 
not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of national or international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
Page  14
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Works for Parts B and C of the Project estimated to cost $350,000 equivalent or 
less per contract or per bid package, up to an amount not to exceed $2,000,000 
equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis 
of quotations obtained from at least three qualified domestic contractors in response 
to a written invitation.  The invitation shall include a detailed description of the 
works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable.  The award 
shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required 
work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
4.
Procurement by Metrovías
Pursuant to paragraph 3.13 (a) of the Guidelines, Metrovías may procure works 
and goods required for Part A.1 of the Project from eligible sources, using its own 
procedures.
5.
Direct Contracting
Works (consisting of the supply and installation of equipment for the operations 
control center referred to in Part A.2 of the Project), which must be undertaken by 
the original supplier/installer to be compatible with existing installations and which 
are estimated to cost up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,200,000 equivalent, 
may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply with respect to:  (a) each contract procured under Part B of this Section; 
(b) the first two contracts or bid packages for goods procured under Part C.1 (a) of 
this Section; and (c) the first two contracts or bid packages for works procured under 
Part C.1 (b) of this Section.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where 
no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard 
forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts, shall not apply to contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each and contracts for the employment 
of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each.  
However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to:  (a) the terms of 
reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) 
Page  15
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments 
to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to 
$100,000 equivalent or above; and (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (8) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$10,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $2,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of $25,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
Page  16
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account:  (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank:  (A) 
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the 
Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special 
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
