DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
FILE COPY
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR A
SECOND SMALLHOLDERS AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
October 25, 1972
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published,
quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept
responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT. ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE RIPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR A SECOND SMALIHOLDERS AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the Republic of Kenya for the equivalent of US$6.0 million on
standard IDA terms to help finance a Second:Smallholders Agricultural
Credit Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMr
2.        Since gaining independence at the end of 1963, Kenya has made
a good start in bringing a better standard of life to its population and
has gone a long way towards establishing the administrative and infra-
structural base for future economic development. This growth has been
made possible by pragmatic economic management, which successfully built
on the economy inherited from the colonial period, and by policies and
attitudes that have encouraged a high level of private investment and
external assistance.
3.        A Bank economic mission visited Kenya in September 1971 to
review progress made under the current development plan which covers
the financial years 1970 through 1974. The report of that mission,
entitled "Economic Progress and Prospects in Kenya" '(Report No. AE-22
of March 3, 1972), was distributed to the Executive Directors on March 17,
1972. A summary of the mission's findings was included in the President's
Report for the Nairobi Airport Project (Report No. P-1071 of May 16,
1972), and relevant extracts are provided in Annex I of this report.
Obuntry data are given in Annex II.
4.        Kenya's economy is characterized by rapid growth, and con-
tinues to remain fundamentally sound. Average per capita income has
been growing at over three per cent a year in real terms, even though
Kenya has a very high rate of population growth, and this rate of over-
all growth has been about in line with the targets of successive devel-
opment plans. Investment has grown rapidly, stimulated by a fast pace
of development in the private sector and a very large increase in
Government development expenditure which, by 1971-72, was well ahead
of the targets of, the 1970-74 Plan.
5.        The dynamic rate of development has brought the economy much
nearer to the limit of its resources.  Since early 1971, Kenya has been
confronted with a somewhat tikhter balance of Payments position. and



-2-
during the present financial year a tight budget is proving to be a
significant constraint on development. It is now apparent that the
availability of foreign exchange will be a critical constraint on
Kenya's ability to sustain its rapid rate of growth, and that the country
will continue to require a substantial increas'e in external aid, most
of which will need to be on concessionary terms.
6.        The recent economic mission which reviewed Kenya's economic
performance found that, although Kenya's overall growth performance has
been excellent, some serious imbalances have arisen in the intersectoral
allocation of resources, while the benefits of economic growth have not
been shared equally by the population as a Whole. In particular, the
agricultural sector has received a diminishing proportion of public
expenditure and investment funds, despite its critical role in expanding
incomes, employment and exports and in stimulating the development of
the rural areas. The Government is now aware of the need to channel
a large flow of resources into the agricultural sector, and it is likely
that investment in agriculture will increase significantly in the next
few years as the Government's absorptive capacity builds up. The Bank
is providing a substantial amount of technical assistance in both project
preparation and long-term planning advice to help accelerate agricultural
development.
7.        Unfortunately, the growing capability of the agricultural
sector comes just at the time when the economy is facing an increasing
squeeze on resources. It will now be difficult to allocate to agri-
culture all the resources it could profitably use, at least as long as
it is politically impracticable to divert resources from key programs
in health and education4 This will be one of the difficult policy
issues to be resolved in the next,plan, which is presently being pre-
pared and which is to come into operation on July 1, 1973.
PART II - BANK GROUP LENDING TO KENYA
8.        Kenya has to date received seven Bank loans and twelve IDA
credits amounting to $95.0 million and $83.3 million, respectively. In
addition, Kenya has been one of the beneficiaries of seven loans totaling
$170.8 million which have been extended for the development of common
services (railways, ports, telecommunications and industrial development)
operated on a regional basis for the three Partner States of the East
African Community - Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda. Sumnary statements of
Bank loans and IDk credits to Kenya and the East African Community
organizations, a summary of IFC activity in Kenya, and comments on
Bank and IDA financed projects in progress are provided in Annex III.
9.        The blend of Bank Group lending to Kenya has to date been
relatively hard, with over half of total comnitments being in the form
of Bank loans. If Kenyats notional share of Bank lending to the EAC
Corporations is taken into account, the blend of total Bank Gkroup lending
to Kenya becomes even harder - 76 per cent Bank and 21 per cent IDA.



There is a need for a softer blend of aid if the burden of servicing
debt is not to grow too quickly, and we therefore hope to be able to
increase the proportion of IDA funds in our lending to Kenya in the
future.
10.       Mbst of the Bank Group's direct lending to Kenya in the past
has been for infrastructure, particularly transportation and power, al-
though other sectors such as agriculture and forestry, education and
water supply have also received support. As stated in my previous
reports, the Bank has, for some time, been endeavoring to give greater
emphasis in its lending to Kenya to agriculture and other directly
productive sectors particularly for projects which will directly benefit
large numbers of people and will, as much as possible, increase Kenya's
foreign exchange earnings. The proposed project is the first product
of the program undertaken during the past year for the purpose of ex-
panding the Bank's assistance in identification and preparation of agri-
cultural projects and in charting a longer term strategy for agricultural
development. A second livestock project, which is likely to comprise
a five-year sub-sector development program calling for a total investment
of close to $80 million, is currently being appraised. A third tea
development project covering both field and factory components is to be
appraised shortly. Preparatory work is under way for a large farms
rehabilitation project, a crop development project for the Machakos area
and an integrated rural development project. In addition, the Bank
has undertaken a research project that will explore feasible alternatives
for participating on a substantial scale in broader rural development
programs in Africa. We hope that this study will ultimately help us
identify large scale projects in Kenya. An agricultural sector survey
mission is now in the field, and it is expected that its recom ndations
will be carefully considered by the Government as it formulates its next
five-year development plan. At the same time, the Bank has provided
a senior agricultural adviser to the Government to assist it in charting
a longer-term strategy for the agric\iltural sector. This concerted
effort by the Government and the Bank aims to find new approaches to
agricultural-cum-rural development and greater participation by the
Bank Group in this most vital sector of the economy.
11.       Concurrently with efforts to promote the development of the
rural economy, substantial investment will continue to be required to
maintain public services abreast of economic growth, and we expect to
continue financing key infrastructure projects. A further project for
financing the construction of secondary and feeder roads in rural areas
is being appraised. A loan to an industrial development finance institu-
tion and a project for power development are scheduled for appraisal in
early 1973, and a project for assisting the implementation of Kenya's
family planning program is under appraisal.
12.       The Bank is continuing its lending to the institutions of the
East African Coammunity. An $8 million Bank loan to the East African
Development Bank was approved by the Executive Dlrectors on June 18, 1972.
A loan of $26.5 million to the East African Harbours Corporation has
been negotiated and is scheduled for presentation to the Executive



-14-
Directors shortly.. A third loan for telecommunications has been appraised,
and negotiations are scheduled for December 1972. A fourth railway
project is scheduled for appraisal in March 1973.
13.       IFC has three investments in Kenya:  $9.2 million in the Pan
African Paper Mills, Ltd.; $2.1  million in Kenya Hotel Properties, Ltd.;
and $2.4 million in Tourist Promotion Services (Kenya) Ltd. A further
investment of $2.1 million in Kenya Hotel Properties, Ltd. is presently
in negotiation. IFC is considering an investment in the Bamburi
Portland Cement Company and has helped to finance a feasibility study
for a livestock feedlot operation.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
14.       Agriculture remains the mainstay and most vital sector of
Kenya's econony. Subsistence and commercial agriculture comprise 31
per cent of gross domestic product and 60 per cent of the total value
of exports. About 80 per cent of Kenya's population of 12 million lives
in rural areas and derives its livelihood directly from agricultural
endeavor, and many more people find employment in activities!closely
linked to it. A substantial portion of industrial activity is concerned
with the processing of agricultural products, and increased.cash crop
production is widening the rural market for manufactured goods.
15.       Although approximately 30 million of Kenya's 144 million total
acres are suitable for agriculture, only about 10 million acres are
presently being cultivated; about one-half is cropped and the other
half is devoted to forestry and livestock. Agriculture is concentrated
mainly in the southwestern quadrant of the country, where rainfall varies
from 40 to 100 inches per year. The highlands, a plateau ranging in
altitude from 3,000 to 10,000 feet, contain 50 per cent of the country's
arable land and are especially well suited to dairying and general agri-
culture. Irrigation plays only a minor role in Kenyan agriculture, with
less than 0.2 per cent of the cultivated land under irrigation. Mechani-
zation also plays a minor role, but its importance will increase.
16.       Complexity and diversity characterize Kenyan agriculture.
Primitive techniques and low productivity exist together with some of
the most highly developed agricultural technology in the world. Widely
ranging types of cliamte, soil and topography combine to produce a very
diverse pattern of land utilization and cropping. The complexities
created by natural factors are compounded by divisions of historical,
racial, cultural and political nature.  The agricultural sector is
dualistic in two senses; the division between subsistence and cash crop
production still exists, and the long standing division of farming into
"European" and "African" sectors has given the country's pattern of
agriculture a distinctive set of problems and advantages.



- 5 -
17.       Nbst of the farms in Kenya are small.  Issue of land titles
commenced in the 1950's and by the end of 1970 some eight million acres
involving about one million families had been covered. Holdings covering
about seven million acres vary between five and ten acres each while
some one million acres consists of farms from 25 to 40 acres each.  In
addition, there are approximately 3,000 large farms covering about two
million acres and varying in size from 500 to 8,000 acres.  The majority
of the small farms are still in the early stages of development, relying
largely on family labor and some modern inputs such as fertilizers and
improved seeds.
18.       Subsistence produce, consumed directly by producers, makes up
over 50 per cent of the total agricultural output.  Corn (maize) is the
major subsistence crop, although it is produced on a commercial basis
as well. Other subsistence crops include millet, cassava, yams, peas,
beans, potatoes, plantains and bananas.  In addition, some corn, potatoes,
plantains and bananas are imported. Commercial production for export
focuses on coffee, tea, sisal, pyrethrum and wattle, although cashew
nuts, pineapples, castor beans, coconuts and wool are becoming increasingly
important.  Rice, sugar, cotton and wheat are produced largely as cash
crops but are almost totally consumed within the country. Maat and
dairy products continue to be significant in subsistence agriculture,
and a growing proportion of the livestock produced is marketed domestieally
or exported.
19.       Before 1950 the commercial sector of agriculture was largely
confined to the area of European settlements, but increasing African
participation in the market economy has eradicated the historical
dichotomy whereby !aropean farming was for the market while African
farming was for subsistenee. Even the distinction between large and
small units of production no longer serves as the dividing line between
cash and subsistence sectors, as many small farmers are now producing
crops for sale as well as for their own consumption. The increased
commercialization of the entire agricultural sector acts as a modernizing
catalyst, generating increased demands for agricultural education,
assistance in farm planning, and better marketing and transport facilities.
20.       Although it does not engage directly in agricultural production,
the Government affects nearly every aspect of agriculture. It is committed
to increasing and diversifying export crop production, raising subsistence
levels and cash incomes of farmers and attaining agricultural self-
sufficiency. Agricultural development is controlled and guided by an
elaborate and complex network of government organizations and semi-public
bodies that establish many of the conditions under which production
takes place. The MLnistry of Agriculture is concerned primarily with
research, agricultural education on a sub-professional basis and extension
services; the extension services provide support to agriculture through-
out Kenya. More specialized bodies deal with land settlement and agri-
cultural credit, cash crop production, marketing and the development
of cooperatives.



-6-
21.       Agricultural Credit:  Agricultural credit is provided by seven
commercial banks, the Agricultural Finance Corporation, and the Cooperative
Bank. In addition, credit facilities are also provided by several
statutory boards. The Central Bank exercises little control over agri-
cultural lending except in a general way by setting the prime interest
rate (presently 7 per cent per annum) and fixing the amount of statutory
deposits which must be maintained with it, thus determining the minimum
interest rates at which commercial banks can lend and the volume of
credit available for all purposes.
22.       The Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC): The Agricultural
Finance Corporation (AFC) is a statutory body which provides medium-
and long-term secured credit for agricultural development on terms
ranging from one to thirty years. It works closely with the Ministry
of Agriculture on matters of policy and in the field. March 31 1971
data indicated that agricultural loans outstanding were KSh203X. million
(US$29 million), involving approximately 2,500 large-scale and 11,000
small-scale borrowers. AFC also handles on an agency basis the Guaranteed
Minimum Return Program which provides crop insurance and production
loans to medium and large scale wheat and maize growers from funds provided
by the Government.
23.       The Commercial Banking System: The commercial banking system
consists of three large institutions (Kenya Commercial Bank, Barclays
Bank International, and Standard Bank (Kenya)) linked to British bank
groups, one small entirely government-owned bank and three minor foreign
operations. The Government has or plans to acquire an interest of at
least 50 per cent in each of the three large banks. As of June m 30, 1971
the seven banks' total loans outstanding amounted to KSh2,O80 million
(US$291 million). Of these, 11 per cent were direct loans,to agriculture
and an additional 3.3 per cent were loans made to public sector institu-
tions, including those dealing in agricultural produce.   Caomercial
banks' agricultural lending includes aboA?t 7,500 loans to small farmers,
but the main emphasis is on medium- and large-scale farms and agro-
industrial corporations.
24.       The Cooperative Bank of Kenya, Ltd.:   fhe Cooperative Bank
finances cooperative societies and provides an outlet for societiest
funds and members' savings. It does not deal with individuals, but
works through the cooperative structure.   Loans are extended to unions
which on-lend to societies for on-lending to members. As at June 30,
1971, the loan portfolio amounted to KShl5 million (US$2.1 million),
and in 1972, it is expected that KSh8 million (US$1.12 million) will
be provided for production finance. Additional funds will be made
available for coffee marketing, and some medium-term loans will be
granted to cooperative agricultural enterprises. Presently the bank
serves 600 societies representing about 75 per cent of the.active
societies in the country.
25.       Other Credit Institutions Serving Agriculture:  Agricultural
credit is also provided by several statutory boards (at interest rates
ranging from 8-12 per cent per annum) and private traders. Some of the



-7-
statutory organizations proviAe credit for the pro'duction of crops for
which they are the single marketing channel. Funds are provided for
settlement purposes, and seasonal advances for medium- and large-scale
maize and wheat operations are administered under the Guaranteed Minimum
Return Program. Credit is also provided by merchants and other traditional
lenders, but few data exist.
26.       Terms and Conditions of Institutional Credit for ARriculture:
Secured credit is the general rule in Kenya. Mbst AFC loans are secured
by mortgages on land and/or by floating charges on crops and movable
property. The commercial banks also follow these practices and take
pledges on non-agricultural income such as salaries.. Cooperative societies
lend to members against crop hypothecation plus personal guarantors.
Other institutional credit is secured by land, chattel mortgages, and
through the marketing channel under the lender's control.'
27.       Interest rates for agricultural credit compare favorably with
those for other purposes.  The commercial banks-charge'large agro-industrial
borrowers 7 per cent per annum, the commercial prime rate, while other
agricultural borrowers are charged 8 to 9 per cent. AFC's agricultural
loans have in the past been at 7½ per cent. Cooperative members borrow
from their societies at 10 per cent, but the average size of such loans
is only KSh300 (US$42). Repayment periods vary according to the purpose
of the loan and the practices of the lender.
28.       Demand and SupplyS  Since the realization of the agricultural
sector's potential is heavily dependent on the technical and financial
requirements of the smallholder being determined and met, institutions
need to be geared to cater for his various seasonal, medium- and long-
term needs.
29.       Although estimates of the number of smallholders in Kenya vary
between 1 and 1.5 million, only a small proportion (probably less than
10 per 'cent) are reached by institutional credit. To a large extent
this is because the existing facilities for the provision of agricultural
credit to smallholders are fragmented and disjointed. Even the AFC,
which is the only existing institution, specifically designed for the
supply of such credit, is not yet equipped'to provide it to the large
mass of smallholders. Though a number of commercial organizations
including the major commercial banks have expressed an interest in
participating to a greater extent in the provision of agricultural
credit, they consider their ability to do so limited until a properly
organized and coordinated system for dispensing agricultural credit has
been established.
30.       Before the Government can organize an integrated system to
provide credit for all kinds of agricultural activity, data on the
demand for various kinds of credit and on the potential supply must
be collected and analyzed. Also the existing multiplicity of institu-
tions involved must be studied with a view to integrating and rationalizing
their credit functions. Consequently, we have, with the Government's
agreement, included in the proposed Credit funds for finincing an



agricultuaral credit survey. ehn the study is completed and recosmenda-
tions are presented to the Government, it can draw up a program for a
systematic restrcturing of credit sources. Such a program could form
the basis for further financing by the Bank Group.
PART IV - THE PROJEC?
31.       A report entitled "Appraisal of Second Smallholders Agricultural
Credit Project - Renya" (No. PA-137a dated September 26,1972)is being
circulated separateljy. A Credit and Project Siamary is provided in
Annex IV.
32.       The project was appraised in the field in May 1972. Negotiations
for the proposed IDA Credit were held in Washington in late August 1972.
The Kena Government was represented by: Mt. J. S. Ndoto, Deputy Secretary,
Ministry of Agriculture; Mr. J W. Yaa, Undersecretary, Ministry of
Finance and Planing; Mr. P. K. Gota, Read of land and Farm Management
Division, Ministry of Agriculture, Mr. H. P. Lowe, General Manager,
Agricultural Finance Qrporation; It. G. G. F. Moore, Head of Loans
Deparinent, Agricultural Finance Corporation; and Mr. JJ. K. Feston,
Planning Officer, Ittstry of Agriculture,
33.       The proposed project would follow much the same pattern as
the previous one (Cedit No. 105 RE). As part of the AFCOs lending
program, it would help finance; over a three-year period smallholder
famers' investments in crop production (3,000 loans and 23 per cent
of total to be lent) livestock, mainly dairying (4,000 loans and 64 per
cent of total); poultry, mainly egg production (700 loans and 3 per cent);
and tractors and implements (100 loans and 9 per cent). This distribution
is based on AFC's experience of dand under the first project and expected
deand for newer activities, such as the herding of swine and sheep,
poultry farming and fruit growing. The Credit also includes provision
for financing the agricultural credit studzy (paragraph 30) and provides
funds for the additional equipment, technical assistance and training
needed by the AFG and Miristry of Agriculture to carry out the project.
34.       The total cost of the project is estimated at us$9.2 million
equivalent, of which IDA would finance 64 per cent, AFC and the Goverument,
20 per cent, and the smallholder farmers, 16 per cent. The farmers'
share would be in cash or kind, ilcluding the value of their own labor.
The proposed IDA Credit of U$6.0 million equivalent would finance the
total estimated foreign exchange requirement of US$4 million (44 per cent
of total project costs) as well as US$2 million equivalent of local costs.
35.       Bnefts and    Tte of Retu=:   he proposed project would extend
credit facilities to those smaller commercial farmers with net incomes,
before receiving assistance under the project, of a maximum of about
US$200 per year. The project would:



- 9 -l
(1) increase agricultural production and the incomes of
some 8,000 smallfaarmers;
(2) increase employment int the rural areas;
(3) increase foreign exchange earnings; and
(4) assist agricultural credit development in Kenya.
36.       Substantial increases in the net incomes of the 8,000 small
farmers served under the project would result from the proposed invest-
ments. The market prospects for project commodities are good, and the
increases would be easily absorbed by rising domestic demand. The
financial rates of return from the proposed investments are estimated
to range from 39 per cent for farm machinery to 46 per cent for poultry.
The investments would enable farmers to improve their farming techniques
and crop yields, and as a result their incomes after debt service would
rise by an estimated minimum of 70 per cent. The project would also
have an important demonstration effect.
37.       The internal economic return on the project would range from
41 per cent (poultry) to 54 per cent (crops).  The effects of possible
decreases in the returns because of lower prices or yields or of increases
in investment and operating costs have been tested, and the rates remain
satisfactory.
38.       The additional full-time jobs generated by the project would
be about 7,600. Increased labor requirements for farm exploitation will
increase working hours for labor already employed and also provide
opportunities for additional employment. On the assumption that half
of the jobs would provide employment for labor from outside the family,
the incremental farm wages to be paid annually would average US$0.3
million before considering any secondary employment effects.
39.       The net foreign exchange earnings of the project at full
development would be about US$0.7 million annually. This comprises
US$0.1 million of direct export earnings and about US$0.6 million foreign
exchange savings on the import of food crops.
40.       The project would, through providing futds for traini  and
technical services, help AFC and Ministry of Agriculture to atreogthen
their sta.ff a.
41.       Implementation: The general format of project execution would
be similar to that of the previous project. The project would be admin-
istered by the AFC assisted by the Mlnistry of Agriculture. The Goverrment
would make available to AFC the proceeds of the credit relating to the
lending program and to the technical assistance to be provided for AWC.
The funds thus acquired would be on-lent by AFC to smallholders. The
Mlnistry of Agriculture would provide the additional persons required
by the extension services to carry out the project. They would be
responsible for the preparation of farm plans, technical appraisal of
loan applications and the guidance and supervision of borrowers during
the tenure of the loan.



- 10 -
42.       AFC Staffing and Training: Eiperience under the first project
has made evident the importance of ensuring that AFC is,properly staffed
to carry out the proposed project. Most key positions are currently
filled by expatriates provided under bilateral teobnical assistance
programs. Their contracts are.essentially short-term (two years), and
some of these (including that of the current General Manager) will expire
during the course 6f the next twelve months. The lack of adequate training
arrangements to date, and hence of Kenyan successors, has made management
turnover a recurrent problem. With respect to the three key positions
(General Manager, Training Officer, Machine Room.Controller) now vacant
or expected to become vacant during 1972/73, candidates with satisfactory
qualifications and experience have been selected and firm arrangements
for their appointments have been made. The General Manager designate is
a Kenyan. The actual appointments of these three officers would be a
condition for declaring the Credit effective. For the longer term, a
detailed staffing plan covering the project period has been prepared by
AFC and received by the Association. An outline of a training program
to be implemented by AFC has also been prepared, and the full program
will be developed in consultation with the Association. The training
program covers the needs for on-the-job training and training at other
credit institutions, both in Kenya and overseas. The Credit would provide
funds for the foreign exchange costs of experts as well as the foreign
exchange coats of the training program.
43.       AFC's Financial Performance: AFC's accounts have ahown losses
since its amalgamation with the Land Bank in 1969. This has essentially
been due to the inadequate spread between the cost of money to ARC and
the interest receivable on its loans. The overall cost of capital to
AFC is about 4 per cent. While AFC presently lends at 7-1/2% per annum,
some 40 per cent of its present portfolio earns interest at the rate of
6% giving an overall return of about 6.9% on its total portfolio. This
spread of less than 3 per cent is not sufficient to cover AFC's operating
costs, which range around 3.5 per cent of total portfolio and are not
considered high for an institution retailing agricultural credit. Further-
more AFC's financial position may also have been aggravated by an apparent
overprovision for expected bad debts.
44.       AFC s management and the Government have agreed to three
measures designed to ensure AFC's long-run financial viability.  First,
the Government will on-lend to AFC the proceeds of the Credit relating
to the lending program at a rate of interest of one per cent per annum,
with amortization to take place over a term of 35 years after a 5-year
grace period. This will partially compensate AFC for the low return it
earns on the portfolio inherited from the Land Bank. Second, AFC has
agreed henceforth to charge interest rates sufficient to cover all of
its operating expenses, to make adequate provision for bad and doubtful
debts, and to accumulate general reserves. Specifically, AFC has agreed
to raise its interest rate from 7-1/2 to B per cent per annum on all new
loans except those made under the British Land Tranafer Program. This
increase, in addition to improving AFC's financial position, would bring
its lending rate more into line with the prevailing interest rates charged
by other credit institutions for similar lending. Third, it is a condition
of credit effectiveness that AFC bring all of its accounts up to date



- 11 -
as of September 30, 1972, have them audited and certified, and complete
an analysis of arrears by age. This would enable management to arrive
at an appropriate provision for bad and doubtful debts and to introduce
an adequate follow-up and collection system for delinquent accounts.
45.       Procurement: The items to be financed are varied and would not
be suitable for bulk procurement through international competitive bidding.
However, there is adequate competition, both international and national,
in offering goods through the normal supply channels which buyers would
use. At least seven Bank/IDA member countries are represented among the
major producers of farm machinery and fertilizers with outlets in Kenya.
Sales and after sales services are adequate, supplies satisfactory and
prices competitive. Procurement would therefore be through normal
commercial channels.
46.       Disbursementst  IDA would reimburse the foreign exchange costs
of the equipment, training and technical assistance for the Mliniatry
of Agriculture and AFC, as well as the foreign exchange cost of the
agricultural credit survey. In addition, against appropriate state-
ments disbursements would be 75 per cent of the amount of loans disbursed
by AFC under the Project.
PART V - LEfAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUHIORITI
47.       Drafts of a Development Credit Agreement between the Republic
of Kenya and the Association and of a Project Agreement between the
Association and the Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC), copies of
which are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately, conform
generally to the pattern of the Association's agreements for agricultural
credit projects. Also being distributed separately is the Report of the
Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Association.
48.       I am satisfied that the proposed development credit would
comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
49.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D. C.
October 25, 1972






ANNEX I
Page 1-of 4 Pages
THE ECONOMY
1.        The last economic report ("Economic Progress and Prospects
in Kenya", No. AE-22, March 3, 1972) was considered by the Consultative
Group for East Africa which met in Paris on April 20 and 21, 1972 to
discuss Kenya's economic prospects. The meeting concluded that the
economic performance and prospects of Kenya justified continued technical
assistance and increased financial aid from the members of the Group and
that having regard to the growing requirements for external assistance a
substantial part of financial aid should be on concessionary terms.
2.        The report concludes that since the Bank' s last major economic
report in 1969, the Kenya economy has continued to expand rapidly, very
much in line with the targets set in the 1970-74 Plan.  Since 1964 GDP
in real terms has been increasing at an average rate of 6.7 per cent.
Average per capita income has increased from $107 in 1964 to about $140
in 1970, which is near the median for Africa as a whole. Thus, real
income has probably grown about twice as fast as population since inde-
pendence, even though the rate of population growth (3.3 per cent) in
Kenya is one of the highest in the world.
3.        There have been no fundamental changes in Kenya's development
philosophy since independence; in fact the evolution of economic policy
since 1964, as set out in the national development plans which have been
published, should rather be seen as a development of the basic philosophies
laid down in the original Government policy statement, "African Socialism
and its Application to Planning in Kenya". The current 1970-74 Plan, which
was published towards the end of 1969, restates the Government's basic
objectives of maintaining rapid but broadly-based economic growth and
providing all the country's citizens with rising incomes and reasonable
facilities. In addition, the Plan focused particularly on the scope for
accelerated development of the rural areas, on the urgency of providing
more employment, and on the need to achieve a more equal distribution of
income. Since the Plan was published, the Government has started to more
cautiously towards greater direct participation in certain key sectors of
the economy by purchasing a shareholding in several private companies,
notably in power, oil refining and banking.
4.        In terms of overall growth, the target growth rates set by the
Plan have so far largely been realized although a prolonged drought set
back development in 1971. GDP increased by about 6i per cent in real terms
in 1969 and 1970, compared with a target growth rate of 6.8 per cent in the
Plan. Investment, after only a modest increase in 1969, increased by nearly
a quarter in 1970 to a record level of nearly KI100 million. Development
in the first phase of the Plan has so far been fairly broadly-based, although
construction and manufacturing have been particularly important as growth
points in the economy.



Am=U I
Page 2 of 4 Pages
5.        Government expenditure during the first three years of the
Plan is also growing at a faster rate than planned, especiaLly the
development budget which has been boosted by an average of 30 per cent
a year during the Plan period. Some of this increase has been due to
the purchase of shares in private companies referred to above. This
decision to take a substantial, though not necessarily major, shareholding
in a few major undertakings of strategic economic importance was not pro-
vided for in the Plan. Mbreover, the decision to acquire these shares by
purchases on the open market or by direct negotiation with the private
companies, while reinforcing investor confidence in Kenya, has had effects
on both the budget and the balance of payments in 1970 and 1971. But even
if these transfer payments are eliminated from public sector expenditure,
it is evident that the Government is pushing ahead with development faster
than expected. This acceleration in axpenditure is reflected in a budget
which has now to rely more heavily on raising loan capital and in the
domestic market since neither the recurrent surplus nor external aid has
kept up with the growth in expenditure.
6.        The rapid rate of development of the econony as a whole also
brought about a much tighter balance of payments in 1971. While the emer-
gence of a balance of payments constraint by 1974 was foreseen in the Plan,
the very rapid increase in imports needed to sustain the pace of development -
more than 20 per cent per year in 1970 and 1971 - has brought it on sooner
than expected. After a number of years of balance of paymentas surpluses and
growing reserves, this new and rather sudden development will require some
changes in the orientation of economic management, particularly in regard
to the fostering of export industries and the need to attract additional
amounts of external financial assistance to cover the deficit on current
account. The emergence of the first real constraints on the balance of
payments, as well as on the Government budget, is a significant development,
but not, as stated earlier, an unexpected one. In fact these constraints
are in large measure the natural consequence of the country's success in
pushing development nearer to the limits of its resource base than it has
in the past. They also indicate very clearly that Kenya will have to attract
a substantially higher level of external assistance - perhaps as much as
$70 million a year more than is now in prospect - if the present fast pace
of development is not to be curtailed.
7.        While the overall rate of growth of the Kenya economy has been
very good, certain aspects of Kenya' s economic development in recent years -
especially in regard to the allocation of resources and the distribution of
benefits among its people - have not been entirely satisfactory. The general
allocation of resources in Kenya's development planning is very largely in
conformity with the economic priorities of the cou4try, but, as past Bank
reports have suggested, there is the risk of some imbalancea emerging. The
agricultural sector, for example, has tended to receive a diminishing allo-
cation of public expenditure and investment funds since the end of the major
land transfer and settlement programs after Independence, even though the
continued growth of incomes, employment and exports will depend critically
on the pace of agricultural development, as will the succes3 of aqr program
of rural development. To a large extent this apparent imbalance reflects
the necessary e.mphasis there has been on providing the infrastructure -
roads, harbors, power and water supplies - which were required before any
development could take place. It also reflects the strongly-felt social and



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4 Pages
political need to improve social services, particularly education, to
a people who had few of these services before. However, ome re-ordering
of priorities may be called for in subsequent reviews of the Plan, if the
productive sectors are to be given sufficient resources to stimulate a
high rate of future growth.
8.        Perhaps the least satisfactory aJpect of Kenya's past eoonomic
growth has been the manner in which the incremental benefits have been
distributed among the population. Many people in Kenya have gained very
considerably since Independence, particularly those who have been able to
benefit from education and training under the Kezaynization program, the
urban wage earners, and many thousands of African farmers who have had
their way of life transformed through the successful introduction of
profitable cash crops. 1NMy other people, however, particularly in the
lower strata of income, have benefitted much less. The difficulty in
distributing eoonomic gain in some equitable way is seen in its most
serious foru in the increasing unemployment. Wage mployment has not
increamed at all since 1964 in the large-scale private sector, and the
rapidly increasing labor force has had to aseek work in the relatively
small public sector or in:-he increasingly important small-farm and mall-
business sector, or find self-employment on the land or in the towns. The
hard core of the unemployment problem is among the school leavers, particu-
larly the primary school graduates, who are being thrown on the labor
market at the rate of about 100,000 a year and are generally ill-equipped
to secure the few Jobs that are available and unsuitable either by age or
orientation to return to work on the land.
9.        The Government is well aware of these problems and is continuing
to seek solutions. The present plan contains an enterprising experiment
in rural development which the Government now hopes to extend gradually
to all rural areas, and there is now a growing concern for accelerating
agricultural development and the first signs that the agricultural sector
is getting an increased a3location of resources. Government's greatest
concern, however, is probably now being centered on the problem of
unemployment.
10.       Kenya's irmediate economic dilemma will be to decide how to
allocate more resources to certain key sectors of the econoxs, while
not disrupting the continuation of existing programs, in the context of
emerging financial and foreign exchange constraints. There is clearly
no easy solution to this problem. There will, however, be a higher
priority for projects in agriculture and other export-oriented industries
in a form that will be suitable for external financing. It is estimated
that if the past rate of development continues, Kenya's resource gap will
continue to grow rather quickly during the remainder of the Plan period,
and that an increased flow of external capital will therefore be required
to cover the balance of payments.
11        Since Independence in 1963, Kenya's total external debt has
increased from $179 million to $282 million at the end of 1970. In Addi-
tion to its own external public debt, Kenya is also Jointly responsible,
with the other two Partner States, for the debts incurred by the East
African Community and its institutions, which amounted to some $171 million
at the end of 1970. About 25 per cent of Kenya's external debt is held by



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4 Pages
the Bank Group (10 per cent IHRD and 15 per cent IDA). Some 44 per cent
of the Community's debt is also held by the Bank. Kenya's external public
debt is not unduly large, and her debt service ratio (7 per cent in 1971,
including her share of EAC debt) does not represent a large burden on her
foreign exchange earnings. However, a substantial proportion of the paat
external investment flowing to Kenya has been on relatively hard terus,
especially if account ia taken of the increasing flow of-private investment
in recent yeara. There is therefore a need for a softer blend of aid if
the burden of servicing debt is not to grow too quickly, particularly as
Kenya's external assistance requirements continue to grow.



ANNEX El
LUTE   COUTRY   DATA
ARFA: 56137750 kr2                                       POPULATION, 11.7 Aillion (19.72)                         D5015SI7  20 pr kb2
PGVt'1ATPJI CEIA.lCTISASTICS.                                                         HIiEKi                    prone     tal            7     90
po-5.T btUriUcT     5T-lcur l,ffX  r4>                                                 PPulation per nsdieel poronrol e    *11 all5deat 371  (1970)'
CmdO d.tOh ralel  17 per 1,GOOD 1969)                                                 Population par hospital bed, 715  (1970
lp.octLio:a of lfre *t birth,
moles b? yeara
F-Ie.na S1 years
cAp PER CAFfTA. $140  (1970)                                                                                     iaCtaIuN.
Pr1tair  school wrollrnnt sho4t 65%
.CROSS NAIJO'1t PffDt2      hae7nin                                                                  AAVSAL C02179 RATE,
Ut.ti  in UVe  ollist                                                    1   a-7tno    t corant prio"e).
6roc- 1Inentrent                       3375d              21                                         l'5'o
Gno,a Voatiorn l Savings               283                i8
urr-nt AceOunt Nwanca                 - 40                 3
R..-t. of Goods, FFS                   287                                                            2.6
Trporta of' oode, NFS                  b76                30                                          5.0
OSTS1J. UAPOR FORCE AG? PRtUCT1TT S1 1700,Pr
Value addoi      labor Porno                       T~~~~~~~~~~~~~al.. Addoiper Workecr
Agriouituroe                  166                            3,980       87                         85                    27
Other 5ootore                 981.                             620        3 '152                                         197
Thtal/fkcraee           1,147                           b,600      100                        318                   100
CL"TFAL GSVEN'K'.r'T FtL VEtEs  (FT 1972)
ill r11ion                       % of Q-oP 18o t three yearn
General Seirvices                                              lS           
Finan-ia. OOIl-gtjon,                                           66                                     5
Fe.onlo .-de C-o.s ity Sernie.s                                158                                     S
Social sonlOc                                                  11                                     .
TotL.1                                                     494                                    27
Fin;ncrMi ben                                                 '285
Other aec-rent rmaenoe                                       el                16.3
boanatin develoinep t loa                                    31                 6.2
Short-torn ritna ing                                          3                 8.8
total doaestic fGa,n-ing                                    410                89.0
ECxternl financing                                           5l                U.0
PRlICES AND CVEDIT:
end of year:                                              d    We r P 2rive rhndWire3elI              FC'Rit to Pbl STeItor                   ts     CreStt  4  t    Y7ztAT
1961                                          12 ;Li3             . I 0                    13               .175                                          - 3.0
1969                                                                                        1              7.7                          186          '     6.4
1970                                          32,             ,       0o                    19             39.0                          2b2              *30.6
1971                                          121 (ca.)           * 6.1                     61             21 .1                         316              '30.3
BALANCE OF PAYIIHElTS,                                                                     1Uo:1LD3    bpM1t Clerne of 1968-701
b:ports of Cnoods, gFS                                                                     Ga 1  farfee.                                          ji               4
IT-oLta of Coods, bFS                    192        396         475                        Tat        ,                                               31.7           27.6
-29         - 7         -47                        vstrolnm priatuots                                        tO.I.           l.
Tz oransfersn      t*4                              -29         -1B                        Ia.t products                                               79             4.4
Tr.nters (oat)                            25         23          21                        Pyrathim                                                    6.o            3.3
Ralance en Ourrnt trnl,t                 -39         - 9        -40                        S sol                                                       5.0            2.8
a! - L r .. ig~~~ I-eateent  25  is       32 ~~Other bAtis                                                                     60.),5.
Long-tnr- lo ant 20 o                                            Su                          ta                                                       7.8           100.0
Other Capitl (tel)                       -11    -   - -2        -3
Inereas n Offlicia Relrsav ()            -32         62         .53                        naLL DM oN DECDIBER 31, 1970
1U athar Stee                             37         U           14                         Miwam a.d Long-tam  Credita, Publi2
Oaranteed Prints Credite                                   53 7
22. 3
Notinal 113 share of El Conmanit7 debt                     57 1
Total1                                                    33S4
D3FRIbRATLD (1971                                       gea  
IWMJ5IYD tDS. DERWOV2E 31, 1971
(S million
iSO                      IDA
OotmtAnt    anlA Dlaburad                      11.9                    314.
tdisbaregd                                  _47.o                    26.5
1545.1                                        0.7                     63.3
ofe ad  a       7S J1.00      7.143 ahillisge
fl 1       *:,, ,8                               Dat.. April 1S. 1972
Dprtma.t, hatern Africa Dqeaprt     t






ANNEX III
Page 1 of 5 Pages
A.          SUIARY STATM    T OF BA     LOANS AND IDA CREDITS TO MMYA
AS AT SEPTEMER 30, 1972
(US$ million)
Amoult- (less CalelIation )
00        YEA    BORROWER          a   ssHI                        J      UDSRM
256 [E    1960    Kenya     Agriculture and Roads          5.       -
303 KE    1961    Kenya     Land Settlement                i.    
64 xE    1964    Kena      Tea Development                 -      2.2
70 KE    1964     enya     Highways I                      -      4.5
77 KE    1965    Kenya     Tea Roads                       -      3.0
93 XE    1966    Kenya     Education                       -      7.0
104 KE    1967    Kwna      Agricultural Roads              -      5.3
105 KB    1967    Kenra     Agricultural Credit             -      3.6        0.7
119 KE    1968    Kenya     Tea Development II              -      2.1         2.0
120 XE    1968    Kenyra    Highways II                     -     10.7        0.4
129 KE    1968    Kenya     Livestock Development           -      3.6        2.0
639 XE    1969    Kenya     Highways III                  23.5      -         5.2
641 XE    1969    Kenya     Forest Plantations             2.6      -          2.0
185 [B    1970    Kena      Second Education                -      6.1        5-5
714 XE    1970    NCC       Nairobi Water 9upply           8.3      -         6.8
224 XE    1970    Kenya     Highway Naintenance             -     12.6       10.4-
745 XE    1971    EAJ&L     Kamburu Hydroelectric Proj.   23.0      -         16.8
276 XE    1972    Kerya     Fourth Highway Project          -     22.0       22.0
826 Kg    1972    Kenya     Nairobi Airport               29.0      -         29.0
Total                                 95.0    82.7
of which has been repaid             6.4
Total now outstanding                 88.6
Amount sold                 4.8
of which has been repaid  4.3        0.5
Total now held by Bank
and IDA                             88.1    82.7
Total undisbursed                     59.8    430.      102.8
Gb-
U.1 Guaranteed by the United Kingdom



ANMEX III
Page 2 of 5 Pages
B.        SUMMARY ST&TENI5T OF BANK LOANS FOR COMMI  SERVICES GUARANTEED
BY K1Y, TA.NIA1ND UGANDA A$SAT 3T M,B         30, 1972
Amount (US$ million)
No.     Year     Borrd,'er      PUose                   Bilc     Indisbursed
110 EA    1955    EARCL       Railwais                    24.0 
4s28 FA   16      ;EARC /2    Railways                    32.4         _
1966    /AH  2      Harbors                      5.6         -
483 EA    1967    EPAPTC-     Telecoummicati6ne           13.0        0.4
638 E:A   1969    EHC         Harbors                     35.0       22.1
674 EA    1970    lARC        Railways                    42.4       37.4
675 ED.   1970    EAP&M       Telecoammnnications         10.4        8.0
843 EA    1972    EAE         Developsiint Finaiice        8.0        8.0
Total                                          170.8
of which has been repaid to the
Bank and others                               21.0
Total now outstanding                          149.8
Amount sold                       214.14
of whidh has ben repaid         Z-O.0.         4.4
Total now held by Bank                         145.14
Total undisbureed
f1,Loan mada originally to East African High Coriassain and gu*iiiteed
by the, hited Kingdom.
/2 Loan made originally to East African Camnon Services Authority.



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 5 Pages
C.        IFC ACTIVITY IN KENYA
IFC has three investments in Kenya, totalling $13.7 million.
. KenNs Hotel Proner;t (KHP): $2.1   million sponsored by
IntercontinenuMotels and'oompleted in 1969.     The project includes the
Nairobi Intercontinental Hotel, a beach hotel at Mombasa and safari lodges.
Pan African Paper Mill8: $9.2 million, sponsored by Orient Paper
Mills of India and the Kenya Government. The project is an integrated pulp
and paper mill at Broderick Falls.
Tourism Promotion Services,, Kenya: $2.4 million for a beach
hotel near Mombasas a hot   in Nairobi, and two game lodges. Sponsors
(Investment Promotion Services) have sent out tenders for construction.
D.        PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Lo   No. 256KE - $5.6 million for agriculture and roads, signed
in May 1960, is MIlF disburmed.
Credit No. 701C - $4.5 million for highways, signed in December
1964., ia fuT7Mbursed.
Loan No. 303KEE- $3,035,000 for land settlement and development,
was 9igned in&       #bEer  961. Initially, this loan amounted to $8.4 million,
but $3.8 million was cancelled in Junm 1967, $665,ooo in pay 1969 and
$900,000 in October 1969.
Credit No. 64KE - $2.8 million for wmallholder tea development,
was signed in ugust 1964. Disbursements were slower than expected, largely
because the Kenya Tea Development Authority's (KTDA) field expenses were
lower than forecast at the time of appraisal. This resulted in a net saving
of $592,000 which was subsequently allocated for upgrading roads in tea-
growing areas. However, this amount was not utilized and has been cancelled.
CeiNo.7KF - $3.0 million for building tea roads, signed in
June 1965, is    sydiaburaed.
Credit No. 94KE - $7.0 million for secondary education, signed in
August 1966, ia ful   disbursed.
Credit No. 104KE - $5.3 million for agricultural roads was signed
in May 1967. The proJect has been executed on schedule and a nominal balance
of about $28,000 has been cancelled.
Credit No. 105KE - $3.6 million for a Smal.holder Agricultural
Credit Project, was signed in MHy 1967. Project implementation was initially
delayed because of problems in recruiting and retaining satisfactory manage-
ment and adequate staff. The retention of suitable staff on a long term
basis continues to be a problem. Problems have also been encountered with
accounting backlogs. Steady progress is however being made. The full credit
amount has been comitted.



ANNEX III
Page 4 of 5 Pages
Credit No. 119KE - $2.t million for smallholder tea development,
was signed in June 1968. This project is a continuation of the project
financed by Credit No. 64KE. KTDA was able to initiate its expansion
program under the Second Stllhotder Tea Development project without
drawing on the new credit until around March 1971 because its revenues
were greater and its costs lower than anticipated. Uhder this Credit a
further 35,000 acres was to be planted over the period 1968-1973 but this
program was accelerated and planting is now complete. Disbursements are
expected to be quite low and the balance is expected to be cancelled when
next tea project for financing both field and factory developments is
finali ed.
Credit No. 12OKE - $10.7 million for highway construction, signed
in July 1968. The project has boen satisfactorily carried out and a balance
of about $370,000 remains unrdisbursed. The Closing Date has been extended
to December 31, 1972.
Credit No. 129KE - $3.6 million for a Livestock Development
Program, was signed in September 1968. A Swedish loan of the same amount
has also been made for this project.  Initial implementation was slow, in
part because of the project's pioneering nature, for which Kenya had little
prior experience. Progress on project execution has now improved greatly
and sub-loans to ranchers are being made very rapidly. Range water develop-
ment has also been accelerated.  The present closing Date (December 31, 1973)
may need to be postponed by about 18 months to coqxlete disbursements.
Loan No. 639KE - $23.5 million for highway construction, signed
in October  969-, is under way satisfactorily.  Construction is about 60 percent
completed and all contracts are proceeding on schedule.
Loan No. 641KE - $2.6 million for forest plantations, was signed
in November 1969. Progress is generally satisfactory and at the present
rate of disbursement, the loan will be fully drawn down well before the
Closing Date.
Credit No. 185KE - $6.1 million for agricultural education, was
signed in YaW 1970. There is a likelihood of changes in project content,
since it is expected that the government will ask for a reallocation of
funds earmarked for Secondary Vocational Schools. The Government is also
considering the relocation of dsite of two Farmer Training Centers and the
restructuring of another to a District Development Center. Delay on this
component of the project can therefore be expected. Other parts of the
project are now proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 714KE - $8.3 million for a Nairobi Water Supply Project,
was signed i December 1970. Most of the construction contracts have been
awarded, and although there has been some delay in the supply of pipes and
accessories for the transmission main, this is not expected to delay pro-
ject completion. Although disbursements have so far been small, they are
expected to increase substantially in the coming year.



ANNEX III
Page 5 of 5 Pages
Credit No. 2     - $12.6 mdllion for a Highway Maintenance Program,
was signed oiDecember 1970. AUl designated posts in the ?Lnistry of Works
have been satisfactorily filled with the exception of the Planning Section.
Most equipment has now arrived and installation will shortly be completed.
Some initial difficulties were experienced with staffing the Kenya Highway
Training Center but this is now expected to be resolved shortly.
Loan No. 74iXE - $23.0 million for the Kamburu Hydroelectric Power
Station on the Tana River, was signed in June 1971. A Swedish credit of
$6.0 million has also been made for this project. Work is now proceeding
satisfactorily after a slow start which resulted in a delay of 12 weeks in
the construction schedule. It is expected that with the progress now.being
made, construction will be back on schedule by the end of the year.
Loan No. 826KE -.$29.0 million for ezpansion and development of
Nairobi Airport, was signed in June 1972.
Credit No. 276xE - $22.0 million.for the construction and improve-
ment of trunk, feeder7,access, and agricultural roads was signed in January
1972. A Swedish credit for about $6.0 million has also been made for this
project. Contracts are expected to be awarded shortly.






ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 3 pages
KENYA
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:         Republic of Kenya
Beneficiaries:    Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC) and the Ministry
of Agriculture (MA).
Amount:           Various currencies equivalent to US$6 million.
Amortization:     50 years, including 10-year grace period; in semi-annual
payments beginning February 1, 1983 and ending August 1, 2022.
Service Charge:   3/4 of 1% per annum.
Relending Terms: Government loan of approximately US$5.6 million equivalent
to AFC at a rate of 1% per annum; amortization over 35 years
after a five-year period of grace. AFC will relend to
farmers at a minimum rate of 8% per annum with repayment
terms matched to asset lives.
Project:          (1)  The provision of credit to some 8,000 smaflholder
farmers for the production of crops, livestock (mainly
dairy cows), poultry, and farm equipment. The major
investment items would be: cultivation (including land
clearance); improved seeds; initial supplies of fertilizers
and pesticides; spray pumps and other farm tools; incre- -
mental labor costs during the development period; breeding
stock; fodder; pasture improvement; fencing; dairy buildings
and equipment; water supply equipment; veterinary supplies;
tractors and attachments.
(2) The provision of vehicles, equipment and technical
assistance (including training) for the AFC and MA. The
major investment items would be: passenger vehicles for
the AFC and MA field personnel; office equipment (files,
desks and chairs, adding machines) for the AFC, replacements
for expatriate staff whose contracts will expire; scholar-
ships for Kenyan students to study agriculture abroad.
(3) An in-depth agricultural credit survey in Kenya to
determine: the demand for and supply of credit; how insti-
tutions other than AFC can be involved; the constraints
which exist and how they can be removed; lending priorities.



ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 3 pages
Cost of Project:                           (US$ millions)
Foreign Exchange
Local  Foreign  Total         %
I. Lending Program
(a)  Crops         1.1     0.7     1.8          39
(b)  Livestock     3.5     1.5     5.0          30
(c)  Poultry       0.2     0.1     0.3          33
(d) Farm
Machinery
and Equip-
ment        0.1     0.5     o.6          83
Total Lending
Program          4.9     2.8     7.7          36
II. Technical Services
(including
training), vehicles
and office equipment                   ) 100   of foreign
) expenditures or
(a)  Ministry of                       ) 85% of total ex-
Agriculture 0.1     0.2     0.3 ) penditures (re-
presenting the
(b)  AFC           0.1     0.8     0.9 ) estimated
) foreign expendi-
Total              0.2     1.0     1.2 ) ture component)
III. Agricultural
Credit Survey    0.1     0.2     0.3 ) 100% of foreign
expenditures of
) 80% of total ex-
) penditures (re-
3 presenting the
-estimated
) foreign expendi-
) ture component)
Total Project
Costs            5.1     4.0     9.2
Estimates include 10% for cost increases.



ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 3 pages
Financing:                             (US$ millions)
Local Foreign Total % of Total
IDA Credit         1.9     4.0     5.9      64
AFC/Goverment      1.8      -      1.8       20
Farmers            1.5      -      1.5      16
Total              5.2     4.o    9.2      100
Procurement
Arrangements:     Normal loeal commercial channels.
Estimated                           73/74   74/75  75/76    76/77
Disbursements:                       0.8     1.6    1.8      1.8
Rates of Return: Economic rate of return ranges from 41% to 54%.
Appraisal Report: Report No. PA-137a dated September 26, 1972
Agricultural Projects Department






-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
TO~ ~ ~
r                    :3r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T           t/dds Abobo              ° 
S U D A N   /        7(      \}O#?E                       T \H    I   O   P   I   A
ECOLOGICAL- LAND USE REGIONS                                       <       
4                                                            1                                         4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
ECOLOGICAL ZONES     LAND USE CATEGORIES: \                        1'  - .92 AMoobaso
Moist woodlond/bushicand TlH~IW ih potential agricuhfure   \*/    2gg
Dry woodlarrd/buetrtandl E XH~igs Potontol ronge\                 l .' 
Dry tharn-bu~~~~~~~~~~~~trIandII  It ~ ~ ~ ~  mo   l
f :~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c
Semi desert oegehtaton  -r wMedium  to low polentiol range\ it 
-iA-  Rainfall in inChes  I O  Majer towns\                                                      .       r
'---2Provincat boundaries  0  Natonanl caPitol           \                    u                         rKENYA
AMain reads          apPrts                             \    J  #\ 
,_ -JMajOR risers       _._.linternatienat boundaries       \s     7/(                                  o  i
i        5,0      '°°        90    ,,,,1. 1,,  lrlr1//  lljo 
o     So    100   150  290   2S0  ,,,PI  ',,e,,,,,,il l rN a   'Illar b,Y/  To r\ 
KILOMEtER S        ir'r,....... Jidiiwr  a,u,,,Jfik,r, " ._t ..... Oarlri os,e 
APRUL 972                                                                                                     teeD 3924



