|RETURN TO-\
RE-PORTS. DESK                                \Q2RA  
ONE WEEK 
ATIONAL BANK FO RECON AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVEL(                ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. PA-137a
APPRAISAL OF
SECOND SMALLHOLDERS AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
KENYA
September 26, 1972
AGRICULTURAL PROJECTS DEPARTMENT
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURECY EQU1VALENTS
US$1            - K Sh 7.14
K S& 1          - US$0.14
K Sh 1,000      - US$140.00
K Sh 1,000,000  - US$140,000
WEIGHTS A&D MEASURES
British System
I ac            -  0.4 ha
I in            -  25.4ux
yd            -  0.9 a
1 mi            -  1.6 km
1 sq mi        -  640 ac
1 lb            -  0.45 kg
1 ton           -  2,240 lb
1 pint          -  0.56 liter
1 Imp gallon    -  4.5 liter
-ABBREVIATIONS
APC      A Agricultural Finance Corporation
EAC    - E1at African Comunity
EEC    - European Economic Commiunity
GMR    - Guaranteed Minimum Return Program
KCC    - Kenya Cooperative Creameries
KFA    - Kenya Farmers' Association
KTDA   - Kenya Tea Development Authority
MA    - Kenya Ministry of Agriculture
NPB    - Maize and Produce Board
PMEA   - IBRD Permanent Mission to East Africa
FISCAL YEAR
AFC - April 1 to March 31



KENYA
SECOND SMALLHOLDERS AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ............................... i-iii
I.  INTRODUCTION .........     .................................   1
II.  BACKGROUND TO AGRICULTURE ......    .......................   1
A.  General . ..........................................   1
B.  The Agricultural Sector ..... .................      2
C.  Agricultural Credit ..... .... ............... *** ...    3
III.  PERFORMANCE UNDER THE FIRST PROJECT (CREDIT 105-KE) ...   5
IV.  THE PROJECT .       ..........................................   7
A.  Definition .......................                   7
B.  Detailed  Features   ................................  7
C.  Cost Estimates and Financing       9....................   9
D.  Procurement and Disbursement ................... ..  11
E.  Project Administration ................. .. .......  11
V.  THE AGRICULTURAL FINANCE CORPORATION ........ ..........  12
VI.  PRODUCTION, MARKETS, PRICES AND FARMERS' BENEFITS .....  16
VII.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ............   ................  18
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS   .................  20
SCHEDULE A - General Lending Terms and Conditions
B - Agricultural Extension Officers Assigned
and to be Assigned to the Project
C - Agricultural Finance Corporation Staff
ANNEXES
1.  Agricultural Background
Appendix 1-1  Imports and Exports by Major Category
This appraisal report is based on the findings of a mission which
visited Kenya in February/March 1972, consisting of Messrs. W. H. Spall,
R. R. Rossi, and B. Merghoub (IDA), and J. D. von Pischke (consultant).



- 2 -
2.   Mlarket Prospects and Marketing for Project Commodities
3.   Supporting Services
Chart 6702      Ministry of Agriculture Organization
4.   Agricultural Credit
5.   The Agricultural Finance Corporation
Appendix 5-1   Liabilities and Assets Statement
5-2   Income Statement
5-3   Cash Flow
Chart 6711      Functional Organization
6712     Proposed Reorganization
6.   Detailed Investment Cost and Yield Assumptions (Financial)
Appendix 6-1   Project Costs - Crops
6-2   Project Costs - Livestock
6-3   Project Costs - Poultry
6-4   Project Costs - Farm Machinery and Equipment
7.   Agricultural Credit Survey
8.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
9.   Financial Rates of Return to the Enterprises
10.   Economic Rate of Return
Appendix 10-1 Economic Rates of Return to the Enterprises
MAP 3924



KENYA
SLCOND SMALLHOLDERS AGRICULTURE
CREDIT PROJECT
Summary and Conclusions
i.        This report appraises a Second Smallholders Agricultural Credit
Project in Kenya for which an IDA credit of US$6 million equivalent is
proposed. It would continue the lending program commenced in 1967 under
the first project (Credit 105-KE) which assists smallholder farmers with
investments in crop production, livestock (mainly dairying), poultry and
farm mechanization. It would also assist in financing an in-depth agricul-
tural credit survey, covering the whole of Kenya, and the provision of
technical assistance and equipment for the Ministry of Agriculture (MA) and
the Agriculture Finance Corporation (AFC), the statutory body which would
be responsible for Project administration.
ii.       Agriculture is still dominant in Kenya's economy.  In 1970
it contributed about 31% to GDP and some 80% of the population depends upon
agriculture for its livelihood. About 60% of the total value of exports
was derived either from raw or processed agriculture products. Although,
agriculture's contribution to GDP (at constant prices) increased at an
average annual rate of 4.5% during the period 1964 to 1970, this is in
contrast to an overall average rise in GDP or the same period of 6.7%. The
Government intends to continue to give priority to the development of the
agricultural sector where the best opportunities probably exist for amelio-
rating Kenya's severe unemployment and under-employment problems.
iii.      The Project, which would be administered by AFC with the assis-
tance of MA, would help over a three-year period in financing on-farm invest-
ments for smallholders (average size holding 5 ac and maximum average
income of US$200 per year) in crop production, mainly food crops (US$1.8
million), livestock, primarily grade milch cows (US$5.0 million), poultry
production (US$0.3 million), and tractors and farm machinery (US$0.6 million).
In addition, finance would be provided for an agricultural credit survey
(US$0.3 million) and technical assistance and equipment (US$1.2 million).
The foreign exchange component is estimated at US$4.0 million equivalent or
about 44% of total Project costs. IDA would finance US$6.0 million equiva-
lent or about 64% of total Project costs and 60% of the lending program.
Farmers' contribution would normally be about 20% of investment cost and
the Government and AFC would provide the remainder of the finance (about 20%).
iv.       Estimates of the number of farmers in Kenya vary between 1 and
1.5 million and only a small fraction of these (about 100,000) are reached
by institutional credit. If a significant impact is to be made on
agriculture in Kenya, the needs of these farmers must be determined and
ways and means found of providing them with the necessary credit facilities.
It is unlikely that AFC will be able to provide facilities on such a large



- ii -
scale and whilst the Central Bank, leading commercial banks, the Cooperative
Bank, and marketing organizations have expressed interest in participating in
agricultural credit to a much greater extent, they cannot do so until a
properly organized system has been established. The proposed agriculture
credit survey would examine the problems in depth and make proposals and
recommendations for a substantial future agriculture credit program which
hopefully would involve a variety of financial institutions.
v.        Progress under the on-going project is now satisfactory after a
slow start and whilst AFC has shown some improvement during the currency of
the on-going project, it still suffers from staffing problems resulting in
a large measure from its continued reliance on bilateral assistance for the
provision of senior management, which is usually of a short-term nature in
relation to the personnel actually employed and lack of training programs.
Proper medium-term staffing and training programs are required if AFC is to
function efficiently and expand its lending activities. Since the contracts
of several of the present senior staff are due to expire in the near future
and it appears unlikely that further bilateral assistance on the scale
required will be forthcoming on time, provision has been made in the proposed
credit for substantial technical assistance for international recruitment
by AFC of the necessary specialists and the implementation of training
programs. A staffing and training plan, acceptable to IDA, has been prepared
and is being implemented.
vi.       Currently commercial banks in Kenya lend for agriculture at
interest rates ranging from 8 to 9% per annum whilst members of cooperative
societies borrowing through the medium of the Cooperative Bank pay a
minimum of 10% per annum. AFC presently charges 7-1/2% per annum. Income
projections for the next five years indicate that AFC will continue to
make losses unless the interest rate is increased. There is, therefore, no
justification for AFC to continue lending at below commercial rates of
interest and it is proposed that AFC's lending rate should be raised to at
least 8% per annum. Even at such a rate AFC would still operate at a loss
because of its capital structure and the fact that some 40% of its existing
loan portfolio earns interest at only 6% per annum. It is therefore also
proposed that Government would on-lend to AFC the proceeds of the credit
relating to the lending program (USE4./ million) and tnose re±ating Eo
technical assistance to be provided for AFC (US$0.8 million) for 40 years
(including a five-year grace period) at an interest rate of 1% per annum
instead of 3-1/2% as at present. This should enable AFC to break even in
1976.
vii.      The items to be financed under the Project are varied and would
not be suitable for bulk procurement through international competitive
bidding. Goods would mostly be imported from Commonwealth, EEC, or East
African Community countries. No import duties are levied on agricultural
machinery and inputs. A number of overseas suppliers are represented and
supplies are adequate, prices competitive and services satisfactory. Dairy
heifers, seed potatoes, and maize seed are in adequate local supply. Pro-
curement would, therefore, be through normal commercial channels.



- iii -
viii.     Financial rates of return to farmers are estimated to range from
39% to 46%. The internal economic rates of return based on projected world
market prices, are estimated to be from 41% to 54%. It is estimated that
some additional 8,000 full-time jobs would be created. The necessary
assurances having been obtained, the Project would be suitable for an IDA
credit of US$6.0 nlillion.






KENYA
SECOND SMALLHOLDERS AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Kenya has requested an IDA credit to help
finance the continuation of a smallholders agricultural credit project
which began in 1967 when Credit 105-KE was granted for US$3.6 million.
That credit assisted some 8,000 smallholders with on-farm developments,
the acquisition of grade cattle and improvements in crop and animal husband-
ry practices. It also provided for the purchase of tractors by contractors
and funds were made available for specialized staff, equipment, and vehi-
cles required for carrying out the project. Lending funds have been fully
committed and disbursement should be completed by the end of 1972. Performance
under the first project is described in paragraphs 3.01 to 3.04.
1.02      The Government continues to place major emphasis on agricultural
development and has agreed to a thorough study of the entire structure for
agricultural credit to be financed under the proposed project. The study
would focus on identifying projects related to increasing productivity and
methods of providing credit facilities for such projects. It is expected
that this will lead to an increased lending program for agriculture in
Kenya which, in turn, will lead to increased production, thus contributing
to the alleviation, in part, of the unemployment/under-employment problems.
1.03      Starting with the first Bank loan to Kenya in 1960, Bank/IDA
have made six loans/credits totalling US$17.7 million for agricultural
development projects including two for smallholder tea development and one
each for land settlement, credit, forest plantations and livestock. Per-
formance under these projects has been generally satisfactory, although
there were substantial initial delays in starting the credit and livestock
projects essentially due to institutional problems. In addition Bank/IDA
have lent sizeable amounts (US$85 million) for the development of the road
network which have made a significant contribution to the construction of
feeder and rural access roads required to support agricultural development.
1.04      This Project was prepared by the Kenya Government with assistance
from the Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC) and the IBRD Permanent
Mission to East Africa (PMEA). In February/March 1972 Messrs. W. H. Spall,
R. R. Rossi, and B. Merghoub (IDA), and J. D. von Pischke (consultant)
appraised the Project in the field and this report is based on the Govern-
ment's project submission and the mission's findings.
II. BACKGROUND TO AGRICULTURE
A. General
2.01      The Republic of Kenya, lying astride the equator (see Map), has
a population estimated at 12 million which is growing at the rapid rate of



- 2 -
3.3% per year. About 80% of the population lives in rural areas and depends
upon agriculture for its livelihood.  The main concentration of urban
population is in two cities, Nairobi and M4ombasa. In 1971, per capita
income was estimated at US$140 equivalent.
2.02      Kenya has an open economy with exports accounting for 19% of GDP.
The rapid expansion of the economy has led to substantial increases in imports
with a consequent deterioration in the balance of trade position (about 12.3%
per year since 1966). Exchange controls are in effect, but do not apply to
agriculture. A major effort is required to increase production of export
and import substitution crops and the Project would assist in achieving this
objective. Details of main imports and exports are at Annex 1, Appendix 1-1.
B. The Agricultural Sector
2.03      Agriculture remains the mainstay and the most important sector
of Kenya's economy. It accounts for 31% of GDP and 60% of the total value
of exports. Basic food crops are maize, wheat, millet, potatoes, and
plantains/bananas, of which in 1970 maize (14,000 tons), potatoes (to the
value of K Sh 1.2 million) and plantains/bananas (5,000 tons) had to be
imported (Annex 2). Main export crops are coffee, tea, and pyrethrum. In
terms of value, coffee represented 35% of agricultural exports and 22%
of total exports, and tea 21% and 13%, respectively.
2.04      A large part of Kenya is suitable for agriculture, but out of a
total area of 144 million ac, only about 10 million ac are presently cultivated,
of which about one-half is cropped and the other half is devoted to forestry
and livestock. It is estimated that some 20 million ac additional are
suitable for agricultural purposes. From a climatic point of view, Kenya
may be broadly divided into three regions: one north of the equator with
a hot, dry climate (rainfall less than 20 in per annum) and two in the
southern hemisphere -- the coastal region (hot and damp, annual rainfall
about 50 in) and the highlands (a plateau with altitude ranging from 3,000
to 10,000 ft and annual rainfall varying from 40 to 100 in) (see Map).
Agriculture is mainly concentrated in the southern region, the highlands
being especially suitable for dairying and general agriculture (Annex 1).
Irrigation plays only a minor role in Kenyan agriculture, the area under
irrigation representing less than 0.2% of the cultivated area. The scope
for additional irrigation is difficult to determine at this stage. Mechani-
zation also plays a minor role, but its importance will increase. As at the
end of 1971, the tractor park consisted of about 7,000 wheeled tractors and
1,000 crawlers, about 80% of which were used on large-scale farms. Imports
over the last three years have averaged about 1,000 annually (Annex 1).
2.05      Most of the farms in Kenya are small in relation to their operations
and incomes. Issue of land titles commenced in the 1950's and by the end
of 1970 some 8 million ac, involving about one million families, had been
covered. Holdings covering about seven million ac vary between 5 and 10 ac
each while some one million ac consists of farms from 25 to 40 ac each. In
addition, there are approximately 3,000 large farms covering about two million



ac and varying in size from 500 to 8,000 ac (Annex 1). The majority of the
small farms are still in the early stages of development, relying largely on
family labor and some modern inputs such as fertilizers and improved seeds.
2.06      Supporting Services:  The General Extension Services of the
Ministry of Agriculture (MA) cover the whole of Kenya. These services are
supplemented by specialized extension for certain crops and development
schemes provided by institutions such as: the Cotton Board, the Pyrethrum
Board, the Kenya Tea Development Authority (KTDA), and the National Irriga-
tion Board (Annex 3). The organization and staffing of MA's extension
services have improved during the last three years and some 9,000 officers
are now employed (giving a ratio of about one extension worker per 150 farm
families). However, further strengthening is required in the fields of
water development, agricultural engineering, veterinary and animal hus-
bandry, and farm management. Training is provided in three levels: degree,
diploma, and certificate levels. In addition, there are 30 small-scale Farmers
Training Centers catering for about 40,000 farmers annually; two training
centers specializing in programs for large-scale farms; and one institute
at Eldoret providing farm mechanization and management courses (Annex 3).
2.07      The MA is mainly responsible for research supported by private
research organizations and marketing boards. The research staff of MA
totals about 70 working in about 20 stations. Research associated with
crops controlled by various boards is reasonably satisfactory, but research
into crop adaptation, applied genetics, fertilizer use and pest and
disease control needs much more attention (Annex 3). Whilst the education
system is said to produce an adequate number of candidates for research
posts, Kenya still relies heavily on bilateral aid in this sphere.
C. Agricultural Credit
2.08      General:  The banking system consists of the Central Bank, seven
commercial banks (para 2.11), the AFC (para 2.10), and the Cooperative
Bank (para 2.12). In addition, credit facilities are also provided by
several statutory boards (para 2.12). The Central Bank exercises little
control over agricultural lending except in a general way by setting the
prime interest rate (presently 7% per annum) and fixing the amount of
statutory deposits which must be maintained with it, which condition the
minimum interest rates at which commercial banks can lend and the volume
of credit available for all purposes.
2.09      Of over one million farmers in Kenya, only about 100,000 are
presently served by institutional credit and there is an absence of linkage
between the suppliers of short- and long-term credit often resulting in
farmers being unable to obtain their full credit requirements (Annex 4).
If a significant number of farmers are to be reached by institutional credit,
the credit structure will need to be reorganized (para 4.06).
2.10      The Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC):  The Agricultural
Finance Corporation (AFC) (Annex 5) is a statutory body which provides medium-



-4-
and long-term secured credit for agricultural development on terms ranging
from one to thirty years. It works closely with the Ministry of Agriculture
on matters of policy and in the field. March 31, 1971, data indicated that
agricultural loans outstanding were K Sh 9.6 million, involving approxi-
mately 2,500 large-scale and 11,000 small-scale borrowers. AFC also
handles the Guaranteed Minimum Return Program on an agency basis. This
program provides crop insurance and production loans to medium and large
scale wheat and maize growers from funds provided by the Government.
2.11      The Commercial Banking System:  The commercial banking system
consists of three large institutions t/Ke_ya Commercial Bank, Barclays Bank
International, and Standard Bank (Kenya)_/ linked to British bank groups (in
which the Government has or plan to acquire at least a 50% interest), one
small entirely government-owned bank and three minor foreign operations. As
of June 30, 1971, the banks' total advances were K Sh 2,080 million and the
advances/deposit ratio was 67%. Of total advances, 11% was direct lending
to agriculture and an additional 3.3% was outstanding to public sector
institutions, including statutory organizations dealing in agricultural
produce. Commercial banks' agricultural lending involves about 7,500 loans
to small farmers, but the main emphasis is on medium- and large-scale
farms and agro-industrial corporations.
2.12      The Cooperative Bank of Kenya, Ltd:  The Cooperative Bank finances
cooperative societies and provides an outlet for societies' funds and
members' savings. It does not deal with individuals, but works through the
cooperative structure. Loans are extended to unions which on-lend to
societies in kind for on-lending to members. As at June 30, 1971, the
loan portfolio amounted to K Sh 15 million and in 1972, it is expected that
K Sh 8 million will be provided for production finance. Additional funds
will be made available for coffee marketing, and some medium-term loans
will be granted to cooperative agricultural enterprises (Annex 4). Presently
the bank serves 600 societies representing about 75% of the active societies
in the country (800).
2.13      Other Credit Institutions Serving Agriculture:  Agricultural credit
is also provided by several statutory boards (at interest rates ranging from
8-12% per annum) and private traders. Some of the statutory organizations
provide credit in kind for the production of crops for which they are the
single marketing channel. Funds are provided for settlement purposes, and
seasonal advances for medium- and large-scale maize and wheat operations
are administered under the Guaranteed Minimum Return Program. Little data
exist on the credit provided by merchants and traditional sources.
2.14      Terms and Conditions of Institutional Credit for Agriculture:
Secured credit is the general rule in Kenya.  Most AFC loans are secured
by mortgages on land and/or by floating charges on crops and movable
property. The commercial banks also follow these practices and take pledges
on non-agricultural income such as salaries. Cooperative societies lend to
members against crop hypothecation plus personal guarantors. Other institu-
tional credit is secured by land, chattel mortgages, and through the
marketing channel under the lender's control.



-5-
2.15      Interest rates for agricultural credit compare favorably with those
for other purposes (9 to 9.5% for smaller scale trading and industrial loans).
The commercial banks charge large agro-industrial borrowers 7% per annum, the
commercial prime rate, whilst other agricultural borrowers are charged 8 to
9%. AFC currently lends at 7-1/2% per annum. Cooperative members borrow
from their societies at 10%, but the average size of such loans is only
K Sh 300. Repayment periods vary according to the purpose of the loan and
the practices of the lender.
2.16      Demand and Supply:  The absence of data relating to the supply of
and demand for agricultural credit precludes any estimates being made and
highlights the need for a comprehensive survey as proposed in para 4.06.
Efforts to identify credit needs and develop new institutional mechanisms to
provide credit to more farmers are required. Extensive information is
needed for the establishment of policies and credit programs which will
have the desired impact on agricultuiral development in Kenya.
III. PERFORMANCE UNDER THE FIRST PROJECT (CREDIT 105-KE)
Purpose of Credit and Financing
3.01      In May 1967 IDA agreed to provide the equivalent of US$3.6
million to help finance investments to smallholders for on-farm developments
and improved crop and animal husbandry practices. Under the project medium-
and long-term loans (repayment periods range from three to ten years accord-
ing to the activity financed) are made to sub-borrowers for: land clearance
and deep plowing; initial application of fertilizer and pesticides; initial
supply of improved seeds and planting material; fencing, watering, and lives-
tock handling facilities; farm buildings; equipment and implements; and
grade milch cows. The project also includes finance for specialized
staff, equipment, and vehicles needed for project implementation. Total
project cost was estimated at US$6 million, of which IDA finances some 60%,
AFC and the Government 20%, and sub-borrowers the remaining 20%. The
Government on-lends the proceeds of the IDA credit to AFC at an interest rate
of 3-1/2%o per annum and AFC charges ultimate borrowers 7-1/2%. The project
is administered by AFC with the assistance of the Ministry of Agriculture.
Lending Operations
3.02      The project started slowly largely due to changes in AFC's
general managers (there were long periods during which the post of general
manager was vacant) and other staffing problems within AFC (Annex 5),
and the need to build up the agricultural extension services. Progress is
now satisfactory and as at the end of February 1972, all funds for the
lending program had been committed. The closing date has been extended to
March 31, 1973 (original date June 30, 1971), and it is anticipated that
disbursement will be completed by December 1972.
3.03      Some 8,400 loans have been approved, about the number estimated at
appraisal, and of the total amount about 80% is for livestock and complementary



-6-
facilities (dairy cattle alone 50%) and 20% for crops (chiefly potatoes,
about 40% of total loans for crops). Originally US$500,000 had been allocated
for tractor loans, but this was subsequently reduced to US$125,000; the main
constraint was the inexperience of operators who were not able to maintain
tractors in running condition. The collection rate at the end of December
1971 for livestock and crop loans was 65% (of arrears only some 20% had been
overdue for more than 12 months) and for tractor loans 77% (4% overdue for
more than 12 months). The overdue position is, in large measure, due to the
accounting system, where up until recently postings had been nine months in
arrears and consequently-billings were not done on time. The situation in
respect of Credit 105-KE has improved. Accounts are up to date and the
collection rate is expected to improve. Appraisal and evaluation procedures
have improved and are now reasonably satisfactory. However, improvements
could be made by decentralizing loan approval procedures which would speed
up the issue of loans. The proposed increase in staff, particularly the
appointment of area supervisors (Annex 5), would facilitate the decentrali-
zation process.
Impact
3.04      It is difficult to quantify exactly the financial impact on
borrowers as only a few samples of farm budgets are available. However,
field visits indicate that borrowers have derived at least the financial
benefits forecast at the time of appraisal (average net incremental income
about US$240 annually). A significant impact has been the substantial
increase in the share of small-scale farmers in dairy farming (3-4 cows
per farm), with a subsequent decline in the predominance of the large-scale
sector in that field. In 1965 small farms had a total mature female stock
of about 74,000 head which had increased to about 105,000 head in 1970, whereas
on large-scale farms the stock declined from about 162,000 head to about
155,000 head during the same period. In 1970 about 50% of the Kenya Coopera-
tive Creameries' (KCC) total intake of milk was supplied by small farms and
this percentage is increasing (Annex 2). The increase in breeding stock
will also contribute to the surplus of grade dairy heifers as forecast by
PMEA 1/ which will enable further expansion of the dairy industry and provide
many of the heifers required for the new project. This is labor-intensive
farming and has not only assisted small farmers to enter a more profitable
sector of agriculture but has more fully employed family labor and created
additional employment opportunities. Production of potatoes for local
consumption has markedly increased (data are inadequate to quantify it) as
has the supply of seed potatoes which will be sufficient for the next project.
In addition, the project has had considerable impact on the institutional
side. AFC's lending policies and operations have improved as have the
quality and quantity of the extension services.
1/   Study of the Availability of Fattening Beef Breeding and Dairy Breeding
Stock in East Africa, 1970-75, PMEA January 1972.



- 7 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Definition
4.01      The Project would be part of AFC's lending program and woul.s
help finance, over a three-year period, smallholder farmers' investments in
crop production (23% of total lending program costs and about 3,000 Toans);
livestock, mainly dairying (65% and 4,000 loans); poultry, mainly egg produic-
tion (3% and 700 loans); and tractors and implements (9% and 100 ioan-).  I.
would also include provision for financing an in-depth study of agricultural
credit in Kenya and technical assistance (including training) and equipment
(vehicles, office machinery, etc.) for the MA and AFC.  The  0ollow-ing table
shows the investments expected:
Typical
Size of                     Average
Individual                 Investment/    Total
Project   Subloans Total Sub-borrower Investment
----ac----- ---No--- -ac--      K Sh---- -K Sh mill-
Investments
I.  Crops                 5        3,000  15,000    4,200          12.6
II.  Livestock             5        4,000  20,000    9,000          36.0
IIi.  Poultry               -           700    -       3,000          1.9
IV. Farm Machinery &
Equipment         600          100  60,000   45,000           4.5
Total                         7,800  95.000                   5".0
B. Detailed Features
Crops
4.02      Investments in crop loans (15,000 ac) would take place in the
ecologically favorable southern plateau (Annex 1) and would help some 3,000
farmers in the production of food crops (maize, potatoes, pulses, and vege-
tables), oilseeds (mainly groundnuts) and cotton as under the first project
(KE-105) and additionally industrial crops (mostly pyrethrum) and fruit
(mainly plantains). The major investment items would be for: cultivation
operations to be done on a contract basis (including land clearance);
improved seeds; initial supplies of fertilizer and pesticides; small spray
pumps and other farm tools; and the incremental cost of labor during the
development period (Annex 6). AFC would ensure that borrowers under this
category would: use selected seeds or seedlings obtained from a source
acceptable to MA; carry out a fertilizer program appropriate to soil
conditions and crop requirements; and introduce an effective weed control
and phyto-entomological program under the guidance of an extension officer



- 8 -
(Schedule A). The concentration of operations in the southern plateau, which
has good transportation facilities as well as the largest storage, processing,
and shipment facilities and the biggest consumer centers, would be advantageous
from the point of view of loan appraisal and supervision and marketing of
produce.
Livestock
4.03      Loans for livestock development (about 4,000) would finance mainly
dairy enterprises, as in the first project, but would additionally include
swine and sheep. Investments would be made in: breeding stock (about 12,000
heifers); fodder; pasture improvement; fencing; dairy buildings and equipment;
water supply equipment; and veterinary supplies (Annex 6). AFC would
ensure that borrowers would follow a program of animal sanitation and disease
control satisfactory to MA (Schedule A). Besides increasing production of
milk and meat, some 16,000 ac of improved pasture would be established. For
reasons similar to those given in para 4.02, operations would be concentrated
in the southern plateau area.
Poultry
4.04      Investments in poultry enterprises, mainly for egg production,
would include: buildings and related installations; small implements; and
vaccines and veterinary supplies (Annex 6). About 700 farmers, each main-
taining approximately 100 hens, would be involved. Farms would be situated
near to important urban markets to facilitate marketing of produce.
Farm Machinery and Equipment
4.05      Despite the poorer than anticipated response under the first
project (para 3.03), it is felt that there is scope for the inclusion in
this Project of provision for the purchase of about 100 tractors (four-wheel
60 hp) and related implements (mainly disc ploughs and harrows). The
improved training facilities now available (Annex 3) should stimulate demand
and remove one of the major constraints (lack of proper maintenance). How-
ever, to avoid the uneconomic use of tractors, and hence scarce foreign
exchange resources, applicants would be required to demonstrate that the
tractor would be used for a minimum of 1,000 hours of productive agricul-
tural work per year or for the cultivation of at least 600 ac. Such criteria
would apply to the applicant's own land, or to the land of other farmers
(through custom work) or a combination of both. These requirements would
be part of the appraisal criteria to be applied (Schedule A).
Technical Assistance
Agricultural Credit Survey
4.06      If a significant impact is to be made on agriculture in Kenya,
an in-depth survey will be needed to determine: the demand for and supply
of credit; how other institutions, in addition to AFC, can be involved;
the constraints which exist (institutional, marketing, processing, etc.) and



- 9 -
how they can be removed; and lending priorities. The Central Bank, leading
commercial banks, the Cooperative Bank, and marketing crganizations expressed
interest in participating in properly prepared agricultural pro4ecte ?rovvded
funds could be made available and the necessary organizational structure
established. The survey, which would take 12 months (including report
writing) and is estimated to cost about US$365,0C0, would make recom3endatio3s
and proposals from which a long-term lending program could emerge.  Terms
of reference, proposed composition of the survey teams and cost estimates
are at Annex 7. !DA would finance the foreign exchange cost of thle survey.
Ministry of Agriculture
4.07      Although the extension services pertaining to crop production
are adequate, additional staff is required which will be obtaine4 locally
or through bilateral assistance (Annex 3 and Schedule B3). Rowever, some
training of local staff will probably be required as well as additional
vehicles and office equipment. Provision has, therefore, been included if.
the Credit for the foreign exchange costs of training and equipment.
AFC
4.08      Replacements for expatriate staff whose contracts will expire
in 1972/73 and additional staff under the proposed staff re-organization
plan (paras 5.04 and 5.05) will be required. ExDerienced local staff is
not presently available and it appears unlikely that bilateral assistance
on the scale required will be forthcoming on time. AFC must be properly
staffed if previous problems are to be avoided and provision has, therefore,
been made for the international recruitment of six specialists (para 5.06)!
the foreign exchange costs of which would be financed by IDA.
C. Cost Estimates and Financing
4.09      Estimated Project costs, together with foreign exchange require-
ments, are:



- 10 -
Foreign
---K Sh Million----   ---US$ Million-----    Exchange
Investments          Local  Foreign  Total Local Foreign  Total           X
I.   Crops            7.6      5.0    12.6   1.1    0.7        1.8       40
II.  Livestock       25.2    10.8    36.0   3.5    1.5         5.0       30
III. Poultry          1.3      0.6      1.9   0.2    0.1       0.3       30
IV. Farm Machinery
and Equipment  0.9       3.6     4.5   0.1    0.5       0.6        80
Total Lending
Program             35.0    20.0    55.0   4.9    2.8         7.7       36
V. Technical
Assistance
(a) Agricultural
Credit Survey    0.8       2.1     2.9   0.1    0.3       0.4)
(b) Ministry of                                                   )
Agriculture       0.3      1.5      1.8   0.1    0.1      0.2)       80
)
(c) AFC               1.1      5.2      6.3   0.1    0.8      0.9)
TOTAL PROJECT COST  37.2    28.8    66.0   5.2    4.0          9.2       44
z=-N-                            = w=   Nm~
Cost estimates are shown in Annex 6.  Estimates are based on present prices
with an allowance of 10% for cost increases.
4.10      The total Project zost of K Sh 66 million (US$9.2 million)
would be financed from the following sources:
Total
Project
Farmers        AFC/Government          IDA            Costs
K Sh   % of       K Sh      % of    K Sh       % of      K Sh
Million  Total   Million   Total   Million    Total   Million
I.  Crops      2.5    20        2.5       20        7.6        60      12.6
II. Livestock 7.2    20         7.2       20       21.6       60       36.0
III. Poultry  0.4    20         0.4       20        1.1       60        1.9
IV. Farm
Machinery
and Equip-
ment      0.9    20         0.9       20       2.7        60        4.5
Total Lending
Program      11.0    20       11.0       20      33.0        60       55.0
V. Technical
Assistance -       -         2.0       20       9.0        80       11.0
TOTAL PROJECT
COST         11.0    16       13.0       20       42.0        64      66.0
-==                            



- 11 -
4.11      The proposed IDA Credit of US$6 million (K Sh 42 million), which
would be on normal IDA terms to the Government, would finance about 64% of
total Project costs and 60% of the lending program. IDA would finance total
foreign exchange costs of K Sh 28.8 million (US$4 million) and 35% of local
currency costs. The Government would on-lend to AFC the proceeds of the
Credit relating to the lending program and those relating to tecnnical
assistance to be provided for AFC for a period of 40 years (including a five-
year grace period) at an interest rate of 1% per annum, and would bear the
exchange risk. AFC would lend to ultimate borrowers at 8% per annum.
Assurances on these arrangements were obtained during negotiations.
D. Procurement and Disbursement
Procurement
4.12      The items to be financed are varied and would not be suitable
for bulk procurement through international competitive bidding. However,
there is adequate competition, both international and national, in offering
goods through the normal supply channels which buyers would use. Project
goods (including tractors, farm machinery, and fertilizer) would mostly be
imported from Commonwealth, EEC, or East African Community (EAC) countries
and no import duties are levied on agricultural machinery and inputs.  Major
producers of farm machinery (at least seven from Bank/IDA member countries)
and fertilizer are represented in Kenya. Sales and after-sales services are
adequate, supplies satisfactory and prices competitive (Annex 3). Dairy
heifers would be purchased from local sources and there will be sufficient
available for Project purposes. There are also adequate local supplies of
seed potatoes and maize seed. Procurement would, therefore, be through
normal commercial channels.
Disbursement
4.13      IDA disbursements are expected to extend over 3-1/2 years (Annex 8).
Against appropriate statements, disbursements would be 75% of the amount of
loans disbursed under the Project by AFC. IDA would also reimburse the
foreign exchange costs of the agricultural credit survey (para 4.06) and
technical assistance and equipment (paras 4.07 and 4.08).
E. Project Administration
4.14      The Project would be carried out by AFC (to which Government
would make Project funds available--para 4.11) assisted by the Ministry
of Agriculture.
Ministry of Agriculture
4.15      The agricultural extension services of MA would be respomsible
for: preparing farm plans, technical appraisal of loan applications and



- 12 -
guidance and supervision of borrowers during the period of the loan.  These
services would be under the direction of the Deputy Director of Agriculture,
who would be designated as Project Officer and be responsible for their
coordination and supervision and the maintenance of close liaison with AFC.
4.16      The veterinary and agricultural services of the MA need strength-
ening (Annex 3) and assurances were obtained that additional staff as laid
down in Schedule B would be employed on the Project.
V. THE AGRICULTURAL FINANCE CORPORATION (AFC)
General
5.01      AFC (Annex 5), with headquarters in Nairobi, was originally
established as a statutory corporation (a Government-owned body established
by law) in 1963, but was amalgamated with the Land and Agricultural Bank in
1969. It has 12 branch offices and 20 sub-branch offices, covering most of
the important agricultural districts of Kenya.
5.02      AFC's operations are now regulated by the Agricultural Finance
Corporation Act of 1969. Its Board consists of not less than four nor
more than six persons appointed by the Minister responsible for AFC (of whom
at least two shall be appointed by reason of their knowledge of banking or
financial matters), and the Permanent Secretaries of the Ministries of
Agriculture and Finance (or their representatives). The present chairman of
the Board is the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Finance.
5.03      The General Manager of AFC, who is its chief executive, is
appointed by the Boarc, with the approval of the Minister and is presently
an expatriate, provided under bilateral assistance by USAID, whose contract
expires in June 1973. The Government wishes to change the structure of
AFC's top management to bring it into line with other statutory corporations
and proposes to appoint an Executive Chairman (a senior civil servant of
Permanent Secretary status) who would, in future, be the chief executive
officer. He would be supported by a Kenyan General Manager. Assurances
were obtained that the appointment of Executive Chairman would be made in
consultation with IDA and that a General Manager, with qualifications and
experience satisfactory to IDA, would be employed in consultation with IDA.
The appointment of a General Manager desinate would be a condition of
credit effectiveness.
5.04      The new Executive Chairman is unlikely to have banking and credit
experience and the new General Manager's experience in these fields and
those of accounting may well be limited. It will, therefore, be essential
for them to be supported by experienced Departmental Heads. Several of these
senior posts are presently filled by experts provided under bilateral
assistance (mainly from the Federal Republic of Germany and USAID) whose
contracts will expire during 1972/73. Additional experts will be required
under the proposed staff reorganization plan (Chart 6712), particularly to
strengthen the finance and accounting departments (para 5.06).



- 13 -
5.05      The continuing employment of outside specialists on comparatively
short-term contracts is unsatisfactory and Kenyans must be trained to
fill the top positions in AFC. A training cadre, with revised salary
scales, should be established. No proper training programs presently exist
and these should be started as soon as possible.  A training officer wIll be
required to plan and implement training schemes. Branch managers do not
have discretion to approve loans, largely because of inexperience.  The
present centralized system is cumbersome and time consuming and devolution
of responsibility to branch level is desirable.  To this end it is proposed
to employ four additional area supervisors who will be responsible for the
guidance and supervision of a number of branches in their particular area.
USAID have contracted to provide three such area supervisors, leaving one
vacancy to be filled.
5.06      Past experience with Credit 105-KE has shown that AFC must be
properly staffed if problems are to be avoided, and this becomes even more
imDortant with the proposed changes in top management (para 5.03). Since it
appears that bilateral assistance on the scale required will not be forthcoming
on time, provision has been included in the proposed Credit (para 4.08) for
the foreign exchange costs of the employment by AFC for a period of three
years, of five internationally recruited specialists (a Loan Department Head;
a Financial Controller; a Machine Controller; a Training Officer; and an Area
Supervisor - Schedule C). The key positions and an overall staffing and
training program are of paramount importance if the proposed Project is to
be satisfactorily implemented. Assurances were, therefore, obtained that AFC,
in consultation with IDA, would employ a Loan Department Head, a Financial
Controller, a Machine Room Controller and a Training Officer whose qualifica-
tions and experience wilI be acceptable to IDA, and these appointments (with
the exception of Loan Department Head and Financial Controller who are al-
ready in post), will be a condition of credit effectiveness. The terms and
conditions of employment of any personnel paid for out of the proceeds ot
the Credit would be subject to IDA's approval. In order to ensure that
overall staffing and training will be adequate for the next five years, a
staffing and training program, acceptable to IDA, has been formulated and
this includes the names and qualifications of personnel filling important
posts and where posts are vacant, or would become vacant before June 1973,
arrangements acceptable to IDA, for filling such posts, either with a con-
sultant firm, a bilateral agency or individuals.
Resources
5.07      AFC derives its resources from capital provided by Government
and deposits at call, although it is authorized to borrow, with the approval
of the Treasury. It has no rediscount facilities with the Central Bank.
The capital is divided into "irredeemable" and "redeemable"I. As at March 31
irredeemable capital amounted to K Sh 124 million (US$17.7 million) of which
K Sh 80 million bore interest at 5% per annum the remainder being interest
free, and redeemable to K Sh 78 million (US$11 million). Redeemable capital
is really long-term debt, i.e., funds on-lent to AFC by Government (IDA funds
form part of this "capital") and repayable by AFC over varying periods (from



- 14 -
15 to 25 years) at interest rates ranging from 3-1/2 to 6% per annum. Depos-
its are not significant, amounting to only K Sh 4.2 million (US$600,000) at
March 31, 1971 (Appendix 5-1), half of which is very short-term (two months),
representing borrowers' advance downpayments in respect of land purchase.
Use of Resources
5.08      Most of AFC's resources (95%) have been used for making agricultural
loans. As at March 31, 1971, large-scale loans outstanding (for land purchase,
large farm development, ranching, etc.) amounted to K Sh 179 million (US$25
million) and small-scale loans outstanding amounted to K Sh 24 million
(US$3.4 million). AFC inherited a portfolio of large-scale loans from the
Land Bank, but the disparity underlines the need for an examination of means
to increase lending to small farmers which would be part of the terms of
reference of the proposed agricultural credit survey (para 4.06).
Previous Results and Financial Position
5.09      Since the amalgamation of AFC and the Land Bank in 1969 (para 5.01)
the loan portfolio has increased from K Sh 163.4 million (US$23.3 million)
to K Sh 203.4 million (US$29 million) as at March 31, 1971. At that date
General Reserves stood at K Sh 5.9 million (US$830,000) and, in addition,
provision for doubtful debts of K Sh 11 million (US$1.5 million) or about
15% of loan portfolio had been made. During the fiscal year ended March 31,
1971, a loss of K Sh 1.1 million (US$150,000) was made compared with a loss
of K Sh 1.7 million (US$240,000) for the previous year. Five year projections
(Appendices 5-1 and 5-2) indicate a substantial rise in the loan portfolio,
but also increasing losses. An analysis of arrears by age has not been
completed and until more data become available, an arbitrary method is used
of computing provisions for doubtful debts (2% of large-scale loans outstand-
ing and 30% of small scale). It may well be that over-provision has been
made and this affects AFC's profitability position. Firmer action against
persistent defaulters should be taken, but this depends upon the accounts
being brought up to date (para 5.11). An assurance was obtained that an
analysis of arrears by age would be completed before credit effectiveness.
In addition an assurance was obtained that continuing firm action would be
taken against persistent defaulters.
5.10      AFC presently lends at 7-1/2% per annum.  Government on-lends
IDA funds to AFC at 3-1/2% per annum and the overall blend rate for AFC
resources is about 4% (para 5.07). Commercial banks lend for agriculture
at rates varying from 8 to 9% per annum whilst the Cooperative Bank lends
to societies at 8% per annum which on-lend to members at 10%. Administrative
expenses and provisions for doubtful debts are expected not to exceed 3.5%
of total portfolio, which is reasonable, and these are unlikely to be reduced
significantly in view of the need to strengthen AFC's staff, increase salary
scales, and introduce training programs (paras 5.04 and 5.05). However, some
40% of the present portfolio earns interest at the rate of 6% per annum
which means that on this substantial part of its lending activities, AFC
is making a loss. The amount lent at 6% will gradually decline as such loans
are repaid whilst the proportion of loans bearing a higher interest rate will



- 15 -
increase, thereby improving the position. However, this will be a gradual
process and immediate remedial measures are necessary to place AFC on a sound
basis as soon as possible. The debt/equity ratio (including as debt the
irredeemable capital which bears interest) is reasonable at 3:1 (para 5.07).
The following measures have, therefore, been agreed: (i) AFC's lending rate
will be increased to 8% per annum which would bring it more into line with
ruling commercial rates and this rate will be further reviewed, in consulta-
tion with IDA, after the findings of the credit survey (para 4.06) are known;
and (ii) Government would on-lend to AFC IDA funds relating to the lending
program, and the technical assistance to be provided for AFC for a period of
40 years (including five years' grace) at a reduced interest rate of 1% per
annum (para 4.11). These measures, together with a recent additional loan
from the UK Government at concessional interest rates, would enable AFC to
reach a breakeven position in 1975/76 and it is considered that this is
the most which can be done at the present time. These measures combined with
the proposed staff strengthening (para 5.06) and the analysis of arrears and
firm action against defaulters (para 5.09), which might permit an adjustment
in the provision for doubtful debts, will, it is anticipated, bring about a
continuing improvement in the position.
Accounts and Auditing
5.11      Despite the introduction of new accounting machines in 1970/71,
AFC's accounts are not up-to-date (about six-nine months in arrears), with
the exception of those relating to Credit 105-KE. This, in large measure,
accounts for the arrears position (overall collection rate averages about
70%) since billings are not done on time. Efforts are being made to improve
the position. Under German bilateral assistance a mechanization specialist
has been in post for about nine months and a further review of the system by
an expert of the Farmers Home Administration has been done and his report is
under consideration by AFC. It would be a condition of credit effectiveness
that the accounts had been brought up to date and an audit certificate to
this effect would be required.
5.12      Presently the accounts are audited by the Nairobi office of
Messrs Cooper Brothers and Co. Assurances were obtained that AFC would
continue to employ independent auditors acceptable to IDA and that the
audited accounts, together with the auditors' report, would be sent to IDA
within four mDnths of the end of AFC's fiscal year.
Lending Policies and Terms
5.13      Loan conditions would conform with agreed terms and appraisal
criteria as provided for in Schedule A. The principal conditions being:
interest rate to subborrowers would be 8% per annum; minimum contribution by
borrowers would be 20% of investment costs; maturities would not exceed the
life of the assets financed; and investments would be evaluated in terms of
incremental returns resulting from the additional investments. Assurances
to this effect were obtained at negotiations.



- 16 -
5.14      Farm development model calculations summarized in para 6.05 and
detailed in Annex 6 indicate that the following maximum repayment periods
for loans and minimum contributions from borrowers under the Project would
be appropriate (Schedule A).
Grace     Years of           Borrowers' Contribution/
Investment          Period    Repayment   Total  (% of Cost of Investment)
Years      Years      Years
1.   Crops                  2           3         5                 20%
2.   Livestock              3           5         8                  20%
3.   Poultry                1           3         4                 20%
4.   Farm
Machinery
and
Equipment            -           5         5                 20%
/1   Includes value of farmers' own labor.
VI.  PRODUCTION - MARKETS, PRICES, AND FARMERS' BENEFITS
Production
6.01      Indicative farm models have been developed which demonstrate that
Project investments would enable farmers to increase their production through
higher cropping intensity (increasing from 80% to 100%) and improved yields.
The increase in cropping area resulting from the Project would be about
3,000 ac gained on fallow and bush land. The improvement in yields will
result from the use of selected seeds and seedlings, fertilizer and pes-
ticides in respect of crops, and the breeding of grade cows and chicks in
the case of dairy and poultry enterprises. Project production in relation
to estimated national production would be:
/1    Incremental
National-        Output
Full        Incremental      Production    As percent of
Development       Project        At Full         National
Commodity         Year           Output         Development    Production
('000 tons)
Potatoes           1976            7.8              275.0            3.0
Plantains          1976           27.0              375.0            7.0
Maize              1976            1.6            1,300.0            0.1
Pyrethrum          1979            0.1               20.0 /2         0.5
Milk               1976           15.0            1,300.0            1.1
Eggs               1976            0.7               15.0            4.5
/1   The 1970/74 Plan assumptions were extrapolated except for maize where
a rate of 5% was used instead of 10% forecast by the Plan.
/2   1975 Kenya target.



- 17 -
Market and Prices
6.02      The market prospects for project commodities are good and the
increases in output from the Project would be easily absorbed by rising
domestic demand with the exception of pyrethrum which would be exported.
Kenya presently imports maize, potatoes, and plantains (para 2.03). It is
expected that about 50% of potatoes, plantains, and egg production will be
marketed in the urban area, the remainder being consumed at farm level.
Maize and milk will be marketed through the relevant marketing boards (Annex
2). World demand for pyrethrum presently exceeds production and suitable
synthetic substitutes (particularly pyrethroids) are not yet being manufactured.
In 1971, Kenya could supply only about 70% of the minimum requirement of its
customers and orders to the equivalent of 4,000 tons of dry flowers had to
be declined.
6.03      The marketing of agricultural products in Kenya is carried out
by a wide range of organizations. Pyrethrum, as for other major export
products (coffee, tea, and sisal) is subject to a high degree of super-
vision and control at different stages of production, marketing and processing
by its marketing board. Fresh produce such as potatoes, plantains, and
poultry are handled entirely by private enterprises, while dairy products
and maize have a combination of public and private participation (Annex 2).
in general, these various forms of marketing adequately service Kenya
production. However, marketing costs are sometimes excessive because of
poor management or lack of transport facilities. The Government and the
institutions concerned are aware of the situation and are trying to improve
it through investments, tax policies and pricing.
6.04      Pricing of commodities depends, to a degree, on supervision and
control of marketing. Pyrethrum prices are kept below fob prices (export)
by the marketing board. The prices for maize, potatoes and plantains are
below cif import prices but potatoes and plantain prices are allowed to
fluctuate in accordance with the supply and demand position. Milk and
eggs are not imported and so a similar comparison does not apply but the
price of milk is controlled.
Farmers' Benefit
6.05      Based on assumptions detailed in four illustrative farm models
(Annexes 6 and 9) the financial results of Project investments are estimated
as follows:



- 18 -
MODEL                I            II             III                IV
Type of Investment Crops         Dairy         Poultry          Farm Machinery
Unit Size           5 ac       3 Grade Cows 100 Laying Hens  One 60 Hp Tractor
--------------- K Shillings ---------------------
Capital Investment 4,200         9,000           3,000              45,000
Loan                3,360        7,200           2,400              36,000
Gross Income at
Full Development  4,608         5,200           6,500              26,000
Production Cost    1,300         1,200           4,700              13,000
Net Income
Before Debt
Service            3,308        4,000           1,800              13,000
Debt Service          864        1,851             617               9,255
After Debt Service 2,444         2,149           1,183               3,745
Net Income Before
Development        1,414          250              50                 -
Increment after
Debt Service       1,030        1,899           1,133               3,745
Financial Rate of
Return              45%          44%             46%                 39%
These indicative types of farm enterprises show that substantial increases
in the net income of such farmers would result from the proposed investments
and the financial rate of return on incremental investment is estimated,
at present prices and costs, to range from 39% for farm machinery to 46%
for poultry. These rates of return are dependent upon assumptions made
with respect to prices, cropping intensities, yields, the use of improved
current inputs, and adequate farm management. In order to test the sen-
sitivity of the returns against fluctuation in one or more of these factors,
gross production value, investment costs and production costs were alterna-
tively decreased and increased by 10%. The financial rates of return would
then range from 22% to 42% (Annex 9).
6.06      Farmers with incomes of under K Sh 19,200 (family with four children)
pay only a minimal fixed land revenue tax, education cess and local fund cess
which are not based on income. As it is not anticipated that participating
farmers would have incomes exceeding K Sh 19,200, the Project would not
generate any direct income tax.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      The proposed Project would enable credit facilities to be extended
to the smaller category of commercial farmers with net incomes before
receiving assistance under the Project of a maximum of about US$200 per
year. The Project would first, increase agricultural production (para 6.01)
and the incomes of some 8,000 smaller farmers (para 6.05); second, increase
foreign exchange earnings (para 7.04); and third, assist agricultural credit
development in Kenya (para 7.05).



- 19 -
7.02      About 8,000 farmers would receive financial support under the
Project, enabling them to realize their investment plans, which has so far
been difficult because of lack of credit facilities. It would include about
3,000 smallholders (5 ac each) in crop production; 4,000 in dairy cattle
(4 cows each); 700 poultry producers (100 birds each), and 100 farmer/
contractors in mechanization (para 4.02 to 4.05). The investments would
enable farmers to improve their farming techniques and crop yields. Farmers'
incomes would be substantially improved and, after debt serv'Lce, would
increase by a minimum of about 70% (para 6.05).  The Project would also have
a demonstration effect on non-participating farmers.
7.03      Accurate data on the net employment resulting from the Project are
not available; however, increased labor requirements for farm exploitation
will increase working hours for labor already employed (particularly in
the case of poultry enterprises) and also provide opportunities for additional
employment (crops, dairy, machinery). The additional full time 4obs
(equivalent to 200 days a year for crops, dairy, and poultry) generated
by the project would be about 7,600, distributed as follows:
Farm
Crops      Dairy       Poultry       Machinery      Total
Number of Farms      3,000       4,000        700             100         7,800
Number of Jobs       2,700       4,400        420             100         7,620
It is difficult to estimate how much of the additional labor requirements
would be provided by family labor, but on the assumption that 50% would be
(para 7.02), the incremental wages to be paid annually would average
K Sh 2.3 million (US$0.3 million).  The incremental employment and earnings
generated by extension, credit supervision, marketing and processing are
not included.
7.04      The net foreign exchange effect of the Project would be negative
(about US$0.6 million) during the development period, but at full development
an estimated net foreign exchange earning of about US$0.7 million per year
would occur from the Project. This amount would include US$0.1 million of
direct foreign exchange earnings for pyrethrum exports and about US$0.6
million foreign exchange savings on the import of potatoes, bananas, and
maize (1970 imports were taken as a basis for these estimates).
7.05      On the institutional side the Project would provide for technical
services, training and equipment that would help AFC and MA to strengthen their
operational staff and improve the skill of their local staff (paras 4.07 and
4.08). The Project also provides for an in-depth agricultural credit survey
which will have a significant impact on agricultural credit development in
Kenya (para 4.06).
7.06      The internal economic return on the Project would range from 41%
(poultry) to 54% (crops). The effects of possible decreases in production
values through lower price or yields, or increases in investment and operating
costs have been tested, and rates of return remain satisfactory (Annex 10,
Appendix 1).



- 20 -
7.07      It is becoming increasingly necessary to be able to judge more
precisely the financial and economic benefits which actually result from
a project. Consequently, an assurance was obtained at negotiations that
AFC and/or MA would establish a mechanism for evaluating the financial and
economic benefits resulting from agricultural credit projects.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations agreement was reached on the following
principal points:
(a) the Government of Kenya would on-lend to AFC the proceeds
of the credit applicable to te lending program and those
applicable to technical assistance to be provided to AFC,
for a term of 40 years (including five years' grace) at an
interest rate of 1% per annum and would bear the exchange
risk (para 4.11);
(b) the MA would employ the additional staff required for
strengthening its veterinary and agricultural extension
services as specified in Schedule B (para 4.16);
(c) AFC would charge interest on future loans at the rate of
8% per annum, this rate to be reviewed, on the light of
the findings of the credit survey (para 4.11 and Schedule-
A);
(d) the Government would consult with IDA regarding the appoint-
ments of AFC's Executive Chairman and General Manager (para
5.03); and
(e) loan conditions would conform with agreed terms and appraisal
criteria as specified:in Schedule A and that these would not
be altered without the prior approval of IDA (para 5.13).
8.02      Conditions of credit effectiveness would be:
(a) the appointment of the following officials of AFC: (i) Gen-
eral Manager designate; (ii) a Machine Room Controller;
and (iii) a Training Officer acceptable to IDA (paras 5.03
and 5.06 and Schedule C);
(b) AFC had completed the analysis of arrears by age (para
5.09); and



- 21 -
(c)  AFC's accounts had been brought up-to-date and an audit
certificate to that effect had been given (para 5.11).
8.03      The proposed Project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA
credit of US$6 million under normal IDA terms.
September 26, 1972






SCHEDULE A
Page 1
KENYA
SECOND SMALLHOLDER AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
GENERAL LENDING TERPS AND CONDITIONS
The following lending terms and conditions wTould be used in im-
plementing the Project and would not be altered without the prior agreement
of IDA:
(a)  Interest rate would be 8% per annum.
(b)  Minimum contributions by borrowers would be 20% of
investment costs. This contribution would include
the value of farmers' own labor.
(c)  Maturities would not exceed the life of the assets
financed and would not exceed for:
(i) Crops -- five years, including grace period not
exceeding two years. 1/
(ii) Livestock -- eight years, including grace period
not exceeding three years. 1/
(iii) Poultry -- four years, including grace period not
exceeding one year. 1/
(iv) Farm machinery and equipment -- five years.
{d)  All borrowers for tractors must be able to demonstrate
that the tractor would be used for a minimum of 1,000
hours of productive agricultural work annually or for
the cultivation of at least 600 ac. Such criteria would
apply to the borrower's own land, or to the land of other
farmers (through custom work) or a combination of both.
(e) Borrowers for crop development would be required to:
(i) use selected seeds or seedlings obtained from a
source acceptable to MA; and
(ii) introduce an effective weed control and phyto-
entomological program under the guidance of an
extension officer.
_/ During grace periods interest only would be payable.



S"L A
Page     2
(f) Borrowers for livestock development would be required
to follow a program of animal sanitation and disease
control satisfactory to MA.
(g) The agricultural extension services of MA would be
responsible for: preparing farm plans, technical
appraisal of loan applications, and guidance, and
supervision of borrowers during the period of the loan,
but AFC would make the final decision as to whether or
not a loan should be granted.
(h) Investments would be evaluated in terms of incremental
returns resulting from the additional investments.
September 18, 1972



SCHEDULE B
KENYA
SECOND SEALLHOLDER AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
SCHEDULE OF AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION OFFICERS ASSIGNED
AND TO BE ASSIGNED TO THE PROJECT
In-Post       TO BE ASSIGNED
under        ----Years-----
Credit
105-KE     1st      2nd     3rd       TOTAL
Project Director                     1        -       -        -           1
CROP PRODUCTION
Agricultural Officers/1             12        -       -        -          12
Agricultural Assistants            93         -       -        -          93
Junior Agr. Assistants            130         -       -        -         130
Subtotal                       236                                    236
VETERINARY AND ANIMAL
PRODUCTION SERVICES
AAO Animal Husbandry/2              4          1       1        0          6
AA, Animal Husbandry/3              10        -       -        -          10
Veterinary Officers                  3         3       2        2         10
Livestock Officers                   3         1       1        1          6
Animal Health Assistants            20        11      11       10         52
Subtotal                        40         16      15       13         84
LAND AND FARM MANAGEMENT
Assistant Agricultural
Officers/4                       24          9       9        8         50
FARM MECHANIZATION AND WATER
DEVELOPMENT
Extension Officers                   6         6       6        6         24
TOTAL                     306         31      30      27         394
/1   Agricultural Officers (AO) include:  field and head officers.
/2   A.A.O. (AH) Assistant Agricultural Officer Animal Husbandry.
/3   A.A. (AH) Agricultural Assistant, Animal Husbandry.
/4   A.A.O. (Farm Management) Assistant Agricultural Officer, including
Farm Management Specialists (International).
September 18, 1972






SCHEDULE C
KENYA
SECOND SMALLHOLDERS AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Agricultural Finance Corporation Staff
1.        Provision has been made in the credit for the foreign exchange
costs of the employment by AFC, for a period of three years each, of the
following internationally recruited specialists:
(a) A Loan Department Head (Credit Expert)
(b) A Financial Controller
(c) A Machine Room Controller
(d) A Training Officer
(e) An Area Supervisor (Credit Expert)
2.        In respect of posts (a) through (d) above AFC will employ,
in consultation with IDA, persons whose qualifications and experience shall
be satisfactory to IDA.
September 18, 1972






ANNEX 1
Page 1
KENYA
SECOND SMALLHOLDER AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL BACKGROUND
Geographical and Climate Features
1.        The Republic of Kenya (see Map), including lakes, comprises
about 225,000 sq mi (144 million ac), of which about 10 million ac are
devoted to agriculture, an additional area of 20 million ac are suitable
for cultivation, forestry and livestock and the balance is in natural
vegetation, national parks, basic infrastructure and cities. Of the total
area devoted to agriculture about one-half is cropped and the other half
used for livestock and forestry. About 60% of the cropped lands are devoted
to grain crops (mainly maize, sorghum/millet and wheat).
2.        Production is concentrated in the southern part, mostly on a
broad plateau 3,000 to 10,000 ft in altitude, predominantly covered by
volcanic rocks; to the west the plateau is cut by the 30 to 40 mi wide Rift
Valley and Lake Victoria; to the east it meets the low coastal plains. The
main watershed of Kenya runs close to the eastern wall of the Rift, a steep
enscarpment. Within the Rift the drainage is into a chain of quaternary
lakes separated by a series of extinct volcanoes; to the west rivers drain
into Lake Victoria; and to the east into the Indian Ocean.
3.        Most of the intensively farmed land is of volcanic origin (Kikuyo
country, Uasin Gishu, Laikipia and forest highlands of Nandi and Lumbwa).
The Rift Valley, in areas adjacent to the shallow lakes, has soil rich in
diatomite. Lava and quartizites soils are near Kisii. The northern area
is desert and semi-desert. While most of the lands of the southern plateau
are settled and under some form of extensive utilization, future gains in
productivity can be achieved by:
(a) improving watershed management;
(b) intensifying land use of large farms;
(c) using improved seeds and planting material;
(d) switching to high value crops; and
(e) developing and settling lands with good potential for
crops, livestock and forestry, beginning with those of
the Rift Valley and those adjacent to areas with existing
basic infrastructure.
4.        Most of the region located north of the Equator has a hot, dry
climate. Rainfall is less than 20 in (500 mm). The part located in the
southern hemisphere has two main types of climate:



ANNEX 1
Page 2
(a) the coast hot and damp (February, March and April are
the hottest months when temperature reaches a mean of
more than 80°F; June and July are the coolest months,
76°F at Mombasa). Humidity averages from 90% in April
to 75% in December. Annual rainfall is about 50 in
(about 1,300 mm), January and February being the driest
months. The characteristic trees are mangrove and
coconut, with small areas of teak and sandalwood.
(b) The highlands have a mean annual temperature of about.
70°F (with a minimum of about 40°F and a maximum of
about 90°F). Rainfall varies from 40 to 100 in (1,000
to 2,500 mm) with two rainy seasons per year, April/
June and October/December (the driest months are
January and July/September). Characteristic vegetation
to an altitude of 3,000 ft is thorn bushes, acacias and
bao-bab. From 3,000 to 6,000 ft grassland predominates
with acacias along watercourses and papyrus swamps. The
grassy belt (Bermuda and Kikuyo grasses) extends up to the
dense forest. Between 6,000 and 10,000 ft two kinds of
forests are identified: rain forest of hardwood and
yellow wood (eastern and southern slopes) and dry forests
with African cedar (a type of juniper) along the eastern
slopes of the mountains. From 11,000 to 14,500 ft senecias
and lobelias predominate.
Agriculture in the Economy
5.        The agricultural sector is the dominant sector in the economy of
Kenya. In 1970 the nonmonetary sector of agriculture was estimated to have
contributed about 18% of GDP and the monetary sector 13%, giving a total
for agriculture of 31%. About 60% of the total value of exports was derived
either from raw or processed agricultural products. (Details of major
imports and exports are at Appendix 1-1.) About 80% of the population
depend on agriculture for their livelihood which provides more than 30% of
all wage employment. However, there have been clear indications in recent
years that the relative importance of the agricultural sector is diminishing.
The contribution made to GDP is:



ANNEX 1
Page  3
Average
Annual
/1      Growth
1964   1966   1967   1968   1969   197G--        in %
------------K Sh Billion at Current Prices------------
Agriculture          2.5    2.8    2.8    2.9    3.0    3.2             4.0
GDP                  6.6    7.6    8.0    8.8    9.6   10.3             7.7
Agriculture as
Percent of GDP   38.0   36.0   34.0   31.0   31.0   31.0              -
------------K Sh Billion at Constant Prices-----------
Agriculture          2.5    2.8    2.8    3.0    3.1    3.2            4.5
GDP                  6.6    7.6    7.9    8.5    9.1    9.7             6.7
Agriculture as
Percent of GDP   38.0   37.0   36.0   35.0   34.0   33.0              -
/1   Provisional.
6.        The agricultural contribution to GDP at constant prices (1964) has
fallen from 38% in 1964 to 33% in 1970.  Whale in absolute terms it has
gone up at an average annual rate of 4.5%, this is in contrast to an overall
rise in GDP of 6.7%. The First Development Plan targets (1964-1970) were
not achieved in agriculture. The main reason for this decline has been the
fall in producer prices during the Plan period, for major export crops in
particular. The agricultural export price index (excluding EAC partners) is:
1964    1966    1967    1968    1969    1970/1
100     96      92       94      92       106
/1   Provisional.
7.        The Second Development Plan (1970-74) has four major objectives
in the agriculture sector:
(a)  reaching self-sufficiency in food supply with subsidies
only for farm inputs;
(b)  producing raw materials for manufacturing and processing
at prices which will enable industries to be competitive;
(c)  developing import substitutes and expanding exports;
(d)  increasing employment and farm incomes.
Agricultural production is projected to grow at 4.5% per annum while GDP
will grow at 6.7%. This implies a further decline in agriculture's
contribution to GDP by 1974 (29.6% at 1967 prices). The following table



ANNEX 1
Page 4
shows the Plan's agricultural projection for 1974 (at 1967 prices) together
with actual growth rate for the period 1969/70.
Planned
Annual Growth          Planned
Rate (%)        Growth Rate (%)
1974             1970-74            1969-70/1
K Sh Billion
GDP                      12.8                6.7                 6.5
Agriculture               3.8               4.5                  4.0
Nonmonetary             2.2               3.5                  4.6
Monetary                1.6               6.0                  3.5
Gross Farm Revenue        2.0                6.0                 3.5
Crops                   1.4               6.8                  n.a.
Livestock               0.5               4.8                 n.a.
Other                   0.1               3.0                  n.a.
/1   Provisional.
8.        In 1970 agriculture's share of GDP grew at slower rate than
anticipated in the Second Development Plan. However, the value of marketed
production increased by nearly 12% because of sharp rises in the price of
the two major staples - coffee and tea (19% and 8%, respectively). The food
supply position was less satisfactory, partly as a consequence of poor
rainfall.
Agricultural Production
9.        Latest estimates indicate that total agricultural production in
1971 will be lower than in 1970, mainly due to the fall in both the price
and quality of coffee and the effects of the recent drought, affecting tea,
pyrethrum and dairying. Details are:



ANNEX 1
Page 5
Gross Farm Revenue 1969-71 Changes in Value
-------------K Sh Million---------------
1969    1970    1971    1969-70    1970-71
(forecast)
Coffee                   324      424     410     +100         -14
Tea                      224      276     248       +52        -28
Cattle                   244      262     258       +18        -04
Dairy                    122      142     146       +20        +04
Wheat                    132       92      84       -40        -08
Maize                     78       56      70       -22        +14
Sugar Cane                58       66      80       +08        +14
Pyrethrum                 26       68      34       +42        -34
Sisal                     46       34      40       -12        +06
Cashew Nuts                8       24      24       +16          -
Other Commodities        226      244     256       +18        +12
TOTAL             1,488   1,688   1,650      +200         -38
Source:   Kenya Statistical Digest.
Data is not available for total crop production and the following table shows
deliveries of principal crops to statutory boards and other marketing organi-
zations:



ANNEX 1
Page 6
Principal Farm Deliveries/  1968-1971
1971
1968       1969        1970          Forecast
'-------------'000 ton----------____-_
Clean Coffee                      40          53          58              60
Tea                               29          36          41               38
Sisal    /2                       50          50          44              48
Pyrethrum-                         11          7           6               10
Seed Cotton                       14          17          14              18
Maize                            353         282         200             150
Rice Paddy                        19          23          29              28
Wheat                            216         242         221             180
Sugar Cane                       947       1,300       1,451           1,750
Milk and Butterfat               216         217         230              157
'-------------'000 head--
Cattle and Calves                184         185         196            n.a.
Sheep and Lambs                   41          61          66            n.a.
Goats                             10          38          47            n.a.
Pigs                              52          51          60            n.a.
/1   Deliveries to the statutory boards and commissions.
/2   Dry flower.
Source:  Kenya Statistical Digest, December 1971.
10.       The main cereals grown in Kenya are maize, wheat and millet/
sorghum, covering about 60% of the cultivated area.  Maize and millet are
the most important staple foods in rural areas, and all small farmers
(about 1 million) devote part of their lands to these crops.  Wheat is
mostly grown by large farms. Of total maize production (over 1 million ton)
about 1/4 to 1/5 passes through official marketing channels (Annex 2).
Hybrid varieties yield well (3 tons/acre) at low cost (K Sh 0.05/lb). The
new high-yielding wheat varieties average more than 1,300 lb per acre which
is about 30% higher than the yield obtained at the beginning of the sixties.
Total marketed production averages 200,000 tons per year.
11.       After cereals, pulses occupy the second largest acreage.  No
reliable figures are available on acreage and production. Sorghum, pulses
and oilseeds receive very little attention, although there is a high poten-
tial for the development of these crops.
Dairy Production
12.       Output of dairy and poultry products has failed to grow at the
same rate as human population (3.3% per annum) since 1968.



ANNEX 1
Page 7
Output                Annual Growth Rate
('000 tons)                   (percent)
1968    1969    1970                1968-70
Milk      216      217     230                   2.1
Eggs        2.2      1.9     2.3                 1.5
13.       Development of dairy and poultry enterprises has been fostered by
the introduction of advanced technological methods of production and breeding
stock from abroad and, in the case of poultry, by the establishment of feed
plants producing balanced rations. About 80% of commercial output is located
in the southern plateau, especially in areas adjacent to urbanized centers.
Farm Size and Tenancy
14.       Kenya, like most African countries, is characterized by a large
number of small farms. Under the ongoing development plan (1970-74), the
Government intends to continue with the program of land adjudicaticn and
registration as well as that of squatter resettlement. The current situation
is:
Area        No. of Families    Average Size of
(Million Acres)       Settled        Holdings (acres)
Land Settlement                  1.2               35,400            25 to 40
Land Adjudication                1.1              159,200             5 to 10
Registered                       4.3             554,900              5 to 10
Squatters                         -                18,000             5 to 10
Subtotal                   6.6              767,500
On-going Adjudication            1.4              250,000             5 to 10
TOTAL                 8.0            1,017,500
In addition, there are about 3,000 farms (about 2 million ac), varying in
size from 500 to 8,000 ac, most of which were taken over from former settlers
who have left the country and which are now owned either by cooperatives,
companies or individuals.
15.       By the end of 1970, the Department of Settlement completed 135 of
the 139 settlement schemes started in 1963 under the "million acre" project
involving 35,400 families on an area of about 1.2 million ac using two
types of density: the "high" (about 25 ac per holding) and the "low" (about
40 ac per holding). Responsibility for preparing and executing settlement
schemes lies with the Trustees of the Agricultural Settlement Fund estab-
lished under the Agricultural Act of 1963. The Trustees are the Ministers
of Finance, Settlement and Agriculture. It is likely that further land
settlement will take place but on a smaller scale than in the past.



ANNEX 1
Page 8
16.       Land adjudication and registration was initiated in the early
fifties. By the end of 1970. area registered, adjudicated or being
adjudicated among approximately 1 million families totalled about 8 million
ac (including pastoral area) with an average size of 5 to 10 ac per holding.
Irrigation
17.       Irrigation plays only a minor role in Kenyan agriculture and the
scope for expansion is difficult to determine at this time. The area
under irrigation represents less than 0.2% of the total area under cultiva-
tion and the farmgate value of irrigated crops is estimated to be less than
0.1% of total gross crop value. Five schemes (totalling about 14,000 ac)
operated by the National Irrigation Board (established in 1966) account for
most of irrigated production (rice, cotton and onions).
Farm Mechanization
18.       Mechanization also plays a minor role in Kenyan agriculture,
particularly for tillage and harvesting operations. There are about 7,000
wheeled tractors and 1,000 crawler tractors in use. About 80% of them are
used by large-scale farms and the balance by small-scale farms, local and
central Government, contractors and commercial transport enterprises. All
tractors are imported, at an average annual rate of 1,000 for the last 3
years, by about 6 commercial firms representing European and American
manufacturers. Annual CIF value of imports of agricultural machinery
averaged approximately K sh 30 million (US$4 million) for the last three
years. This figure includes tractors, cultivating and harvesting implements
and machinery.
April 27, 1972



KENYA
SECOND SMALLHOLDERS AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Imports and Exports by Major Category
(KSh Million)
1967                       1965                         1969                        1970
Imports Exports Balance   Imports Exports Balance   Imports Exports Balance   Imports Exports Balance
Food, Drink, and Tobacco    220        760      540        200     820      620        160      920     760        240    1,040   800
Basic Materials              100       200      100        120     200       80        140      200      60        140       220    s0
Fuels                         260      240      -20        280     220      -60        260      260        -       300       250   -20
Chemicals                    180       120      -60        240     140    -100         260      140    -120        320      10  -140
Textiles                      220       40    -180         240      40    -200         220       40    -180         260       20  -240
Semi-Manufactures            160       100      -60        150     120      -60        200      140      -60       240       160   -80
Metals                        240       40    -200         240      40    -200         260       40    -220        340        60  -280
Transport Equipment          420         -    -420         360       -    -360         440        -    -440        440         -  -440
Other Capital Goods          460        20    -440         420      20    -400         440       20    -420        620        40  -580
Consumer Goods          -    100        80      -20        140      do      -60        140       50      -60       180        80  -100
Miscellaneous                  80         -     -80        120        -    -120         60        -      -60        100         -  -100
Total:        2,440    1,600    -840       2,540   1,680    -860       2,580   1,840    -740       3,180    20-1,100
_  __.==
Source: Kenya Economic Survey 1971.
April 20, 1972
Id






ANNEX 2
Page 1
KENYA
SECOND SMALLHOLDER AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Market Prospects and Marketing for Project Commodities
General
1.        The market prospects for project commodities are good.  The in-
cremental production generated at full development will constitute only
a small part of total production. The following table shows incremental
project output compared to marketed production in 1970/71 and Plan Targets
for 1974.
Annual
Incremental
Project           Kenya            1970-
Outputs           Marketed         1974     Project Marketed
at Full           Production       Plan     Outputs as
Development       in 1970/71       Target   Percent of:
1                2             3       Column 2  Column 3
-----------------------in ton-------------------------
Potatoes-/1          7,800            40,000         50,000      10.0       8.0
Plantains-          27,000            60,000          n.a.       21.0      n.a.
Maize                1,600           200,000        610,000       0.8       0.2
Pyrethrum              140            10,000         11,500/2    1.4        1.1
Milk1               15,000           200,000        257,25O-JM    7.0       6.0
Eggs-                  750             2,200          2,700--   17.0       13.0
/1   It is assumed that only 50% of the incremental production will be
marketed. The remainder will be consumed at the farm level. It is
estimated that about 20% of Kenya production for these products is
marketed at present.
/2   Mission estimates on the basis of the plan assumptions, and the
Ministry of Finance's Economic Survey 1971.
Although all commodities produced are for domestic consumption (except
pyrethrum which is totally expoxted) foreign exchange savings will be
generated by reductions in the importations of potatoes and maize.
2.        The marketing of agricultural products in Kenya is carried out
by a wide range of organizations. Some commodities such as coffee, tea,
pyrethrum, and sisal are subject to a high degree of supervision and
control at different stages of production, marketing and processing by
the various boards or authorities. Other commodities such as fresh produce,
pigs and poultry are handled entirely by private enterprises. Between
these two, commodities such as beef, dairy products, cereals and cotton have



ANNEX 2
Page 2
a combinaticn of public and private participation in production, marketing
and processing operations.
3.        In general, these various forms of marketing adequately service
Kenyan production. However, marketing costs are sometimes excessive
because of poor management (cotton) or lack of transport facilities and
feeder roads (milk, maize) or excess of processing capacity (pork, beef,
cotton). The Government and the institutions concerned are aware of the
situation and are trying to improve it through investments, prices, and
tax policies.
Potatoes and Plantains
4.        Potatoes are a regular component of Kenyan diet.  However, out of
production estimated at about 250,000 ton, only some 40,000 tons are marketed
each year. Small-scale farms are the major producers (about 95%) and
suppliers but, because of their limited knowledge of marketing techniques,
the ever-growing urban demand is not met and prices paid to farmers
fluctuate between KSh 20 and KSh 60 per bag of 150 lb according to the
season. Since 1968 Kenya has been a net importer of potatoes (imports
from Tanzania in 1969 and 1970 amounted to KSh 0.5 million and KSh 1.24
million, respectively). To increase potato production and reverse the
present import trend, Government is promoting planting of certified seed
obtained through the Horticultural Research Station at Thika. The overall
average acreage planted with certified seed remains, however, very small
(160 ac in 1969 and 210 ac in 1970). KFA, through its local stockists,
is the major supplier of seed potatoes.
5.        Both cooking and eating varieties of plantains are grown for
home and local consumption, but considerable quantities are marketed in
Kisumu, Eldoret, Kitale, Nakuru, Nairobi, and Mombasa; Uganda and Tanzania
supply the main urban centers with high quality fruit. The main supply of
cooking varieties come from Kisii and Kakamega districts. Total production
of bananas and plantains is estimated at about 280,000 tons. 1/ Imports
amounted to about 5,000 tons of bananas in 1970 (4,000 ton from Uganda
and 1,000 ton from Tanzania). Prices depend largely on varieties and size
of bunches, the average producer price for cooking variety being about
KSh 0.07 per lb and for eating variety about KSh 0.14 per lb. Where
marketing facilities are adequate, bananas are one of the most profitable
cash crops in Kenya. Marketing of this crop, which does not exceed 25%
of total production, has been hampered by lack of facilities and skills.
6.        The marketing of potatoes and plantains is not regulated in
Kenya. They are mainly produced by small farms and are intended only for
domestic consumption. The main handicap in marketing vegetables and fruit
in Kenya is lack of good communications and transport facilities, ignorance
of market conditions, and inexperience in marketing techniques. The
Horticultural Crops Development Authority (HCDA), created in 1967 by MA,
1/ FAO Production Year Book 1970.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
controls and regulates cultivation, picking, transporting and marketing
of horticultural crops. HCDA, with the approval of the Minister for
Agriculture, fixes prices, imposes "a levy or levies on growers including
levies at different rates in respect of any growers for the purpose of
financing the operation of the Authority or its agents and for such other
purposes as the Minister may approve". HCDA is still in an embryonic stage
and its staff consists of only two officers in Nairobi, two export inspectors,
and seven field inspectors. For the time being, its functions consist of
imposing levies on onions, fixing production quotas for exports, and issuing
transport permits. HCDA benefits from German technical assistance for
organizing channels for imports and exports and is planning to open a branch
office in Frankfurt (Germany).
Maize
7.        The Maize and Produce Board (MPB) purchased only 200,000 tons of
maize in 1970, the lowest since 1967 and about 30% below 1969 deliveries.
For the first time since 1966 MPB was forced to import relatively significant
amounts of yellow maize (14,000 ton)to meet the demand for stockfeed.
Importation of maize is likely to continue in 1971 since, during 1970/71,
reserves were almost exhausted. Becuause of consecutive droughts during
the last three years, production has suffered but price policy reflects
the lack of an overall strategy for achieving the ambitious targets of the
1970/74 plan. Deliveries and prices between 1965 and 1970 were:
1966    1967    1968    1969    1970   1971/1  1974/2  /
Deliveries
'000 ton     134.00  249.00  353.00  282.00  200.00  150.00  610.00
Exports
'000 ton       -       80.00  277.00  141.00    -         -     430.00
Imports
'000 ton     143.00    0.07    0.04    0.06   14.00   50.00    -
Producers'
Prices at
Planting
Time                                                                   /3
KSh/ton      400.00  350.00  310.00  300.00  260.00  330.00  255.00 -
/1   Forecasts.
/2   1970/74 Plan Target.
/3   At 1970 prices.
Source:   Kenya Economic Survey 1971, Statistical Abstract 1970, and
Development Plan 1970/74.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
8.        The decrease in the amount marketed followed the decrease of
prices to the producer in 1969/70. The substantial exports of 1968/69
consisted mainly of the reserves accumulated in 1967 and 1968. In 1970 and
1971 Government was forced to increase the prices twice at harvesting time
to KSh 330 per ton and KSh 380 per ton, respectively. However, these
increases were announced after the planting season and had a limited effect
on production, and some farmers still preferred to sell their crop illegally
at better prices (about 50% more) to buyers other than MPB or KFA. At the
same time Government is subsidizing prices for export and for animal
consumption. In 1969 MPB received KSh 153 per ton on maize exported, and
in 1970/71 feed millers paid KSh 110 less per ton for maize than the
market price. In 1971 Kenya domestic prices were about 10% below international
market price FOB Rotterdam and about 30% below CIF prices Mombasa. No
difficulties should be encountered in marketing the increased production
resulting from the project.
9.        The MPB, a parastatal body, was established in 1959 to organize
the purchase, storage and sale of maize, the basic staple of Kenya's
population. It is the sole exporter and importer of maize and this
constitutes 60 to 70% of its marketing activities. The Board also acts
as a price stabilization organization for 40 other varieties of products
such as beans, peas, cashew nuts, cassava, groundnuts, millet, rice
paddy, sorghum, sunflower seed, etc. MPB uses the services of agents
such as Kenya's Farmers' Association (KFA) in the Rift Valley (60% of
marketed production of maize), and the Cooperative Movement in the Eastern
province for distribution of maize and collection of cashew nuts. MPB
has at its disposal about 300,000 ton of storage capacity to meet its
annual requirements of about 250,000 ton for maize and 80,000 ton for other
products. It now revstricts the free sale of maize within a district to
0.9 ton per load.
Pyrethrum
10.       Pyrethrum, while one of Kenya's most important export crops, along
with coffee, tea and sisal, is the only project commodity to be grown
entirely for export, but project production (at full development) will
constitute less than 0.5% of total production. Production of dry flowers
has been as follows:



ANN1EX 2
Page 5
1965   1966    1967    1968   1969   1970   1971    1972-1
Production
(dry
flowers)
in ton        6,157  7,751  10,529  11,059  7,306  5,910  9,748  13,000
Prices for
1.3%
Pyrethrum
Content
KSh/lb        n.a.   n.a.    n.a.    1,726  1,726  2,119  2,213   2,250
/1   Forecasts.  The price is an interim price likely to increase by a bonus
at the end of the year.
Source:   Kenya Statistical Abstract 1970, and 1971 Annual Report of
Pyrethrum Board.
11.       Production, which has increased regularly since 1970, is planned
to expand at the rate of about 15% during the next three years until it
reaches 20,000 ton annually. Prices to the producer reflect the drastic
change in Government policy since 1970, when world market prospects became
more promising after the restrictions imposed on several synthetic pesticides
in the United States and several European countries. Since 1970 Government
has taken a number of steps to revive production, including an increase in
price of about 20% in 1970 (and again about 5% in 1971), the reduction of
cesses and levies imposed on growers from KSh 0.11 to KSh 0.06 per lb,
and the lifting of quota restrictions on large farmers. Despite these
measures in 1971, Kenya was not able to supply more than 70% of the minimum
requirement of its customers and orders for about 4,000 ton had to be
declined due to lack of supplies. There are good prospects that the use of
natural pyrethrins in insecticidal sprays will continue in spite of active
research into synthetic substitutes. So far, no such synthetic substitute
which combines all the properties of pyrethrum is being manufactured.
12.       The growing and marketing of pyrethrum is handled by the Coopera-
tive Movement in conjunction with the Pyrethrum Board. The licenced
producers deliver flowers for drying to their cooperative societies. The
district cooperative union determines the quality of the product and
assures its transport to the Pyrethrum Board factory at Nakuru (12,000 ton
capacity). The crude extract produced in the factory is shipped to
appointed distributors overseas. The guaranteed buying price is fixed
annually by the Pyrethrum Board in conjunction with MA. At the end of the
year the Board distributes to producers the marketing surpluses, if any,
on the basis of deliveries (7% in 1970-71). Besides marketing and process-
ing facilities the Pyrethrum Board provides technical advice to farmers
(30 agents) and supplies, on credit, planting materials grown in its own
nurseries (about 5 million plants distributed each year).



ANNEX 2
Page 6
Dairy Products
13.       The most noticeable trend in the Kenya dairy industry in recent
years has been the rapid decline in the predominance of the large-scale
European farm sector in the industry and the emergence of the small-scale
African farmers. The consecutive droughts of 1969 and 1970 have, however,
affected Kenya dairy stock. The trend is reflected in the mature female
grade stock position as follows:
1960....1965    1966    1967    1968    1969         1970
('___-__---------('000 Head)-------------------
Large-
Scale
Farms         241.7   162.5   159.5   144.5   165.7   160.0        155.0-
Small-
Scale
Farms,
Excluding                                                               /1
Settlement    n.a.    74.0    82.7   102.6   115.0   110.0 -    105. 0-
/1   Mission estimate.
Source:   Kenya Statistical Abstract 1970.
Deliveries of milk have changed accordingly and in 1970 about 50% of total
Kenya Cooperative Creameries (KCC) intake was supplied by small-scale farms.
This share has probably increased significantly since July 1970 when the
"quota" milk system was abolished (para 15).  Kenya has about 700,000
head of grade dairy cattle (PMEA estimate January 1972) and 3 to 4 million
Zebu cows, which produce a total of about 500,000 ton of milk each year, of
which some 40% is marketed through KCC. Recorded deliveries and sales
from 1968 to 1971 and average prices for butterfat and whole milk for the
period 1961-1971 were as follows:



ANNEX 2
Page 7
1968    1969    1970    1971/-
---~-----('000 ton) ---------
Intake of
Milk and Butterfat            216     217      230      157
Sales
Liquid Milk                    89      93       98       74
Other Dairy Products          n.a.     11       14       10
/1   Through September 1971.
Source:   Kenya Economic Review of Agriculture Nos. 1, 2, and 3,
1971.
Kenya Average Prices to Producers/1
Butterfat and Whole Milk 1961-1971-
(K Sh)
/2
1961  1962  1963  1964  1965  1966  1967  1968  1969  1970  1972-
Butterfat
(per
lb)      2.81  2.89  2.91  2.99  3.25  3.24  3.10  3.28  3.00  2.90  2.72
Whole Milk
(per
gallon)  2.18  2.18  2.18  2.22  2.50  2.68  2.59  2.68  2.36  2.10  3.13
/1   The price given for 1961 to 1970 is the weighted average payment for
the three groups of milk designated by KCC as "Quota" milk, "Contract"
milk, and "Milk for Separation".
/2   Estimate.
Source:   Kenya Statistical Abstract 1970 - Economic Review for Agriculture
1971 Nos. 1, 2, and 3.
14.       The Kenya Dairy Board (KDB) was established in 1958 to organize,
regulate and develop the production and marketing of dairy produce. It
has powers to licence and inspect producers, and to appoint agents for the
processing and sale of dairy produce. Kenya Cooperative Creameries (KCC),
created in 1924, handles about 95% of milk marketed throughout the country,
and owns seven factories with a total of 120,000 gallons per day to
process the intake. Although the number of supplying members as of
June 30, 1971 was 1,657 including 262 cooperative members, KCC has abolished
the "quota" system whereby a certain section of dairy farmers (principally
the large-scale farmers plus some blocks of settlement area farmers) are



ANNEX 2
Page 8
entitled to a higher basic price than nonquota holders and is now paying
the same price for all whole milk deliveries. The farmer delivers milk at
the factory gate, and KCC tries to help organize transport which continues
to be the major problem for the small farmers. KDB and KCC are responsible
for advising Government on the milk price structure.
15.       In the distribution of dairy products KCC gives priority to satis-
fying the demand for liquid milk, about 1.8 million gallons per month. Any
excess of supply over this amount is manufactured into other dairy products.
Of the liquid milk 50% is sold in Nairobi, 40% in other urban areas of the
country, and 10% is exported to Uganda and Tanzania. Exports to these two
countries amounted to about 2.8 million gallons in 1969 and 2.1 million
gallons in 1970. In 1971, the exports continued to drop from 8,500 gallons
per day to 8,000 gallons per day. In December 1971 and January and
February 1972 exports to Uganda increased substantially, but this country
and Tanzania are now following policies of self-sufficiency in dairy
requirements. The local market can, however, absorb a lot more milk. In
Kenya in 1970 the consumption of liquid milk per capita was about 5 gallons
compared to about 28 gallons in the United States and 31 gallons in the
United Kingdom (FAQ estimates).
16.       The price of whole milk has increased steadily since 1961.  As
from July 1971, the price paid to farmers has been raised from KSh 2.81
to KSh 3.50 per gallon (20% increase) which resulted in an additional
intake by KCC of 3.2 million gallons in the three months July to September,
compared to the same period in 1970. This additional intake was also
helped by an increase of output at farm level. Retail prices have increased
by 18% from KSh 4.18 per gallon to KSh 5.1 per gallon. This has not
affected sales which have increased by about 5% as compared to the same
period in 1970. The study of the dairy industry included in the Bank's
1972/73 program of preinvestment studies for Kenya, will review the dairy
sector overall and make proposals on production, marketing, and processing
of dairy produce.
Poultry
17.       There is no reliable figure on poultry population in Kenya.
However, the gross market production has increased continuously since 1965
as shown below, and is expected to increase at an annual rate of about 5%
under the 1970-1974 Plan.
/1
1965    1966    1967    1968    1969    1970        1974-_
---------------------KSh '000---------------
Marketed
Production   4,600   5,500   6,240   7,160   6,400   8,500   10,460
/1   At 1970 prices.
Source:   Kenya Statistical Abstract 1970.



ANNEX 2
Page 9
The market prospects are good and the demand for eggs and meat remains high
in the urban areas.
18.       Poultry production is left almost exclusively to private initiative
and marketing of eggs and broilers is not controlled. Supplies tend to
be irregular during the year and the prices fluctuate as a result of supply
and demand in specific areas. Much remains to be done in organizing poultry
and egg marketing.
May 15, 1972






ANNEX 3
Page 1
KENYA
SECOND SMALLHOLDER AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
SUPPORTING SERVICES
Extension Services
1.        Agricultural extension services covering the whole of Kenya are
provided by the General Extension Service of the Ministry of Agriculture
(MA). These services are supplemented by specialized extension for certain
crops and development schemes provided by different institutions such as:
the Cotton Lint and Seed Marketing Board, the Pyrethrum Board, the Kenya
Tea Development Authority (KTDA), the national Irrigation Board, and the
Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC). MA has the authority and responsi-
bility for controlling all extension services at the central and provincial
levels, including specialized extension services. In this way farmers are
assisted by the general extension officers of MA who are in turn advised
by specialized extension agents, thus ensuring coordination among all types
of extension officers and avoiding conflicting advice being given to
farmers.
2.        The organization of extension services has improved during the
last three years. The general extension services of MA include over 9,000
officers classified below by specialization and educational qualification:
General Extension Services of the Ministry of Agriculture
Diploma-Holders & Nonprofessional
Specialization             Certificate Holders   Nonprofessional   Total
Crop Production                       1,715               2,813         4,528
Veterinary Services                   1,321                1,426        2,747
Animal Production                       127                  465          592
Land & Farm Management                  362                  672        1,034
Water Development                       378                  647        1,025
TOTAL                      3,903                6,023         9,926
3.        The on-going project (Credit 105-KE) encountered initial diffi-
culties which were gradually overcome, and today the extension services
pertaining to crop production are adequate. The professional and technical
staff for veterinary services, animal production, farm management and
farm mechanization needs to be increased. Additional staff is also required
in the fields of water development and agricultural engineering to satisfy



ANTEX 3
Page 2
the growing demand for more efficient water development and rural infra-
structure.  These additions would enable MA to improve its technical assessment
of loan applications, give further assistance to farmers in preparing farm
plans using the methodology drawn up in consultation with AFC, and guide
borrowers during the currency of the loan. The following table shows the
present staffing positior and the additional staff considered necessary
for the new Project:
Extension Services under Credit 105-KE and for Proposed Second Project
Contrac-
tual                                    Total Require-
Require-   Current                      ments for
ments      Staff      Additional        Supervision of
under      under      Requirements      Cr. 105-KE and
Credit     Credit    for Proposed       for Proposed
105-KE     105-KE    Second Project   Second Project
Crop Produc-           /1          /1
tion              326--      23-                               236
Veterinary
& Animal
Production
Services           29          40             44                84
Land & Farm
Management         22          24             26                50
Farm Mechani-
zation and
Water
Development        -            6             18                24
TOTAL     377         306             88/              39/2
/1   During the implementation of the on-going project demand for
livestock development was greater than for crop development. The
proposed Second project would follow this direction.
/2   For breakdown into categories, see Schedule B.
Research
4.        The main agricultural research agency is the Ministry of Agricul-
ture, but other contributions are being made by private research organiza-
tions and research partially financed by the agricultural sector through
marketing and regulatory boards. The research staff of MA totals about 70
senior staff working in about 20 stations and substations, including the
National Laboratory in Nairobi. About 20%// of the staff has been obtained



ANNEX 3
Page 3
under various bilateral aid programs and these expatriates generally spend
only a few years in the country. This turnover creates a lack of continuity
in research. The education system is said to produce an adequate supply
of candidates for research posts, although the university entrance require-
ments tend to make it difficult for students with a strong background in
practical agriculture to gain admission.
5.        Research associated with the various crop boards seems to operate
reasonably well, but research linked to crop adaptation, applied genetics
to produce new varieties, fertilizer use and soil fertility, pest control
and disease control, leaves much to be desired. An analysis of the return
on the research program to date is not available; however, the impact
appears to be significant for a number of selected crops such as tea, coffee,
potatoes, maize and wheat. Research work for this group of selected crops,
underwritten to a large extent by the private sector, has been emphasized
at the expense of research on other crops.
6.        Research on oilseeds is urgently required to provide a suitable
crop to aid diversification, replace oil imports and bring idle land into
production. Cotton requires more research attention to provide suitable
varieties, proper programs of pest and disease control, as well as suitable
fertilizer-use formulas adapted to ecological conditions. Basic grains to
support a growing feed industry, stimulate poultry and swine production,
and avoid sporadic dependence on imports deserve a great deal more applied
research. Seed selection, multiplication, packing and distribution merit
some research effort.
Training
7.        Agricultural manpower training in Kenya is done at three different
levels. Summary data of the projected output of graduates by the existing
institutions are shown below:



ANNEX 3
Page 4
1969     1970      1971      1972      1973      TOTAL
----      Number of Graduates-----------
Levels and
Institutions
University
Agriculture                -         -        -         -        42          42
Veterinary                  9        10       11        13       14          57
Diploma
Egerton College            80        95      130       130      130         565
Certificate
Agriculture
EMBU                     65       70        75        75      90         375
Kakamega                -         -         -         -      100         100
Animal Health
Kabete                  55        55        55        49      65         279
Range Management
Kabete                   30       30        30        19      60         169
Dairy Training
Naivasha                 60       60        60        60      60         300
Farmers' Training
Thompson's Falls         80       80        80        80      80         400
Eldoret                 -         -        136       136     136         408
Source:   Ministry of Agriculture.
In addition there are 30 Small-Scale Farmers' Training Centers (of which
the Ministry of Agriculture operates 23, the Christian Council of Kenya 6,
and a Private Council one), running one- and two-week courses with an intake
of about 40,000 small farmers per year.
8.        Farmers' Training Centers at Thompson's Falls and Eldoret special-
ize in programs for large-scale farmers. Some 500 men have already at-
tended the Thompson's Fall training center and an additional 160 are
expected to pass through this center by 1973. At Eldoret, five farm
mechanization courses, of six-week duration for 20 farmers each, have been
arranged per year, plus a one-year course in farm management for 36 farmers.
Tractors and Farm Machinery
9.        The main international tractor firms (7 manufacturers) are
represented in Kenya, and all of them have a sufficient number of distribu-
tors and dealers all over the country (about eight branches for each



ANNEX 3
Page 5
manufacturer). Licensed importers (and all tractor and fertilizer distri-
butors in Kenya are so licensed) can import freely. No custom duties are
levied on farm machinery. Servicing is relatively good, although it has
deteriorated in recent years because of lack of mechanics and the diffi-
culty of recruiting overseas personnel. Work permits are given for two
years only. Machinery distributors are becoming concerned at the deteriora-
tion of tractor servicing and are trying to establish better and more effi-
cient servicing facilities such as mobile workshops and programmed visits
by their representatives. All distributors are contributing to the
financing of three months' training courses for purchases of a new tractor
(KSh 2,500 per tractor). The distributors also give a discount of 5-7%
off list prices after allowing for delays in payment of 30-60 days.
Fertilizers
10.       International firms supplying fertilizer from Holland, Germany,
and Italy are well represented in the country. About 10 distributors are
allowed to import, of which the Kenya Farmers' Association (KFA), importer
of German Albatros fertilizer, and Dalgety, distributor of Dutch Windmill
brand, share more than 65% of the Kenya market. Fertilizer is procured
free of custom duties and taxes, and benefits from Government subsidies
of about 30% for phosphatic fertilizers and about 10% for nitrogenous
fertilizer. Details of fertilizer imports are as follows:
Import of Fertilizer and Pesticides
1965-1970
('000 ton)
1965    1966    1967    1968    1969    1970/1
Fertilizer            71      68       65      71      85       110
Nitrogenous         48      31      29       38      31     n.a.
Phosphatic          12      18      16       19      18     n.a.
Other              11       19      20       14      36     n.a.
Pesticides             4       3        3       4       4         4
/1   Provisional.
Kenya Farmers' Association (KFA)
11.       KFA is the main supplier of all types of essential agricultural
inputs and is also the marketing organization for crops such as maize in
the Rift Valley and wheat for the whole country. It was created in 1915 to
perform cooperative activities in the so-called "White Highlands" (European
settlements), but presently services large- and small-scale farmers over the
whole country. Since the minimum holding to qualify for membership was
reduced from 100 acres to 20 acres smallholder membership has increased and



ANNEX 3
Page 6
now represents some 70% of the 2,500 members. 260 members are cooperative
societies and unions. KFA operates about 7,000 accounts for credit (Annex
4, paras 20 to 23) and commodity deliveries, has 29 branches and
supplies 800 stockists all over the country. It also provides a field team
of three area supervisors and 16 agents to promote and extend technical
advice to farmers on use of fertilizers and improved seeds for maize,
potatoes and wheat.
May 15, 1972



KENYA
SECOND SMALLHOLDER AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
,~~~~~~~~~~~~ .. .. . .. .       
C D IR T E N O F  D C C , OFC DICA  E : V CS             S               = 
- 000~~~~~~~~~ OCDO  0000              OFOoC  0I        E      DOCTIO0_                -|_,,, DODETV          SERVCEReDePR                                   DSO
#4  ~ ~ ~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A                                                   -     0     00    -AI      I.
#   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                   .00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1.l.                                T -1                                .
RSqEARCH COORDINATOS }_ | SECRSTARI:S                                                                                                      CRO
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~... ------------------------------------   --------------------NCA |E 
444~~~~E
4nO.NCEL                            0E
. . . TIIRAL................................................................................
SDARD   .   ^                                                                                                                      - *^*                          11   W.D D                           _  ACCOUNTS |~~~~~~44
**_                                          |  FRDD   l                          | S:=VIC::DO






ANNEX 4
Page 1
K NY A
SECOND SMALLHOLDER AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT
Background
1.        Agricultural credit in Kenya is provided by a number of institu-
tions which generally cater to specific market segments or credit needs.
The institutional structure is fragmented, and there is no mechanism for
coordinating the several sources and flows of credit to the agricultural
sector. Various types of farms and farm enterprises are not served on an
integrated or uniform basis, and short-term and longer-term needs are not
met in a coordinated manner. Much of the credit provided to agriculture
is through the commercial banking system, where such lending is generally
considered to be of secondary attractiveness and for which specialized
management and supervision are frequently insufficiently available.
2.        The organized credit market serving Kenyan agriculture reaches
only a small minority of the total number of farms. The Ministry of
Agriculture estimates that there are over 1 million farms in Kenya, only
3,000 of which are large-scale.  Birgegard and Campbell1/ estimate that
as of June 30, 1971 only 115,000 farms were using credit provided by modern
financial institutions. Fourteen thousand were borrowers from AFC; 7,000
were mcdium- and large-scale operators receiving seasonal advances under
the Guaranteed Minimum Return (GMR) program administered by AFC on an
agency basis; 53,000 were using credit provided by the Kenya Tea Development
Authority for tea development; 31,000 were in debt to the Settlement Board;
and 10,000 2/ had facilities from the commercial banks. The number of farms
which could use credit in a worthwhile manner has not been estimated, and
there has been no examination of standards of creditworthiness consistent
with the Government's priorities in agricultural development.
3.        In summary, the organized credit market is characterized by two
types of operations: the commercial banks' participation which is
primarily directed by their efforts to develop profitable avenues for
employment of their funds, and by the efforts of Government to broaden the
support base for agricultural development and for agricultural programs such
as GMR and Settlement which are motivated to some extent by noneconomic
factors.
1/  L. Birgegard and R. Campbell, "The Agricultural Finance Corporation -
1967 to 1971 to 1975" (unpublished).
2/   Information obtained from commercial banks suggests that 9,000 would be
a more accurate estimate.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
The Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC)
4.        The Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC) was constituted in its
present form in 1969 and is a statutory body under the Office of President
established to assist in the development of agriculture and agricultural
industries by making loans to farmers, cooperative societies, private
companies, and other persons, including public sector organizations,
engaged in agriculture or agro-industrial activities. The AFC works very
closely with the Ministry of Agriculture on matters of policy and on day-
to-day tasks including identification of potential borrowers and initial
screening of loan applications. The AFC has 33 offices located in all
major agricultural districts in Kenya. As of March 31, 1971, AFC's agri-
cultural loan portfolio totalled KSh 9.6 million of which KSh 8.7 million
were large-scale. The loan accounts include approximately 2,500 large-
scale borrowers and 11,500 small-scale borrowers. On an agency basis, AFC
also handles the Guaranteed Minimum Return (GMR) program which provides
crop insurance and production advances to medium- and large-scale wheat
and maize growers. Over 7,000 farmers participate in the GMR program.
Sources of AFC's funds consist largely of capital subscribed by the Government
(KSh 6.2 million) and long-term loans also provided by the Government,
including the proceeds of loans provided by external donors. A majority
of the Corporation's current lending programs receive support from external
sources such as IDA (small-scale loans, tractor loans, and ranch loans),
SIDA (ranch loans), and KFW (small-scale and large-scale loans).
5.        Borrowers are charged 7.5% on loans from AFC, and terms range from
one to thirty years. However, the Corporation does not provide loans for
short-term crop finance. The AFC lends on a secured basis, generally against
mortgages on land and in certain instances charges are also taken against
movable property, as in the case of grade cattle and tractors financed under
IDA Credit 105-KE. AFC is described more fully in Annex 5.
Commercial Banking System
6.        The commercial banking system in Kenya is dominated by three
large institutions linked to British overseas banking groups. These banks
provide broad branch office coverage in the principal commercial centers
and important country towns in Kenya. The Kenya Commercial Bank is the
largest and is now owned by the Government (60%) and by National and
Grindlays (40%), who hold a management contract. Barclays Bank International
and Standard Bank (Kenya) Ltd. are the other major companies. An effort
has been made to merge the latter two banks and to have the Government take
a 50% interest in the new institution, the Union Bank of Kenya. However,
Parliament has not yet approved this measure and the two banks continue to
operate under their own names. Other commercial banks include the National
Bank of Kenya (100% Government-owned), the Commercial Bank of Africa (in
which a consortium of foreign banks is represented), and two Indian-owned
banks.
7.        Central Bank statistics indicate that as of June 30, 1971 the
commercial banking system had total deposits of K Sh 3,080 million, and
total advances of K Sh 2,080 million, giving advances/deposit ratio of 67%.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
Total direct lending to agriculture was K Sh 232 million, or 11.1% of total
advances, and is accounted for almost entirely by the three major banks.
An additional K Sh 68 million (3.3% of total advances) was outstanding to
the noncentral government public sector, which includes statutory organiza-
tions dealing in agricultural produce and promoting agricultural development.
The Coffee Board, Pyrethrum Board, and Agricultural Development Corporation
are examples of this type of organization.
8.        The bulk of commercial bank lending to agriculture is to large-
scale farming companies and to corporations engaged in agro-industrial
activities. However, commercial banks do handle a large number (7,500) of
loans to small farmers and appear interested in expanding this aspect of
their activities. Constraints include management expertise and the high
cost of such lending in relation to the interest rates which the banks feel
are the maximum which are acceptable to the community.  The commercial
prime rate is currently 7%, and large agricultural borrowers are accommodated
at this rate. While the going rate on commercial bank lending to smaller
scale trading and industrial enterprises is 9 to 9.5%, many agricultural
loans on a comparable level are made at between 8% and 9%. The commercial
banks lend to farmers on a secured basis, and often avail themselves of stop
orders against salaries or other income sources outside the farm enterprise
for which they provide funds. Loans to large borrowers are primarily for
working capital, while loans to small farmers are frequently on two- or
three-year terms for farm development.
9.        Information provided by the commercial banks indicates that they
believe their most useful role in agricultural credit lies in meeting the
needs of medium- and large-scale farms and related activities. An example
is the Graziers Scheme recently launched by the three major banks. Its
purpose is to finance the acquisition by large farms of immature beef cattle
for fattening and slaughter. Technical supervision of the loans is provided
by Kenya Livestock and Estates, Ltd., which acts as managing agents of the
scheme for the banks. Cattle are acquired in lots of between 100 and 300
head, and buyers must make'a 25% downpayment. The loan is secured by a
chattel mortgage on the cattle financed. Borrowers under the scheme work
with their bankers, and each of the three institutions involved handles its
loan accounts in the usual manner. The scheme began in May 1971 and by
year-end five loans had been made.
10.       The banks have experimented from time to time with small-scale
lending schemes for farmers, but have not been favorably impressed with
the results. Appraisal, supervision, and security - the main constraints
facing commercial banks in agricultural lending - pose the greatest
difficulty. Two of the major banks have agricultural officers to assist
with the identification and vetting of propositions involving agricultural
borrowers, but the small number of these specialists prevents their
widespread participation in small-scale credit activities at the branch
level across the country.
11.       Obtaining adequate security is also a problem.  One commercial
banker indicated that loans of up to 50% of the market value of the land
would be prudent, but that in most cases his advances were in the region



ANNEX 4
Page 4
of 75% to 80% of land value. The commercial banks find it generally
unattractive and sometimes difficult to take possession of the land in
cases even of flagrant default, anid in several instances no buyers have
been found for farms put up for auction by the banks.
12.       The lack of institutional linkages was also cited by commercial
bankers as a constraint to greater participation in agricultural finance.
Stop orders placed with cooperative societies have at times been ignored.
In other instances, farms operating with a reasonable degree of success
may be short of working capital but have nothing to pledge to secure a
commercial bank overdraft because title to the land has been provided as
security for a medium-term facility from the AFC. Inadequacies of
extension services as support for bank lending programs were also cited.
13.       The impression was given that the commercial banks are interested
in doing more agricultural business and that their broad branch coverage
provides substantial potential for such expansion. An effort is being
made to overcome the unique problems of agricultural credit through the
appointment of specialized agricultural officers, but it seems unlikely
that commercial banks will become involved in small-scale agricultural
credit to a significantly greater extent without changes in the institutional
or market structure.
The Cooperative Bank of Kenya, Ltd.
14.       The Cooperative Bank was founded at Government initiative in 1965
to finance registered cooperative societies and to provide an outlet for
funds accumulated by cooperatives through their operations and members'
savings. Operations commenced in 1968. The Cooperative Bank may lend only
to those cooperatives which meet standards set by the Commissioner for
Cooperative Development, and 52 cooperative bodies now borrow from the
Cooperative Bank. No individual accounts are accepted. Funds are channeled
tlhrough the cooperative structure: the Cooperative Bank lends to unions
(at which level loan account bookkeeping is centralized), which in turn
lend to societies, which on-lend to members. In certain cases, however,
loans are made directly to societies. Lending at the society and farmer/
cooperator level is entirely in kind. The interest rate structure
corresponds to the lending mechanism. The Cooperative Bank charges 8% per
annum on daily outstandings. One percent is added at the union level and
one percent at the society level. Thus, the farmer pays 10%. The Coopera-
tive Bank pays 3% on savings accounts established by societies and pays up
to 5% on time deposits, the maximum rate being applicable to funds placed
on 18 months' call.
15.       The Cooperative Bank has grown significantly, but it has only one
office and operations are still on a limited scale. It presently has the
benefit of a Scandinavian adviser. It uses the commercial bank as channels
for disbursement and collection, and relies on the Cooperative Department
for field support. However, the Cooperative Bank plans to establish a field
staff in 1973 to work with member organizations.



ANNEX 4
Page 5
16.       Short-term credit is provided for marketing finance mainly to
coffee societies, and on a seasonal basis for crop production. Medium-
term credit is given for the development of cooperative enterprises such
as coffee processing factories, cotton ginneries and farms. The Cooperative
Bank expects to provide K Sh 8 million for crop production finance in 1972,
the average loan size at the cooperator level being K Sh 300. The need
for this type of credit, however, is estimated by the cooperative movement
to exceed K Sh 18 million.
17.       The Cooperative Bank claims to have had no bad debts to date,
although terms have been renegotiated in several instances to allow for
adverse factors such as weather conditions. Management expects a 5% to 10%
failure rate when operations expand to a level more in line with potential.
18.       Individual farmers in primary societies may borrow in kind from
their societies under a standard formula, subject to the approval of the
society's credit committee, which includes the management and local
extension officer. A farmer's borrowing limit is set at two-thirds of his
annual production turnover handled by the society, based on experience over
the past three years, and limited by the amount of credit available to the
society from its own members' savings and other cooperative sources.
Societies lend against the hypothecation of members' crops, and require
that letters of undertaking relating to stop orders be obtained from the
statutory buying boards before creedit is extended. Each borrower must also
provide security in the form of two guarantors. Each society has a credit
secretary.
19.       The Cooperative Bank's financial results as of June 30, 1971 are
quite impressive in view of its short history. Six hundred cooperative
organizations, or about 75% of the active societies in Kenya, including
over 400,000 individual members, had subscribed K Sh 2 million in share
capital as of June 30, 1971. An additional K Sh 215,000 was provided by
the Government in the form of an interest-free loan when the bank was
founded. The Cooperative Bank has made a profit each year and has accumu-
lated a surplus of K Sh 220,000. Assets include a loan portfolio of
K Sh 15 million, K Sh 9 million placed at call and short notice with
statutory boards and other financial insitutions, and K Sh 7 million in
cash. Its current liabilities consist almost entirely of deposits (K Sh 29
million), of which over 82% are noninterest bearing current accounts.
Other Intermediaries
The Role of the Kenya Farmers' (Cooperative) Association
20.       The Kenya Farmers' (Cooperative) Association (KFA) is not a
financial institution, but it is involved in agricultural credit through
its supply and marketing functions. The problems it faces provide examples
of deficiencies in the institutional arrangements which constrain agri-
cultural development in Kenya. The KFA is a branch of the cooperative
movement and has offices, branches and depots in 30 locations. It serves
mainly large-scale farmers. The minimum farm size required as a qualifica-
tion for membership in maize areas, for example, is 20 acres. Membership



ANNEX 4
Page 6
numbers 2,500, 75% of which is African. However, KFA provides services
to nonmembers and has 7,000 accounts. Most nonmember accounts arise from
KFA's activities in crop marketing. Credit balances receive interest at
5% per annum, and overdue items incur a 10% per annum interest charge.
21.       The KFA provides credit in kind through the trade terms which it
extends on purchases of agricultural inputs by members in good standing.
In most cases, accounts must be settled within 30 days after purchase, but
90-day terms are extended to the most creditworthy members.
22.       In its credit and marketing activities, KFA works closely with
AFC but encounters certain problems relating to the institutional linkages
involved. For example, trade credit is often extended to members who have
obtained farm development loans from AFC. If for any reason AFC is not
satisfied that a borrower has fulfilled all loan conditions it refuses to
reimburse KFA.
23.       Another problem relates to the GMR scheme, administered by AFC
on an agency basis, under which farmers receive seasonal crop advances for
wheat and maize. KFA is a marketing channel for these products, acting as
buying agent in the Rift Valley Province for the Maize and Produce Board
and as buying agent for the Wheat Board throughout Kenya. In its role as
agent, it collects repayments on behalf of AFC under the GMR scheme. Before
payment can be made to sellers by KFA, reference must be made to AFC to
determine if a loan is outstanding and the amount to be recovered. This
often means that sellers do not receive payment until some three months
after delivery which is a cause for dissatisfaction and encourages illegal
marketing. As the minimum size of farm qualifying for the GMR program is
15 acres, all KFA members growing these amounts of maize and wheat qualify
for the program, and KFA wishes to take over the GMR agency so that recovery
and payments may be expedited.
General Terms and Conditions of Agricultural Credit
24.       Most institutional credit for farmers in Kenya is provided on
a secured basis. The AFC generally lends against land mortgages, and in
certain instances also takes floating charges over crops and movable
property. The commercial banks prefer the same types of arrangements, and
may also use pledges of salary or other as a means of securing repayment.
The Cooperative societies lend to their members on the basis of crop
hypothecation and personal guarantors. Other institutional sources provide
credit secured by land and also through the marketing channels under their
control.
25.       Institutional credit for agriculture is supplied at interest
rates which compare very favorably with those charged on loans to industrial
and commercial undertakings. The commercial bank prime rate is 7%,
and large agro-industrial borrowers are accommodated at this rate. For
several years, AFC has charged 7-1/2% on its loans to both large-scale and
small-scale farmers, although about 40% of its portfolio consists of loans
made at 6%. Commercial banks charge between 8% and 9% on agricultural
loans to other than prime borrowers. Cooperative members borrow from their



ANNEX 4
Page 7
societies at 10%, and the average loan of this type is K Sh 300. Interest
is charged on actual outstandings. The commercial banks lend largely on
an overdraft basis, although small borrowers may be accommodated through
personal loans with repayments of at least K Sh 150 per month for a period
of up to two years.
26.       The time period for which credit is provided varies according to
the purpose of the loan and the practices of the lender. Commercial banks
appear in many cases not to demand annual cleanups of overdrafts, so many
facilities of this type, traditionally intended to meet short-term needs,
may in practice be medium- or long-term sources of funds for borrowers. The
majority of small-scale loans in AFC's portfolio are granted on a five-year
basis, but longer terms are granted for land purchase and development
loans to large-scale borrowers. AFC does not charge a penalty rate of
interest on arrears. The Cooperative Bank provides seasonal funds and also
some medium-term finance for up to five years for certain cooperative enter-
prises.
27.       As a general rule, few medium- and small-scale operators have
access to both short- and longer term credit. The medium-term lender's
security requirements generally leave the farmer with nothing to pledge to
secure a short-term facility. Many of the medium- and long-term facilities
extended to farmers include a working capital element, but this may be of
use only during the first production cycle as loan repayments may begin
after that cycle and no additional funds are available to provide short-
term finance for the second cycle.
Demand and Supply Considerations
28.       The acute lack of data relating to the supply and demand for
agricultural credit in Kenya points to the need for a comprehensive credit
survey, as proposed in para 4.06. For example, estimates of the total
number of farms in Kenya range from 1 million to 1.5 million, and the number
of farmers who could use credit in a worthwhile manner was estimated by
various officials at between 250,000 and 600,000. No significant breakthrough
can be obtained in expanding the scope and coverage of agricultural credit
in Kenya without the type of information which the proposed survey is
intended to provide.
Other Credit Institutions Serving Agriculture
29.       Providers of agricultural credit other than the AFC, the commercial
banks, and the cooperative movement include several public sector organiza-
tions and private traders, which deserve brief mention. These sources may
be divided between those which provide credit on an on-going basis, and
those which provide credit for development purposes on a once-only basis.
30.       On-going credit is provided by traders supplying farmers with
purchased inputs and consumption goods. Little data exists on the extent
of this form of financing or the degree to which it is used for productive



ANNEX 4
Page 8
purposes. It appears that this credit is often quite costly to the
borrower and that it may be bound up with other relationships which exist
between the debtor and creditor.
31.       On-going credit for medium- and large-scale maize and wheat
operations is provided under the Guaranteed Minimum Return or Guaranteed
Financial Return program, which was established during the emergency to
provide crop insurance to farmers threatened by the disturbances. The
program now applies to farms in excess of 15 acres and includes a credit
component under which farmers may receive advances for crop financing. Over
7,000 farmers participate in this program. The funds used to finance the
GMR program come from the Cereal and Sugar Finance Corporation. This
statutory body was established in 1955 to provide funds to cereal growers
and to finance imports of sugar and cereals. The Corporation obtains its
funds by borrowing from the Central Bank, and from deposits which it
accepts from other public sector organizations and some private sector
institutions such as insurance companies.
32.       Smallholder credit is also provided by the Settlement Fund Trustees.
Loans are provided at 6.5% for land purchase, development (including housing),
and for acquisition of movable assets. The Million Acre Scheme and the
Harambee Settlement Program are examples of projects financed by the
Settlement Fund Trustees, which are in turn supported by funds from external
sources. Land purchase is financed by British Government funds and specific
settlement schemes are supported by loans from the Federal Republic of
Germany, the Commonwealth Development Corporation, and IBRD.
33.       On a limited scale, advances are also made available through
Government Statutory Boards responsible for specific crops, such as the
Kenya Tea Development Authority (KTDA), Pyrethrum Board of Kenya, the
Cotton Lint and Seed Marketing Board, and the Coffee Board. Loans in kind
from these sources are used to assist smallholders to obtain cuttings or
seed, fertilizers and insecticides. These types of loans are usually
secured by a charge over crops and the rates of interest range from 8 to 12%
per annum. Farmers receive advance or partial payments on crops delivered
to KTDA and the Coffee Marketing Board. Final payments are made at a later
date when the crop has been sold by the statutory board.
34.       There are a number of large commercial companies in Kenya either
manufacturing or importing and distributing fertilizers, insecticides and
applicators, etc. Such items are normally sold to farmers through coopera-
tives or retail distributors to whom the suppliers usually allow credit of
from 30-90 days. Credit of this type is seldom granted against security,
but easier terms are sometimes allowed where security is given. A number
of the large concerns offer an advisory service through their field repre-
sentatives and give guidance on the use of their products. For large
items supplied by commercial firms, e.g., agricultural machinery, etc.,
normal hire-purchase arrangements apply.
May 26, 1972



ANNEX 5
Page 1
KENYA
SECOND SIIALLHOLDER AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
The Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC)
Organization
1.        The Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC) is a statutory body
which was established under the Agricultural Credit Act of 1963 to take
over the duties of the two Boards of Agriculture then serving the scheduled
and nonscheduled areas and which worked in close cooperation with the Land
and Agricultural Bank. Under the Agricultural Finance Corporation Act (No. 1
of 1969), the AFC was reconstituted with wider, additional powers and also
took over the responsibilities of the Land and Agricultural Bank which was
established in 1931. The functions of the present Corporation are to assist
in the development of agriculture and agricultural industries by making
loans to farmers, cooperative societies, incorporated group representatives,
private companies, public bodies, local authorities and other persons
engaging in agriculture or agricultural industries. The AFC is not subject
to the Companies Act or the Banking Act.
2.        The AFC as a Statutory Board was transferred to the Office of
the President in June 1970, but no changes were made in the composition of
the Board of Directors. The Ministry of Finance and Planning and the
Ministry of Agriculture are represented on the Board by the Permanent
Secretaries. The Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Finance and
Planning, Mr. P. Ndegwa, is currently serving as Chairman of the Board,
and the Vice Chairman, Sir Wilfrid Havelock, has had long experience with
agriculture in Kenya and was chairman of the Working Party on Agricultural
Inputs. In addition to the two Permanent Secretaries, the Board consists
of between four and six Ministerial appointees (two of whom are required
to have experience in banking or finance), drawn from official and private
sources. On matters of day-to-day concern, the AFC is intimately involved
with the Ministry of Agriculture, and major policy decisions always involve
the Office of the President.
3.        The Corporation's headquarters are located in Nairobi.  The net-
work of 12 branch offices and 20 subbranch offices provides broad coverage
of Kenya's principal agricultural districts as follows:



ANNEX 5
Page 2
Nairobi (Head Office)    Karatina         Mombasa
Athi River                Kericho         Muranga
Bungoma (Kavujai)         Kerugoya        Naivasha
Busia                     Kiambu          Nakura
Chuka                     Kimilili        Nanyuki
Eldama Ravine             Kisii           Narok
Eldoret                   Kisumu          Ngong
Embu                      Kitale          Nyeri
Homa Bay                  Machakos        Tambach
Kakamega                  Meru            Thompson's Falls
Kapsabet                  Molo            Voi
4.        The structure of the Corporation is centralized.  Accounts are
kept at head office, and the accounting system is intended to provide
branches with timely information as required for the supervision and
collection of loans. Lending decisions are made at head office, although
an initial screening takes place in the field in two stages: the first
stage is the procedure by which extension staff advise farmers to purchase
an AFC loan application (the fee is K Sh 10) and assist in filling it in,
and the second stage is the screening and recommendations made to head
office by the District Loan Committees which include branch managers and
extension officers. Staffing strength reflects this centralization, with
114 of the 241 persons-employed as of June 30, 1971 working at head office.
All disbursements are prepared at head office.
Management Structure and Staffing
5.        The general manager is the chief executive officer of the
Corporation, but not a member of the Board of Directors. He is appointed
by the Board, with the advice and consent of the Ministers concerned.
The general managers appointed to date have been expatriates. The incumbent
is provided by USAID under bilateral assistance, originally on a two-year
contract which was extended at the request of the Board and now expires in
June 1973. The general manager will not be available for reappointment at
the expiration of the extended contract.
6.        The Government has indicated its intention to change the senior
management structure of AFC (Annex 5, Chart 6712) at the time of the de-
parture of the present general manager, and at the same time appoint a
Kenyan to fill the post of chief executive. These changes would bring
AFC into line with the structure of other statutory corporations and also
be consistent with the Government's policy of Kenyanization. The
structural change involves the appointment of an Executive Chairman as
chief executive officer, who would be chosen from the ranks of senior civil
servants of Permanent Secretary caliber. The Executive Chairman would be
supported by a General Manager, and the latter post will probably be filled
by a Kenyan.
7.        The new Executive Chairman is not likely to have experience with
the operational sides of banking and credit. The present Deputy General
Manager's experience in these fields and in accounting is also limited,
his duties involving mainly personnel and administration. Experienced



ANNEX 5
Page 3
department heads with extensive operational expertise will be required
to support these officials in the day-to-day running of AFC. Comprehensive
staffing plans are required to assure the availability of such personnel,
as several of these senior posts are presently filled by experts provided
under bilateral assistance from the Federal Republic of Germany and the
United States on contracts which will expire during the 12-month periods
before and after the proposed structural change is to be implemented. Addi-
tional experts will be required, especially in the finance and accounting
areas, under the proposed staff reorganization plan (Annex 5, Chart 6712)
to support the expansion of AFC's operations.
8.        Details of the requirements for replacements and additions to
middle and senior management through September 1973 as presently foreseen
are shown below. The following positions are currently filled by expatriates
serving for limited time periods:
Contract          Possibility
Position             Source               Expires           of Extension
General Manager           USAID                June 1973          No
Ranch Loan Section Head  USAID                 June 1973          No
Financial Advisor         F. Rep. of Germany  March 1973          Yes
Area Supervisor I         F. Rep. of Germany  September 1973    Yes
The following positions are now vacant and negotiations are underway to
obtain experts under bilateral assistance:
Proposed
Position             Source              Projected Arrival
Area Supervisor II        USAID                  October 1972
Area Supervisor III       USAID                  October 1972
Area Supervisor IV        USAID                  'October 1972
The following positions will be created by the proposed reorganization:
Position                    Proposed Source
Executive Chairman             Local, Civil Service
Training Officer               Bilateral or IDA
Area Supervisor V              Local or IDA
Administrative Officer         Local



ANNEX 5
Page 4
9.        The continuation of the practice of employing outside specialists
to fill most of the management positions in AFC is not satisfactory for
several reasons:
(a) The two-year contracts under which most bilateral
assistance personnel are provided limit the extent
to which continuity can be obtained in management
and the consistency with which long range plans can
be drafted and carried out.
(b) This rapid turnover and multiplicity of actual and
potential donors also causes a drain on management
time because of the procedures under which such
personnel are recruited. Negotiations may involve
the relevant Ministries as well as AFC management
and the donor program representative, and the time
involved between AFC's decision to make an approach
and the arrival of the specialist frequently exceeds
one year. If, during this period, negotiations break
down or difficulties in recruiting are encountered
due to conditions in the donor country AFC may find its
progress delayed or operations interrupted.
(c) Continued heavy reliance on outside assistance for
operational purposes is also incompatible with the
country's long-range aspirations of creating a skilled
body of citizens capable of effectively managing local
institutions.
10.       For these longer range reasons and also for the purpose of
increasing the efficiency of AFC personnel under present arrangements, a
training program should be established for upgrading local staff and in
order to create within AFC an environment in which the opportunity for
advancement and improvement receives greater emphasis than at the present.
A training officer will be required to plan and oversee the execution of
programs of this type.
11.       With a more qualified staff, it should be possible to decentralize
decision-making responsibility to some extent and simplify the time-consuming
and somewhat cumbersome procedures which characterize AFC at present. The
four area supervisors contained in AFC's revised staff plan will have a
vital role to play in the decentralization process, as each will be
responsible for the guidance and supervision of offices in his geographical
area of responsibility. USAID has agreed to provide three of these area
supervisors, and AFC is considering the possibility of securing the fourth
locally.
12.       AFC's record since Credit 105-KE has been effective demonstrates
that lack of a proper staff plan tends to lead to inadequate staffing
arrangements which, in turn, impair the ability of management to devote
adequate time and effort to planning and control. The difficulties
encountered on the accounting side in producing timely billings and informa-
tion for management purposes are a symptom of this problem. At the present



ANNEX 5
Page 5
time no firm arrangements have been made for filling many of the vacancies
which will be created by the expansion and reorganization of management
under the revised staff plan (Annex 5, Chart 6712). It appears unlikely
that bilateral assistance will be provided on a scale adequate to provide
the personnel for all positions which cannot be filled locally. Provision
has, therefore, been made in the proposed Credit (para 4.08) for the
international recruitment of five experts: one credit specialist, two
financial specialists, one training officer and one area supervisor.
Salary Scales
13.       AFC salary levels are between those used by the Government and
those prevailing in the private sector. The commercial banks, which compete
with AFC in the labor market, are free to set their own remuneration
scheduies. AFC's remuneration policies probably contribute to a higher
turnover of local staff than would be the case if competitive rates were
offered, and may also prevent AFC from obtaining the calibre of staff which
it so badly needs. With the reorganization of management, consideration
should be given to a full-scale review of AFC's salary scales, taking into
account conditions prevailing in the commercial sector.
Financial Resources
14.       The Government provides the bulk of AFC's resources.  As of
March 31, 1971, over K Sh 200 million (US$28 million) of total assets of
K Sh 232 million (US$33 million) were financed by Government funds.
Capital consists of "irredeemable" or ownership capital and "redeemable"
or long-term debt capital. As of March 31, 1971, irredeemable capital
amounted to K Sh 124 million (US$17.7 million) of wiich K Sh 80 million
bore 5% interest per annum. The remainder of irredeemable capital was
interest-free. The interest-bearing irredeemable capital may be traced
back to the Land and Agricultural Bank, a predecessor corporation. Redeema-
ble capital, as of March 31, 1971, amounted to K Sh 78 million (US$11 mil-
lion), and includes proceeds of loans to the Government from IDA and other
external sources, on-loaned to AFC mainly on 25-year terms. The interest
rate on obligations incurred by AFC prior to the effectiveness of IDA
105-KE in 1967 is 6% per annum, but since then all funds have been provided
at 3-1/2% per annum interest.
15.       At March 31, 1971, the General Reserve stood at K Sh 5.9 million.
This account has diminished in value continuously over the past several
years due to the inability of the corporation to operate at a profit.
16.       Deposits are not a major source of funds for AFC and amounted
to K Sh 4.2 million (US$600,000) as of March 31, 1971. Half of this sum
was represented by land purchase deposits which consist of borrowers'
40% downpayments for land purchases which are temporarily held by AFC
pending completion of transfer formalities which generally require at least
two months.



ANNEX 5
Page 6
Use of Resources
17.       Most of AFC's resources (95%) have been used for making agri-
cultural loans. As at March 31, 1971, large-scale loans outstanding (for
land purchase, large-scale farm development, ranching, etc.) amounted to
K Sh 179 million (US$25 million) and small-scale loans outstanding amounted
to K Sh 24 million (US$3.5 million).
Previous Results and Financial Position
18.       AFC has been operating in its present form since its reorganization
and amalgamation with the Land and Agricultural Bank in 1969. Between
March 31 of that year and March 31, 1971 total agricultural loans outstand-
ing (net of provisions) have increased from K Sh 158.4 million to K Sh 192.3
million, and funds devoted to lending rose from an estimated K Sh 5.5 million
annual rate during 1968/69 to K Sh 15.5 million during 1970/71, or an
estimated increase of about 68% annually. This expansion in lending has
been accompanied by a strengthening in the provision for doubtful debts.
On the large-scale loan portfolio, which constitutes the bulk of loans
outstanding, provision has been increased from 1.1% to 3.2% of amounts not
yet due, and on the small-scale loan portfolio the provision has remained
above 30% of amounts not yet due.
19.       AFC failed to operate at a profit during the period under review,
but succeeded in cutting its loss from K Sh 3.2 million for the year
ending March 31, 1970 to K Sh 1.1 million in the following year. These
losses plus the increase in loans outstanding have been financed largely
by increases in redeemable capital (i.e., long-term debt), and by the
liquidation of investments, which consist of deposits with other public
sector organizations. The increase in long-term debt capital is entirely
the result of loans made available by the Government from funds supplied by
external sources such as IDA and bilateral donors. The AFC has not attempted
and is apparently unable, given its operating position, to borrow on its
own strength in the local or international markets.
Future Financial Position
20.       Five-year projections, based on information provided by management,
indicate that the trends shown in the accounts over the last several years
will continue (Appendix 5-1). A large increase in lending, from K Sh 15.5
million loaned during 1970/71 to K Sh 91.1 million during 1975/76, will
be financed by funds provided by the Government and by the running down of
the investment portfolio. One major assumption relating to the lending
rate is that the Guaranteed Minimum Return (GMR) program, which AFC
presently handles on an agency basis, will be discontinued as of March 31,
1973. This assumption is based on predictions concerning Government policy.
It is also assumed that AFC will initiate a Working Capital loan program
which will provide medium- and large-scale maize and wheat growers with
crop advances in much the same manner as are now furnished under the GNR
scheme. The Working Capital loans will be reflected directly in AFC's
books, whereas only the commission fees presently earned are reflected
in the financial statements in connection with GMR. Birgegard-Campbell



ANNEX 5
Page 7
estimate that K Sh 10.4 million will be advanced under the new program
in 1972/73, and the amount is projected to increase to K Sh 48 million in
1974/75. Collection of Working Capital loans is projected to continue as
for the present GMR loans although the exact position cannot be ascertained
until AFC can periodically produce ageings of arrears.
21.       Tte projections assume that provision for doubtful debts will
be adequate to maintain approximately the relationship agreed upon by
AFC and its auditors, i.e., 2% of large-scale loans and 30% of small-scale
loans, with the overall level increasing annually to reflect the practice
of not writing off loans until all hope of recovery is abandoned. It may
be possible to institute a less arbitrary provision policy when the
Corporation is inma position to age its arrears periodically. In any
event, AFC should improve its ability to take action against persistent
defaulters.
22.       AFC will continue to operate at a loss throughout the period covered
by the projections (Appendix 5-2), unless its lending rate is increased.
The proposed increase in AFC's lending rates is in line with rates charged
by other lenders to the agricultural sector and with the interest rate
structure of the country and cost of capital (Annex 4). AFC's small-scale
loans involve considerable overhead and administration costs in relation to
the principal amounts involved. On the large-scale side, AFCts clients
include those who may not be able to borrow from private sector institutions
or commercial sources, even for short-term purposes, indicating a higher risk
position than acceptable to sources such as commercial banks. Taking these
facts into consideration, together with AFC's profitability position, an
increase in the interest rate charged by AFC from 7-1/2 to 8% per annum is
justified.
23.       AFC's cost of funds approximates 4% on a blended basis.  This
cost should decrease as the proportion of funds provided at 3-1/2% increases
(para 14). However, even with an increase in lending rate (para 22), AFC
would continue to operate at a loss and it is, therefore, recommended that
IDA funds should be onlent by Government to AFC at a lower interest rate
of 1% per annum. This would enable AFC to breakeven in 1975/76 (Appendix
5-2).
Accounts and Auditing
24.       Since 1970/71, AFC has increased its accounting capabilities by
the purchase of several new accounting machines. However, posting is still
very delayed on many accounts, and this situation makes it difficult to
determine the arrears position and take appropriate action against defaulters.
Billings are not made on time, and borrowers may, therefore, be encouraged
to postpone repayment. Much effort is being made towards overcoming these
problems, and it is hoped that the backlog will be eliminated during
1972/73. An advisor provided under German bilateral assistance is working
full time on bringing the accounts up to date, and has made considerable
progress with the IDA 105 accounts in the nine months he has been with AFC.
A systems and computer expert from the US Farmers Home Administration,



ANNEX 5
Page 8
provided by USAID, has recently spent three weeks with AFC and his report
has now been received and is being studied. The accounting problem is
presently a major constraint facing AFC, and credit effectiveness should be
contingent upon an audit certificate that the Corporation's accounts are
up to date.
25.       Cooper Brothers are AFC's auditors, and it appears that the Nairobi
office of this firm is in a position to offer AFC much more guidance and
assistance than AFC has requested. For example, AFC did not consult with
its auditors when it changed from its previous system to the NCR-400
machines currently in use. Had this been done, the system might be more
effective.
September 18, 1972



ANNEX 5
K E N Y A                                                                                             TAppendix 5
SECOND SXALLdOLDERS AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PRO.JECT
AFC Financial Statements - Linbilities and Assets
(in C sh Millions)
A C T U A L                                                     P R O J E C T E D
12/31/67        3/31/69        3/31/70        3/31/71        3/31/72        3/31/73        3/31/74         3/31/75        3/31/76
L I A b I L I T I E S
Item I    Capital Fonds (Irtedeenabte)                               123.7          124.1           124.2          124.8          124.o          124.8          124.8                          1
It.. 2    General Reserve                                             12.6            10.0            6.8            5-9            b              3.5            1.9            _)).?)
Item 3                 Sub-total:                                    136.3          134.1           131.0         130.7           729.2          125.3          126.7          124.4          123.0
Item 4    Redeemable Capital                                          50.3            55.1           65.5           78.7          IC7.2  /       158.0g/        192.2           257.1          336.4
Item 3    Deposit Liabilities                                       (                  3.8            8.3            4.2            5.1            4.1             5.1            3.1            5.1
Item 6    Loans Uniossed                                               3.7             5.2            6.1           13.7           38.3           40,7           51.6            80.3           90.7
Item 7    Other Curtent Liabilities -                                   8.2            4.4            4.9            5.2            6.6            2.9           12.3            .5.            142.5
Item  8                Sob-total:                                     11.9            13.4           19.3           23.1           50.0           47.7           69.J           101.3          115.,
Sree  g                Total Liabitittee:                            198.3          202.6          215.8          232.5           2S6.6          331.1          387.9          b82.U           '.7.7
Debo/Equity Ratio                                         1:0.37         1:0.41         1:0.50         1:0.60         1I:0.83         1:1.24         1:1.53         1 :2.09        1:2.77
Loans Unissued as 7. If Loam Prinoipal
tot Yet See                                              x.x.            3.5%           3.91           7.9/          17.4%          15.2b           16.57.         19.77          18.3,
A S S E T S
Item 10   Agni-tlt-tal Loans
Item  11       Large Stale:
Item 12          Nto  Yet DSe                                       (146.6          137.5           140.3          134.7          194.3          235.4          270.7           355.9          437 9
Ite. 13          Arrxr                                               /15.2                           19.9           24.0           18.7           33.9            42.9           55.7           68.6
Item 14          Less:  Ptxvision                                      (1.2))         (1.6)          (3.2)          (4.9)          (5.0)           15.4)          (6.3)          (8.2)         (10.1)
Itie  15               sob-total:                                                   151.1          157.2           173.8          216.0          263.8          307.3          403.4           496.4
Item 16        Smell Stale:
Item 17          Not Yet Due                                           4.2             8.8           14.3           19.6           25.3           32.1           41.1            50.7           58.7
Item 18          Arrears                                            1                  1.9            3.4            4.8            6.9            8.6           10.5            12.6           14.9
Item 19          Loss:  Frovision                                     _               (3.4)          (5.5)          (6.1)          :8.6)         (13.9)         (14.3)          (18.2)         (22.6)
Item 20                Sob-total:                                                      7.3           12.2           18.5           23.5           29.8           37.3           45.1            51.0
Item 21               Total Agrioolt-al L.ane:                       149.6          158.4          169.o           192.3          241 5          293.6          344.6          448.5           547 4
Item 22   I-vestmeots                                                 42.6           30.3            29.4           23.6           28.1           21.7           23.6            12.9            2.6
Item 23   Cash ead Benk BRlano-                                        2.6            5.3            7.0            G,9            6.3            5.4            6.5            7.9            13.6
Stem  24              Total Ba-king Assets:                          194.8          194.0          205.8           222.r         ,7I             .20. 7        31.,            bG9.3          167.>
Item 23   Flxed Assets (Neo)                                            1.0            5.1            5.3            5.8            6.1            6.4            6.8             7.2            7.8
Itro26   Fet -lroperties and Lite-to-k                                  1.7            0.4            1.5            0.4            0.2            0.2            0.2             0.2           082
Item 27   AgetIiex Cooriosiot Pens                                      1.0            1.1            1.4            1.9            2.5            3.4            2.9             2.8            2.8
I-en 28   Other Asneto                                                 l.O             2.0            1.8          1_6               1,           3.3            3.3            3.3               -
Item 29                Total Assett:                                 198.5   20 2.6                21             223       :                       . ,         ., . .'. .7
Surre:                                                                IDA rilCes    3/31/70          /31/71        3/31/71        Proj-ctiotmadt by R.  ampbell & L. Orgard,                   Cotrapolatton
axditnd        audited        ouditod        ouvlsorn to ,be 5:lsottoet of 2/matte and                    Inns Carpbell
sratomnurnrsatraeutrrnament                  igrotoltare, tttpnutovely, in tuosultattot                   & 0Irgigard
:8th AFC ranagemert
T' -tlrOd-o IDA FPodo Credut 105-KO K oh 25 CmU/it, Crrlit KE-17  (ltvr-to-k) t.   27. rn.-u-,t  an                     --s,sud d.0 Izuu.i; t Sfl. ;  l'_ni .
Artreats as *Z xf Sroes O tstandings
Loris Stale                                                               10,07          12.4           13.51;K         12.8           12.6           13.7,'         13.51          13.57
small Stale                                                              117.25          19.G,           19.7           21.2           21.0:          20.3'          19.9/.         20.17G
Total:                                                         10.4'/         13.0L          14.2;          13.9           13.7'          14.66;          14.4/          14.37
Provision for Doobtful Debts xs 7 of GCr30  Oottteodu.gs
Large Stcle                                                                1.07           2.0.            2.8            2.2            2.0            2.0'           2.0.            2.0/
Snail Stale                                                               31.9           31.4            24.9,          26.8;          26.8.          27.8,'         24.8:          30.7,
ProvisIon fot Doubtful Detst as E of Amount lot 'et Doe
Large Stale                                                                1                3I 3.2/                     4.6'            2.3'           2.3            2.37            2.37
Smell Stale                                                               38.6v          38.7/          31.8'           34.0/          33.9'          34.9:          35.91.         38 4/
April 27, 1972



K E N Y A
SMECOrNl . iAW1{0L(DERS AGRICUTTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
AFO Financial Statements - Income Statement
(in K sh MIl'ionz)
A C T U A L                                                              P R O J E C T E D
12/31/67             3/31/69          3/31/70          3/31/71         3/31/72         3/31/73            3/31/74        3/31/75         3/31/76
(Nio d-ata            17(1mos)
available)
Item 30   Interest Receivable                                                     15. 44           12.69            13.13            114.23         17.18              20.90         224.67           28.27
Item 31   Agency Commission Receivable                                             1.30             1.05             1.10             1.10            0.74              o.50           0.10           -
Item 32   Other Operating Income                                                   0.64             0.91             1.00             1.20           1.24               1.28           1.32             1.36
Item 33               Operating Income:                                           17.38            1-4.65           15.23            16.53          19.16              22.68          26.09           29.63
Item 34   Profit on Sale of Assets                                                 0.01             0.05             0.32             0.014           .o04               .04           0.o04            0.04
Item 35   Bad Debts Recovered                                                      0.02             0.01                              0.01           0.01               0.01           0.01             0.01
Item 36               Gross Income:                                               17.14]           14.71            15.55            16.58          19.21              22.73          26.14           29.68
Item  37   Interest Paid                                                           9.6),            7.45             7.86             8.29           9.43              10.46          11.08           11.90
Item  38   Staff and Board Expenses                                                5.15             4.56             4.66           ( 6.8o        (  7.80            (  8.60        ( l.1.0o           11.00
Item  39   Miscellaneous operating  Expenses                                       0.97             0.82             1.09           (
Item 40   Depreciation                                                             o.45             0.28             0.43             0.36           0.40               0.44           0.48             0.52
Item. 41   Provision for Doubtful Debts                                            3.74             3.79             2.35             2.46            2.72               4.34          5.83             6.23
Amounts Written Off                                                     0.03            1.01              -                -              -                  -              -               -
Gross Expenses:                                               i              17.91            16.39            17.91          20.35              24.84          27.39            29.65
Item  142             Net Income (Loss):                                          (2.57)           (3.20)           (0.84)           (1.33)         (1.14)              (1.11)        (1.25)            0.03
Administrative costs as o  of total assets                              3.1              2.5              2.5              2.4            2.4i               2.3            2.0              2.0
Adsinistrative costs as % of total loan portfolio                       3.8              3.2              3.0              2.8            2.7                2.5            2.2              2.1
Interest rate on new loans calculated at 8%  per armum.
2/  IDA funds will be an-lent to AFC at a rate of 11 per  ennu.
September 18, 1972



K E N Y A
SECOND SMALLHOLDERS AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
AFC Financial Statements - Cash Flow
(in K sh Millions)
A C T U A L                                                  P R O J E C T E D
3/31/69         3/31/70         3/31/71         3/31/72         3/31/73         3/31/74          3/31/75         3/31/76
(15 mos)
Item 43   Net Income (Loss)                                                     (2.6)            (3.2)          (0.9)           (1.3)            (1.1)           (1.6)           (2.3)           -(1.4)
Item 44   Plus:  Depreciation                                                    0.5             0.3             0.4              0.4             0.4             0.4              0.5             0.5
Item  145          Provision for Doubtful Debts                                  3.7             3.8             2.4              2.5             2.7             4.3              5.8             6.2
Item  46           Amounts Written-Off                                            -               1.0 2/         _                _               _
Item 47    Less:  Uncollected Interest Receivable                                2.8 ./           1.5             2.1             2.0             2.4             2.9              3.3             3.7
Item I48           Uncollected Agency Commissions                                0.1              0.3             0.5             0.6             0.9             -                -
Item 419           Profit sn Sale of Assets                                      -               0.1             0.3              -
Item 70    Funds Generated (Consumed) by Operations                             (1-3)            0.0            (1.0)            (1.0)           (31.)            0.2              0.7             1.6
Item 51   Other Sources of Funds
Item 52            Liquidation of Investments                                   12.3             -   2/           5.8             _               6.4             -               10.7            10.3
Item 53            Disposal of Livestock and Properties                          0.3              -               1.3                                     -                        -
Item 54            Increase in Capital Funds                                      0.4             0.1             0.6             -               -               -                -               -
Item 55            Increase in Redeemable Capital                                4.8             10.4           13.2             28.5            50.8            34.2             64.9            79.3
Item 56            Increase in Deposit Liabilities                                -   3/         4.5            -                 0.9             -                1.0             -
Item  57           Increase in Other Liabilities                                  -   3/          0.5            0.3              1.4             _               9.6              3.7             3.8
Item 58            Decrease in Other Assets                                      -                0.2            0.2              -               -               0.3
Item 59                     Sub-total:                                          17.8             15.7           21.4             30.8            57.2            45.1             79.3            93.4
Item 65                      Total Funds Available                              16.5             15.7           20.4             29.8            55.9            45.3             80.0            95.o
Item 51   Uses of Funds
Item  62       Increase in Total Loans - Net                                      8.8            11.0            22.9            49.2            52.1            51.0            103.9            98.9
Item  63           Plus:  Increase in Provision                                   3.7             3.8             2.3             2.6             2.7              4.3             5.8              6.3
Item  64           Less:  Uncollected Interest Receivable                         2.8 .t          1.5             2.1             2.0             2.4              2.9             3.3              3.7
Item  65                   Increase in Loans Unissued                             1.5 3/          0.9             7.6            24.6             2.4             10.9            28.7            10.4
Item  66                    Funds Loaned:                                         8.2            12.4            15.5            25.2            50.0            41.5             77.7            91.1
Item 67   Fised Asset Expendit.re (Net)                                           4.6             0.4             0.9             0.6             0.7              0.8             0.9              1.0
Item 68   Increase in Investments                                                 -               0.1             -               4.5             -                1.9             -
Item 69   Acquisition of Livestock and Properties (Net)                           -               1.1             -               -               -                -
Item  7C   Decrease in Deposit Liabilities                                        -               -               4.1             _               1.0              -
Item  71   Decrease in Other Liabilities                                          -               -               -               -               3.7                      -                        -
Item  72   Increase in Other Assets                                               1.0             _       -                       0.1             1.4              -                _               0.2
Item  73                    Total Fonds Used:                                    13.8            14.0            20.5            30.4            56.8             44.2            78.6             92.3
Item  74s  Change inl Caol and Bank Balances                                      2.7             1.7            (0.1)           (0.6)           (0-9)             1.1             1.4              2.7
Actual Cash in Hland and at Bank (at end of period)                   5.3              7.0            6.9             6.3              5.4             0.7              7.9            10.6
I/  Estimated.  Opening interest arrears estimated at 1/3 of arrears of principal and interest.
2/ K sh 952,600 written-off investment and interest due re. deposit with Wheat Development Authority.
3/  No breakdown given for 12/31/67 current liabilities.  Increase in loans unissoed from Biogegard and Campbell.
i   Includes prooco5ed 7lP. Project - K sh '3 million, total - apnroximately K sh 11 flllO  g.:r year.






KENYA
SECOND SMALLMOLDER AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL FINANCE CORPORATION
FUNCTIONAL ORGANIZATION CHART
Board of Directorsl
|   Legall
General Manager                                                                      Area Supervisors
|   Audit            j
Deputy Generall
Manager|
Loa  Deatnn                                                                                       Finanzce &: Accont                                           Administrative
Departmn
Farm                Farm                 Ranch                Credi                 GMR                                 F inance                       Accounts                        Pr   nlBsns
Management             Loans                 Loans               Control             Approvals                              Division                      Divisin                         PeronrvBuiness
General            Large Scale            Agencies            Small Scale          Machine Room
L    Branch and Sub-branch Offices             l
World Bank-6711






KENYA
SECOND SMALLMOLDER AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL FINANCE CORPORATION
Reorganization Proposed for July 1973
|   Executive Chairan'            l
~~fficer  ~Lga Ofie                                                                                                                                                      Filc |   eea   aae     |Irra   uio 
|  08n Del} trs 8 <                         l                                                                                                    |           Tfa~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cotrll  ning Offimr' 
F.rm                Farm               Ranch              Credit            G..r-teed                                                            Acutn  
Manaqement             Loans              Loans               Control            Minimum
Return
|l           k Offi                                                Return                |           Machine
Controllar.'
Laige               Small 
Scale               Scale
Machine            Payments            Receipts             Loan                Payroll &
Room                                                      Accounts             Business
So enicas
Areo Supercisors (5)
1 In post (German)
3 to be provided by AID
Staff Reqi-rements ftr Which IDA Technical Assistance Is Proposed                                             t vacancy
I Lea  Deairt -t Head (Ciedit LEpei-
1 Firraircial Coiirsoller
1 Machine Contr- ie  (Computer & Systems ELpert)
1 Tranng OffDter
1 Area Supercisor (Ciedit Eoper)l
Vacancies to be filled                                                                                         ra-h Ofcfis
World Ba-k 6712(R)






KENYA
SECOND SMALLHOLDER AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECTS
DETAILED INVESTMENT COST AND YIELD ASSUMPTIONS
FINANCIAL
Area                       Yields                            Gross Production Value           Production Cost              Net Production Value
Full                        Full           Price                     Full                          Full                            Full      Incremental
Before    Development       Before    Development        K  sh      Before      Development        Before    Development         Before       Development  Net Value
---Acres---              ---lbs/acre---          --per lb--          ---K sh---                   ---K sh---                       ---K sh---           --K sh--
MODEL T:  CROPS  Investment:  Land and Crop Development (K sh 4,200).  5 Acres of Rainfed Land.  Useful Life:  10 Years
Potatoes                                        0.25           1.00          5,000        7,000          0.20        250           1,400            180          400               70            1,000        930
Pyrethrum                                       1.00           1.00            300          400          2.50        750           1,000            200          240              550              760        210
Fruit Trees                                       -            1.00            -         20,000          0.05         -            1,000             -           300               -               700        700
Maize                                           1.00           1.00          1,200        2,400          0.17        204             408            130          160               74              248         174
Minor Annuals                                   1.75           1.00          1,200        2,000          0.40        840             800            120          200              720              600        (120)
Fallow & Bushland                               1.00             -             -             -
Total                                         5.00          5.00                                                2,044            4,608            630        1,300            1,414            3,308      1,894
Cropping Intensity                               80Y           100A.
MODEL II:  LIVESTOCK  Investment:  Three Crade Dairy Cows and Land Use Improvement (K sh 9,000).  5 Acres of Improved Rainfed Pasture plus Fodder (Sweetpotatoes Stalks).  Useful Life:  20 Years
No. of Cows                                         1             4                                   --per gal--
1/          1/
Milk                                                -             -              100         300         3.50        350           4,200)
Beef Meat                                                                                                             20           1,000) 2/        120        1,200               250           4,000      3,750
Total                                                                                                              370           5,200)
Carrying Capacity AU/Acre                        0.8            0.8
1/ Imperial gallon of milk per cow per year
2/ Before development: one-week old male calf sold at K sh 20 each;
at full development:  cull cow sold at K sh 500 each; one-week old male calf at K sh 35 each; and bred heifer at K ph 1,200 each (Average yearly income K sh 1,000).
MODEL III:  POULTRY  Investment:  Grade Chicks and Chickes B.ildinK and Installations (K sh 3,000).  Size of Chicken Farm:  100 Laying Hens.  Useful Life:  10 Years
No. of Hess                                        25           100                 1/          1/           3/
Egg.                                                -            -                50 2/      240 2/      0.25 41    375            6,000)
Poultry Meat                                        -            -                25 -       100 -       5.00 -      125              500)          450        4,700                50           1,800      1,750
Total
500           6,500)
1/ No. of eggs per hen per year
2/ No. of cull hens per enterprise
3/ K sh per egg
4/ K sh per cull hen
MODEL lV:  FARM NIACHINERY AND EQUIPIIENT  Investment:  Ose 4-11heel 60-llP Tractor aod Needed Implements (K sh 45,000).  Size of Mechanized Area Covered in 1,000 Working Hours:  600 Acres.
Useful Life: 10 Years
--Acres/1000 hr--         --per Acre--
First ploughing                                                                          200                60                     12,000
Second plnughling                                                                        200                40                     8,000
Harrowing                                                                                200                30                      6,000
Total                                                                                 600                                      26,000                       13,000                           13,000    13,000
n/ Details of inv-stm, nts and vrod,letion co-tr are contained in Anpendices 6-1 through s-i.






ANNEX 6
Appendix 6-1
KENYA
SECOND SMALLHOLDER AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS
I. CROPS
Fruit              Minor              Foreign
Investment Items       Potatoes   Pyrethrum   Trees    Maize   Annuals  TOTAL Exchange Component
Us $
- - -           K sh per Acre - - - - - - - - - - - -    (%) Equivalent
Contract Cultivation 1/  100          140         300       95      140      775   (60)   65
Improved See(ds           500         600         200       20      100    1,420   (20)   44
Pesticides                 80          70          10       10       60       230   (85)   28
Fertilizer & Manure       120          60         300       35      100      615   (50)   44
Spray Pumps & Tools       250          30          30       30       60       400   (80)   45
Labor 2/                   90         120          90       90       90      480   (00)   -
Miscellaneous              60          80          70       20       5°      280   (20)    9
TOTAL                 1.200       1,100      1,000       300      600    4,20o   (40)  235
Operating Expenses at Full Development
- - - - - - - K sh per Acre - - - - - - - - - - - -
Labor  /                  120          60          90      120      105       495
Harvesting Supplies       240         110         170       25       60      605
Miscellaneous               40         70          40        15      35       200
TOTAL                                           300 X  0  160     200    1,300
1/ Includes land clearance
2/  Labor estimates on the basis of K sh 3 per manday
May 1, 1972



ANNEX 6
Appendix 6-2
KENYA
SECOND SMALLHOLDER AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS
II. LIVESTOCK
Dairy Cattle
Foreign
Investment Items                       Per Cow   Per Enterprise   Exchange Component
US $
- - - - - - K Sh - _ __    ( E Eauivalent
Fodder, K sh 200 per Acre                   50          200          (00)   -
Pasture Improvement, K sh 200 per Acre   200            800          (20)   23
Fencing, 280 Yards per Acre at K shl/y   280          1,120          (60)   97
Building & Dairy Equipment                 200          800          (40)   46
Water Supply                               300        1,200          (40)   69
Breeding & Improved Stock at
K sh 1,300/cow  1/                       1,300        3,900          (10)   56
Veterinary Supplies                        170          680          (80)   77
Miscellaneous                               75          300          (.Q)   10
TOTAL                                 2,575         9,00O          (30)  378
1/  It is assumed that during the 1st year of the development period 3 grade breed
cows would be purchased and the 4th would be produced at the farm.
Operating Expenses at Full Development
Labor                                      180          720
Dairy Supplies                             90           360
Miscellaneous                               30          120
TOTAL                                   300         1,200
May 1, 1972



ANNEX 6
Appendix 6-3
KENYA
SECOND SMALLHOLDER AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS
III. POULTRY
Foreign
Investment Items                        Per 100 Laying Hens        Exchange Component
US $
- - - K Sh - - - -          () Equivalent
Buildings, 50 sq. yards at K sh 35             1,750                 (4o)   83
Installations and Implements                     360                 (50)   22
First Batch of Rearing Chickens
at K sh 4 each                                   440                 (20)    8
First Month of Feed and Feeding Chicks           250                 (10)    2
Vaccines and Veterinary Supplies                 100                 (80)    9
Miscellaneous                                    100                 (20)    2
TOTAL                                        3000                  (2)  126
Operating Expenses at Full Development
---K sh--
Other than First Batch of Rearing
Chickens                                         440
Feed  1/                                       3,600
Medicines and Veterinary Supplies                170
Labor                                            360
Maintenance & Miscellaneous                      130
TOTAL                                        4 700
1/  Rearing period:   3,000 lb at K Sh 0.30/lb =   900
Laying Period:    9,000 lb at K Sh 0.30/lb = 2,700
May 1, 1972



ANNEX 6
Appendix 6-4
KENYA
SECOND SMALLHOLDER AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS
IV. FAR1M MACHINERY AND EQUIPMENT
Foreign
Investment Items                   Per Machinery Unit       Exchange Component
us $
- - -K Sh - - - -           (E quivalent
One h-wheel 60 HP Tractor               35,000                 (80)  3,920
One 3-Furrow Disc Plough                 4,500                 (80)    504
One          Disc Harrow                 4,000                 (80)    448
Miscellaneous                            1,500                 (80)    168
TOTAL                                 451oo0                (80)  5,o40
Operating Expenses at Full Development
--*K Sh - - - -
Tractor Driver, at K Sh 250
per Month                                3,000
License,  per year                          4O
Insurance, per year                        660
Fuel, 1000 hr at K Sh 5 per hr. 1/       5,000
Oil and Lubricants, 1000 hr at
K Sh 0.3/hr  2/                            300
Repairs and Spares, at K Sh 3.5/hr 3/   3,500
Miscellaneous                              500
TOTAL                                 13,000
1/ Diesel Fuel:  K Sh 4 per Imperial Gallon X 1.25 gl per hr  = K Sh5.00 per hr
2/ Engine Oil:  i Pt per 10 hr at K Sh 1.50 pt                   = K Sh O.07 per hr
Oil for Air Cleaner:  3/4 Pt per 10 hr at K Sh 1.50 Pt       = K Sh O.12 per hr
Engine Change:  11 Pt per 150 hr at K Sh1.50 Pt             = K ShO.11 per hr
Total                                                             °.3°
3/  A reasonable assumption for calculation repairs and spares has been proved to be
100% of the purchase price over the life of the tractor or: 35,000 = K Sh 3Q50 per hr
10,000
May 1, 1972



ANNEX 7
Page 1
KENYA
SECOND SMALLHOLDEPx AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT SURVEY
Objective
1.        The objective of the proposed agricultural credit survey is to
review and define Kenya's agricultural credit needs, short-, medium- and
long-term, in relation to the priorities for agricultural development over
the next five years, to examine and recommend appropriate policies, capital
sources, and institutional arrangements for supplying these needs and to
examine the possibilities of developing agricultural credit programs. The
survey would include:
(a) A review of past agricultural credit experience over
the last five years, concentrating on credit for
production purposes, but giving brief details of
credit for marketing of agricultural produce and for
related agricultural activities:
(i) existing credit policies of Government, Central
Bank and other credit institutions, and their
relationship to credit policies in other sectors;
(ii) existing agencies: commercial banks, agricul-
tural banks and cooperatives concerned with
agricultural credit; their place in credit and
banking system, organization, interrelationship,
review should also examine role of noninstitu-
tional credit sources;
(iii) sources of credit funds for lending agencies,
rediscounting facilities, rural savings, budgetary
and foreign sources and role of agricultural banks
and cooperatives in mobilizing resources; analysis
of costs of funds from main sources for each credit
agency;
(iv) analysis of costs of lending operations, comparison
of agricultural interest rates with those of other
sectors, their relation to size and purpose of loan,
to agricultural subsidies, and to inflation: analysis
of overdue loans, covering period overdue, efficiency
of collection techniques and reasons for delinquency;



ANNEX 7
Page 2
(v) types and volume of production credit for current
inputs, on-farm investments and investments in
agriculture-related industries compared with gross
agricultural production, GNP, and total credit for
all purposes; loan distribbution by purpose, number
and size of loans, related to farm size categories,
and to total number of farms;
(vi) technical and financial loan appraisal techniques,
borrower selection and borrowing terms with due
attention to security requirements, legal instruments
of security and their effectiveness;
(vii) external constraints to agricultural credit, including
land-tenure situations, existing indebtedness,
sufficiency of qualified staff, extension, research,
timely availability of farm inputs, and marketing
facilities; price policies regarding farm inputs and
commodities; and
(viii) taxes includin:; import/export duties and their effect
on farm input costs, farm output prices and generation
of Government tax revenue.
(b)  Future agricultural credit policies and institutions,
including any recommended changes in institutional
arrangements, policies and practices, and any measures
for increasing and mobilizing rural savings, expanding
rediscount facilities, and encouraging further private
commercial banking in agriculture.
(c) Estimated credit requirements for the next five years:
(i) farm credit needs, based upon survey of farm
households, including both small and large-scale
and pasturalists and projected future developments,
for seasonal and longer term credit; these should
cover the relationship between seasonal and longer
term loans, and include investments for land and
water development; the survey would examine past and
existing sources, terms and use of credit in relation
to future needs; and
(ii) credit needs for related agricultural activities,
including handling, marketing, and processing of
farm products; procurement and distribution of
fertilizers, seed, farm chemicals and machinery.
(d) Propose specific credit programs in support of priorities
in Agricultural Sector:



ANNEX 7
Page 3
(i) institutions concerned; and
(ii) lending programs.
Organization of Study
2.        The Government would designate the responsible agency for the
implementation of the study (such as Ministry of Finance and Planning).
A steering committee composed of representatives of Ministry of Finance
and Planning, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Commerce, Agricultural
Finance Corporation, and IBRD would be set up to supervise and guide the
study and to review interim and final reports. The study will be conducted
over a period of twelve months, allowing eight months for compiling and
analyzing data and four months for preparing the report. It will be based
upon past studies, and other existing available data, Government plans and
projections, field surveys, and interviews with appropriate officials.
Key Personnel
3.        The work would probably require a team of experts whose expertise
would cover the range of problems outlined above. The qualifications
offered for guidance are:
(a) Agriculture Credit Expert: Project leader, responsible
for organization of study, overall credit situation,
interim and final report, liaison with steering committee,
etc. He should have long experience in operational and
policy levels with agricultural credit institutions.
(b) Broad Based Agricultural Economist: He should be experienced
in Governmental planning operations and organizational problems.
He should also have experience of fiscal and monetary policies
and be able to advise on interest rate structures.
(c) Management Expert: He would be responsible for reviewing
the management of the various institutions involved in
credit. He should have had considerable management
experience in the type of credit institution involved.
(d) Agriculturalists: Responsible for costs and operational
needs of farmer inputs for both short-, medium- and long-
term on-farm investments for all major crops in Kenya. He
should have a thorough knowledge and experience in crop
production and animal husbandry and livestock problems, and
farm management.
(e) Agriculture Production Economist: Responsible for evaluation
of inputs requirements in liaison with Agriculturalist and
estimates of operating costs for major crops in Kenya and
on-farm investments.



ANNEX 7
Page 4
(f) Marketing and Processing Expert: Responsible for off-farm
credit requirements for agricultural development. He should
be experienced in marketing, processing, or storage enter-
prises, and familiar with credit needs of such enterprises.
(g) Auditor-Accountant; Responsible for review of financial
statements of banks and cost accounting (in connection with
lending operations and raising resources).
(h) Statistician: Responsible for analyzing data and of preparing
tables and graphs.
(i) Four or five Interviewers for farmer surveys.
(j) Five clerical and secretarial personnel.
It is anticipated that the personnel required for (a), (b), (c), (e), (f),
(g), and (h) would be recruited internationally and the other personnel
would be found in Kenya.
Reports
4.        The reports would include an interim report after six months to
be reviewed by the steering committee and IBRD and a final report acceptable
to the steering committee and IBRD. The report would include specific
recommendations including detailed proposals for the realization of these
recommendations. The interim report should, if possible, identify projects
which could be the subject of immediate preparation. Reports would be
made in English and 25 copies would be printed.



ANNEX 7
Page 5
5.        Cost Estimates
Local         Foreign
Currency        Lxchange
---- US$ Equivalent-----
3 expatriate consultants for 12 months
(including travel and subsistence)                                      120,000
4 expatriate consultants for 9 months
(including travel and subsistence)                                      120,000
4 local consultants for 12 months                          30,000
Farm Household Survey                                      15,000
Internal Travel (10,000 miles per month,
at 10 cents p.m. for 8 months)                           8,000
Internal Air Travel                                         2,000
Office and Clerical                                        30,000
Report Printing                                             2,000
Mliscellaneous and Contingencies                           28,000          10,000
Total                                    115,000          250,000
April 27, 1972






AWNNEX S
KENYA
SECONID SMALLHOLDER AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
ESTIM.ATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEM'ENTS
IBRD Fiscal Year                     Cumulative Disbursement
& Quarter                           at End of Quarter
--    (US$ '000) 
1973/74
1st/1
2nd42
3rd-                                       450
4th                                        800
1974/75
1st                                      1,150
2nd                                      1,500
3rd                                      1,950
4th                                      2,400
1975/76
1st                                      2,850
2nd                                      3,300
3rd                                      3,750
4th                                      4,200
1976/77
1st,3                                   4,650
2nd-                                     5,100
3rd/4                                    5,550
4th--                                    6,000
/1   Estimated Date of Signing.
/2   Estimated Date of Effectiveness.
/3   Estimated Project Completion.
/    Estimated Closing Date.
April 27, 1972






KENYA
SECOND SMALLHOLDER AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
FINANCIAL RATES OF RETURN TO THE ENTERPRISE
(K sh)
Y E A R S
1          2          3          4          5           6          7          8          9           so
MODEL I: CROPS Investment: Land and Crop Development (K sh 4,200).5 Acres of Rainfed Area
Incremental Sales  1/              1,282       1,923      2,564      2,564      2,564      2,564       2,564      2,564      2,564      2,564
Incremental Expenses  2/              536        670        670        670         670        670        670        670        670         670
Net Value                             746      1,253      1,894      1,894       1,894      1,894      1,894      1,894       1,894      1,894
Capital Investment                 4,200        --         --          400         --        --         --          400       --          --                 SENSITIVITY TEST
Net Incremental Flow               (3,454)     1,253      1,894      1,494       1,894      1,894      1,894      1,494       1,894      1,894
a)  +107, Investment Cost:  40%!
Financial Rate of Return based on 10-years project life:  Best Estimate:  457,                                                                        b)  +10% Production Cost:  42%
c)  -10% Incremental Sales:  37%
MODEL II:  LIVESTOCK  Investment:  Three Grade Dairy Cows and Land-Use Improvement (K sh 9,000).  5 Acres of Improved Rainfed Pasture plus Fodder (Sweetpotatoes Stalks)
4,8,12&16   5.6&7    9,10&11   13,14&15   17&18            19          20
Incremental Sales  1/              2,415       3,623      4,830      4,830      4,830      4,830       4,830      4,830      4,830       4,830
Incremental Expenses  2/              864      1,080      1 080      1,080      1,080       1,080      1,080      1,080       1,080      1,080
Net Value                           1,551      2,543      3,750      3,750       3,750      3,750      3,750      3,750       3,750      3,750
Capital Tnvestment                 9,000        --         --          600        --         --         --         --          --          600
Increase in Herd Value              --          --         --         --          --         --         --         --          --        5,000               SENSITIVITY TEST
Net Incremental Flow               (7,449)    2,543       3,750      3,150       3,750      3,750      3,750      3,750       3,750      8,150
a) +107, Investment Cost: 397,
Financial Rate of Return Based on 20 Years Project Life:  Best Estimate:  44'!,                                                                        b)  +107, Production Cost:  42%
c) -10% Incremental Sales: 37%
MODEL III:  POULTRY  Investment:  Grade Chicks and Chicken Building and Installations (K sh 3,000).  Size of Chicken Farm:  100 Laying Hens
Incremental Sales  3/              3,000       6,000      6,000      6,000      6,000       6,000      6,000      6,000       6,000      6,000
Incremental Expenses  4/           3,400       4,250      4,250      4,250      4,250       4,250      4,250      4,250       4,250      4,250
Net Value                            (400)    1,750       1,750       1,750      1,750      1,750       1,750      1,750      1,750      1,750
Capital In,vestment                 3.000       --         --           750       --         --         --           750       --         --                  SENSITIVITY TEST
Net Incremental Flow               (3,400)   1,750        1,750       1,000      1,750      1,750      1,750       1,000      1,750      1,750
a)  +10% Investment Cost:  41%
Financial Rate of Return Based on 10 Years Project Life:  Best Estimate:  46%                                                                          b)  +107, Production Cost:  287
c)  -10%  Incremental Sales:  227,
MODEL IV:  FARM MACHINERY AND  EQII1PMEi!T  Investment:  One 4-Wlheel 60-HP Tractor and Needed lmplements (K sh 45,000).  Size of Mechanized Area Covered in 1000 Working Hours:  600 Acres
Increme,tal Sales                 26,000      26,000     26,000     26,000     26,000    26,000       26,000    26,000       26,000    26.000
Incremelltal Expenses             13,000      13,000     13,000     13,000      13,000    13.000      13,000     13,000      13,000    13,000
Net Value                          13,000     13,000     13,000     13,000      13,000     13,000     13,000    13,000       13,000     13,000
Capital Investment                45,000        --         --          --         --         --          --         --         --         --
Residual Value                       --         --         --          --         --         --          --         --         --        5,000                SENSITIVITY TEST
Net Incremental Flow              (32,000)   13,000      13,000      13,000    13,000      13,000      13,000    13,000      13,000      18,000
a) +10%. Investment Cost: 33%
Financial Rate of Retur, Based on 10 Years Project Life:  Best Estimate:  39°/,                                                                        b)  +10% Operating Cost:  33%
c) -10%o Incremental Sales: 27%
1/  Year 1:  5011; Year 2:  75'!,; Year 4 onward Full Value
2/  Year 1:  80/.; Year 2 onward Full Value
3/  Year 1:  50'!: Year 2 onward Full Value
4/  Year 1:  80?!: Year 2 onward Ful]l Value
April 14, 1972






ANNEX 10
Page   1
KENYA
SECOND SMALLHOLDER AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
1.        The economic rates of return from participating enterprises have
been calculated as shown in the attached tables. The following principal
assumptions have been made:
(a) World market prices as projected by the Trade Policies
and Export Projections Division of IBRD's Economic
Department have been used for potato, pyrethrum,
and maize 1/. Current prices were applied for plantains,
milk, and eggs since appropriate international prices are
not available;
(b) Current prices net of duties and taxes have been applied
for investment and operating costs with no allowance for
cost increases. Subsidies were added when appropriate 2/;
1/   The prices applied for financial and economic rate of return compare
as follows:
Financial Analysis              Economic Analysis
------------------ K Sh per ton ---------------
Potatoes                  440                          560
Pyrethrum               5,500                        6,050
Maize                      374                         400 (Based on f.o.b.
prices Gulf ports
as Kenya is
sometimes an ex-
porter and some-
times an importer
of maize.)
2/   (a)  Taxes and duties on imported components are as follows:
-    Buildings                       30% in Models II and III
-    Fencing                         25% in Model II
-    Water supply and implements   15% in Models II and III
-    Fuel                            32.6% in Model IV
-    Oil                            191% in Model IV
(b) Subsidies apply to the following:
-    Fertilizer                      20% in Model I
-    Feed                            10% on maize (50% on feed cost)
in Model III



ANNEX 1 0
Page 2
(c) Salvage value has been added to the incremental flow in
Model IV - Farm 1M4achinery; and
(d) Labor has been costed at the general prevailing rate of
K Sh 3 per man-day for unskilled labor and at K Sh 250 per
month for specialized labor.
2.        Based on these assumptions the economic rates of return over the
life of different enterprises would rarge from 41% to 54%.
3.        The effects of possible decrease in production value through lower
prices or yields, or through higher costs have been tested. The sensitivity
tests applied to each model give the following economic rate of return:
Economic
Rates of Return
Model I - Crops
-10% incremental sales                                44%
+15% incremental expenses                             49%
+15% capital investment                               45%
Model II - Livestock Dairy
-10% incremental sales                                39%
+15% incremental expenses                             43%
+20% capital investment                               39%
Model III - Livestock Poultry
-10% incremental sales                                17%
+15% incremental expenses                              13%
+20% capital investment                               33%
Model IV - Farm Machinery
-20% incremental sales                                24%
+15% incremental expenses                             40%
+15% investment cost                                  38%
May 15, 1972



kENYA
SECOND SMALLHOLDER AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return to the Enterpri.e
(R. SNtillings)
-   -   -   -   -   -   -   ---   -   - -   - -   -  -   -   -   -     -   -   -   -   -  _    -  -   -   -   -      -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -     -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -
1             2             3             4             5              6             7              8             9              10
MonYr  I - Crops   Unvn tnot:  Lend ansd Cp - eonl-pnent (KSh 4,323) - 5 A-res of Rainfed Ares
Incremental Sales 1/                        1,386         2,130         2,873         2,873          2,873         2,873          2,873         2,873          2,873          2,873
Inrremetal Enpensen 2/                        558           697           697           697            697           697           697            697            697            697
Net V.lne                                     828         1,433          2,176         2,176         2,176         2,176          2,176         2,176          2,176          2,176
Capital Investnent                         4,323                   -             -                     -             -              -             -              -              -
Net ITnrenental Flow                       (3,495)        1,433          2,176         2,176         2,176         2,176          2,176         2,176          2,176          2,176
Ec.onomi  Rate of  pturnL:  B-st Estinate:  54%                                                                                                                         Sesitivity Test
(a) -1O7  Incremental Sales:  447.
(6) +15% Inpremental Esp.    49b
(c) +15b Capital Investe.:  45Io
MODEL II - Livesto-k Investnpnt:  Three Grade Dairy Cows and Land Use 1npro-en-t (KSh 8.664) - 3 Acres of Improved Oifed Pesto    Plus Fodder (Swet Potatoes Stalks1
4.8.12616        5,647         9.10411      13.141581        17818            19             20
Incremental Sales 1/                        2,415         3,623         4,830         4,830          4,830         4,830         4,830          4,830          4,830          4,830
Inre=enetal Expenses 2/                       864         1,080         1,080         1,080          1,080         1,080          1,080         1,080          1,080          1,080
Net Value                                   1,551         2,543         3,750         3,750          3,750         3,750          3,750         3,750          3,750          3,750
Capital Investuent                          8,664           -             -              600           -             -              -              -             -               600
Increase i  Herd Value                        -             -             -              -             -             -              -             -              -            5,000
Net Ipprenental Flow                       (7,113)        2,543         3,750          3,150         3,750         3,750          3,750         3,750          3,750          8,150
Er-nomin Rate of Reture:  Best Estimate:  467,                                                                                                                          Densitieity Test
(a) -10/. IDcremental  aIles:  397
(b) +15% Incre-ental Exp. :  437
c) +207. Capital Investm.:  377.
MODEL III - Poultry Investment:  Grade Chinks sod Chinken Buildings and Installetions  (KSh 2,785) - Si.e of Chirken FPru:  100 Laying Hens
Ineremental sales 3/                        J,2U0         6,080        6,0U0          6,000          6,000         6,000          6,000         6,000          6,000          6,000
Incremental Expensen 4/                    3,544          4,430        4,430          4,430          4,430         4,430          4,430         4,430          4,430          4,430
Net Veins                                    (544)        1,570        1,570           1,570         1,570         1,570          1,570          1,570         1,570           1,570
Capital Inve.stent                          2,785           -            -               750           -              -             -              750           -               -
Net Incremen-al Flam                       (3,329)        1,570        1,570             820         1,570         1,570          1,570          1,570         1,570           1,570
Enonomin Rate of Return:  Best Estinate:  417'                                                                                                                          Se.sitioity Test
(a)  -107. Incremental Sales: 177,
(b)  +152 lncramastal Exp.: 137,
(c)  +20% Capital ITvesrt.: 337,
MODEL IV - Fare Manhitery and Equipment Invest-,ent: One 4-Wheel 6OHp Trantor and Needed Implenents
Inereeental Sales                          26,000        26,000       26,000         26,000         26,000        26,000         26,000         26,000        26,000           26,000
Incre=ental Expenses                       11,177        11,177       11,177          11,177        11,177        11,177         11,177         11,177        11,177           11,177
Net Veins                                  14,823        14,823       14,823          14,823        14,823        14,823         14,823         14,823        14,823           14,823
Capital Investnent                         45,000           -             -              -             -              -             -              -             -                -
Residual Value                                -             -             -              -             -              -             -              -             -              5,000
Net Incremental Flow                      (30,177)       14,823       14,823          14,823        14,823        14,823         14,823         14,823        14,823           19,823
U-o-into  Rate of Return:  Best Estinote:  487/.                                                                                                                          ensitivity Test
(a) -208  tncemeestal Sales, 247
(b) +157, Incremental Exp.: 407.
c) +15% Investment Cost    387%
l/  Year 1:  538;  Yet- 2:  15%;  Year 3 onward foil value
2/  Ye-r 1:  887,:  Yeer 2 newerd full value
3/  YeTn  1:  507;  Yeor 2 o-ward ftll valre
4/  Yeer 1:  807,;  Yesr 2 nnwsrd full valor
April 4, 1972
X.1






TO                                                  Ababo
~~.^    t dfts~Abob.          l                                i
S U D A N    -                                                                                      T  H                     P  I  A
W.    ~~~-.                  5-.-.                            La          A/ 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~       ~        ~       ~       ~       ~       ~      11
*>                                                                                                                                                                 / >W<.   ./ ..., J . /
/
ECLOICL-oLANvS4RGOS ore  
m(ir  i                                                                          4cq.olnd  /ND A 
U G A N D A ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~0CE 
Moist  disd/basod'.qshd -   -       1gh potentiot ugniculure \tT                                                   kS   }|/t
Dry wo0diqfld/b55ttlOfd     _          Higs poRtnThOL rooge \M i|J> 
Drfy thorn- bushtd a d         Meou  b tw ptental range                                                                                          2 $      
Semi-desert vegetfZtioso L     I                                   _ -               \ -                                                          1 \    A  F  RIJLC    A
-  o-RofJantc in stoRIes                   o   sstirJf townsO                                     \                                                                                   41 4-fOV
-- - Pronvcilo boun4dries                 ()Natisoefl capital                                        \          r<                  r4R
0             ISO~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
t A                   MILES                                     Tr,  grl, ,, ,, 4447 r, 42
°         50         190 orrER           590      250      24E8S   440,244J'h,.            D:~OV4    ' 41 no torIRD
APRIL l972    A40 3N5



