L BANK(
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 344 KE
Project Agreement
(Second Smallholders' Agricultural Credit Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
AGRICULTURAL FINANCE CORPORATION
DATED NOVEMBER 29, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 344 KE
Project Agreement
(Second Smallholders' Agricultural Credit Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
AGRICULTURAL FINANCE CORPORATION
DATED NOVEMBER 29, 1972


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 29, 1972, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
AGRICULTURAL FINANCE CORPORATION (hereinafter called AFC).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between Republic of Kenya (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Association,
the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to six million dollars ($6,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition
that AFC agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Association as hereinafter
set forth; and
WHEREAS the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development
Credit Agreement will be made available in part to AFC on the terms and conditions
therein set forth; and
WHEREAS AFC, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.0 1. (a) AFC shall carry out Parts A and B(i) of the Project described
in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative, financial and agricultural


﻿4
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   The operating policies and procedures for carrying out the Project shall
be as set forth in the Schedule to this Agreement, said Schedule being subject
to modification by agreement between the Borrower, the Association and AFC.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services required for Part A of the Project and to be financed ouL of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be procured through normal commercial channels.
Section 2.03. (a) AFC undertakes to insure, or make adequate provision for
the insurance of, the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made
available to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by AFC
to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, AFC shall cause all
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to
it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.04. AFC: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the progress
of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower,
and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon
the provisions of Section 5.03 of this Agreement, enable the Association's
representatives to inspect the Project, the goods financed out of such proceeds
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
all such information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit so made available to it
and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of AFC
Section 3.01. AFC shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers,
or make other provisions satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with sound practice.


﻿5
Section 3.02. AFC shall employ, in consultation with the Association, persons
whose qualifications and experience shall be satisfactory to the Association in the
positions in AFC of (i) Loan Department Head (ii) Financial Controller (iii) Machine
Room Controller and (iv) Training Officer.
Section 3.03. AFC shall take all action necessary to implement fully and
in accordance with a timetable agreed with the Association a staffing and training
program which AFC shall have agreed with the Association.
Section 3.04. (a) AFC shall at all times charge interest rates on all its loans
sufficient to enable it out of its gross income:
(i)         to cover all its operating expenditures and charges including
taxes, if any, and interest payments on borrowings;
(ii)        to make adequate provision for bad or doubtful loans; and
(iii)       to accumulate adequate general reserves.
(b)   AFC shall charge on all its agricultural lendings (except land transfer
program loans) an interest rate of at least 8% per annum, said rate being subject
to review by the Borrower aijd AFC, in consultation with the Association, after
the findings of the agricultural credit survey to be carried out under Part C of
the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. AFC shall maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices its operations and financial
condition.
Section 4.02. AFC shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year (except as the Association shall otherwise agree) (A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B)
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as


﻿6
the Association shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association
such other information concerning the accounts and financial statements of AFC
and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Association and AFC shall cooperate fully to assure that
the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the Association
and AFC shall from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
through their representatives with regard to the performance of their respective
obligations under this Agreement, the administration, operations and financial
condition of AFC and other matters relating to the purpose of the Credit.
Section 5.02. The Association and AFC shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by either of
them of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 5.03. AFC shall enable the Association's representatives to inspect
all plants, sites, works, properties and equipment of AFC and any relevant records
and documents.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 6.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of AFC thereunder shall tenninate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)         the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)        a date twenty years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the


﻿7
Association shall promptly notify AFC of this event and, upon the giving of such
notice, this Agreement and all obligations of the parties thereunder shall forthwith
terminate.
Section 6.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For AFC:
P.O. Box 30367
Nairobi
Kenya
Cable address:
KENAGBAN
Nairobi
6'


﻿8
Section 7.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of AFC may be taken or executed by AFC or such other person or persons as
AFC shall designate in writing.
Section 7.03. AFC shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons
who will, on behalf of AFC, take any action or execute any documents required
or permitted to be taken or executed by AFC pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Agreement.
Section 7.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is/ Bernard R. Bell
Vice Presideit,
East A-ica
AGRICULTURAL FINANCE CORPORATION
By /s/ Leonard 0. Kibinge
Au thiorized Reprhese;ntative


﻿9
SCHEDULE
Operating Policies and Procedures
The following lending terms and conditions shall be used in the making of
agricultural loans under the Project:
(a)   Interest rate shall be at least 8% per annum.
(b)   Minimum    contributions by smallholder farmers shall be 20%     of
investment costs. This contribution would include the value of farmers'
own labor.
(c)   Maturities shall not exceed the life of the assets financed and shall
not exceed for:
(i)         Crops - five years, including grace period not exceeding
two years';
(ii)        Livestock -- eight years, including grace period not
exceeding three years';
(iii)       Poultry - four years, including grace period not exceeding
one year; and
(iv)        Farm  machinery and equipment -- five years.
(d)   To be eligible for a loan for tractors a smallholder farmer must be
able to demonstrate that the tractor would be used for a minimum
of 1,000 hours of productive agricultural work annually or for the
cultivation of at least 600 acres. Such criteria would apply to the
farmer's own land, or to the land of other farmers (through custom
work) or a combination of both.
(e)   Smallholder farmers for crop development would be required to:
(i)         use selected seeds or seedlings obtained from  a source
acceptable to the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture; and
(ii)        introduce    an     effective   weed     control    and
phytoentomological program under the guidance of an
extension officer.


﻿10
(f)   Every smallholder farmer to whom an agricultural loan for livestock
development is made would be required to follow a program of animal
sanitation and disease control satisfactory to the Borrower's Ministry
of Agriculture.
(g)   The agricultural extension services of the said Ministry would be
responsible for: preparing farm plans, technical appraisal of loan
applications, and guidance, and supervision of smallholder farmers
during the period of the agricultural loan, but AFC would make the
final decision as to whether or not a loan should be granted.
(h)   Investments would be evaluated in terms of incremental returns
resulting from the additional investments.
(i)   AFC shall take such action as sound commercial and credit practices
require with respect to persistent defaulters on its loans.


