CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 344 KE
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Smallholders' Agricultural Credit Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED NOVEMBER 29, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 344 KE
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Smallholders' Agricultural Credit Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED NOVEMBER 29, 1972


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 29, 1972, between REPUBLIC OF
KENYA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Project will be carried out in part by the Agricultural Finance
Corporation with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to the Agricultural Finance Corporation part of the
proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
(C)   The Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions hereinafter set forth and in a project agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and the Agricultural Finance Corporation;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions):
(a)   Section 5.01 is deleted;
(b)   Section 6.02(h) is deleted and Section 6.02(i) becomes 6.02(h); and
(c)  in Section 2.01, the following paragraph is added after paragraph I2:
"13. The term "Project Agreement" has the meaning assigned to it
in the Development Credit Agreement."


﻿4
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the  veral terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and the Agricultural Finance Corporation of even date herewith, as the same may
be amended from time to time, and such term includes any schedule to the Project
Agreement;
(b)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and the Agricultural Finance Corporation pursuant to Section
3.01(c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and
such term includes any schedule to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c)   "agricultural loan" means any loan made or proposed to be made to
a smallholder farmer and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; and
(d)   "AFC" means the Agricultural Finance Corporation established by the
Agricultural Finance Corporation Act, 1969 (No. 1) of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to six million dollars ($6,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit (other than technical services under Parts B and C of the Project) shall


﻿5
be procured pursuant to the provisions set forth or referred to in Section 2.02
of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1976 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on February I
and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each February I and August I commencing
February 1, 1983 and ending August 1, 2022, each installment to and including
the installment payable on August 1, 1992 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Parts B(ii) and C of the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative,
financial and agricultural practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
(b)   Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause AFC to perform
in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations
therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action necessary or appropriate
to enable AFC to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(c)   The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit relating to Parts
A and B(i) of the Project to AFC under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered


﻿6
into between the Borrower and AFC under terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association. The said terms and conditions shall provide for a repayment period
of 40 years including a grace period of 5 years and an interest rate of one per
cent (1%) per annum.
(d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall promptly after the date of this Agreement
take all necessary action to strengthen the veterinary and agricultural services of
its Ministry of Agriculture including the employment to assist in the carrying out
of the Project of additional personnel in accordance with Schedule 3 to this
Agreement, said Schedule being subject to revision by agreement between the
Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.03. The Borrower agrees to establish as soon as practicable and
in consultation with the Association appropriate mechanism and procedures for
evaluating the financial and economic benefits resulting from the Project.
Section 3.04. The operating policies and procedures for carrying out the
Project shall be those referred to in Section 2.01(b) of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall consult with the Association with regard
to any proposed appointment of a chief executive officer (howsoever designated)
of AFC.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall employ, in consultation with the
Association, a person whose qualifications and experience shall be satisfactory to
the Association in the position of General Manager of AFC.
ARTICLE IV
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 4.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:


﻿7
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the performance by AFC of its obligations under the Project Agreement,
the administration, operations and financial condition, resources and expenditures
of AFC and, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out any part of the Project, and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations and financial condition, resources and
expenditures of AFC and, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies
of the Borrower responsible for carrying out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof, the performance by either of them of its obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement or the performance by AFC of its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
Section 4 03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE V
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 5.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 5.02. The Development Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement
shall be free from any taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery


﻿8
or registration thereof, imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect
in its territories.
Section 5.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 6.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and pajable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   AFC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the
Project Agreement;
(b)   an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that AFC will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement;
(c)   The Agricultural Finance Corporation Act, 1969 (No. 1) or any other
enactment relating to AFC shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed
or waived in such a way as to materially and adversely affect the ability of AFC
to carry out the obligations set forth in the Project Agreement; and
(d)   the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of AFC or for the suspension
of its operations.
Section 6.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:


﻿9
(a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of Section 6.02 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice
thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)   the event specified in paragraph (c) or (d) of Section 6.02 of this
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of AFC
have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental
action;
(b)   the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on b.,half
of the Borrower and AFC, respectively, have been duly authorized or ratified by
all necessary corporate and governmental action;
(c)   the appointment of the following officials of AFC: (i) General Manager
designate (ii) Machine Room Controller and (iii) Training Officer; and
(d)   the submission to the Association of a certificate by AFC's auditors
confirming: (i) that AFC's accounts have been brought up to date as of
September 30, 1972, and (ii) the completion of an analysis of arrears by age of
loans made by AFC as of such date.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, AFC, and constitutes a valid and binding
obligation of AFC in accordance with its terms; and
(b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and AFC,
respectively, and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower and
AFC in accordance with its terms.


﻿10
Section 7.03. The date February 27, 1973 is hercby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Section 3.03 of this
Agreement and the provisions of paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 6.02 of this
Agreement and those of paragraph (b) of Section 6.03 of this Agreement shall
cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate or on a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for Finance is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of
the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Treasury
P.O. Box 30007
Nairobi, Kenya
Cable address:
FINANCE
Nairobi                         -,
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿11
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
By /s/ Leonard 0. Kibinge
A uthiorizedi Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / Bernard R. Bell
Vice President,
East Africa


﻿SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1. The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated              % of
(Expressed in            Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
I.    Agricultural loans
for:
(a)   crops, livestock         4,400,000     )
and poultry                             )    75% of total
)     expenditures
(b)   Farm machinery            500,000      )
and equipment
II.   Technical services
(including training),
vehicles and office
equipment:
(a)   Ministry of                100,000     )     100% of foreign
Agriculture                             )    expenditures or
)     85% of total
(b)   AFC                       720,000      )     expenditures
)     (representing
)     the estimated
)     foreign expendi-
)     ture component)
III.  Agricultural Credit             280,000            100% of foreign
Survey                                             expenditures or
80% of total
expenditures
(representing
the estimated
foreign expendi-
ture component)
TOTAL         6,000,000


﻿13
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term   "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower; and
(b)   the term   "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign
expenditures and of expenditures for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
the territories of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph 1 above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will
be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category or Sub-Category
shall decrease, the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category or
Sub-Category and no longer required therefor will be reallocated by the Association
(subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association) by increasing correspondingly the amount allocated to any other
Category or Sub-Category,
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category or Sub-Category
shall increase, the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph
I above in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such
increase, and a corresponding ,mount will be allocated by the Association, at the
request of the Borrower, to such Category from any other Category or Sub-Category
as regards which there is a decrease in the estimate of expenditures, subject,
however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the Association,
in respect of any other expenditures; and


﻿14
(c)   if the Association   shall have reasonably  determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement, no expenditures
for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association
may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy
of the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures under any Category
shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation to such
Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the percentage
then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of Kenya's program for providing credit to smallholders
for agricultural development in Kenya and consists of:
A.    The financing through AFC of agricultural loans over a three-year
period for:
1.    the production of (i) food crops, (ii) oilseeds, (iii) industrial
crops, and (iv) fruits;
2.    development of livestock (mainly dairy enterprises);
3.    development of poultry enterprises; and
4.    purchase of farm   machinery and equipment.
B.    The provision of technical services (including training), vehicles and
office equipment for: (i) AFC and (ii) Ministry of Agriculture to assist
in the carrying out of Part A above.
C.    The provision of technical services for carrying out an agricultural
credit survey.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 3
Ministry of Agriculture
Additional Personnel to be Assigned
Years
1st         2nd           3rd      Total
1.   Veterinary and Animal
Production Services:
a.    Assistant Agri-         1            1            0         2
cultural Officers
(Animal Husbandry)
b.    Veterinary Officers     3            2            2         7
c.    Livestock Officers      1            1            1         3
d.    Animal Health          11           11           10        32
Assistants
2.    Land and Farm Manage-
ment:
Assistant Agricultural        9            9            8        26
Officers
3.    Fann Mechanization and
Water Development:
Extension Officers            6            6            6        18
TOTAL                   31          30           27        88


