Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4780-UA 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Equal Access to Quality Education in Ukraine Project) 
 
between 
 
UKRAINE 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated September 5, 2005 
 
Page  2
2
Page  3
LOAN NUMBER 4780-UA 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated September 5, 2005, between UKRAINE (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(the Bank). 
WHEREAS 
(A) the Bank has received a letter from the Borrower, dated 
September 21, 2004, describing a
 program designed to support the Borrower’s efforts to 
reform its education system and enhance resource management in the sector (the 
Program) and declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of such Program; 
(B) 
the Borrower has requested that the Bank support the Borrower’s 
execution of the Program through a series of loans over a period of approximately ten 
(10) years to be utilized by the Borrower in the implementation of the Program; 
(C) 
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the first phase (the Equal Access to Quality Education in Ukraine Project) of the Program 
as described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. 
The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through May 1, 2004) with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
Page  4
-
2
-
(a) Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is amended to read as 
follows:  
 
“Section 5.08. 
Treatment of Taxes 
 
Except as otherwise provided in the Loan Agreement, the proceeds of 
the Loan may be withdrawn to pay for taxes levied by, or in the 
territory of, the Borrower or the Guarantor on the goods or services to 
be financed under the Loan, or on their importation, manufacture, 
procurement or supply. Financing of such taxes is subject to the 
Bank’s policy of requiring economy and efficiency in the use of the 
proceeds of its loans. To that end, if the Bank shall at any time 
determine that the amount of any taxes levied on or in respect of any 
item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is excessive or 
otherwise unreasonable, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, 
adjust the percentage for withdrawal set forth or referred to in respect 
of such item in the Loan Agreement as required to be consistent with 
such policy of the Bank.”
;
(b) 
Section 6.03 (c) of the General Conditions is amended by replacing the 
words “corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive”. 
(c) 
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 is modified to read as follows: 
“(c) 
Not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower 
shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the Project, its 
cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower 
and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.” 
Section 1.02. 
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Education Programs Development Directorate” or “Directorate” means 
a
not-for-profit legal public entity to be established by the MES under the Borrower’s 
laws and regulations to coordinate the implementation of educational reforms by the 
MES (as defined hereinafter), referred to in paragraph 4 of Section A of Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement; 
Page  5
-
3
-
(b) 
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2) (3) and (4) set forth in 
the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(c) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and 
consultants’ services and training and incremental operating costs referred to in  
Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
 
(d) 
“Environmental Management Plan and Guiding Principles” and “EMP” 
means the Borrower’s environmental management plan dated June 23, 2004, describing 
the environmental, mitigation, monitoring and institutional measures to be undertaken 
under Parts C.3 and C.4 of the Project to ensure that all environmental concerns are 
adequately taken into account in the carrying out of the rehabilitation works thereunder; 
 
(e) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(f) 
“Fiscal Year” means the twelve (12) month period corresponding to any 
of the Borrower’s fiscal years, which period commences on January 1 and ends on 
December 31 in each calendar year; 
(g) 
“General secondary education” means the education dispensed in the 
Borrower’s schools from the first to the twelfth grades of schooling; 
(h) 
“MES” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Education and Science, 
established and functioning in accordance with the provisions of the Borrower’s 
Presidential Decree No. 773/2000 dated June 7, 2000, or its legal successor; 
(i) 
“MES-Directorate Implementation Agreement” means the agreement to 
be executed by the MES on behalf of the Borrower and the Directorate in accordance 
with the Borrower’s legislation and regulations, referred to in paragraph 2(a) of Section B 
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
(j) 
“MES-MOF-Directorate Financial Agreement” means the agreement to 
be executed by the MES and MOF on behalf of the Borrower and the Directorate in 
accordance with the Borrower’s legislation and regulations, referred to in paragraph 2(b) 
of Section B of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
(k) 
“MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance; 
(l) 
“Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators” means the agreed performance 
indicators set forth in a letter of even date herewith
 
to be utilized by the Borrower under 
Page  6
-
4
-
the Project to measure the progress in the implementation of the Project and the degree to 
which the objectives thereof are being achieved; 
(m) 
“
Oblast
”
means an administrative-territorial division of the Borrower at 
the regional level, and for the purposes of this Project also includes the Autonomous 
Republic of Crimea, the City of Kyiv and the City of Sevastopil; 
(n) 
“Operations Manual” means the manual to be developed and adopted by 
the MES and setting forth the detailed Project objectives and description and the 
institutional, implementation, administrative and monitoring arrangements thereunder, 
including those for the provision of financial and/or material support for the schools or 
Rayons
 (as defined hereinafter) under Part B.4 (i) and Parts B.4 (ii) of the Project, as the 
same may be updated and amended from time to time in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 1 of Section B.1 (b) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;   
(o) 
“Policy Planning Division” and “PPD” mean the unit referred to in 
paragraph 3 of Section A of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
(p) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated  
April 22, 2005 covering the initial eighteen (18) month period (or longer) of Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.02 (b) to this Agreement, to cover succeeding eighteen (18) 
month periods (or longer) of Project implementation; 
(q) 
“Program Steering Committee” and (PSC) mean the Committee referred 
to in paragraph 2 of Section A of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
(r) “
Rayon
”
means a territorial division of the Borrower at the district level; 
(s) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means the Borrower’s option for 
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and 
(t) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Page  7
-
5
-
Section 2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to eighty six 
million five hundred eighty-seven thousand Dollars ($86,587,000). 
Section 2.02. 
The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement: for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works and consultants’ services and training and incremental operating 
costs required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and  
in respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. 
The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2009 or such later date 
as the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 
Section 2.04. 
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan,
 
subject to any waiver of a portion of 
such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to time.  On or promptly after the 
Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee.  
Section 2.05. 
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06. 
(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i) 
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date. 
(ii) 
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 
2.07 of this Agreement. 
Page  8
-
6
-
(iii) 
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial 
Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on 
or next preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
(iv) 
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: 
 
(A) three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) 
the weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of the LIBOR Base Rate and the 
LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d) 
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines 
that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said 
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to 
the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new basis.  The 
new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower 
notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
Section 2.07. 
Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. 
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Page  9
-
7
-
Section 3.01. 
(a)  The Borrower, through the MES, declares its commitment to 
the objectives of the Project and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through the MES 
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
education, engineering, environmental, financial and technical practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required 
for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, through 
the MES, shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set 
forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
(c) 
Without limitations upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure 
that sufficient funds are identified and allocated in the Borrower’s annual budget every 
year throughout the implementation of the Project, starting in Fiscal Year 2006, for the 
purposes of providing the counterpart funding obligations under the Project of up to an 
estimated ten percent (10%) of the total costs of the Project. 
 
Section 3.02. 
(a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services and training required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of  
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the 
Procurement Plan.  
(b) 
The Borrower, through the MES, shall update the Procurement Plan in 
accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank 
not later than twelve (12) months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for 
the Bank’s approval. 
Section 3.03. 
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower, through the MES, shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Page  10
-
8
-
Financial Covenants
 
Section 4.01. 
(a) The Borrower, through the MES, shall maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) 
The Borrower, through the MES, shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each Fiscal Year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank) audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank): (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of the reports referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (Report-based Disbursements) or on the basis of statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower, through the MES, shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the Fiscal Year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
Page  11
-
9
-
(iii) 
ensure that such reports and statements of expenditure are 
included in the audit for each Fiscal Year (or other period agreed 
to by the Bank) referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section.  
Section 4.02. 
(a)  Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 1 of Section C of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the 
Borrower, through the MES, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring 
report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five 
(45) days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall 
cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the 
end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than forty-five (45) days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover 
such calendar quarter. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 5.01. 
Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall 
make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effectiveness and Termination 
Page  12
-
10
-
Section 6.01. 
The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a) 
the Borrower has provided satisfactory evidence to the Bank that the 
Directorate has been established in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; and  
(b) 
the Borrower has provided satisfactory evidence to the Bank that the 
MES-Directorate Implementation Agreement and the MES-MOF-Directorate Financial 
Agreement have been executed by the respective parties thereto. 
Section 6.02. 
The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Sections 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions furnished to the Bank that: (i) the MES-Directorate Implementation Agreement 
has been duly adopted by MES on behalf of the Borrower and the Directorate and is 
legally binding upon MES on behalf of the Borrower and the Directorate in accordance 
with its terms; and (ii) the MES-MOF-Directorate Financial Agreement has been duly 
adopted by MES and MOF on behalf of the Borrower and the Directorate and is legally 
binding upon MES and MOF on behalf of the Borrower and the Directorate in 
accordance with its terms. 
Section 6.03. 
The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. 
The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 7.02. 
The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Minister of Finance 
 
12/2 Hrushevsky St. 
 
Kyiv, 01008 
 
Ukraine 
Page  13
-
11
-
Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
131450 
  (380-44) 
201-56-85 
 
(380-44) 201-56-84 
 
Page  14
-
12
-
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(1-202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Kyiv, Ukraine, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
UKRAINE 
 
By: /s/ Stanislav Nikolayenko 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By: /s/ Paul G. Bermingham 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  15
-
13
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
A. General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars
)
to be financed
(1) Works 
41,335,000 
100% 
 
(2) Goods 
17,739,000 
100% 
 
 
(3) Consultants
’
19,441,000
100%
Services and training 
 
 
 
 
(4) 
Incremental Operating Costs 
280,000 
100% 
 
(5) 
Front-end fee 
433,000 
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
(6) Unallocated 
7,359,000
TOTAL 86,587,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “Training” means the expenditures incurred to finance in-
country and overseas training to be undertaken under the Project by the Borrower’s 
school directors, teachers and government education staff; and  
(b) 
the term “Incremental Operating Costs” means expenditures incurred by 
the Borrower to finance reasonable and necessary operating expenses of the Directorate 
in respect of its operations and administration of activities under the Project, and which 
are payable on account cost of rent and utilities, office equipment and supplies, 
Page  16
-
14
-
maintenance, communication and transportation and salaries of selected non-
governmental staff of the Directorate. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (i) goods costing 
less than $300,000 equivalent per contract; (ii) works costing less than $3,000,000 
equivalent per contract; (iii) services of consulting firms under contracts costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract; (iv) services of individual consultants costing less than 
$50,000 equivalent per contract; and (v) Training and incremental operating costs, all 
under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
5. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Bank in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower (Report-based Disbursements).  In the case of the first 
such request submitted to the Bank before any withdrawal has been made from the Loan 
Account, the Borrower shall submit to the Bank only a statement with the projected 
sources and applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period following the 
date of such request.  
B. Special 
Account
1. 
The Borrower may open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a 
national or foreign commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and 
attachment. 
2. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
if the Borrower is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
(b) 
if the Borrower is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Page  17
-
15
-
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
 
(a) 
if the Bank, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to in  
Part A.5 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-based 
Disbursements;  
(b) 
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Loan Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: 
(A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may 
be.  
5. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank 
shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of 
the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in its sole 
discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may be made and what 
procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of 
its determination. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit 
by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
Page  18
-
16
-
(b) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special
 
Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during 
the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement. 
 
Page  19
-
17
-
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not  
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
For the pu
rposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the 
amount of $4,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex. 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of 
each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Page  20
-
18
-
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures. 
Page  21
-
19
-
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.  
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (i) the amount so requested; and  
(ii) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the reports referred to in Part 
A.5 of this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is required to be 
deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following 
the date of such reports. 
 
Page  22
-
20
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to support the Borrower in its efforts to provide 
equal access to quality education and improve the efficiency of the education system to 
prepare Ukraine’s graduates for the knowledge society. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A:
Professional Development of Educators
Carrying out of a program aimed at raising the awareness, professional 
knowledge and competences of teachers and school directors in order to implement the 
reforms underway in teaching and learning in general education,
 
entailing the following: 
 
1. Training 
of 
Trainers:
modernization of the system of continuing teacher 
professional development through the provision of a cadre of about one hundred twenty 
(120) educators who can model new approaches to the education of teachers, provide 
relevant in-service training, and become a force for renewal in their relevant institutions.  
 
2. 
In-service Training for Teachers:
(i) improvement of teachers awareness, 
knowledge and skills related to the national education reform in general and their subject-
specific professional competences in particular, through the redesign of the current 
obligatory teacher in-service training system; (ii) modification of the current system of 
certification of competence, through the piloting of new training procedures as 
implemented under Part A.1 for the training of trainers; and (iii) support to the 
organization and delivery of short courses and workshops for about four thousand (4,000) 
teachers addressing the curriculum reform needs.  
 
3. 
Leadership Training for School Directors:
(i) improvement of the professional 
knowledge and leadership skills of all school directors so that they can better lead their 
school towards the targets of the national education reform; and (ii) establishment of a 
permanent and officially-approved professional development system of school principals, 
specifically through the development of a training system and its piloting at selected 
institutions, the training of about eight hundred (800) trainers who will implement the 
scheme prepared, and the training of about two thousand two hundred (2,200) school 
directors and about two hundred ten (210) heads and specialists of local education 
authorities.   
 
Page  23
-
21
-
4. Enrichment 
of 
Oblast
 In-service Training Centers:
improvement of the quality of 
training facilities, resources and institutional culture in all twenty-seven (27) regional in-
service teacher training centers (RITTCs) with a view to raise the productivity and client-
centeredness thereof, consisting of delivery, on the basis of a institutional development 
plan, of: (i) training and staff development in order to improve their management, 
organizational culture, and productivity during the implementation of teacher training and 
other professional development activities; (ii) small rehabilitation of the training premises 
to make them more appropriate for modern training purposes; and (iii) basic 
improvement, upgrading and expansion of training equipment, training resources, such as 
books, journals and software, or any other relevant facilities that are required in 
organizing teacher training. 
 
Part B:
Improvement of the Learning Process
Carrying out of a program in support of the Borrower’s ongoing efforts to 
improve the conditions of teaching and learning in the Borrower’s secondary schools, 
including curriculum issues, evaluation of education outcomes, teaching and learning 
resources, and school improvement initiatives for classroom level education reform, and 
encompassing:   
 
1. Modernization 
of 
Curriculum:
carrying out of a program designed to rationalize 
the institutional structures, foster human capacities for the curriculum development and 
implementation process, increase the quality of the national curriculum and strengthen 
the policy, strategy development and implementation
 
capacities at the MES, and at 
O
blasts
,
Rayons
 and schools for on-going curriculum development and revision, 
including: (i) the provision of support to the MES, including the Department of 
Development of Pre-school and General Secondary Education, and working groups 
designing and developing the national curriculum; (ii)  the development of guidelines and 
requirements for new textbooks, teaching guides and teaching and learning materials; and 
(iii) the diffusion and dissemination of all curriculum documents, encompassing the 
development of a coherent national curriculum framework. 
 
2. 
Teaching and Learning Tools:
setting up of the foundations for a comprehensive 
national policy for the development, production and dissemination of teaching and 
learning resources to all schools in country, specifically targeting rural schools, with a 
view to: (i) rationalize the institutional structures and the mechanisms involved in 
textbook and teaching aids development, production and distribution; (ii) strengthen the 
policy, strategy development and implementation capacities in the MES in the domain of 
textbook and teaching aids development, production and distribution; and (iii) strengthen 
the quality of the teaching aids and textbooks developed in accordance with the national 
curriculum. 
 
3. 
Quality Monitoring and Evaluation:
establishment of a comprehensive national 
policy and institutional structure for system-wide evaluation of the education 
achievement and for quality assurance, through the setting up of a national center of 
Page  24
-
22
-
Education Evaluation and Quality Assurance, and encompassing: (i) the determination of 
the operational and institutional implications of the National System of Educational 
Evaluation and Quality Assurance; (ii) the carrying out of a national study of student 
achievement, involving two assessments therefor; (iii) the carrying out and pilot testing 
of external university entrance examinations; (iv) the carrying out of an analytical study 
on school- and classroom-based assessment and its implications for counseling and 
guidance services in secondary schools; (v) the provision of technical support to support 
the MES’ participation in the Trends in International Mathematics and Science Study; 
and (vi) the production of training modules on education evaluation and student 
achievement.  
 
4. School 
Improvement 
Initiatives:
carrying out of a program to develop a renewed 
policy of school improvement and innovation with emphasis on the development 
processes of schools operating under difficult circumstances and the dissemination and 
full utilization of best practices through a bottom-up approach, specifically including:  
(i) providing support, on a pilot basis, to selected schools
 
on
the basis of their 
development plans and on more specific innovation or improvement plans having a direct 
impact on student achievement, with a priority on rural schools; (ii) providing support, on 
a
pilot basis, to 
Rayon
 educational authorities; and (iii) networking of innovative schools 
and dissemination of resulting good practices, mainly through in-service teacher training 
activities. 
 
Part C:
Efficiency and Management of Resources
Carrying out of a program aimed at improving the efficiency of the general 
education system, strengthening the capacity for policy development of the MES and 
other institutions responsible for general secondary education, and supporting the 
Borrower’s plans to optimize the schools’ network and provide assistance for the 
rehabilitation of schools, consisting of:   
 
1. Policy 
Planning 
and 
Management:
strengthening of the policy development 
capacities of the MES through the establishment of the PPD in the MES’s General 
Secondary Education Department, the
 
development of a strategic public information 
campaign to raise public awareness on the proposed reforms under the Program and 
Project activities, and the management of the Program and Project implementation, 
specifically encompassing: (i) the improvement of the planning and management 
capacities of the central and regional education administration staff to formulate 
education policy, develop strategies to operationalize policies, manage resources, and 
monitor and evaluate programs; (ii) the carrying out of a mass media campaign aimed at 
creating a favorable information environment for conducting
 
reforms in the education 
system and implementing the Project, as well as providing information support for 
individual activities anticipated by all Project components; and (iii) the establishment and 
maintenance of a MES’s Project and Program coordination structure supported by a 
technical assistance team of consultants.  
 
Page  25
-
23
-
2. 
Education Management Information System (EMIS):
introduction of a data- 
based policy analysis and decision making practice in the education sector across all of its 
levels, fully supported by the phased development and implementation of a 
comprehensive national EMIS for general secondary education administrative statistics’ 
collection, processing and analysis, comprising the creation of a central database of 
administrative statistics allowing data input, processing and access by decision-makers 
and managers of central and regional levels of education administration bearing the 
following features: (i) educational data flow; (ii) data analysis; and (iii) supply/demand of 
data use - pre-conditions.  
 
3. Optimization 
of 
schools 
network:
carrying out of a pilot program aimed at the 
enhancing the schools network optimization plans and thereby improve the delivery of
 
educational services in the secondary education school networks of 
Rayons
 in six (6) 
selected 
Oblasts
 on the basis of viable 
Rayon
 schools network optimization plans (ROP), 
and encompassing: (i) the implementation of a comprehensive set of investments and 
activities proposed in the pilot ROPs; and (b) the administrative costs of supervising the 
pilot ROPs, and comprising consultant services, training, preparation of an Optimization 
Guidebook and training materials, and the carrying out of a public information campaign 
as required to support the educational authorities and constituents improve their capacity 
to prepare/develop viable ROPs and implement the proposed interventions effectively 
and efficiently.
 
4. Rehabilitation 
of 
schools:
rehabilitation and furnishing of selected general 
education schools up to standards appropriate for a complete learning environment, 
addressing the most urgent needs and with particular emphasis on achieving greater 
efficiency and economy in the maintenance and operation of the rehabilitated facilities, 
and including, 
inter alia
:
(i) roof repairs and correction of structural defects, 
improvement of heating facilities and insulation, provision of adequate water and 
sanitation, and improvement of electrical systems; (ii) consultant 
architectural/engineering services for the preparation of the detailed construction/school 
rehabilitation plans, specifications, bills of quantities and bidding documents for the 
selected schools; (iii) consultant engineering services to assist MES in the supervision of 
the implementation of the rehabilitation works and ensure that quality standards are met; 
and (iv) architectural consultants services to assist MES in upgrading and updating the 
existing school design and construction standards.  
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2009. 
Page  26
-
24
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Payment of Principal 
 
(Expressed in 
Date Payment Due
Dollars)
*
On each May 15 and November 15 as follows: 
 
November 15, 2010 
  
2,000,000 
May 15, 2011 
  
2,045,000 
November 15, 2011 
  
2,095,000 
May 15, 2012 
  
2,145,000 
November 15, 2012 
  
2,200,000 
May 15, 2013 
  
2,250,000 
November 15, 2013 
  
2,305,000 
May 15, 2014 
  
2,360,000 
November 15, 2014 
  
2,420,000 
May 15, 2015 
  
2,475,000 
November 15, 2015 
  
2,535,000 
May 15, 2016 
  
2,600,000 
November 15, 2016 
  
2,660,000 
May 15, 2017 
  
2,725,000 
November 15, 2017 
  
2,790,000 
May 15, 2018 
  
2,860,000 
November 15, 2018 
  
2,930,000 
May 15, 2019 
  
3,000,000 
November 15, 2019 
  
3,070,000 
May 15, 2020 
  
3,145,000 
November 15, 2020 
  
3,220,000 
May 15, 2021 
  
3,300,000 
November 15, 2021 
  
3,380,000 
May 15, 2022 
  
3,460,000 
November 15, 2022 
  
3,545,000 
May 15, 2023 
  
3,630,000 
November 15, 2023 
  
3,720,000 
May 15, 2024 
  
3,810,000 
November 15, 2024 
  
3, 900,000 
May 15, 2025 
  
4,012,000 
 
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in dollars to be
 repaid, except as provided in Section 
4.04 (d) of the General Conditions. 
Page  27
-
25
-
Total  
 
 
86,587,000
Page  28
-
26
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. National 
Competitive 
Bidding.
(i) Goods consisting of school buses and 
furniture required under Part C.3 of the Project and teaching and learning aids estimated 
to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract; and (ii) works estimated to cost less 
than $3,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of National 
Competitive Bidding and the following additional provisions:  
Page  29
-
27
-
(a)
 
Eligibility
Bidding shall not be restricted to domestic firms.  Foreign firms shall not be 
excluded from the national competitive bidding process irrespective of the contract value. 
 
(b) Procedures
(i) 
“Open tender procedures” shall be followed in all cases.  
 
(ii) 
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in the Borrower’s Bulletin 
of State Procurement “
Visnyk Derzhavnykh Zakupivel
”
and in at 
least one (1) widely circulated national daily newspaper allowing 
a
minimum of thirty (30) days for the preparation and 
submission of bids.  
 
(iii) 
Bids shall not be invited on the basis of percentage premium or 
discount over the estimated cost.  
 
(c) Pre-qualification
(i) 
Prequalification, where used, shall be based on a “pass/fail” 
system.  
 
(ii) 
Minimum experience, technical, and financial requirements shall 
be explicitly stated in the pre-qualification documents.  
 
(d) 
Participation by Government-owned Enterprises
(i) 
Government-owned enterprises in the Borrower’s territory shall 
be eligible to participate in bidding only if they can establish that 
they are legally and financially autonomous, operate under 
commercial law, and are not a dependent agency of the 
Government.   
 
(ii) 
Government-owned enterprises will be subject to the same bid 
and performance security requirements as other bidders. 
 
(e) Bidding 
Documents
(i) 
Procuring entities shall use the appropriate Bank’s sample 
bidding documents, including pre-qualification documents, for 
the procurement of goods, works, or technical services (other 
than consultants’ services), all acceptable to the Bank. 
 
Page  30
-
28
-
(ii) 
Bidding documents shall be made available to all those 
companies that have paid the required fee. 
 
(f) 
Bid Opening and Bid Evaluation
(i) 
Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline 
for submission of bids.  
 
(ii) 
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the 
monetarily quantifiable criteria declared in the bidding 
documents. 
 
(iii) 
No domestic preference shall be allowed in evaluating bids. 
 
(iv) 
Contracts shall be awarded to qualified bidders having submitted 
the lowest evaluated substantially responsive bid and no 
negotiations shall be carried out prior to contract award. 
 
(g) 
Rejection of Bids
(i) 
No bid shall be rejected purely on the basis that the bid price is 
higher than the estimated budget for that procurement. 
 
(ii) 
All bids shall not be rejected and new bids solicited without the 
Bank’s prior concurrence. 
 
(h) Securities
Bid security shall not exceed two percent (2%) of the estimated cost of the 
contract. Performance security shall not exceed ten percent (10%) of the contract price. 
No advance payments shall be made to contractors without a suitable advance payment 
security. The format of all such securities shall be included into the bidding documents 
and shall be acceptable to the Bank. 
 
3. Shopping
.
Goods and works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
4. Direct 
Contracting
.
Goods which the Bank agrees meet the requirements for 
Direct Contracting may be procured in accordance with the provisions of said 
procurement method. 
5. Community 
Participation
.
Goods and services required under Parts B.4 (i) and 
B.4 (ii) of the Project may be procured on the basis of community participation in 
accordance with the procedures stipulated in the Operations Manual, and which shall 
Page  31
-
29
-
require, 
inter alia
,
the issuance of requests for price quotations from at least (3) local 
suppliers and use of standard contract forms specifically developed for community-based 
goods and services. Non-governmental organizations, local suppliers and other 
community-
based organizations, registered according to the Borrower’s legislation, shall 
be allowed to bid.  The comparison and evaluation of the quotations received shall be 
done as prescribed in the Operations Manual.  The Borrower, through the Directorate, 
shall maintain records and accounts adequate to enable it to register and monitor in 
accordance with the provisions of the Operations Manual the financial, technical and 
procurement aspects of these procedures. 
Section III.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
B. Other 
Procedures
1. Least-cost 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Bank agrees meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to cost less 
than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
3. 
Single Source Selection
.
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source Selection, 
may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the circumstances 
described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded 
to individual consultants on a sole-source basis, subject to prior approval of the Bank. 
Page  32
-
30
-
Section IV.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
B
ank’s Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
Page  33
-
31
-
SCHEDULE 5 
Implementation Program 
Section A
.
Institutional Arrangements
1. MES
The Borrower, through the MES, shall ensure that the appropriate departments in 
the MES and other organizations under the MES carry out the overall responsibility for 
Program and Project implementation with due diligence and efficiency.  In doing so, the 
Borrower shall also decentralized specific responsibilities to the educational authorities at 
the regional (
Oblast
)
and local (
Rayon
)
level involved in Project implementation. For the 
purposes of the Project, MES shall among others, be responsible for conducting the 
procurement decision process. 
2. 
Program Steering Committee
At the national level the Borrower shall establish, not later than three (3) months 
after the Effectiveness Date, and thereafter maintain throughout the Project, a Program 
Steering Committee which shall act as a body responsible for the strategic coordination 
and oversight of Project activities implemented by central and local authorities 
participating in the Project, all under terms of reference and with resources and a 
composition satisfactory to the Bank.      
3. 
The Policy Planning Division
The MES shall set up within its structure and thereafter maintain throughout 
Project implementation, the PPD not later than six (6) months after the Effectiveness 
Date, with staff, functions and responsibilities appropriate to provide policy planning 
promoting equal access to quality education. For the purposes of the Project, the PPD 
shall be responsible for preparing documentation for the development of educational 
reform policies towards equal access education and providing guidance to MES and the 
Directorate   
4. The 
Directorate
The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain throughout the 
implementation of the Project the Directorate under terms of reference and with resources 
and composition satisfactory to the Bank for the purposes, among others, of the day-to-
day management of the Project, including financial and procurement management and 
Page  34
-
32
-
other Project-related tasks, all in accordance with the MES-Directorate Implementation 
Agreement and the Operational Manual. 
 
Section B
.
Implementation Modalities
1. Operations 
Manual
(a) 
The Borrower, through the MES: (i) shall adopt the Operations Manual 
not later than one (1) month after the date of this Agreement; and (ii) shall take all action 
required to ensure that the Operations Manual is applied and followed at all times in the 
implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the Project. 
(b) 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree or as the Bank may otherwise 
judge it necessary to update the Operations Manual to reflect and support a sustainable 
evolution of the Project, the Borrower shall ensure that the MES do not assign, amend, 
abrogate or waive the Operations Manual or any provision thereof. 
2. 
MES-Directorate Implementation Agreement and MES-MOF-Directorate 
Financial Agreement
(a)  
The Borrower, through MES, shall enter into an agreement with the 
Directorate under terms and conditions which shall have been agreed upon with the Bank 
(the MES-Directorate Implementation Agreement) and which shall include, 
inter alia
,
provisions whereby the responsibilities and tasks of the Directorate for the day-to-day 
management of the Project are described in accordance with the Project Operations 
Manual. 
(b)  
The Borrower, through MOF and MES, shall enter into an agreement 
with the Directorate under terms and conditions which shall have been agreed upon with 
the Bank (the MES-MOF-Directorate Financial Agreement) and which shall include, 
inter alia
,
provisions whereby the transfer and flow of funds from MOF, through the 
MES, to the Directorate for the Project are described. 
(c) 
The Borrower, through MES, shall exercise its rights under the MES-
Directorate Implementation Agreement and MES-MOF-Directorate Financial Agreement 
in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Project, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive, said agreements or any provisions 
thereof. 
Page  35
-
33
-
2. 
Part C.3 of the Project: Criteria for 
Oblast 
Selection
For the purposes of carrying out Part C.3 of the Project, six pilot 
Oblasts
 will be 
selected according to agreed criteria including economic level of the
 Oblasts
,
geographic 
location, and regional demographics.  On the basis thereof, each 
Rayon
 in the six (6) pilot 
Oblasts
 will be invited to prepare a Rayon School Network Optimization Plan (ROP) 
proposal and submit it to MES for its approval.  The Borrower shall take all actions 
required to ensure that the MES select and rank the most viable ROPs in accordance with 
agreed criteria, and that only the highest ranked ROPs (not less than five (5) and up to ten 
(10)) shall be selected for financing under the Loan. 
3. 
Part C.4 of the Project: Criteria for School
 
Selection
From the remaining viable ROPs determined under the ROP selection process 
stipulated in the precedent paragraph 3 of this Section, the schools to be rehabilitated 
under Part C.4 of the Project shall be identified and ranked according to agreed school 
selection and prioritization criteria including: (i) school location with preference given to 
rural schools; (ii) student enrollment in the school and the demographic trend in the 
school district or locality; (iii) severity of school rehabilitation needs; (iv) the economic 
status of the community in which the school is located; and (v) other criteria subsequently 
defined by MES in agreement with the Bank.   
5. 
Parts C.3 and C.4 of the Project: Environmental Management Plan
The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to ensure that the MES carry out 
the measures identified under the Environmental Management Plan at all times in a 
timely manner, ensuring that adequate information on the implementation of said 
measures is suitably included in the Project progress reports to be prepared pursuant to 
the provisions of paragraph 1 of Section C of this Schedule. 
Section C
.
Progress and Evaluation and Monitoring Reporting
1. Progress 
Reports 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.07 of the General 
Conditions, the Borrower, through the MES, shall, commencing on December 31, 2005, 
and thereafter, not later than March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31 in each 
calendar year and until Project completion, prepare and furnish to the Bank a progress 
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, describing, 
in accordance with the Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators, the progress achieved in 
the implementation of the Program and the Project during the preceding quarter of the 
calendar year.   
Page  36
-
34
-
2. Mid-Term 
Review
The Borrower, through the MES, shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Monitoring and Evaluation 
Indicators, the carrying out of the Program and the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about March 31, 2007, a report integrating the results of the monitoring 
and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Program and the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Program and the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by June 30, 2007, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take 
all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Program and the Project 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
 
