Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB285 
Project Name 
Education Reform 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Sector 
Secondary education (70%);Primary education (30%) 
Project ID 
P077738 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF UKRAINE 
Implementing Agency 
 
Ministry of Education and Science 
10 Peremohy Avenue 
01135 
Tel: 38-044-216-2442 Fax: 38-044-274-1049 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
x]
B
[X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[
]
S
1
[
x]
S
2
[
]
S
3
[
]
S
F
[
]
TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
September 2, 2003 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
March 29, 2004 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
September 21, 2004 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
Ukraine inherited an education system designed to meet the needs of a centrally planned 
economy.  Funding for education was high and it resulted in high literacy levels, a majority of 
graduates with solid basic knowledge, a large core of skilled workers available for the industrial 
sector, and outstanding cultural and scientific achievements.  With a population of about 49.0 
million, it has the natural and human resources needed to play a significant role in the world 
economy: productive land, an industrial base, trained labor, and a quantitatively impressive 
education system relative to its national income.   However, between 1990 and 1998 Ukraine 
experienced one of the most dramatic economic collapses in Eastern Europe
1
.
Poor economic 
performance left a legacy of rising poverty and falling standards of living, with substantial long 
term adverse effects on its education system.    
 
Sector work carried out during the past year
2
confirm that major challenges facing the 
Ukrainian education system today are: (a) low quality, overemphasis on factual knowledge and 
lack of programs, curricula, teaching practices and modern aids that would be appropriate to the 
needs of civil society and a market economy 
3
;
(b) increasing enrollment
4
and access problems; 
1
Per capita GDP fell by half and official output fell to about a third of its 1990 value. 
2
Ukraine Education Reform Policy Note
 (2002) 
3
During 2004, Ukraine plans to begin introducing changes in the curriculum for grades 1-12, and start adapting 
general secondary curricula to lifelong learning.  The complete schedule is as follows: 2003 - planned approval of 
standards; 2004 - study plans and programs (grades 5-12) and textbooks (grades 5-6) preparation; and so on.  The 
transition to the 12-year system is expected to be completed by 2012.  
Page  2
(c) a system that has not adjusted to a falling student-age population, resulting in low capacity 
utilization
5
and declining efficiency, especially in rural areas; (d) lack of a national policy on 
educational evaluation and information on students achievement; (e) inequity in the provision of 
education, with the better-off urban population able to access higher quality general education 
and enroll at tertiary institutions
6
;
(f) an aging, inadequately equipped educational physical plant 
which makes learning increasingly difficult and costly; and (g) low capacities of MES, regional 
and local education authorities to plan, implement, manage, monitor and evaluate quality 
education policies and programs.  Moreover, funding for education is low (about 3.8 percent of 
GDP) and more than 90 percent is spent on salaries and utilities. 
 
During the past few years, the Government of Ukraine has remained committed to improving 
education, even during the worst times of economic crisis.  A Government program to reform 
education was enacted by Parliament in 1993, and several subsequent efforts, such as the 2001 
Law on Education, have been carried out to implement reforms and plan new ones.  Both central 
and local governments are also committed to improving efficiency, by piloting the optimization 
of education services and improving access to ensure that children in rural areas can receive 
quality schooling (the MES works with local bodies on optimization pilots by monitoring the 
schools and assessing results). A Government educati
on
reform strategy (the “National Doctrine” 
for Development of Education in Ukraine in the 21st. Century”) approved in 2001, included 
redefined priorities for the sector and improved strategies for service delivery from preschool to 
tertiary education.  
 
The Bank has been involved in the country’s education reform efforts by, inter alia: (a) 
supporting selected education reform plans through sector work and the PAL operations, (b) 
securing PHRD grant financing, and (c) participating in the Ukraine MDGs discussions.  The 
Government has now requested Bank support for an investment operation and initial discussions 
on the proposed project have taken place.  A Sector Investment Loan would be most suitable and 
the project will be developed and linked to the comprehensive, long-term reform framework of 
the “National Doctrine”. Challenges in higher education and problems of budgetary priorities 
and expenditure will continue to be supported by the PAL series and planned non-lending 
instruments.  Finally, the project is in line with the strategic country and human development 
priorities of the CAS 2004 – 2007 which focuses on support and further strengthening of reform 
strategies and their implementation.
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
The development objective of the project is to support Ukraine efforts to provide equal 
access to quality education. The project would improve student learning, and enhance efficiency 
and management in the education system.  Bank support would focus on general education 
(grades 1-12), with special emphasis on rural schools. 
 
4
The number of children as a share of the relevant age group in pre-school education was 57 in 1990, falling to 40 
in 2000.  Gross enrolment rates ( 7-15 year-old students) are down to 90% in Ukraine (1999), while Slovakia, 
Romania, Hungary and Poland increased the compulsory schooling rates to more than 98%. 
5
The average student: teacher ratios are low at 11.7. 
6
Disparities in provision are observed between rural and urban areas, and even between schools within individual 
rayons.  For example unit costs in some Kyiv city schools are sometimes double those in nearby schools. 
Page  3
3. Preliminary 
description 
The Government has requested that the project support three areas addressing the key issues 
above:  
Component I: Professional Development of Educators
 
to raise the awareness, knowledge and 
professional competences of teachers and school directors in order to implement the reforms 
underway in teaching and learning in general education.  The following activities could be 
financed by the project: (a) Training of trainers
to upgrade the knowledge and skills of trainers 
needed in designing new training programs for teachers (and school directors), preparing the 
respective training and professional development materials, and conducting training programs as 
well as mentoring the educational change processes in schools and in rayons; (b) In-service 
training for teachers
organized by the Regional In-Service Training Centers and local (rayon) 
methodological centers, based on demand by schools and teachers (there would be a particular 
emphasis on village schools in rural parts of the country); (c) Leadership training for school 
directors
including updating of the existing school directors’ in-service training programs, 
provision of regional school leadership workshops for school directors and development of 
professional standards for school directors. (d) Enrichment of Regional (oblast) In-service 
Training Centers
(providing in-service training and other professional development support to 
teachers) with the goal of meeting the needs of modern teacher development and school 
improvement. 
 
Component II: Improvement of the Learning Process
 
to support ongoing efforts to improve the 
conditions of teaching and learning in secondary schools, focusing on the (a) Modernizing the 
curriculum content
for grades 5-12 by providing inputs for developing materials/tools/ 
approaches for the implementation of the curriculum reform; (b) Providing selected teaching and 
learning tools
,
reference materials for teachers and students, and computers for sharing 
resources, networking and processing knowledge. A strategy with selected criteria to reach those 
schools and teachers with most urgent needs will be set up; (c) Developing a national strategy 
and basic infrastructure for evaluation and monitoring of education with an adequate system for 
monitoring quality and student achievement
;
and (d) Supporting school improvement initiatives
proposed by the rayons or schools, which could include public recognition and dissemination of 
good school improvement ideas, additional professional development support, material supplies, 
or both.  While Component I would improve the professional knowledge and skills of teacher 
trainers, teachers and school directors, Component II would provide technical support to schools 
and teachers.  
 
Component III: Efficiency and Management of Resource Utilization
 would complement the 
other components by strengthening the policy development capacity of the MES - and possibly 
other government institutions responsible for work on education sector, introducing data-based 
policy analysis approaches, and supporting Government efforts to provide better access for 
students (as well as teachers) to an educational physical environment conducive to effective 
learning and teaching.  Possible activities to be financed include: (a) Policy planning and 
management capacities
to be improved through professional development support in the 
application of policy analysis and policy development methodologies, as well as their 
introduction into the routine education strategy development, implementation and monitoring 
process; (b)  Development of a comprehensive EMIS system
for use in decision making; (c) 
Page  4
Optimization of existing school infrastructure
contributing towards increasing student access, 
particularly those students coming from small/remote localities, to a more complete learning 
environment and towards achieving greater efficiency/economy in the recurrent maintenance and 
operation of the facilities; and (d) Upgrading/rehabilitation of selected schools
to minimum 
standards for general education facilities in Ukraine.  This component would also include support 
for the Project Coordination Unit (PCU). 
 
The main beneficiaries of the project include general education students and teachers, 
especially those in poor rural communities, who would be reached by specific project inputs such 
as professional development, modern learning aids in the classrooms and improved information 
dissemination mechanisms (the project would not deal with initial/pre-service teacher education). 
More broadly, all students in general education will benefit indirectly from more efficient and 
effective education services as a result of the strengthened capacities and optimization of 
resources supported by the project.  Long term benefits would be derived from the expected 
improvement in quality and relevance of learning leading to improved students achievement, 
improved effectiveness and efficiency of the education delivery system in Ukraine, thus 
substantially contributing to economic growth and development and reducing poverty. 
 
4. 
Safeguard policies that might apply 
There are no large scale safeguard or environmental impacts expected under the project.  
There would be minor rehabilitation of selected schools to improve the safety conditions of the 
users of the schools and the learning environment.  The work may consist of improved water and 
sanitation facilities and sanitation management, improved energy efficiency through better 
windows and classroom insulation, roof repairs, and so on.  Since many school buildings in 
Ukraine were built during the Soviet regime and are roofed with asbestos materials, their 
rehabilitation under the project will require the safe removal and disposal of such asbestos 
materials.  The Ministry of Education will prepare an Environmental Management Plan (EMP) in 
consultation with key stakeholders which will provide for measures that include the following: 
(i) no asbestos materials will be used in school rehabilitation; (ii) asbestos will be disposed 
properly according to law and consistent with generally accepted disposal practices; (iii) no lead-
based paint will be used; and (iv) construction related noises will be set at a minimum acceptable 
to the surrounding community.  Building contractors will be asked to abide by the EMP which 
will be part of the standard bidding document. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER 26 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
80 
 Total 
106 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Ana Maria Jeria 
Title: Senior Human Development Specialist 
Tel: (202) 458-0369     
Fax: 202-477-0574 
Email: Ajeria@worldbank.org
Page  5
