                                   Document of
                                The World Bank



                                                   Report No: ICR00001701



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                          (IBRD 4780 UA)



                                   ON A LOAN

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF US$86.587 MILLION

                                       TO

                                    UKRAINE

                                     FOR AN

      EQUAL ACCESS TO QUALITY EDUCATION IN UKRAINE PROJECT

                     IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF

                THE EDUCATION SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM

                                  June 22, 2011




Human Development Sector Unit
Ukraine, Belarus and Moldova Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
               (Exchange Rate Effective May 18, 2011)

                   Currency Unit = Hryvnia (UAH)
                      1.0 UAH = US$ 0.1267
                      US$ 1.00 = 7.8892 UAH

                          FISCAL YEAR
                      January 1 – December 31

               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APL     Adaptable Program Loan
Bank    World Bank
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CPA     Country Procurement Assessment
EMIS    Education Management Information System
FM      Financial Management
GDP     Gross National Product
GOU     Government of Ukraine
IBRD    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR     Implementation Completion and Results Report
IERR    Internal Economic Rate of Return
ISR     Implementation Status and Results Report
MES     Ministry of Education and Science
MOF     Ministry of Finance
MTR     Mid-Term Review
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PDO     Project Development Objectives
PPD     Policy Planning Division
RITT    Regional institutes for teacher training
TIMSS   Trends in international Mathematics and Science Study
TTL     Task Team Leader


                   Vice President: Philippe Le Houerou
                 Country Director: Martin Raiser
           Acting Sector Director: Mamta Murthi
           Acting Sector Manager: Alberto Rodriguez
             Project Team Leader: Scherezad J. Monami Latif
             ICR Primary Author: Juan Prawda
                         UKRAINE
   EQUAL ACCESS TO QUALITY EDUCATION IN UKRAINE PROJECT

                                                     CONTENTS


D A T A S H E E T ....................................................................................................... iv
A. Basic Information ..................................................................................................... iv
B. Key Dates ................................................................................................................. iv
C. Ratings Summary .................................................................................................... iv
D. Sector and Theme Codes ........................................................................................... v
E. Bank Staff .................................................................................................................. v
F. Results Framework Analysis ..................................................................................... v
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs................................................................... vi
H. Restructuring (if any) .............................................................................................. vii
I. Disbursement Profile ................................................................................................ vii
1.   Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ........................................ 1
2.   Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ........................................ 7
3.   Assessment of Outcomes .................................................................................... 15
4.   Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome .................................................. 19
5.   Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ............................................... 19
6.   Lessons Learned ................................................................................................. 25
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ......................................................................... 27
Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 29
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 44
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ................................................... 45
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR .................... 46
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ...................... 68
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ..................................................................... 69

MAP 33505
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Equal Access to Quality
Country:                Ukraine                 Project Name:             Education in Ukraine
                                                                          Project
Project ID:             P077738                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-47800
ICR Date:               06/23/2011              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     APL                     Borrower:
                                                                          UKRAINE
Original Total
                        USD 86.6M               Disbursed Amount:         USD 30.0M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 31.7M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Education and Science
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process           Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       09/12/2003     Effectiveness:          02/07/2006           02/07/2006
Appraisal:            07/12/2004     Restructuring(s):                            04/10/2008
Approval:             05/24/2005     Mid-term Review:        02/28/2008           03/30/2008
                                     Closing:                12/31/2009           12/31/2010

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    High
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower           Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Unsatisfactory          Government:      Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                  Unsatisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Unsatisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                          Quality at Entry
                           No                                               None
at any time (Yes/No):                               (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                             Quality of
                           Yes                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                      Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Unsatisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                   Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                      35                  35
Secondary education                                                    50                  50
Sub-national government administration                                 15                  15


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Administrative and civil service reform                                17                  17
Education for all                                                      33                  33
Education for the knowledge economy                                    33                  33
Rural services and infrastructure                                      17                  17

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                          At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Philippe H. Le Houerou                Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:          Martin Raiser                         Paul G. Bermingham
Sector Manager:            Alberto Rodriguez                     Maureen Anne McLaughlin
                                                                 Ana Maria Parchuc de Jeria
Project Team Leader:       Scherezad Joya Monami Latif
                                                                 Figueroa
ICR Team Leader:           Scherezad Joya Monami Latif
ICR Primary Author:        Juan Prawda


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project development objective is to provide equal access to quality education and to
improve the efficiency of the education system to prepare Ukraine's graduates for the
knowledge society.



                                                ii
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The PDO was not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally        Actual Value
                                              Values (from        Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                                approval          Target        Completion or
                                               documents)         Values         Target Years
                Percentage of students of the 9th grades in the project hub schools achieving
Indicator 1 : satisfactory results from 6 till 12 marks in the tests of Math and Ukrainian
                language
                                           Mathematics #
Value           Mathematics # 77,8%                                           Mathematics-68.6
                                           85%
quantitative or Ukrainian language -                                          Ukraniain
                                           Ukrainian
Qualitative)    87,2%                                                         language-76.0
                                           language # 92%
Date achieved 05/24/2005                   12/31/2009                         12/31/2010
Comments        The project did not achieve indicator and during the implementation the average
(incl. %        indicator of 9th forms# pupils# learning achievements decreased due to poor
achievement) implementation progress.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target                        Actual Value
                                                                  Formally
                                             Values (from                           Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                                Revised
                                                approval                          Completion or
                                                               Target Values
                                              documents)                           Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Percentage of master trainers trained out of the total agreed target
Value
(quantitative   0                         100%                                   100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/24/2005                  12/31/2009                             12/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                      Actual
         Date ISR
No.                              DO                              IP               Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                  (USD millions)
  1     06/30/2005         Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     06/01/2006         Satisfactory                Moderately Satisfactory               0.43
  3     03/23/2007     Moderately Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory               1.11
                            Moderately                      Moderately
  4     06/17/2008                                                                            3.11
                          Unsatisfactory                  Unsatisfactory
  5     04/28/2009          Moderately                      Moderately                        9.06


                                                 iii
                       Unsatisfactory        Unsatisfactory
                        Moderately            Moderately
  6    11/29/2009                                                       12.86
                       Unsatisfactory        Unsatisfactory
                        Moderately            Moderately
  7    02/09/2010                                                       15.71
                       Unsatisfactory        Unsatisfactory
                        Moderately            Moderately
  8    03/29/2010                                                       15.71
                       Unsatisfactory        Unsatisfactory
                        Moderately            Moderately
  9    10/12/2010                                                       17.06
                       Unsatisfactory        Unsatisfactory
 10    01/02/2011      Unsatisfactory        Unsatisfactory              23.63


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                        Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                              Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
 04/10/2008               MU    MU            3.11




I. Disbursement Profile




                                        iv
1.      Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.      The Equal Access to Quality Education Project was approved on April 27, 2005, the Loan
Agreement was signed on May 9, 2005, and became effective on February 7, 2006. The Project was
planned as the first phase of a three-phase Adaptable Program Loan (APL) to support the Government
education sector reform program.

1.1     Context at Appraisal

2.     Economic landscape since independence. In Ukraine between 1990 and 2000, per capita gross
domestic product (GDP) in terms of purchasing power parity decreased from US$6,725 to US$5,300;
significantly lower than most of Ukraine’s neighbors such as Russia (US$8,900), Poland (US$11,000) or
Hungary (US$13,900). Poor economic performance left a legacy of rising poverty and falling standards
of living for most citizens. The social sectors (health, education and the social protection system)
suffered the most from the years of economic collapse. These systems were largely unchanged since
independence. Declining funding, salaries, and deteriorating infrastructure brought about severe
worsening of the quality of services and increasing poverty and social exclusion. Social problems
worsened with rising crime, alcoholism and homelessness, and falling life expectancy.

3.      By 2000, the Government of Ukraine (GoU) had started to undertake significant economic reforms
resulting in improved economic performance. Positive economic growth was achieved in 2000 for the
first time since independence showing a GDP growth of 5.8 percent in that year and 9.1 percent in 2001.
At the time of project identification in late 2002, Ukraine, the second largest country in Europe, had the
natural and human resources, developed industrial based and trained labor needed to play a significant
role in the world economy. However, the decade since independence in August 1991 saw the most
dramatic economic collapse in the Eastern European region.

4.    Main issues in the education sector. Notwithstanding the economic upturn, the economic
collapse of the 1990s had substantial long-term adverse effects on Ukraine’s education system, which,
together with the implications of the economic reforms at the time of preparation of the Bank-financed
operation, had created new challenges to reform the education sector.

5.     Ukraine’s education system had been designed to meet the needs of a centrally planned economy.
Funding for education was high, resulting in high literacy levels, a majority of graduates with solid basic
knowledge, a large core of skilled workers available for the industrial sector, and cultural and scientific
achievements. As systemic problems remained characterized by declining quality of education and low
efficiency, unaddressed during the 1990s, the strong economic performance of the early 2000s did not
translate into improved performance in the sector.

6.    The following five education sector issues underpinned the preparation of the Equal Access to
Quality Education project partially financed by the Bank:

(a)     Low quality of education. The programs, curricula, teacher training and teaching practices, and
        teaching aids at the time of identification were not fully appropriate to effectively meet the needs
        of building a knowledge economy. Every teacher, for example, was expected to upgrade his/her
        professional qualification in intervals of five years through rather long training courses whose
        content was rarely based on the current needs of teachers’ professional development. The Central
        In-Service Teacher Training Institute, a government institution, monopolized the teacher training
        provision thus preventing competition from other private potential training providers. Pre-service


                                                     1
      teacher training, taking place in various post-secondary institutions, was considered to be non
      responsive to both the needs of the ongoing education reform and the changes in society and in
      the world.

      The secondary education curriculum at the time of identification was overloaded. It was not
      attuned to the education standards and patterns adopted by other European countries in the
      framework of the Council of Europe, which were embraced by the GoU. The introduction of a
      radically new curriculum for the twelve grades of compulsory education envisaged in the reform
      also implied the need to modify the textbooks, teaching and learning materials, and the learning
      evaluation schemes.

      One of the most urgent and worrying problems in secondary schools was the lack of teaching and
      learning resources, especially acute in rural schools (about two-thirds of the total number of
      schools) hindering improvements in the quality of the education provided and in learning
      outcomes. There was an urgent need to upgrade school libraries, multimedia classes, science
      laboratories for chemistry and biology, foreign language teaching equipment, and social science
      teaching aids.

(b)   Increasing enrollment and access problems and inequity in the provision of education.
      Enrollment data showed an increase in primary education from 85.8 percent in 1995 to 90 percent
      in 2001, while at the lower secondary level there was a drop in enrollment from 96.8 percent in
      1995 to 92.9 percent in 2001. Pre-school enrollment had declined from 51.4 percent in 1995 to
      43.9 percent in 2001. Children living in rural, remote and poorer regions had fewer options to
      good learning experiences than their peers in urban centers. Unit costs in some Kyiv city schools
      were double those in other schools. Gross enrollment ratios for 7-15 year-old students were down
      to 90 percent in Ukraine in 1999, while Slovakia, Romania, Hungary and Poland increased the
      compulsory schooling rates to more than 98 percent.

(c)   Low efficiency resulting from a system that had not adjusted to a falling student-age population.
      Demographic and economic transformations affecting the enrollment pattern manifested generous
      average student to teacher ratios of 11.7 to 1 (18:1 in the urban areas and 7:1 in the rural ones)
      and a vast school network. These ratios tended to overcrowd the urban schools while rural
      schools tended to be significantly under-utilized. Small rural schools lack appropriate teaching
      spaces for laboratory or other special subjects. Due to low student-teacher ratios and low student
      per classroom ratios, there was significant underutilization of existing accommodation capacity,
      particularly in small rural towns thus contributing to uneconomic use of available and limited
      financial resources.

(d)   Lack of a national system of educational evaluation and information on student achievement and
      monitoring systems. The legacy of a centrally planned education management had kept the focus
      of control on inputs, and to certain extent, on processes concerning teaching, regulatory issues,
      and resources. Monitoring and control of education had not been concerned with learning and
      other key outcomes. The ongoing education reform demanded a monitoring shift towards
      outcomes, local management, efficiency and effectiveness, which would then become the new
      key descriptors of quality of education.

(e)   Aging, inadequately equipped educational facilities. Maintenance had been neglected for many
      years and there were scarce investments in school construction and repairs. Utilities’ costs were
      high due to antiquated systems and there was poor sanitation in many schools.



                                                  2
7.      Government’s strategy. After independence, a GoU program to reform education was enacted
by Parliament in 1993, with several subsequent efforts made to implement it. In 2001, the GoU approved
a national strategy for the education sector entitled “National Doctrine for Development of Education in
Ukraine in the XXIst Century” which redefined long-term priorities for education reform and improved
service delivery from preschool through tertiary education. This same year, the GoU approved a new
education law increasing compulsory education to 12 grades. Since then, the country’s vision and
comprehensive strategies for the sector have been outlined in several other documents such as the (2003)
“Strategy for Economic and Social Development of Ukraine: 2004-2015”, and the (2003) Cabinet of
Ministers Program of Activities, which discusses goals for long-term reforms for all sectors.

8.      At the time of project appraisal in 2004, the GoU’s goals and plans for closer ties to Europe were
included in the Government’s Action Program entitled “Meeting the People” laying out an ambitious
vision for the country, including inter-alia, stronger social service provision. The Government’s Action
Program called for: (i) expanding access in a more cost-efficient way through further supporting and
expanding an ongoing rural optimization scheme; and (ii) improving the quality of education for all
Ukrainians by continuing addressing the above-mentioned issues of curriculum reform, teacher training,
provision of teaching and learning resources and setting up a standardized learning assessment system.
Ukraine had also committed to achieving the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), which were
adapted to suit the country’s developmental objectives, with the ultimate goal defined as raising the
quality of education as a whole.

9.      With about 22,000 schools (70 percent located in rural areas), half a million teachers and more
than 6 million students, general secondary education was the largest sub-sector within the education
sector and thus was the focus of the then ongoing Government education reform.

10.      Rationale for Bank’s assistance. The GoU requested the Bank’s technical and financial assistance
to help turn around the country’s quality, access and management problems in the education sector. The
Bank’s project preparation team and management saw this as a compelling reason to participate since it
represented a first major opportunity to support the country’s reform initiatives in the education sector.

11.    The request followed joint work among the Ministry of Education and Science, United Nations
Development Program (UNDP), International Renaissance Foundation (Open Society Institute) and the
Bank’s work and advice on reform strategies for the sector included in the Bank’s “Ukraine- Education
Reform Policy Note” disseminated in draft form in 2002 and completed in 2003.

12.      The Bank’s significant international experience and its financial and technical resource
mobilization capacity were envisioned to provide Ukraine with the required funds and expertise to
address the issues in the education sector over the next decade. The Bank’s experience in the education
sector in countries of the former Commonwealth of Independent States (former Soviet Union countries)
was to provide lessons and significant resources to draw on, and brings to bear on, Ukraine’s proposed
reform efforts in the education sector. The Bank’s funding, technical support and institutional capacity
building was thought to help generate structural reforms that would enable lasting changes in Ukraine’s
education system.

13.     The proposed education sector operation was also seen as a continuation of the Bank support to
the GoU through the Policy Framework and Synergies with the Programmatic Adjustment Loans, which
began financing in 2001 a set of actions to improve education policy, governance and efficiency.




                                                    3
1.2      Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

14.     The higher-level objectives to which the Project aimed at contributing and was an important
element of the Ukraine economic and social strategy, referred to “comprehensive and harmonized human
development, with emphasis on developing a healthy and highly educated citizenry, within a framework
of assured rights and freedoms.” In this context the GoU planed to implement strategies geared towards
increasing the quality of services and reducing service delivery costs with an emphasis on improving the
existing service delivery networks and developing standards to assess performance in the education
sector.

15.     The project’s PDOs stated exactly the same in the PAD and the Financing Agreement were to
support the GoU in its effort to provide equal access to quality education and improve the efficiency of
the education system to prepare the Ukraine’s graduates for the knowledge society.

16.      Progress towards achieving the PDOs during the first phase of the APL were to be measured
against the following four outcome indicators and final targets agreed with the GoU:

(i)      Forty percent of teacher trainers conduct training with competence-based approach using modern
         practices in teaching and learning;
(ii)     New external assessment instruments (tests and exams) accepted by education stakeholders;
(iii)    Increased Directorate (autonomous unit to be created within the MES to manage the project)
         monitoring of programs implementation and strengthened procurement and financial management
         systems; and
(iv)     Student/teacher ratios of rural schools in pilot districts (rayons) increased to 12-15 students per
         teacher.

17.      It bears mentioning here that these indicators were revised in 2008 during the mid term review as
will be discussed in section in section 3.2 and Annex 2 of this Implementation Completion and Results
Report (ICR). Moreover, the Annex 3 in the PAD includes 19 output indicators (associated to the project
components) agreed with the GoU whose attainment are fully described. In addition, this PAD Annex
also includes the agreed triggers to move from one phase of the APL to the next which is discussed next.

18.      A three-phase Adaptable Program Loan (APL) totaling a little over eleven years was envisioned
as the financial instrument to support the attainment of the above-mentioned PDOs. The first phase of the
APL was to be implemented from September 2005 to December 2009, the second from January 2010 to
June 2013 and the third, and last, from July 2013 to December 2016. Triggers were agreed between the
GoU and the Bank setting the key conditions, policies, processes and institutions needed to move from
one phase to the next. The nine triggers to move from Phase I to II were:

(i)      New policy and system of certification of teachers’ competence formulated and approved;
(ii)     New regulatory framework for directors’ certification of competence formulated and approved;
(iii)    Framework document for new national curriculum completed, disseminated and agreed with all
         relevant stakeholders;
(iv)     National external standardized exams (Matura) taken by 70 percent of secondary school leavers;
(v)      Sustainable, transparent and efficient policy on textbooks approval, production, distribution and
         evaluation agreed with the Bank and approved by the Ministry of Education and Science (MES);
(vi)     General Secondary Education statistics is collected electronically from all Oblasts of Ukraine
         and processed;
(vii)    Rayons prepared Rayon Optimization Plans;
(viii)   Sixty percent completion of investments in 10 piloted Rayons; and
(ix)     MES ready to use appropriate country systems and procedures.

                                                     4
19.     Phase I was envisioned as a pilot to set in motion the processes to: (a) improve needs-based
teacher training; (b) reform the curriculum; (c) scale up resource availability in non-salary expenditures;
(d) improve the quality of secondary education; and (e) measure learning outcomes. Phases II and III
were conceived to fine-tune and scale up the above-mentioned processes.

1.3    Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

20.      The PDOs were not modified during the implementation cycle. However, the results framework
was simplified at the Mid-term Review (MTR) of April 2008, at the request of Bank management as
further illustrated in the table in section 2.3 of the ICR.

1.4     Main Beneficiaries

21.     The Project aimed at benefiting, directly and indirectly, the public general education system
(primary, lower and upper secondary) in Ukraine, in particular secondary education comprising
approximately 22,000 schools, about 551,500 teachers and roughly six million students. About 70
percent of the total number of secondary schools was located in rural areas.

1.5     Original Components

22.     The Project had the following three components:

       Component 1: Professional Development of Educators. This component costing US$12.29
        million (12.8 percent of the total project cost) aimed at raising the awareness, professional
        knowledge and competences of teachers and school directors to implement the reforms underway
        in teaching and learning in general education. This component had four sub-components: (i)
        training of trainers to support the modernization of the system of continuing teacher profession
        development, (ii) in-service training for teachers to improve teachers’ awareness, knowledge and
        skills regarding the national education reform in general and their subject-specific professional
        competences in particular; (iii) leadership training for school directors, including improvement of
        professional knowledge and leadership skills and establishment of a professional development of
        school principals; and (iv) enrichment of oblasts in-training centers, comprising the improvement
        of the quality of training facilities, resources, and institutional culture.

       Component 2: Improvement of the Learning Process. This component costing US$19.72
        million (20.5 percent of the total project cost) aimed at improving the conditions of teaching and
        learning in secondary schools, including curriculum issues, evaluation of education outcomes,
        teaching and learning resources, and school improvement initiatives for classroom level education
        reform. This component had four sub-components: (i) the modernization of curriculum designed
        to strengthen the policy, strategy development and implementation capacities at the Central and
        Local levels and schools to support the then on-going curriculum development and revision
        efforts; (ii) strengthening teaching and learning tools, targeting rural schools through activities
        that included analytical assessment of current textbook policies, upgrading school libraries and
        the computerization of targeted rural schools; (iii) providing quality Monitoring and Evaluation
        through the setting up of a national center of Education Evaluation and Quality Assurance which
        carried out the external university entrance examinations and provided the technical support for
        the participation of Ukraine in the Trends in International Mathematics and Science Study
        (TIMSS); and (iv) fostering school improvements and innovations especially for disadvantaged
        schools.


                                                    5
       Component 3: Efficiency and Management of Resources. This component costing US$63.84
        million (66.3 percent of the total project cost) aimed at improving the efficiency of the general
        education system, strengthening the capacity for policy development of the MES and other
        institutions responsible for general secondary education, and supporting the MES’s plans to
        optimize the schools’ network and provide assistance for the rehabilitation of schools. This
        component had four components: (i) facilitation of policy, planning and management through
        establishment of the Policy Planning Division (PPD) in the MES’s General Secondary Education
        Department and the carrying out of a mass media campaign on the project; (ii) development of a
        Education Management Information System (EMIS); (iii) piloting of school optimization in six
        selected Oblasts; (iv) the rehabilitation of schools and furnishing of about 600 selected general
        education schools.

1.6     Revised Components

23.      The original components were not modified during the implementation period. However,
following a recommendation from Bank management, some project activities were dropped at the MTR
(as further explained in section 2.2 of this ICR) because: (i) they were not being implemented; and (ii) to
simplify a rather complex project design and in order to focus on only key activities which had more of a
direct impact on the PDOs.

1.7     Other significant changes

24.     Revised results framework. As explained in Section 2.3 of this ICR, without modifying the PDOs,
the original results framework comprising 4 outcome indicators and 19 output indicators (most of them
redundant and never updated during the first half of the project implementation period) was significantly
streamlined during the MTRof April 2008 to include 3 outcome and 6 output indicators and to ensure
connectivity of the outcome indicators with the stated PDOs. This review was undertaken at the
recommendation of Bank management, agreed by the GoU and endorsed by Bank management in the
Implementation Status and Results Report. The revised results framework was approved by the MES on
March 26, 2009.

25.     Extension to the closing date. On December 15, 2009, at the request of the GoU, the Bank
approved the first and only extension to the closing date of the Loan for 12 months from December 31,
2009 to December 31, 2010, to allow for an orderly closing of the project and envisaging the partial
achievement of the PDOs. The extension was granted to all categories of expenditure, except civil works,
for which no disbursements had been made during the entire life of the project up to December 2009.
Two new requests made by the recently elected Government (January 2010) to extend the closing date for
another 12 months until December 31, 2011 were not granted by the Bank management based on
observations made on the pace of project implementation and the firm understanding that an extension
had a high likelihood of achieving nothing more than what the project had already achieved.

26.      Partial cancellations of the Loan. There were two partial loan cancellations requested by the GoU.
The first one on May 5, 2010 amounting to US$41.335 million (47.7 percent of total loan proceeds)
corresponding to uncommitted financial resources allocated to the civil works category under sub-
component 3.4. The second one on December 6, 2010, amounting to US$13.52 million (15.6 percent of
total loan proceeds), corresponding to all categories of expenditure for uncommitted consulting services
and training costs, to reduce payment of commitment charges. In total, the Bank, at the request of GoU,
cancelled 63.3 percent of the original loan proceeds.

27.    Alongside the second request for cancellation, the GoU also called for a reallocation of funds
from the unallocated category to goods to cover unanticipated increases in the costs of laboratory

                                                    6
equipment and the purchase of 58 additional buses (not planned during project appraisal) which was an
eligible expenditure under the loan agreement.

28.     On December 23, 2010, seven days before the closing of the loan, the Bank processed the
reallocation and cancellation.

2.      Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1     Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

29.     Weighing the relevant achievements and shortfalls of the preparation stage further described
below, the ICR rates the project preparation, design and quality at entry of this project as unsatisfactory.

30.      Strategic relevance and approach was appropriate. This project was attuned to the existing CAS
(2004-2007), which focused on support and further strengthening of reform strategies and reform
implementation in the education sector. The initial concept underpinning the proposed project design
emerged from discussions held by the Bank with the GoU during 2002 under the framework of the then
ongoing Programmatic Adjustment Loan II and the Education Reform Policy Note prepared by the Bank
during 2002. These discussions that preceded the preparation activities and set the ground for the
identification mission were held with the MES, the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and the Ministry of
Economy and European Integration, as well as with other key stakeholder (Soros International
Renaissance Foundation, the British Council and UNDP).

31.      The selection of a three-phase APL (as opposed to a one-time sector investment loan) was an
appropriate lending instrument at the time of preparation because: (i) it aligned project goals with the
complicated and long-term implementation process involving the secondary education reform aimed by
the GoU (just the completion of the curriculum reform was estimated to take about seven years); and (ii)
it allowed for continuous and regular reviews of the piloting of models and activities before being scaled-
up and to undertake corrective actions if they became necessary. However, the triggers agreed with GoU,
specifically those for the first phase, seemed ambitious in a context where there was insufficient policy
dialogue in particular with the institutional framework for Ukraine to be able to meet these APL triggers.

32.      Had the project design been less complex and the GoU able to timely implement its envisaged
tasks, the total duration of the implementation cycle of the three-phase APL totaling a little over 10 years
would also be considered by the ICR as appropriate given the amount of time required to design and
implement education reforms. Unfortunately, this timing assumption proved to be incorrect during the
implementation cycle mainly for two reasons further explained in section 2.2 of this ICR. First, there was
an unforeseen lack of capacity of the GoU as a whole (MES, Directorate and Treasury) to implement a
very complex project design in a timely and effective fashion, a situation that was not properly assessed
by the Bank preparation team. Second, there was a lack of ownership of the project design as this was
prepared and implemented by consultants located in the Directorate (a legally independent unit under the
MES umbrella), many of them earning more than the Minister of Education.

33.      At the request of the Project Concept Note Review meeting held in September 2003, a
preliminary analysis of the political environment surrounding the Project was carried out aiming to assess:
(i) project support from different groups; (ii) the real and perceived needs, concerns and mechanisms to
increase public trust in the education reform and identify possible incentives to engage stakeholders; and
(iii) the risks associated with project preparation concerning GoU’s elections in November 2004.
Notwithstanding the usefulness of the findings of this analysis, what this assessment failed to properly
identify were: (a) the risks inherent in the struggles and agendas among the different political parties
sitting in Parliament and within the party in government and their likely adverse impact in the

                                                     7
implementation of the project; and (b) the existing institutional bottlenecks that were to seriously hamper
the project during the implementation cycle. As further shown in section 2.2 of this ICR, these two
factors partially explained the long delays where the Project was at a physical and financial standstill
during various implementation periods.

34.     The project design was built on the key lessons learned from the analytical work undertaken by
the Bank in 2002, other Bank-supported sector operations in the European and Central Asian countries
and international best practices, in particular, with regard to teacher training and student assessments. A
thorough economic analysis of the proposed Project was carried out during preparation. A thorough
social assessment guided the design of each project sub-component by capturing the opinions and
recommendations of the key project stakeholders. This social assessment consisted of focus groups with
parents and students and in-depth interviews with teachers, school principals, representatives of the
regional (Oblast) and district (Rayon) education administration and in-service teacher training institutions.

35.      Project design was too complex. The project design including three components and 14 sub-
components and a myriad of different project activities were complex and difficult to be implemented in a
timely and effective fashion in a context where MES and the Directorate: (i) lacked previous experience
working with the Bank, in particular the fiduciary aspects of financial management and procurement; and
(ii) were not properly positioned (i.e. adequately staffed with relevant staff ) at Board approval to carry
out the envisaged implementation arrangements required by such design.

36.      Faulty results framework. As further detailed in section 2.3 of this ICR, the results framework is
partially disconnected from the PDOs, has appropriation issues, included too many indicators, most of
which were never updated and some baselines data was missing at the onset of project implementation

37.      Lack of institutional capacity assessment. Despite the detailed explanation provided in Annex 6
of the PAD concerning the proposed implementation arrangements and that a final Operational Manual
was made a condition for negotiations, the Bank team failed to assess the institutional capacity of the
MES and of the Directorate to effectively implement the 14 sub-components included in the project
design in a timely fashion; and of the MoF’s Treasury to promptly authorize eligible payments against the
project.

38.     The implementation readiness conditions were not fully present at the time of Board approval.
For example, the Directorate was not staffed at the time of Loan effectiveness (it will take about 18 more
months to have it partially staffed with the posting of the coordinator for Component 3 taking even
longer). The oblasts (regions) and rayons where the school optimization network was to be undertaken
had not been established (they will be selected in August 2007, 26 months after Board approval). The
exact location of the schools to be rehabilitated under sub-component 3.4 (absorbing 48 percent of the
total Loan) had not been identified prior to Loan effectiveness nor the architectural designs even started.
Neither Bank management nor the peer reviewers raised a flag on this last serious issue at the PAD
review meeting.1 The ICR team considers this to be a major project preparation weakness by the Bank
team and management.

39.     Risk assessments. Several risks were identified by the Bank team and listed in the PAD. One of
the reasons the Bank team correctly advised on the use of an APL financial instrument was to spread


1
   There was no Quality Enhancement Review (QER) of the project design as the Bank instituted the QER scheme
much after this project was taken to the Board. There was, however, a QER towards the end of the implementation
cycle.


                                                       8
some of these risks, in particular the ones associated with policy and institutional reforms, over almost 10
years in a three-phase APL. Some risks that were rated substantial at the preparation stage, like the
inability to reach consensus concerning the assessment of learning outcomes or opposition to the school
optimization program, turned out to be negligible and the corresponding sub-components timely and
effectively implemented. However, the Bank team failed to assess: (i) the risk posed by the fragile
political landscape existing in Ukraine at the time of preparation and its unfavorable impact it had in
project implementation caused by the frequent changes at the MES and the Directorate; (ii) the lack of
capacity to implement, which became a critical obstacle to the success of the project; and (iii) the adverse
consequences in having this project prepared and implemented by consultants and not by staff of the
mainstream institution – the MES. The Bank team seems to have failed to also recognize that the overall
portfolio in Ukraine at the time of project preparation was difficult to implement with extremely low
disbursements and accordingly, proposed appropriate mitigating measures for this project.

2.2     Implementation

40.      The Project was not successful in delivering most of the outputs under the three components and
achieving its expected outcomes (see details in Section 3.2, Annex 2 and data sheet). Project
implementation was rated moderately unsatisfactory since 2008 and the ratings were never upgraded for
the rest of the implementation period. What follows is amore lengthy description of the issues outside
and inside the GoU’s and the implementing agency’s control that either contributed or adversely affected
project implementation.

41.      Issues outside GoU’s control that had an adverse effect on project implementation. The political
volatility that dominated Ukraine’s nascent Democracy generated severe governance weaknesses during
project implementation, that were at the root of many reform challenges in the country, including the
education reforms of school optimization addressed by this project. Ownership of the project’s
governance agenda was limited due to strong vested interests within the government and with the
different political parties sitting in Parliament. Lack of agreement between the different political groups
in power and contradictory agendas diverted the attention of the leadership of the MES away from timely
and effective project implementation. This unpredictable political landscape outside the control of the
project resulted in frequent changes of authorities within the MES and the Directorate in charge of
managing the project, adversely affecting the project’s implementation progress. In addition, the GoU’s
own bureaucratic processes to authorize eligible payments, further described in section 2.4, also
contributed to severe implementation delays. This is a country rather than a sector issue, which affects
implementation of all projects in Ukraine.

42.      Issues within GoU and the implementation agency’s control that affected project implementation.
The Directorate was established in April 2005 as an autonomous legal entity independent from the MES,
and entrusted with the overall management and coordination of project activities. Establishing the
Directorate may have seemed a pragmatic solution to implementation problems at the time of Project
design but being legally and physically separated from its parent ministry (the MES) with project
activities managed and implemented by consultants, undermined project ownership by the MES,
implementation and sustainability.

43.     The entire implementation cycle was characterized by: (i) frequent changes of authorities and
professional staff at the Directorate; (ii) inability of the Directorate to implement most project activities in
a timely and effective fashion due to a lack of capacity and lack of experience in implementing Bank
funded projects; (iii) the MES, largely disengaged from project preparation and implementation (done by
consultants), not ensuring the required ownership of the project; and (iv) financial bottlenecks at the
MOF’s Treasury including at least six separate and sequential reviewing and authorization controls, some
of these redundant and unnecessary, significantly delaying payments to contractors of eligible goods

                                                       9
delivered and services rendered, thus bringing to a partial, and sometimes total, halt the corresponding
project activities. As a consequence, the physical and financial implementation progress of this operation
was seriously affected during most of its implementation period. Some project activities were cancelled
due to lack of any evidence of implementation.

44.       A reflection of this poor implementation performance is provided by the disbursement trend. For
a little over a year after Loan effectiveness, there were no disbursements of the Loan beyond the initial
amount allocated to the Special Account. The total documented Loan disbursements amounted to US$3.1
million (3.6 percent of the total loan proceeds) in the first 28 months after Loan effectiveness, a very poor
financial performance when compared to the expected disbursement of US$30.2 million set in the PAD.
During the next 18 months, disbursements increased to US$12.86 million (14.8 percent of the total Loan).
By the closing date, 59 months after Loan effectiveness, disbursements amounted to US$23.63 million
(27 percent of the original loan proceeds or 74.5 percent of the amount after two cancellations). Total
disbursements at the end of the grace period (April 30, 2011) are US$30 million (34.7 percent of the
original loan; 94.7 percent of the amount after cancellations), reflecting a poor financial performance. It
also bears mentioning, a large part as an illustration of the difficulties in processing payments under this
project, that the MES and the MOF requested and received an exceptional extension to the grace period
by two months in order to complete the processing of four payments including the final payment to
auditor.

45.     There were delays in: (a) loan effectiveness (almost seven months from the planned date set in
the PAD); (b) opening the Special Account (about 12 months after Loan effectiveness); (c) partial staffing
of the Directorate with qualified staff (about 18 months after its establishment; the posting of the
coordinator for Component 3 took even longer); (d) creating the PPD within MES; and (e) launching the
school network optimization activity, for which selection of pilot districts was completed only in 2007
and approved on August 2007 (26 months after Board approval). The Steering Committee to include
representatives of different Ministries to oversee project implementation and achievement of the stated
PDOs as conceived in the original project design was never established. Instead, a less inclusive and
more endogenous Project Committee within the MES was established.

46.      There was progress in the implementation of some project activities, as further detailed in Annex
2 to this ICR, such as: (i) the training of master trainers was completed and targets for the training of
teachers and school principals was only partially achieved, as only 10 of the 28 RITTCs ended up
participating in this activity (the rest decided to withdraw due to disagreements on the issue of payment
with the Directorate); (ii) Ukraine participated in the TIMSS including the carrying out of standardized
learning tests on a sample of 4th and 8th graders in 149 schools; (iii) the external national assessment for
university entrance was scaled up and administered on an annual basis; (iv) about 530 computer classes
were acquired for schools in rural areas as well as 207 laboratories of physics, chemistry, biology and
math and a set of sports equipment and books; and (v) 158 buses were acquired to transport children in
the rural areas in the framework of the optimization of school networks.

47.     Other project activities were delivered in a much-delayed time frame with only a fraction of their
agreed original targets. Some of the outputs produced in the end were also irrelevant, such as the technical
concept of the comprehensive education management information system, the curriculum framework, the
sociological study aimed at fostering a public information campaign and the 8 studies commissioned by
the PPD and completed at the very end of the project cycle. The PPD, eventually established in the
Directorate, never functioned as an incubator of education policy debate and recommendations.

48.    As discussed earlier during the MTR in April 2008, 26 months after loan effectiveness, agreement
was reached with the GoU to cancel the following project activities because they displayed no
implementation progress: (i) rehabilitation of the Oblast’s in-service teacher training facilities including

                                                     10
the provision of equipment, supplies and other learning goods; (ii) all the remaining foreign study tours;
(iii) the analytical assessment of current textbook policies; (iv) the pilot to approve, develop, produce and
distribute textbooks and new teaching aids; (v) the upgrading of school libraries; (vi) the development of
on-line courses materials and foreign language teaching materials as well as virtual laboratories for
science and technology; (vii) the creation of an on-line data-base on available teaching and learning
materials; (viii) the establishment of a web portal; and (ix) the entire sub-component 2.4 of school
improvement initiatives.

49.      As also discussed in Section 1.7, at the end of 2009, agreement was reached with the GoU to
cancel US$41.335 million corresponding to uncommitted Loan proceeds allocated to the civil works
portion of the sub-component 3.4 (rehabilitation of 600 schools). This decision was taken on the basis of
no performance of this sub-component. At the same time, it was agreed that the 22 school rehabilitation
architectural designs, which were likely to be completed successfully and receive the clearance of “state
expertise” during 2010, would be continued and completed. State expertise clearance is a quality
standard for civil works set by the GOU and the design of any structure receiving public funds for
rehabilitation and/or construction have to pass State Expertise in the Ukraine in order to be rehabilitated
or constructed. The 22 school designs were not completed and therefore did not even go up to State
Expertise. In fact, only three school rehabilitation designs have been completed and passed State
Expertise at the closing of the loan. Finally, less than one month before the closing of the Loan, another
uncommitted US$13.52 million in the category of consulting services and training costs were cancelled to
partially reduce the payment of commitment charges. An indication of poor implementation performance
is provided by the cancellation of 63.3 percent of the original contracted loan.

2.3     Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

50.      M&E design. The original results framework included in Annex 3 of the PAD had some design
issues, which regrettably were not flagged by Bank management or by the peer reviewers during the PAD
review meeting. The first issue is one of disconnect. With the exception of one outcome indicator –
student teacher ratio that might provide a measure for efficiency – none of the other three outcome
indicators were linked to the stated PDOs, especially with respect to equal access and quality of
secondary education. Training teachers (one of the outcome indicators) by itself is not necessarily a good
indicator for quality, although good teachers are necessary to ensure improved quality. The establishment
of external assessment instruments (another outcome indicator) might be a means to measure quality of
learning, but it is not an indicator of quality. The same comment goes with the fourth outcome indicator –
increased MES monitoring of program implementation. There was no indicator to measure equity of
access to secondary education.

51.     Given this disconnect, it was difficult for the MES/Directorate as well as for the Bank team to
gauge progress towards achieving the PDO during the first half of the implementation cycle, at which
point this disconnect issue was addressed by restructuring the results framework without modifying the
PDOs, as explained below.

52.      The second issue concerns the aim of preparing graduates for the knowledge society as stated in
the PDOs. Knowledge society was probably one of the priorities of the Bank at the time of Project design,
but it has serious observable and measuring issues that Bank management did not flag at the time of the
preparation cycle. No attempt was made to gauge whether graduates were being prepared for the
knowledge society or not.

53.    The third issue concerns the large number of intermediate output indicators – 19 – many of which
were never updated, for example: (i) upgrading facilities in all RITTs; (ii) textbooks and teaching aids
produced and piloted in 50 selected schools; (iii) assessment of existing textbook policies; (iv) 80 percent

                                                     11
of school improvement support approved; (v) training on planning, management and use of data for
policy monitoring; (vi) MES ready to manage APL with use of appropriate country systems; (vii)
information system for general secondary education statistics processing in place; and (viii) capacity of
Oblasts’ and Rayons’ education authorities to manage the development and implementation of the Rayons’
optimization plans.

54.     The fourth issue is one of attribution, given that some of the project interventions impacting the
PDOs, like the supply of learning equipment and teaching materials, the optimization of schools, just to
mention a few examples, were limited to a few rural schools, thus their likely impact in the overall
education system (as stated in the PDOs) was to be very small or even negligible. The ICR team is of the
opinion that the PDOs needed to be defined in more constrained terms referring only to the universe of
beneficiary schools and comparing the envisaged changes with a control group of comparable non-
benefited schools.

55.     The fifth and last issue is the lack of a baseline of one outcome and several intermediate output
indicators to compare changes during the implementation cycle.

                                        Table 1. Revised M&E Framework

    Outcome and output indicators at appraisal            Revised outcome and output indicators at the MTR
                                                  Outcome indicators
 40 percent of teacher trainers conduct training with    Modified as: Access of poorest students at the project’s
 competency-based approach using modern practices        hub schools; percentage of students from the poorest
 in teaching and learning                                families attending the project’s hub schools
 New external assessment instruments (tests and          Modified as: Percentage of students of the 9th grades in
 exams) accepted by education stakeholders               the project hub schools achieving satisfactory results
                                                         from 6 till 12 marks in Math and Ukranian language
 Increased MES monitoring of program                     Deleted
 implementation and strengthened procurement and
 financial management systems
 Student/teacher ratios of rural schools in pilot rayons Remained the same
 increased to 12-15 students per teacher
                                        Output indicators for component 1
 120 master trainers, 60 percent of Oblast and 30        Remained the same
 percent of rayon level trainers of trainers prepared
 Teacher professional development courses on             Modified to: Percentage of teachers trained with
 modern methods of teaching piloted                      improved teaching skills out of the total target
 10 percent of school directors’ training on             Modified to: Percentage of school principals receiving
 educational leadership piloted                          management training out of the total target
 Management training conducted in all RITTCs             Deleted
 Upgraded facilities in all RITTCs                       Deleted
                                        Output indicators for component 2
 National curriculum board policies/framework            Deleted
 document completed. Subject syllabi revised in light
 of overall curriculum policy
 New generation teaching aids produced and piloted       Modified to: percentage of hub schools receiving
 in 50 selected schools                                  learning materials and equipment provided by the project
 Assessment of existing textbooks policies completed     Deleted
 Examination and school-based assessment pilots          Remained the same
 completed. Plans for implementation of external
 exams finalized


                                                        12
     Outcome and output indicators at appraisal            Revised outcome and output indicators at the MTR
 Ukraine participating in PISA and TIMSS                 Remained the same
 80 percent of school improvement support approved       Deleted
                                         Output indicators for component 3
 MES and Oblast education department training on         Deleted
 planning, management and use of data for policy
 monitoring completed
 MES ready to manage APL with use of appropriate         Deleted
 country systems
 Project efforts supported through information and       Deleted
 communication campaign in a timely and effective
 manner
 Information system for general secondary education      Deleted
 statistics processing is in place
 Capacity of Oblasts and rayon education authorities     Deleted
 to manage the development and implementation of
 rayon optimization plans improved
 General secondary education network in 10 pilot         Deleted (it is already subsumed in one of the outcome
 Rayons optimized to deliver quality education           indicators)
 services
 80 percent of target schools rehabilitated              Deleted
 Studies on issues of public finance and accountability Deleted
 conducted
 Note: Achievement of the outcome and output indicators is reflected in the Data Sheet of this ICR.

56.     M&E implementation. During the MTR mission carried out in April 2008, Bank management
requested the Bank team to retrofit the results framework to the stated PDOs and significantly reduce the
number of indicators. Accordingly, as shown in the Data Sheet of this ICR and in the table 1 above, the
outcome indicators were reduced to three and the output indicators to six. These changes were agreed by
the GoU and endorsed by Bank Management, and have been reflected and consistently updated in the
Implementation Status and Supervision Reports (ISRs) from the archived sequence Number 4 forward.
The PDOs remained the same.

57.      The revised outcome indicators were limited only to the beneficiary schools in the project (hub-
schools) and aimed at measuring: (i) learning outcomes in 9th grade (which is an accepted proxy of
quality); (ii) efficiency, but only in the rural schools included in the optimization scheme by gauging
changes in the student teacher ratios (which is an accepted proxy for efficiency); and (iii) access of the
poorest students at the project’s hub schools which is a good measure of equity access. Baselines for
these outcome indicators were set at the mid-term review mission based on the available information as of
the time of project approval in May 2005.

58.      Unfortunately at the MTR mission, neither the Bank team nor the MES/Directorate made an
effort to include a control group of schools not benefiting from the Project that could be used to gauge the
likely impact of the Project on the newly agreed outcome indicators.

59.     The six intermediate output indicators related to Component 1 (percentage of master trainers,
teachers and school principals trained out of the total target set at appraisal) and to component 2
(percentage of hub schools receiving learning material and equipment provided by the project; Ukraine
participation in international learning assessment schemes – TIMSS and PISA; and national external
assessment implemented. No output indicator was selected for component 3, partly because: (i) the
optimization of rural schools (sub-component 3.3) would impact access of poor students and this was
already measured by another outcome indicator; and (ii) the rehabilitation of schools (sub-component 3.4

                                                       13
that was later dropped from the project altogether) does not really measure any of the required sub-
dimensions contributing to the achievement of the PDOs. Baselines for these output indicators were set at
the MTR mission based on the available information as of May 2005.

60.      M&E utilization. With the exception of the information derived of the outcome indicator
concerning learning outcomes and the output indicator concerning Ukraine’s participation in PISA and
TIMSS, the rest of the information provided by the M&E framework was of limited use in terms of being
able to inform MES’s authorities on decision-making and resource allocation. The main reason of this
limited utilization of information was the significant implementation lateness of the corresponding project
activity generating the required information.

2.4     Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

61.     Financial management rated moderately unsatisfactory. The Bank team carried out a financial
management (FM) assessment of MES during the preparation stage. The existing financial arrangements
for handling the PHRD grant that supported project preparation activities under the Grant Coordination
Unit were to continue providing such services during the implementation period, but now under the
Directorate that was to be established in April 2005. These financial arrangements were found by the FM
assessment to be satisfactory as reported in the PAD. Unfortunately, reality proved otherwise, as the
Directorate was not really well positioned to handle the FM aspects of the project in a timely and effective
manner. The reasons for the Moderately Unsatisfactory rating are provided below.

62.      While the FM supervision carried out during the life of the Project found that the some elements
of the Project’s accounting, reporting and and internal control arrangements were in place, a number of
other FM issues adversely affected project implementation. FM arrangements were rated MU by almost
all the supervision missions because of: (i) the significant delays in paying Directorate staff, as well as
contractors of goods delivered and services rendered by consultants and other suppliers (requiring about 6
reviewing steps to be processed before the authorization for payment was issued, some of them redundant
and unnecessary); payment processes were even further delayed by frequent changes of the Ministry
officials which affected availability of project signatories. Deficiencies in the payment process led to the
need to extend the application deadline by an additional two months; (ii) the long delays in submitting
statement of expenditure reports at times lagging almost 22 months; and (iii) the lack of approval of a
2010 budget for the project (a temporary, but insufficient budget was given to the Directorate by the MoF
later in the year); and (iv) Delays in appointment of auditors and carrying out financial audits, as well as
qualifications in the audit reports and internal control issues noted by auditors. Specifically, the 2008
Audit report was not submitted on time and the one for 2009 was qualified with respect to physical
observations concerning the project’s assets.

63.      In addition to the above, project funds amounting to US$94,641 included in a Project transit
account held in the commercial bank Ukrprombank that became bankrupt could not be accessed while
transferring this transit account to a new bank – Ukreximbank. Accordingly, the Bank requested the GoU
to refund this amount before the closing of the loan. This refund took place but after the project closing
date and following extensive formal communication between the Bank and GoU.

64.     Procurement was rated moderately satisfactory. The Bank team carried out a preliminary
procurement capacity assessment during the preparation process, which was later modified by the
findings of a 2005 Country Procurement Assessment (CPA). With the findings of the CPA the
Directorate’s procurement capacity was reassessed and recommendations made to strengthen its
procurement capacity.



                                                    14
65.     The ICR team is of the view that the procurement plan agreed at appraisal was ambitious and did
not take into account the lack of implementation capacity at the Directorate; particularly, for carrying out
a large volume of relatively small and geographically dispersed civil works, compounded by overly
complex procurement procedures. According to some Bank team supervision reports, the procurement
plan rather than project activities and their objectives drove project implementation.

66.       Despite the delays in procurement processes and the obvious lack of organizational and
management capacity at the Directorate, most of the Bank supervision missions rated the project’s
procurement as Moderately Satisfactory. By and large, all the post-review procurements carried out by
the Bank team during the entire implementation cycle, including the last one undertaken in October 2010,
revealed no major deviations from the Guidelines, albeit the procurement capacity of the Directorate,
especially for tendering international competitive bidding, was found to be weak. There were also issues
of staffing with qualified procurement (as well as financial) specialists, some of whom, once familiar with
Bank procedures, tended to migrate from one international financed project to another or to the private
sector for better wages. This labor migration phenomenon resulted at times in a Directorate that lacked
sufficient qualified staff to ensure a prompt procurement response.

67.     There were some procurement issues raised by the Bank team. One related to the bidding process
for school laboratories and equipment that had to be canceled due to mismanagement of the evaluation
process. This bidding process was restarted, with the result that these learning goods reached the
beneficiary project schools at the end of December 2010.

68.      Another procurement issue not flagged during the preparation stage concerned the intention of the
RITTs to contract government employees as consultants for the training to be provided under component
1. Since there was no waiver in the Loan Agreement to include this selection process, there were
significant delays in working out a waiver that would allow the RITTs as unique and specialized
organizations who could provide training as designed at appraisal. This delay meant that in the end, only
10 out of 28 RITTs ended up participating in the training activities, which in turn prevented achievement
of the targets set at appraisal of 4,000 teachers and 2,200 school headmasters trained.

69.      Compliance with environmental safeguards not rated. The project was given a B environmental
rating at appraisal and required and Environmental Management Plan. This plan was approved by Bank
management on June 2004 and also immediately submitted for consultation with key project stakeholders
and local non-governmental organizations (NGOs). However, the environmental safeguards were never
triggered as the Directorate was unable to implement sub-component 3.4 concerning the rehabilitation of
600 schools and the civil works category was closed in December 2009.

2.5     Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

70.      Most of the triggers to proceed to phase II of the APL were not achieved by the GoU (as detailed
in section 3.2 of this ICR), and given the unsatisfactory physical and financial performance, it was agreed
by the Bank not to pursue phase II of the APL. Given the lack of interest on the part of the government
and the very poor performance of this project, the Bank is not embarking on any follow up operations in
the sector in the Ukraine. Moreover, very few if any donors participate in the Ukraine education sector.
Those who do, have their carefully carved out niche such as UNICEF for inclusive education and the
USAID for student assessments.

3.      Assessment of Outcomes

3.1     Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation


                                                    15
71.      At the preparation stage. The Bank’s support for education in Ukraine was in line with the
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) 2004-2007 (Report 26448-UA discussed by the Board on October 27,
2003) focusing on the further strengthening of the reform strategies and implementation in the education
sector. The CAS’s aim in the continued support to Ukraine was facilitating reforms of institutions and
policies. The issue of access to quality education is explicitly acknowledged in the CAS document and
Objective 3 of the CAS relates to harmonized human development, improving access to modern
technologies for all students and providing for rationalization of unused facilities. All of these aspects of
education were supported by the project

72.     At the time of the closing of the Loan. The project’s PDOs are also consistent with the strategic
goal 7 (Improved Governance and Accountability) included in the second pillar of the Country
Partnership Strategy 2008-2011. This second pillar refers to the Bank’s support to Public Finance and
Public Sector Reform and Improved Service Delivery through the improvement of governance in the
education sector, in particular with respect to the quality of education and the enhancement of the
efficiency and management of the education system in Ukraine. Therefore it is clear that the current
relevance of the PDOs is remains high but those for the project’s design and implementation arrangement
are negligible.

3.2     Achievement of Project Development Objectives

73.     Assessment of PDO achievements. Given the design issues of the results framework previously
described in section 2.3 of the ICR, the achievement towards the stated PDOs - “to ensure equal access to
quality education and improved efficiency of the education system to prepare Ukraine’s graduates for the
knowledge society” – using the original outcome indicators (included in table 1 above) could not be
assessed by the MES during the first half of the implementation cycle.

74.     It was after the results framework was revised during the April 2008 MTR mission with the
consent of the GoU and Bank Management and the outcome and output indicators limited to the scope of
the project (see table 1 above), that the achievement towards the original PDO could be measured and
reported in the ISRs numbers four to 10. The ICR authors rates the achievement of the PDOs through the
revised outcome indicators as moderately unsatisfactory for the following three reasons (and further
described in the Data Sheet of this ICR).

75.      The learning achievements in math and Ukranian language in 2010 of students of the 9th grades
in the project hub schools (outcome indicator 1) worsened as compared to the baseline and were way off
the target set at appraisal. Two project interventions were included to affect learning outcomes – training
of teachers and head masters and provision of learning goods. With respect to training, no on-site
assessment was ever conducted about the effectiveness of the teacher and head school masters training
conducted by the project, thus there is no evidence available to the ICR about the presumed impact of
training in improving learning outcomes. The learning goods acquired by the project arrived at the
project schools just at the end of December 2010, thus, these also did not contribute to improving learning
outcomes during the project period. Based on the evidence, it can be assumed that the project did not
contribute to improving learning outcomes in the project’s hub-schools, and in fact, learning outcomes in
language and math have been brought down in the last five years.

76.     The positive trend shown by the increased student teacher ratio in rural schools in pilot network
optimization rayons (outcome indicator 2) could be a likely consequence of the optimization program
undertaken in 32 rural project hub-schools including about 90 satellite schools. However, not having a
comparable control group of rural schools, there is no information on where the changes in student
teacher ratios in non-project rural schools during the same time period.


                                                     16
77.      Even though the target of the percentage of students from the poorest families attending the
project’s hub schools (outcome indicator 3) was surpassed, it is unlikely that this is a consequence of the
project. If one looks at the yearly progression of this indicator – 14.2 percent in 2006, 13.6 percent in
2007, 15.5 percent in 2008 and 15.7 percent in 2009, improvement were achieved despite that the sub-
component 3.3 (school network optimization) was not yet implemented (the 100 buses started operating
in early 2010). The ICR authors were informed that periodic changes of the definition of the poverty
level by Parliament caused this indicator to change. In addition, not having a comparable control group
of rural schools, there is no information as to what were the changes in equity access from the poorest
families attending non-project rural schools.

78.     Output (or intermediate outcome) indicators. According to the information shown in the ICR Data
Sheet the project achieved or surpassed 4 output (intermediate outcome) indicators and did not achieve
two of them.

79.     The following two triggers out of nine to proceed to phase II of the APL were achieved:

(i)     National external standardized exams (Matura) taken by 70 percent of secondary school leavers;
        and
(ii)    Rayons prepared Rayon Optimization Plans.

80.     One trigger out of nine, listed below, was only partially achieved:

81.      The framework document for the new national curriculum was completed and delivered to the
MES for its review and approval. However, this document was never disseminated, nor was it agreed
with all relevant stakeholders, as included in the trigger. Furthermore, the MES has shown no ownership
of this new curriculum framework (prepared by external consultants in the Directorate), making its
likelihood for sustainability is minimal at best.

82.     The following six triggers out of nine to proceed to phase II of the APL were not achieved:

(i)     New policy and system of certification of teachers’ competence formulated and approved;
(ii)    New regulatory framework for directors’ certification of competence formulated and approved;
(iii)   Sustainable, transparent and efficient policy on textbooks approval, production, distribution and
        evaluation agreed with the Bank and approved by the MES;
(iv)    General Secondary Education statistics is collected electronically from all Oblasts of Ukraine and
        processed;
(v)     Sixty percent completion of investments in 10 piloted Rayons; and
(vi)    MES ready to use appropriate country systems and procedures.

3.3     Efficiency

83.     According to the economic and financial analysis carried out in the PAD, it was envisaged that
the project would yield an Internal Economic Rate of Return (IERR) of 15.2 percent. The estimated
IERR was most sensitive to the number of beneficiaries, especially the percentage of school-age
population in the coming years and any increase in the parents’ out-of-pocket expenses to send their
children to school. Both assumptions changed significantly and negatively during project implementation
although for the latter the data used is based on anecdotal evidence rather than published data. Similarly,
while the simulation was indicative of the fact that the project’s investments were robust, the constant
bottlenecks and follow-up reduction in project financing suggest that the project failed to reach an

                                                    17
estimated IERR (albeit it was overly optimistic - with expectations for the benefit stream to equal almost
half of the annual general secondary education budget for the period of project implementation).

84.      Only close to its end was the Project able to support a number of important activities with
potential for an economic return. The Project activities created conditions for optimization in pilot
districts and showed the path for modernization of the education system but the benefits of the project
will largely depend upon completion of the optimization exercise and education reforms by the new
Government.

85.      As many of the results of the Project including learning outcomes and efficiency gains, will take
some time to materialize, carrying out a similar to appraisal phase cost-benefit analysis as of the end of
the Project was not thought to be useful. Against this background, neither a rate of return nor a present
value analysis is presented here. Overall, as further detailed in the Annex 3 of the ICR many project
activities were limited to a few rural districts and its impact in the overall education system is marginal
contrary to the declared PDOs; a number of important activities were either significantly delayed or fully
cancelled (see section 2.2 for cancelled activities) and there are sustainability concerns on some of the
project achievements. Accordingly, the efficiency of this Project is rated as Negligible.

3.4     Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

86. Given the information provided in the ICR Data Sheet and in section 3.2, the overall outcome of
this Project is rated as Unsatisfactory.

3.5     Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a)     Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

87.      The project benefited 32 rural hub-schools included in the school optimization framework under
sub-component 3.3, including the provision of learning materials and equipment which is important from
the standpoint of poverty gap between rural and urban households, as well as higher projected poverty
risk in the country for rural areas (see poverty assessment updates for Ukraine and Country Economic
Memorandum 2010). A total of 527 rural schools all over the country were equipped with teaching
computer classes leading to better learning opportunities for children from rural areas. Also during the
last week of the project’s implementation, the number of rural schools received laboratories of physics,
biology, chemistry and mathematics, as well as books and sports equipment. However, due to the
significant delay in having implemented these activities, and the lack of a control group to compare with,
there is no hard evidence available to gauge the impact this project had, if any, on reducing poverty.

(b)     Institutional Change/Strengthening

88.    One major institutional accomplishment of the project was to position the MES to
undertake standardized learning assessment measurements in different levels of the education
system and to participate in international learning assessment schemes, like the TIMSS.

89.      The project intended to introduce a new curriculum framework in secondary education and to
strengthen the analytical capacity of the MES to decide on education policy through the establishment of
the PPD. As mentioned elsewhere in the ICR, the MES has not shown indications of owning the
curriculum framework document prepared by consultants outside the MES and delivered in December
2010, and it is likely that no follow up will take place during 2011. Likewise, the PPD that was
established as a project unit within the MES never achieved its intended incubator role to foster education
policy debate and is likely to be discontinued in 2011.

                                                    18
(c)     Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

90.     None. There were no other development partners working in the areas of education this project
worked in. It bears mentioning that the donor participation in the education sector in the Ukraine is and
continues to be limited.

3.6     Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

91.     Not applicable.

4.      Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

92.      The ICR team rates the risk to development outcomes as Significant for the following reasons.
Out of the 14 key sub-components included in the original project design, only the following three will
likely be financially, institutionally and technically sustained after the closing of the Loan: (i) annual
carrying out of the external assessment; (ii) the optimization scheme in rural areas, which has been
operating in the rural areas of Ukraine since 2003, before this project was designed, will continue to be
carried out by the rayon education authorities; and (iii) the training activities under sub-component 1.2
and 1.3 depending upon the availability of financial resources in the 2011 budgets of some the 10 RITTs
that participated during the implementation cycle and also contingent on the printing and distribution of
the training materials that were prepared for this effect.

5.      Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1     Bank Performance

(a)     Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Unsatisfactory

93.     The preparation cycle took about 20 months from pre-identification (December 2002) to appraisal
(July 2004) and included 6 missions. Negotiations took place in April 2005, once the new elected
Government that took over in January 2005 had the opportunity to internalize the proposed project design
prepared under the previous administration. The Board approved the Project on May 24, 2005; the Loan
was signed by the GoU on September 5, 2005, and declared effective on February 7, 2006. The nine
months elapsing from Board approval to effectiveness were common with other Bank-financed projects in
Ukraine.

94.      Only one task team leader (TTL) was responsible for the entire project preparation cycle and also
for the early supervision stages (until mid-2007) thus providing a welcome continuity to these two
processes up to the point that this TTL was replaced because she left the Bank. As detailed below, the
preparation process is a mixed story with strengths and weaknesses and ultimately faulty project design,
resulting regrettably in unsatisfactory implementation progress as explained elsewhere in this ICR.

95.     As already described in Section 2.1, the ICR team rates the Bank performance at the preparation
stage as unsatisfactory. What follows is a more detailed explanation of the reasons for this rating,
highlighting the strengths as well as the serious shortfalls, in particular those related to a complex project
design, the lack of an institutional capacity assessment, a weak results framework and a lack of
implementation readiness conditions, adversely affecting the physical and financial implementation
progress of this project (the assessment of the project’s results framework included during the preparation
cycle appears in section 2.3 while the one for the fiduciary and safeguards appears in section 2.4 of this

                                                     19
ICR).

96.     The ICR team considers the: (a) strategic relevance and approach for this project as appropriate;
(b) lending instrument consisting of a three-phase APL as adequate, had the first phase be less complex
and had been implemented more effectively by the Directorate; (c) client orientation as effective; and (d)
the economic, financial and social assessments analysis as suitable.

97.      The project design comprising three components, 14 sub-components and a myriad of different
activities was extremely complex and difficult to be timely and effectively implemented in the context of
limited institutional capacity within the context of a newly formed Education Development Programs
Directorate (the Directorate) under the auspices of the MES, which was not familiar nor appropriately
prepared to manage Bank-financed operations. The Directorate was established as a legal not for profit
public entity subordinate to the MES and with functions similar to that of a project management group.
The ICR authors note that this complex design was not objected to or flagged by Bank management or by
the peer reviewers at the Project Concept Note and the PAD review meetings.

98.     The fact that this project was prepared by consultants under a PHRD Grant, and later,
implemented by consultants in the Directorate, significantly diminished the MES’s engagement and
ownership of the project, with detrimental consequences for the sustainability of project activities at the
closing of the Loan.

99.     As fully explained in sections 2.3, 3.2 and 5.1 of the ICR, the project’s Results Framework: (i)
had some disconnect between the phrasing of the PDOs with the outcome indicators; (ii) had attribution
issues between the scope of the project and the stated PDOs; (iii) had too many indicators, most of which
were never monitored and/or updated during project implementation; and (iv) lacked baseline data for
some of the indicators.

100.     The ICR authors find that Bank team did not carry out a suitable institutional capacity assessment
of the proposed implementation arrangements consisting of an autonomous Directorate managing the
project independent from the MES through consultants, some of them earning more than the Minister of
Education. This lack of operational coordination between the MES and the Directorate also hindered a
more timely and effective implementation progress. Accordingly, the project lacked the implementation
readiness conditions at the time the Loan was declared effective.

101.    The Bank team carried out procurement and financial capacity assessments identifying some, but
regrettably not all key issues that needed to be addressed prior to the start of the implementation cycle.
Some of these issues that were not flagged at the preparation stage and were only discovered after Loan
effectiveness related particularly to the flow of funds within the project. These were never effectively
addressed during the implementation period. For example, six steps, some of them redundant and
unnecessary, were required to complete the payment of an eligible expenditure of goods acquired and
services rendered under the Project. The payment process was adversely affected by frequent changes of
the Ministry/Directorate officials, leading to extended periods when project signatories would not be
available to sign disbursement/payment documents. Delays in payment, oscillating between 15 to 22
months, plagued the entire project implementation period.

102.    There was compliance with the Bank’s environmental safeguard policies at the time of project
preparation with respect to the infrastructure activities included in the project design. To comply with the
B environmental rating, the Bank team timely ensured the preparation of an Environmental Management
Plan, approved by Bank management on June 2004 and submitted for consultation with key project
stakeholders and local non-governmental organizations immediately after.


                                                    20
103.    There was a risk assessment, which, unfortunately, underestimated key risks which affected the
project’s implementation performance, as further described in section 2.1 of this ICR.

(b)     Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

104.     Implementation guidance was under the supervision responsibility of four TTLs. The first one,
also in charge of the entire preparation cycle, was responsible for supervision undertaken from Board
approval (May 2005) and Loan effectiveness (February 2006) until early 2007, at which point due to an
unanticipated early retirement from the Bank, the second TTL took over in an acting and temporary
capacity. The tenure of the second TTL continued until the summer 2007, with a third TTL taking over
for the next 18 months, after which supervision was taken over by another TTL (due to a mandatory
rotation policy in the Bank for the third TTL). The fourth and last TTL took over in early 2009 and her
tenure included the closing of the Loan (December 31, 2010) and the preparation of the ICR.

105.    The transition in supervision leaderships did not allow for sufficient time for an adequate hand
over between incoming and outgoing TTLs. The lack of appropriate continuity in the reporting was
evident from the style and focus of one ISR to the next and the delays between their updating (15 months
between ISR Number 3 and Number 4 and 10 months between Number 4 and Number 5 which coincided
with the arrivals of the third and fourth TTLs respectively).

106.    This project also underwent to a Quality Enhancement Review (QER) undertaken in November
2009, which provided a few recommendations that could be factored in during the last year of
implementation. Given the timing of the QER, during the one-year extension that was provided in order
for there to be “an orderly closing,” it’s recommendations focused on lessons learned and factors to be
thought of if there was to be a follow up operation in the Ukraine.

107.    Eleven supervision missions took place during the life of the project, including the MTR
conducted in April 2008 and the last support supervision/ICR mission in December 2010. These
supervision missions also included the ones of purely financial-related and/or procurement-related
matters. The above implies that in the 58 months elapsing from effectiveness to the closing of the Loan,
the Bank team carried-out on average supervision every five months, thus maintaining, by and large, a
close oversight of the implementation cycle, except in the transition periods from one TTL to the next.
The project file contains 10 ISRs, indicating that these were updated in the system about once every six
months, except during the transfer period from one TTL to another, where the updating of the ISR took
longer (15 months in one case and 10 months in another).

108.     Almost every Bank supervision mission included a procurement and financial management
specialist to review the fiduciary compliance by the Borrower. In addition, the Bank carried out several
in-depth random post procurement reviews as well as financial management review missions during the
life of the project. Bank staff located in the field consistently and effectively supported the Bank’s
supervision efforts throughout the entire implementation cycle, in particular following up on the
compliance of the carrying out of agreed tasks between missions. By and large, supervision missions
included the appropriate skill-mix to carry out their envisaged terms of reference as attested in Annex 4 of
the ICR, except with respect to civil works. Despite the fact that civil works represented 48 percent of the
total contracted Loan amount, and displayed serious execution issues from the onset of the project
implementation cycle, only during the last year 18 months of implementation (six months before the 12
month extension) when it was increasingly likely that the loan was going to close without any civil works
was a school architect included on the Bank team. This was a gross oversight and the Bank supervision
team should have included an architect early on in the implementation period.

                                                    21
109.     Most of the Bank supervision missions were reactive in nature attempting to address the several
preparation and implementation gaps detailed elsewhere in the ICR. Accordingly up to mid-2007, the
focus of the supervisions was on getting the project activities implemented and by having the right inputs
in place, for example, opening the Special Account and staffing the Directorate with the appropriate mix-
skilled staff. The second half of the implementation cycle is characterized by: (i) canceling project
activities that were never implemented in the framework of a very complex design; (ii) revising a flawed
results framework; (iii) addressing financial bottlenecks resulting in delayed payments to contractors of
goods delivered or services rendered; and (iv) supporting those few project activities that were being
implemented, like the participation in international learning assessment schemes, the in-service teacher
training and the start of the rural school-network optimization. The poor implementation performance
displayed by the GoU may have also partially contributed to the Bank team’s focus on implementation
issues rather than on outcomes and impact. For example, on-site assessments to gauge the effectiveness
of the in-service teacher training provided since the end of 2008 onwards to master trainers, teachers,
school headmasters, staff of the RITTs and methodologists of the Oblasts and Rayons, were never carried
out.

110.     The findings of each supervision mission were conveyed to Bank management clearly and in a
straightforward and candid fashion including the accomplishments, as well as the implementation
shortcomings and potential risks assessed by the Bank team raising flags of concern, like for example,
poor disbursement trends. Ratings were consistent with the story portrayed in the supervision reports,
downgrading when it became necessary and upgrading, in very few occasions, when there were signs of
improvement. As explained in more detailed elsewhere in the ICR, achievement towards the PDOs as
well as Implementation Performance, Project Management, Financial Management, Monitoring and
Evaluation and the implementation of the 3 project components were consistently rated moderately
unsatisfactory by the Bank team during the entire implementation cycle. Only procurement and
counterpart funding received a better rating of moderately satisfactory and satisfactory respectively. Bank
management praised in many occasions the way the supervisions were conducted and the findings
reported in the difficult context posed by the poor performance of the GoU.

111.     During the 2008 MTR, the Bank team restructured the results framework to make it more attuned
to the PDOs and to reduce the number of indicators only to those key ones that could be observed and
measured. The issue of attribution of the results framework was also satisfactorily addressed. Likewise,
as explained in section 2.2 of the ICR, several inactive project activities were dropped to focus only on
few that were being implemented and could impact the PDOs. However, because of the lack of
continuity of TTLs, there was insufficient follow up by the Bank supervision team in ensuring that the
recommended cancelled activities were dropped by the MES and the Directorate. It took almost one year
for some recommended canceled activities to be dropped by the Directorate. The dropping of these
activities, was noted in Aide Memoire, but did not require an amendment to the loan agreement as the
essence of the three original components and the PDOs remained unchanged.

112.     The fact that the MTR took place about 21 months before the original closing date very likely
prevented the Bank team from exploring different institutional arrangements. One of which could have
been MES taking charge of project implementation supported by consultants rather than Consultants with
no “political support from MES” managing the Project. The MTR Bank team assumed that the likelihood
of an improved physical and financial implementation progress under the current implementation
arrangements would increase with a streamlined project design including a significantly smaller number
of activities. This assumption proved to be incorrect.

113.    In summary, the Bank supervision missions were dominated by the poor governance and project
implementation performance of the GoU leaving insufficient space for them to be more proactive in
seeking outcomes and larger picture results. There were many supervision strengths as described above,

                                                    22
but one serious shortfall - the lack of appropriate continuity during the change of TTLs. Accordingly, the
ICR rates the Bank supervision performance as moderately satisfactory.

(c)     Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

114.    According to current ICR rating guidelines, the overall Bank performance is rated moderately
unsatisfactory because the rating at the preparation stage was unsatisfactory and at the supervision stage
moderately satisfactory.

5.2     Borrower Performance

(a)     Government Performance

Rating at the preparation stage: Moderately Satisfactory

115.     A Japanese PHRD Grant (TF051136) amounting to US$768,400, financed project preparation
activities. Of the total amount, US$761,829 (99.1 percent of the total) was disbursed. About 93 percent
of the Grant proceeds went to finance consultant services and 7 percent for project preparation
workshops.

116.     The MES was the government entity ultimately responsible for project preparation. The MES in
turn, relied on selected consultants financed by the PHRD grant to undertake the required preparation
activities. This Project was the first experience of the MES/consultants working with the Bank, thus the
technical counterpart team was not sufficiently familiar with Bank project preparation procedures, in
particular, the fiduciary aspects of financial management, procurement and environmental safeguards.
Accordingly, the Bank team was key to providing the on-site technical support to ensure that the
counterpart completed the project design by mid- June 2004, at which time the Bank conducted the
appraisal mission. However, the Bank team was also responsible for not conducting or requesting from
the counterpart key information to assess the institutional capacity of MES through its envisaged
Directorate to carry out the many project activities included in the project design. In that sense, the
counterparts could not be held solely accountable for the project preparation gaps, nor for ensuring
implementation readiness at the time of Loan effectiveness.

117.    As project preparation strengths, the technical counterpart team took into consideration some
positive lessons learned into the project design, in particular with respect to standardized learning
assessment measurement schemes and in-service teacher training programs that were proven to be
effective in other countries in the Eastern Europe and Central Asia region.

118.   Another government strength displayed during the preparation stage was the support provided by
the MoF endorsing the ten-year APL and ensuring the counterpart funds in the 2006 budget. As
mentioned before, timely allocation of counterpart funding was rated satisfactory throughout the entire
implementation cycle.

119.    Given that the technical counterparts timely complied with the completion of the project design
attuned to the observations and recommendation made by the Bank team, notwithstanding the project
preparation gaps mentioned in sections 2.1 and 5.1(a) of this document, the ICR rates the Borrower
performance during the preparation stage as moderately satisfactory.



                                                   23
Rating at the implementation stage: Unsatisfactory

120.     The project preparation and implementation cycles transcended three elected governments
(January 1999 to January 2005; January 2005 to January 2010; and the current one that took office in
January 2010). With each change of government there were also changes in the MES (three Ministers of
Education), as well as in the Directorate after it was established in April 2005 during project
implementation. A total of five heads of the Directorate were responsible for Project management (the
first from Board approval in May 2005 to July 2006; the second from August 2006 to May 2007; the third
from June 2007 to June 2008; the fourth from July 2008 to May 2010; and the last one, from June 2010 to
the closing of the Loan). The average tenure of about one year was too short for a new incoming project
Director to become familiar with the intricacies of a complex project design and the Bank’s fiduciary
requirements thus not providing a conducive environment for effective project management. These
changes also resulted in: (a) changes in qualified personnel adversely affecting the implementation
progress of the project; and (b) delays in updating and registering the specimen of authorized signatures to
handle the loan’s proceeds.

121.    It took a little over one year after Loan effectiveness for the MES and the MOF to open the
Special Account. As mentioned in section 2.4 of this ICR, there were systematic and significant delays
by the MOF’s Treasury in paying contractors of goods delivered and services rendered, including staff at
the Directorate.

122.    The timely allocation of counterpart funds was the only dimension of government performance
that was consistently rated as Satisfactory by the various Bank supervision missions. On the downside,
the project budget was approved for 2010 until later in the year.

123.    Rating: Given the above-mentioned facts, especially the financial bottlenecks at the Treasury that
was never satisfactorily addressed and the constant changes in project management adversely and
severely affecting project implementation, the Borrower performance at implementation is rated as
unsatisfactory.

(b)     Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Unsatisfactory

124.    The legal implementing agency was the MES through the independent and autonomous
Directorate. The Directorate, in turn, managed the implementation of each project component through
consultants. As reported by different supervision missions, the project suffered from the effects of: (a)
the lack of appropriate operational coordination between the MES and the Directorate; (b) the use of
consultants to implement project activities; and (c) the turnover of staff both at the Directorate and MES,
bringing with each change not only new staff, some of them unfamiliar with the project and the Bank
fiduciary procedures, but also different management styles.

125.    The Directorate was by and large understaffed and lacking the appropriate organizational
arrangements and expertise to timely implement all project activities and also carry out the required day-
to-day fiduciary management tasks. In particular, at the early stages of the implementation cycle, there
were no qualified staffs in either procurement or financial management. Moreover, for a significant
amount of time of the implementation cycle, the Directorate did not have a coordinator for component 3.
This activity, sub-component 3.4 (school rehabilitation), was dropped altogether from the project at the
end of 2009, resulting also in a partial Loan cancellation of US$41.335 million. In addition, and as
mentioned earlier (in section 2.2), the lack of implementation capacity by the Directorate forced the Bank
team to recommend dropping several inactive project activities. Delays and shortcomings in

                                                    24
implementing the consulting and training category of expenditure caused the GoU to request a second
partial cancellation of the Loan amounting to US$13.52 million (15.6 percent of the total contracted
amount).

126.    The submission of audit reports is a mixed story – the ones corresponding to FY07 and 09 were
submitted on time while the one for FY08 had a four-month delay. In addition, the fact that some of the
audit reports as well as some financial management statements were qualified indicates that the
Directorate did not exercise all the required care in ensuring compliance with procurement and financial
procedures as agreed in the Loan Agreement. This is also reflected and confirmed by the several
moderately unsatisfactory ratings provided by the Bank supervision missions to project management and
financial management. For example: (i) one bidding processes for school laboratories and equipment had
to be canceled due to mismanagement of the bidding evaluation process; and (ii) there were long delays in
the Directorate submitting statement of expenditures, at times of almost 22 months.

127.     Several Bank supervision reports indicated that the Directorate which as mentioned previously,
reported to the MES, was not appropriately following up on agreements reached during previous
supervision missions, in particular with addressing the financial bottlenecks, the cancellation of some
project activities and the updating of the required monitoring indicators, a dimension that was consistently
rated as moderately unsatisfactory by all 11 Bank supervision missions carried out during the entire life of
this project.

128.     It bears mentioning however, as indicated in section 2.2 and Annex 2 of this ICR, some project
activities were satisfactorily completed by the Directorate at the end of the project.

129.    Nevertheless, weighing the strengths of having completed some project activities with the
weaknesses mentioned above, the overall implementing agency (the MES through the Directorate), is
Unsatisfactory.

(c)     Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Unsatisfactory

130.     The overall Borrower performance is rated as Unsatisfactory because the poor financial
performance (overall documented Loan disbursement at the closing date was US$22.445 million, 26
percent of the total loan proceeds), as well as poor physical performance of the project. For example, the
entire sub-component 3.4, concerning school rehabilitation comprising the bulk of the original contracted
amount, had to be dropped from further consideration along several other project activities due to
implementation paralysis. In addition, there were recurrent implementation issues having to do with
financial bottlenecks and chronic delays in payments that were never satisfactorily addressed by the
Borrower.

6.      Lessons Learned

(a)     Simpler project designs including less components, sub-components and activities as well as
        simpler disbursement mechanisms are recommended, especially in situations where the Borrower
        lacks previous familiarity working with the Bank, the policy dialogue is new (with little to no
        institutional framework for change) and the implementation context is underpinned by a volatile
        and unpredictable political environment.

(b)     Build capacity within existing structures associated with the Project instead of creating
        separate implementation units. The establishment of the Directorate as an independent Project

                                                    25
        management entity (staffed by consultants earning much more than professional staff at the MES)
        decoupled from its parent ministry – the MES - likely decreased project ownership and
        engagement by the MES, increased implementation ineffectiveness due to tensions and lack of
        coordination between the Ministry and the implementation unit and did not ensure sustainability
        of a significant number of activities at the completion of the Project.

(c)     Top down projects are likely to disengage local actors and diminish implementation
        effectiveness. A project like this one needed to be more decentralized in the way it was
        implemented at the Oblast and rayon levels in the preparation as well as in the implementation
        phases. The actual implementation of this operation was highly centralized in a largely
        ineffectual Directorate that resulted in an unsatisfactory physical and financial project
        performance.

(d)     The need for an appropriate and thorough institutional capacity and readiness assessment during
        the preparation stage is strongly recommended to improve the implementation readiness
        conditions which did not exist for this operation. As it turned out, neither the Directorate nor the
        MES were well positioned to implement and monitor the several project activities included in a
        rather complex project design. For example, no detection was ever made during preparation
        about the potential financial bottlenecks that plagued the entire implementation cycle

(e)     Project design must be based on a well-conceived “results-chain,” where there is connectivity
        between the stated PDOs and the agreed “observable and measurable” outcome indicators
        and the attribution is limited to the scope of the project. Appropriate monitoring
        arrangements are needed from the onset of project implementation to gauge achievement towards
        the stated PDOs and improve management effectiveness.

(f)     Bank management needs to ensure smooth continuity in hand over’s and information flow
        between TTLs throughout the entire preparation and implementation cycle. Even though
        this lesson learned seems to be very particular to this project, it has applicability across the entire
        Bank supervision spectrum. This project was faced with a lack of proper hand over and hence,
        continuity at the time of the unanticipated resignation of the first TTL and at the unavoidable
        rotation of the third TTL. This discontinuity is manifested, among some other evidence, by: (i) a
        lag of 15 months between the issuing of the ISR Number 3 and the updating of the next one – ISR
        Number 4 and 10 months lapsing to update ISR Number 5; and (ii) the different supervision
        emphasis allocated by each incoming TTL and the reporting highlights in the corresponding ISRs.

7.      Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a)     Borrower/implementing agencies

(b)     Cofinanciers

131.    Not applicable.

(c)     Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

132.    Not applicable.




                                                     26
                                Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a)     Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                          Actual/Latest
                                  Appraisal Estimate                              Percentage of
           Components                                    Estimate (USD
                                     (USD millions)                                Appraisal
                                                            millions)
Professional Development of
                                          0.00                11.42
Educators
Improvement of the Learning
                                          0.00                15.99
Process
Efficiency and Management of
                                          0.00                59.18
Resources

                Total Baseline Cost           0.00                86.59
Physical Contingencies
                                              0.00                 0.00                0.00
Price Contingencies
                                              0.00                 0.00                0.00
                Total Project Costs           0.00                86.59
Front-end fee PPF                             0.00                 0.00                .00
Front-end fee IBRD                            0.00                 0.00                .00
        Total Financing Required              0.00                86.59




(b) Financing
                                                          Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                           Type of                                    Percentage of
            Source of Funds                               Estimate       Estimate
                                         Cofinancing                                    Appraisal
                                                       (USD millions) (USD millions)
 Borrower                                              9.69           0.00           .00
 International Bank for Reconstruction
                                                       86.59           0.00         .00
and Development




                                                27
                                   Annex 2. Outputs by Component

133.    This section describes the outputs of each of the three components included in the original
project design. The assessment is primarily based on the Aide-Memoires, ISRs, Audit Reports,
Financial Management Reports and the December 2010 field ICR mission.

134.    Two cost tables are presented to substantiate this Annex: (a) the documented expenditure by
component and by source of financing at appraisal and at the time of the writing of this ICR (table
A2.1); and (b) the documented expenditure by category and by source of financing at appraisal and at
the time of the writing of this ICR (table A2.2).

Component 1 – Professional Development of Educators

135.     This component costing US$12.29 million (13 percent of the total project cost) aimed at
raising the awareness, professional knowledge and competences of teachers and school directors to
implement the reforms underway in teaching and learning in general education. This component had 4
sub components.

136.     According to Table A2.1 below, this component estimated at appraisal to cost US$12.29
million (US$11.059 million from the Bank Loan and US$1.231 million from the GoU), ended up
documenting expenditures amounting to US$2.94 million (US$1.65 million from the Bank and
US$1.29 million from GoU), 23.9 percent of the total estimated at appraisal. The significant financial
shortfall is mainly due to the fact that: (i) the original training targets were only partially achieved (25
percent of the teacher training target and 29 percent of the school master training target); and (ii) some
of its activities, like the rehabilitation of RITTCs, were dropped, as further explained below.

137.    Sub-component 1.1. Training of trainers comprising the modernization of the system of
continuing teacher professional development through the provision of a cadre of about one hundred
twenty (120) educators who could model new approaches to the education of teachers, provide
relevant in-service training, and become a force for renewal in their relevant institutions.

138.     The original target of training 120 master trainers was reduced to 110 by the Directorate (with
the agreement of the Bank team and management) early in the implementation cycle due to the
dropout of 10 candidates to be trained. The revised end-of-project target of training 110 master
trainers was fully achieved. This cadre of trained master trainers, in turn, trained teachers and other
key school stakeholders in innovative teaching methods, use of information and communication
technologies and development of courses under the competency-based approach.

139.    Subcomponent 1.2. In-Service Training for Teachers focused on teachers for the
improvement of teachers’ awareness, knowledge and skills related to the national education reform in
general and their subject-specific professional competences in particular, through the redesign of the
current obligatory teacher in-service training system. It also included the modification of the then
existing system of certification of competence, through the piloting of new training procedures as
implemented under sub-component 1.1 for the training of trainers. Finally it comprised the support to
the organization and delivery of short courses and workshops for about 4,000 teachers addressing the
curriculum reform needs.

140.    Subcomponent 1.3. Leadership training for school directors including the improvement of the
professional knowledge and leadership skills of all school directors so that they can better lead their
school towards the targets of the national education reform. It also comprised the establishment of a
permanent and officially-approved professional development system of school principals, specifically
through the development of a training system and its piloting at selected institutions, the training of
about 800 trainers who would implement the scheme prepared, and the training of about 2,200 school
directors and 210 heads and specialists of local education authorities;


                                                    29
141.     These two sub-components were combined after the MTR, and a total 1,637 school
stakeholders (397 methodists from the rayon methodological centers, 639 head masters, 531 teachers
of the RITTs and 70 heads of district methodological units from pilot rayons) were trained under these
two sub-components, far less than the targets set at appraisal (4,000 teachers, 2,200 school directors
and 210 heads and specialists of local authorities). The following two key reasons explain this target
shortfall: (i) only 10 out of the 28 RITTs participated in the training activities; and (ii) some of the
participating RITTs stopped providing training activities early in 2010 due to lack of payment by the
Directorate. The training materials for the training of the master trainers have been printed but not yet
distributed to all the RITTs while the training materials that were developed for sub-components 1.2
and 1.3 have not yet been printed by the MES, let alone delivered to the 28 RITTs. In addition, no on-
site teaching assessment was ever conducted by this project, thus the ICR team does not have any
hard evidence available to assess the effectiveness of the training provided by the project. The
modification of the then existing system of certification of teaching competence, through the piloting
of new training procedures, included in the original project design under this sub-component, was
never implemented.

142.     Subcomponent 1.4. Improvement of RITTs comprising the improvement of the quality of
training facilities, resources and institutional culture in all 28 regional institutes for teacher training
(RITTs) through the training and staff development, small rehabilitation of the training premises to
make them more appropriate for modern training purposes and the upgrading and expansion of
training equipment, training resources, such as books, journals and software.

143.     Under this sub-component a total of 28 computers scanners, printers, network and server
equipment were provided to the RITTs in all regions of Ukraine. Each RITT was also equipped with
videoconference equipment, along with furniture for computer classes as well as with a high-speed
Internet connection. The enrichment and rehabilitation of the 28 regional RITTs, originally included
in this sub-component, were dropped from the project at the mid-term review, because they were not
being implemented.

144.     Rating component 1. The overall implementation of Component 1 is rated moderately
unsatisfactory because only a small fraction of the end-beneficiaries of this component – about 998
out of a target of 4,000 teachers and 639 out of 2,200 school headmasters– were trained under the
project.

Component 2 – Improvement of the Learning Process

145.      This component costing US$19.72 million (20.5 percent of the total project cost) aimed at
improving the conditions of teaching and learning in secondary schools, including curriculum issues,
evaluation of education outcomes, teaching and learning resources, and school improvement
initiatives for classroom level education reform. Activities to be financed under this component
comprised of four sub components.

146.     As can be seen in Table A2.1, this component estimated at appraisal to cost US$19.72 million
(US$17.75 million from the Bank Loan and US$1.97 million from the GoU), at the end of the project,
had expenditures amounting to US$18.8 million (US$18.1 million from the Bank and US$0.73
million from GoU), 95.4 percent of the total estimated at appraisal. This slight shortfall is mainly due
to: (i) an incomplete process to modernize the curriculum; and (ii) the deletion of several project
activities under this component as further detailed below.

147.    Subcomponent 2.1. Modernization of Curriculum designed to strengthen the policy, strategy
development and implementation capacities at the MES, Oblasts, Rayons and schools to support the
then on-going curriculum development and revision efforts including the development of guidelines
and requirements for new textbooks, teaching guides and teaching and learning materials and the
dissemination of all curriculum documents.


                                                    30
148.    Based on a series of seminars carried out since 2007 involving education stakeholders, the
project’s Directorate consultants produced a document entitled “Framework principles of the content
of general secondary education” which has been given to the MES for further consideration. The ICR
team has no factual evidence of any follow up on this document by the corresponding authorities of
the MES. This sub-component felt significantly short of the target set at appraisal of developing and
implementing capacities at the MES, Oblasts, Rayons and schools to support the modernized
curriculum including the development of guidelines and requirements for new textbooks, teaching
guides and teaching and learning materials and the dissemination of all curriculum documents.

149.     Subcomponent 2.2. Teaching and Learning Tools for the setting up of a national
comprehensive policy for the development, production and dissemination of good-quality teaching
and learning resources to all schools in the country, specifically targeting rural schools, attuned to the
new curriculum. Activities to be financed under this sub-component included: (a) analytical
assessment of current textbook policies; (b) upgrading of school libraries; (c) a pilot for the
production, development and distribution of textbooks and new teaching aids; (d) computerization of
targeted rural schools; (e) experimentation with e-books, virtual laboratories for science and
technology, on line course materials and foreign language materials; (e) creation of a data base of
existing available teaching and learning materials; and (f) the establishment of web portal for the
Institute of Textbooks and Educational Literature and for the Center of Teaching Aids.

150.     A total of 530 teaching computer classes with connection to the Internet and furniture were
provided to 527 rural schools in 27 Oblasts. During the last week of the project’s implementation, the
delivery and installation of 207 laboratories (56 of physics, 52 of biology, 63 of chemistry and
36mathematics), books and sports equipment was completed. The following activities included in the
original project design under this sub-component were dropped at the mid-term review mission due to
lack of implementation of: (i) the analytical assessment of current textbook policies; (ii) the
production on a pilot scale of a new generation of textbooks and teaching aids to be piloted in 50
selected schools; (iii) the upgrading of school libraries; (iv) all the remaining foreign study tours; (v)
the development of on-line courses materials, virtual laboratories for science and technology and
foreign language teaching materials; (vi) the creation of an on-line data-base on available teaching
and learning materials; (vii) the school improvement initiatives; and (viii) the establishment of a web
portal for the Institute of Textbooks and Educational Literature and for the Center of Teaching Aids.

151.     Subcomponent 2.3. Quality Monitoring and Evaluation for the establishment of a
comprehensive national policy and institutional structure for system-wide evaluation of the education
achievement and for quality assurance, through the setting up of a national center of Education
Evaluation and Quality Assurance, including the: (a) carrying out of a national study of student
achievement, involving two learning assessments, a pilot testing of external university entrance
examinations and an analytical study on school- and classroom-based assessment and its implications
for counseling and guidance services in secondary schools; (b) the technical support for the
participation of Ukraine in the Trends in International Mathematics and Science Study (TIMSS); and
(c) the production of training modules on education evaluation and student achievement; and

152.     This has been one of two project sub-components that surpassed its agreed targets set at
appraisal. On May 18, 2007, Ukraine participated for the first time in the international comparative
studies TIMSS 2007 including a sample of 4,498 pupils of fourth grade and 4,527 of 8th grade of 149
schools. The findings of this international study have just been recently published and disseminated.
Ukraine is now preparing to participate in TIMSS-2011, as well as in PIRLS-2011 and will apply for
membership to the International Association for the Evaluation of Educational Achievements.
Whether or not the Government will be able to fund the country’s participation in the next round of
TIMSS (despite considerable preparatory work paid for by the project) or PIRLS 2011 is now in
question due to a change in leadership and differing views on the importance of participation in such
international assessments. The more successful and sustainable activity under this sub-component has
been that a national external assessment has been conducted annually since 2006 (involving 512,000
students in 2008; for 2009 and 2010 the measure was given not in the number of students but of tests,
1.12 million and 1.27 million respectively).
                                                  31
153.     Subcomponent 2.4. School Improvement Initiatives to foster school improvements and
innovations, especially of those schools operating under difficult circumstances and disseminate best
practices through a bottom-up approach, networking of innovative schools and in-service teacher
training activities.

154.    This sub component was never implemented and cancelled during the MTR mission.

155.    Rating component 2. The ICR rates the overall implementation of Component 2 as
Unsatisfactory, because the acquisition of learning goods was poor, very delayed and was not
completed in the scope envisaged, the modernization of the curriculum was never achieved, and the
school improvement initiatives were never implemented.

Component 3 – Efficiency and Management of Resources

156.     This component costing US$63.84 million (66.3 percent of the total project cost) aimed at
improving the efficiency of the general education system, strengthening the capacity for policy
development of the MES and other institutions responsible for general secondary education, and
supporting the MES’s plans to optimize the schools’ network and provide assistance for the
rehabilitation of schools. Activities to be financed under this component included:

157.     As can be found in Table A2.1, this component estimated at appraisal to cost US$63.836
million (US$57.345 million from the Bank Loan and US$6.491 million from the GoU), ended up
documenting expenditures amounting to US$10.79 million (US$9.85 million from the Bank and
US$0.94 million from GoU), 16.7 percent of the total estimated at appraisal. This poor financial
performance is mainly due to the following: (i) the cancellation of US$41.34 million of the loan
corresponding to the uncommitted proceeds of sub-component 3.4 (rehabilitation of 600 schools) that
was never implemented; (ii) the education management information system that was never
implemented; (iii) a PPD that was late in being established and very last minute completion of six out
of eight studies that were commissioned; and (iv) several project activities under this component that
were dropped at the MTR mission due to lack of implementation, including: (a) support for the MES
to manage the APL using appropriate country systems; (b) capacity building at the MES for
processing educational statistics; and (c) capacity building at the 28 Oblasts and 640 Rayons
education authorities to manage the development and implementation of the rayons’ optimization
plans in rural schools.

158.    Subcomponent 3.1.1. Policy Planning and Management through the: (a) establishment of the
Policy Planning Division (PPD) in the MES’s General Secondary Education Department and the
improvement of the planning and management capacities of the central and regional education
administration staff to formulate education policy, develop strategies to implement policies, manage
resources, and monitor and evaluate programs; (b) carrying out of a mass media campaign aimed at
creating a favorable information environment for conducting reforms in the education system and
implementing the Project; and (c) establishment and maintenance of a Project and Program
coordination structure supported by a technical assistance team of consultants.

159.     A PPD was established in the Directorate in 2006 and staffed by project consultants. The
objective of gradually turning the PPD into an incubator for the formulation of education policy
proposals, strategies to implement these policies, manage resources, and monitor and evaluate
programs was never achieved. The only, and very late outputs of the PPD were: (i) the carrying out
of eight policy studies, six of which have just recently been completed in December 2010, and thus no
dissemination of its findings has taken place, and two studies that had to be cancelled due to lack of
acceptable quality; (ii) 19 draft regulations, of which about half have been the approved by the MES;
and (iii) the recent training of 124 district level educational leaders. The ICR mission was informed
that after the closing of the Loan the two consultants assigned to the PPD will leave, there is no
budget allocation for this unit in 2011, thus the likelihood to sustain the PPD in 2011 is negligible.


                                                 32
160.    Subcomponent 3.1.2. Public information campaign. The carrying out of a mass media
campaign aimed at creating a favorable information environment for conducting reforms in the
education system and implementing the Project was only partially achieved.

161.     This sub-component only achieved the following: (i) a sociological study entitled “The
education system in the assessment of the citizens of Ukraine” whose findings were released to the
media and also posted at the website of the MES in 2007; and (ii) three trainings of “Effective public
relations for the educators” in November 2007.

162.    Subcomponent 3.2. Education Management Information System (EMIS) to foster and support
data-based policy analysis and decision making practice in the education sector across all of its levels,
fully supported by the phased development and implementation of a comprehensive national EMIS
for general secondary education administrative statistics’, including collection, processing and
analysis of key education information and the creation of a central database of administrative statistics.

163.     This sub-component did not achieve its objectives of developing and implementing a
comprehensive national EMIS for general secondary education administrative statistics’, including
collection, processing and analysis of key education information and the creation of a central database
of administrative statistics. Its only partial output was the formulation of a paper that described how
an EMIS system in the Ukraine context could look like. The more detailed proposed technical
requirements for such an EMIS, the second part of the development of a strategy for an EMIS system
was never undertaken.

164.     Subcomponent 3.3. Optimization of school network for the carrying out of a pilot program
aimed at the enhancing the schools network optimization plans and thereby improve the delivery of
educational services in the secondary education school networks of Rayons in six selected Oblasts.
This school network would encompass the implementation of a comprehensive set of investments and
activities proposed in the pilot network optimization plan

165.     Under this sub-component, 32 rural hub-schools in six pilot districts and a total of 190
satellite project schools benefitted from the acquisition of 100 buses, seven of which were equipped
for students with special needs, that made it possible to transport nearly 5,000 students from the
satellite schools to the nearest hub-school and back, for them to take optional courses as well as
laboratory classes. Another set of 58 buses was procured under the project during December 2010
and delivered to the hub-schools before the closing of the project.

166.      Subcomponent 3.4. School rehabilitation and furnishing of about 600 selected general
education schools up to standards appropriate for a complete learning environment, addressing the
most urgent needs and with particular emphasis on achieving greater efficiency and economy in the
maintenance and operation of the rehabilitated facilities. Activities under this sub-component would
include inter-alia: (i) roof repairs and correction of structural defects, improvement of heating
facilities and insulation, provision of adequate water and sanitation, and improvement of electrical
systems. This sub-component expected to cost US$46.92 million represented the bulk of the total
project cost (48.7 percent)

167.     The sub-component aiming to rehabilitate 600 selected general schools was never
implemented and US$41.335 million of the Loan, corresponding to uncommitted financial resources
allocated to the civil works category of expenditure under this sub-component were cancelled on May
5, 2010. Agreement was reached at the end of 2009 to only finance the development of 26
architectural designs through consulting firms, of which 17 had to be cancelled in 2010 due to lack of
quality, and of the remaining 9 designs, only three were recently completed and approved by the MES.
The Directorate has not yet paid the consulting firms of these 3 approved architectural designs. The
mission rates the implementation of this sub-component, representing 48 percent of the total
contracted Loan amount, as Unsatisfactory.


                                                   33
 168.     Rating component 3. Given the poor and untimely performance described above, the ICR
 rates the overall implementation of Component 3 as Unsatisfactory.

 169.    As illustrated in table A2.1, the total project cost estimated at appraisal was US$96.28 million
 equivalent, corresponding US$86.587 million equivalent from the Bank Loan (90 percent of the total)
 and US$9.69 million equivalent from the GoU (10 percent of the total). At the closing of the Loan’s
 grace period, the total documented expenditure amounted to US$32.97 million equivalent (34.2
 percent of the total estimated at appraisal) of which US$30.007 million came from the Bank Loan
 (34.7 percent of the total contracted amount) and US$2.96 million equivalent came from GoU (30.6
 percent of the total committed at negotiations).

                     Table A2.1: Documented expenditures by component and by source at
                              appraisal and closing of the Loan (in US$ millions)

   Component           At the time of appraisal          At the time of Loan closing                Percentages
                     IBRD        GOU        Total       IBRD         GOU       Total
                       (1)        (2)         (3)         (4)         (5)        (6)      (4)/(1)     (5)/(2)       (6)/(3)
 Component 1         11.059      1.231      12.290       1.646       1.290      2.936       14.9       104.8          23.9
 Component 2         17.750      1.970      19.720      18.073       0.730     18.803      101.8       37.1           95.4
 Component 3         57.345      6.491      63.836      9.856        0.941     10.797       17.2       14.5           16.7
 Front fee            0.433      0.000       0.433      0.433        0.000      0.433      100.0                     100.0
 Total               86.587      9.692      96.279      30.007       2.961     32.969      34.66       30.6           34.2

 170.    As displayed by table A2.1, Component 3 was the poorest performer among the three
 included in the original project design, while Component 2 fared much better, as explained above.

 171.     Table A2.2 shows that the Directorate was unable to spend any financial resources under the
 civil works category of expenditure, of which a significant part was cancelled from the Loan in early
 2010. Another category of expenditure that performed poorly was the one for consulting services,
 which resulted from the unfinished curricular reform process that was envisaged at appraisal, as well
 as the incomplete in-service teacher training process, the development of a comprehensive EMIS and
 the public information campaign. This poor financial performance of this category of expenditure
 caused the GoU to request a second partial cancellation of the Loan of US$13.52 a few days before
 the closing date. The category of goods exceeded its intended financial target set at appraisal by
 about 32.3 percent and the incremental operational costs almost mirrored the expected trend set at
 appraisal.

               Table A2.2: Documented expenditures by category and by source at appraisal and
                          at the closing of the Loan (in US$ millions) needs to change

     Category of
                              At the time of appraisal           At the time of Loan closing                  Percentages
     Expenditure
                            IBRD         GOU         Total       IBRD        GOU        Total
                              (1)         (2)          (3)         (4)        (5)         (6)       (4)/(1)     (5)/(2)     (6)/(3)
Works                       41.335       5.592       46.927       0.0         0.0        0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0
Goods                       17.739       2.100       19.839      24.443      1.810      26.253       137.8       86.2        132.3
Consultants’ Services and
                            19.441       1.000       20.441      4.861       0.337      5.198        25.0        33.7         25.4
Training
Incremental Operating
                            0.280        1.000       1.280       0.270       0.814      1.084        96.4        81.4         84.7
costs
Unallocated                  7.359        0.0         7.359       0.00        0.0         0.0
Sub-total                   86.154       9.692       96.279      29.574      2.961      32.535       34.3        30.6       33.8
Front-end-fee                0.433       0.000        0.000       0.433      0.000       0.433      100.0                   100.0
Total                       86.587       9.692       96.279      30.007      2.961      32.969      34.66        30.6       34.2



                                                              34
                                Annex 3: Economic and Financial Analysis

172.     The Economic and Financial analysis for the Equal Access to Quality Education project
(EAQEP) presented below is undertaken following the approach used for its feasibility assessment
during the appraisal of the project, as described in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), in order to
ensure the appropriateness of the evaluation of final project outcomes compared to expected results.
Part A deals with macroeconomic and fiscal trends, education, and specifically general secondary
education (GSE) 2 expenditure trends and resource envelope for the EAQEP. Part B focuses on
efficiency analysis without repeating the similar to appraisal phase cost-benefit analysis with
recalculations of the rate of return or a present value for the reasons explained in the section 3.3 of the
ICR.

Macroeconomic Context

173.     After a decade of severe economic decline in the 1990s, when Ukraine’s GDP collapsed by
60 percent in real terms, the country’s macro-economic situation and economic growth have improved
remarkably. GDP growth in 2000-2008 averaged 7 percent annually. Ukraine’s dynamic emerging
market, its relatively large consumer base, liberalization in the process of accession to the World
Trade Organization successfully completed in 2008 and the launch of negotiations on a free trade area
with the European Union provided impetus for reform and investment. However, the political
volatility that dominated Ukraine between 2005 and 2009 generated severe governance weaknesses
and hindered implementation of reforms. The economic crisis of 2008/09 hit Ukraine harder than
most countries in the region. The country’s real GDP in 2009 decreased by 15 percent showing that
Ukraine’s past development model is unsustainable and that the country will require deep fiscal and
structural reforms. On the poverty front, the situation in the country was improving as a result of the
2000-2008 upturn. According to the World Bank Country Economic Memorandum 2010, the poverty
headcount index (PHI) fell steadily from 47 percent in 2002 to just 12.3 percent in 2007. However,
the economic decline in 2009 is estimated to push Ukraine back to its 2006 poverty level of around 16
percent as measured by PHI.

174.      Ukraine's public and publicly guaranteed debt ratio was very low before the 2008-09 crisis at
12 percent of GDP but due to unjustifiably high public spending in the period of growth and after the
crisis it reached 34.7 percent and further increased by 36 percent in 2010 up to UAH 432 billion
(US$54.3 billion) or to 39.5 percent of GDP. Total public expenditures of the consolidated budget
together with social insurance funds are high and have grown continuously over the years from 35.5
percent of GDP in 2002 to 49.4 in 2009. Public spending continues to be dominated by the social
sectors – pensions (close to 18 percent of GDP), social protection and social assistance, education and
health. So the fiscal pressure and the need for more efficient spending are becoming more and more
prevalent. With economic recovery since 2010 the country gained momentum to implement the badly
needed reforms in public sector governance and financing including in the education sector. The
relevant directions for reforms were set by the new Government in the Program of Economic Reforms
for 2010-2014 ‘Prosperous Society, Competitive Economy, and Effective Government’ developed by
the Committee on the Economic Reforms under the President of Ukraine and approved on June 2,
2010.

Education Budget and Expenditure Trends

175.    In Ukraine the state is the main provider of education services at all levels, however
participation of private institutions in higher education is substantially wider than in preschool,
primary or secondary education. Private schools constitute only 1 percent of general secondary



2
    General secondary education refers, in Ukraine, to the primary and secondary education levels of education.


                                                       35
institutions providing education services to less than 0.5 percent of student cohort of the country.
Also, only 3.2 percent of kindergartens are private serving 1.1 percent of children nurtured in pre-
school childcare institutions. In higher education there are significantly more private providers.
Overall, 14 percent of students study in private universities and colleges which represent 22 percent of
the total number of higher education institutions in Ukraine.

176.     Expenditures for all levels of education come from both the state and local budgets. About
two-thirds of total education expenditure is decentralized to regional (oblast) and local (rayon and
village) levels. The Constitution and law on “Local self-government” guarantee budgetary
independence and spending discretion to sub-national governments, permitting some degree of fiscal
flexibility to local governments in the fulfillment of their designated functions. Most of the revenues
are received through revenue-sharing mechanism in the form of transfers from the Center.

177.     Public expenditures in the education sector increased significantly since 2000 showing
increasing Government commitment to the sector. The education sector’s budget importance as a
proportion of the GDP increased from about 4.2 percent in the year 2000 to about 7.3 percent in 2009,
and as a proportion of the total consolidated budget of the public sector for Ukraine, it went from 14.7
percent 2000 to 21.7 percent in 2009. In 2009, expenditures from the consolidated budget for
education amounted to UAH 66.8 billion. Over the period 2000-09 expenditures in nominal terms
grew by UAH 59.7 billion, a 9.4 times increase over the 2000 level. The increase exceeded the
growth rate of the nominal amount of expenditures of the consolidated budget for these years which
multiplied 6.4 times. Overall, funding for education is high (on average over this period 6 percent of
GDP was allocated for education compared to the OECD average of 5.2 percent). In 2009 it increased
further to 7.3 percent of GDP largely due to the 15 percent decline in GDP as a result of economic
crisis and to a lesser extent due to the continued growth in education expenditures (Table 1).

                                          Table 1. Education Expenditures

                                                                                                             Local
                                Education                                         State budget
  Public       Consolidated                    Percent of      Percent                                 budgets education
                                 budget                                      education expenditures,
 education        budget                      consolidated       of                                      expenditures,
                                 (UAH                                           percent of cons.
expenditure     (UAH bn.)                       budget          GDP                                     percent of cons.
                                  bn.)                                               Budget
                                                                                                            budget
   2000             48.1            7.1           14.7            4.2                 38.8                   61.2
   2005            142.0           26.7           18.9            6.1                 36.9                   63.1
   2006            175.3           33.8           19.3            6.2                 35.9                   64.1
   2007            226.1           44.3           19.6            6.2                 34.2                   65.8
   2008            309.2           61.0           19.7            6.4                 35.4                   64.6
   2009            307.4           66.8           21.7            7.3                 35.8                   64.2
   2010           314.4           77.9            24.8            7.1                 37.0                   63.0
Source: Ministry of Finance, Ukraine; State Statistics Service of Ukraine.

178.    Sectoral allocations are part of the annual bargaining over the state budget. Within the
context of an increasing relative weight of the education sector in the nation’s priorities, while the
share of allocations to the postgraduate, higher education and vocational training remained largely
unchanged, the importance of GSE and preschool within the education sector’s budget grew,
especially in the last decade. In fact, from 2000 to 2009, the GSE levels increased from about 36
percent of the total budget for the sector in the year 2000 to about 41.4 percent in 2009 and preschool
– from 11.1 percent to 12.5 percent.




                                                             36
        Figure 1. Comparison of education expenditures by levels of education in 2000 and 2009


    100%

     80%                                                                other

     60%                                                                Postgraduate education
                                                                        Higher education 
     40%
                                                                        Vocational training
     20%                                                                General secondary education 

      0%                                                                Preschool education
                       2000                       2009


179.    The largest share of expenditures for education (central and local budgets) goes through the
general fund (85.5 percent in 2009). The bulk of the consolidated budget is earmarked for salaries
(including payroll taxes) and utilities and historical norms and standards govern resource allocation.
Budget categories such as salaries and payments for utilities are mainly intended to maintain
budgetary institutions and crowd out other expenditures. At the same time wages in education remain
lower than in many other sectors of the economy including manufacturing, transport, communications,
financial services, retailing, etc.

General Secondary Education Budget

180.     In the 2010/2011 school year, the general secondary schools network of Ukraine
encompassed twenty thousand and one hundred institutions including: 2000 level I schools (grades 1-
4); 5300 level I-II schools (grades 1-9); 12,300 thousand level I-III schools (grades 1-11); 77 level II-
III schools; 389 special schools for children with disabilities (boarding schools) and 11 schools of
social rehabilitation. Elite schools are represented by gymnasiums - 594 institutions; lyceums - 386
and collegiums - 45. Around 510 thousand teachers work in the sector with 4.2 million students
compared to 7.1 million students in 1990/1991 school year.

181.    Despite the fact that the demand for education at the general secondary education (GSE) level
shrank dramatically in the last two decades because of the severe drop in birth rates, the GSE system
did not adjust its size (supply) accordingly. Since Ukraine’s independence the number of students in
primary and secondary education fell by 40 percent, whereas the number of schools only fell by 7
percent and the number of teachers by only 4 percent. Ukraine is therefore maintaining a large
network of increasingly small schools: 30 percent of level I schools have less than 10 students, 21
percent of level I-II schools - less than 40 students; 17 percent of level I-III schools - less than 100
students.




                                                   37
                  Figure 2: Trends in number of students, teachers and schools in GSE in Ukraine, 1990-2010

                         120
     Index, 1990 = 100   110
                         100
                          90
                          80
                          70
                          60
                          50



                                                  schools        teachers       students


182.    At the same time that the student population diminished dramatically, educational expenditure
grew rapidly. Public expenditure on general secondary education grew from about from 1.5 percent to
3 percent of the GDP in the last decade. And all this took place without any visible increase in the
quality of service delivery. The general secondary education budget has been increasing (Table 3)
since 2000 in nominal terms from UAH 2.5 billion in 2000 to UAH 27.6 billion million in 2009. The
contribution from the State budget has also been increasing. However, the State budget’s share is
only 0.7 percent of the consolidated general secondary education budget, indicating that local budgets
provide the bulk of financing for general secondary education (99.3 percent as of 2009).

                                      Table 3. General secondary education financing in Ukraine

                                                                       official
                                                      GSE                              Percent of
                               GSE expenditures                     exchange rate                     Percent
   Year                                           expenditures                        consolidated
                                 (UAH mln.)                        (year average),                    of GDP
                                                   (USD mln.)                           Budget
                                                                   UAH per USD
    2000                           2,564.6           471.43             5.44               5.3          1.5
    2005                           11,158.8          2179.45            5.12               7.9          2.5
    2006                           14,229.2          2817.66            5.05               8.1          2.6
    2007                           18,849.5          3732.57            5.05               8.3          2.6
    2008                           25,409.3          4830.67            5.26               8.2          2.7
   2009                            27,640.7          3548.23            7.79               9.0          3.0
   2010
                                   23,234.6          2926.27            7.94               8.9          3.0
(9 months)
Source: State Statistics Committee of Ukraine; National Bank of Ukraine

183.    The per student cost for the GSE system grew 16.2 times in just a decade. With around 6.76
million students enrolled at the general secondary education level, the average unit cost was UAH 380
in the 2000/2001 school year. Due to declining enrollments, but increasing allocations through the
consolidated budget, the average unit cost increased to UAH 6,149 in 2009/2010.

Efficiency

184.    During appraisal a cost-benefit analysis was carried out to estimate an internal economic rate
of return simulated on the basis of three components: (i) enrolment projections; (ii) estimated direct

                                                                 38
and indirect costs for parents to send their children to school; and (iii) capital and recurrent costs of
the EAQEP investment. All these assumptions changed in a negative way suggesting that the project
did not reach an estimated internal economic rate of return of 15.2 percent.

185.    As detailed in section 2.2 of this ICR for a little over a year after Loan effectiveness, there
were no disbursements of the Loan beyond the initial allocation to the Special Account and for over
two next years the total documented disbursements reached only US$3.1 million (3.6 percent of the
total amount contracted). Since most of the triggers to proceed to phase II of the APL were not
achieved by the GoU (as detailed in section 2.5 and 3.2 of this ICR), it was agreed by the Bank not to
pursue with phase II of the APL. Furthermore, US$54.9 million or 63.4 percent of the original
contracted loan of phase I of the APL estimated at appraisal was cancelled in the course of project
implementation. At the end of the grace period the project disbursed US$30.7 million (94.7 percent)
out of US$31.7 million project cost after cancellations. This five-year investment represents
approximately 0.9 percent of the relevant 2009 GSE consolidated budget (1.4 percent of the relevant
2005 budget).

186.     Nevertheless, close to its end the project supported a number of important activities with
particular emphasis on pilot districts. It has provided training to school directors and teachers,
ensured delivery of training resources to in-service teacher training institutes, launched assessment
and monitoring of quality of education with feedback for policy design as well as school network
optimization work. The project also financed the purchase of 158 school buses, 207 laboratories of
physics, chemistry, biology and math, a set of sports equipment and books, and 530 computer classes
for Ukrainian schools. While such activities created conditions for modernization of the education in
pilots and stimulated non-pilot districts, the larger, more comprehensive reform and completion of the
optimization exercise remains to be implemented.

187.    There has been substantial progress under the Project with national tests conducted at the 4th
and 9th grades, participation of Ukraine in TIMMS (2007) and external assessments applied to
secondary school leavers wanting to enter higher education institutions. This has opened the way for
a systematic monitoring of quality which is important for the policy design. The project also
supported preparatory stages for Ukraine’s participation in TIMSS-2011 but the studies themselves in
2011 will need to be financed by the Government which was agreed between the Bank and the
Ministry of Education and Science, Youth and Sports of Ukraine. However, there has been a change
in leadership since March 2010 and there is uncertainty as to whether or not this agreement will be
honored putting into jeopardy the sustainability of this effort.

188.    Transportation of students to and from schools promotes equal access to quality education for
rural children, particularly to middle and senior high schools. Providing specialized science and
computer facilities in each village would be impossible, so Ukraine has begun a process of
reorganization and optimization of the rural school network. The delivery of school buses is a critical
element of this process ensuring that students from remote villages may attend education in hub
schools in selected central district locations in particular since according to the Ministry of Education
and Science, Youth and Sports of Ukraine only 91.5 percent of the students in rural areas of Ukraine
that need transportation are provided with it. The vehicles are procured from both the state and local
budgets. For example, the State Targeted Program ‘School Bus’ financed through the state budget
allowed the purchase of 294 buses in 2004, 342 in 2005 and 246 in 2008, with no buses being
delivered in years 2006-2007 and 2009. This was an on-going effort of the Government to increase
student access, particularly for those students coming from small remote rural localities to a more
complete learning environment.

189.     The PEAQE was able to launch the delivery of busses to Ukrainian schools only in December
2009. Among 158 buses delivered under the project (equal to around 50 percent of buses delivered by
central and local authorities in 2010). This allowed organization of transportation to the hub schools
in pilot regions that were equipped with laboratories of physics, chemistry, biology and math and a set
of sports equipment and textbooks in the final stage of the project. The project benefited 32 rural hub-

                                                   39
schools comprised in the school optimization framework under sub-component 3.3, including the
provision of learning materials and equipment. Seven of the buses are for children with special needs.
These buses are equipped with platform with pneumatic lift allowing transporting students with
special needs from rural areas to hub schools in order to have access to and receive full secondary
education. However, due to the significant delay in having implemented these activities, the ICR has
no hard evidence available to gauge the impact this project had on achieving the project’s objectives.

190.    Also, in 2010 the Government purchased 112 buses through the program and over 200 buses
were purchased by local authorities through the local budgets. This synergy allowed improved access
to education in rural areas however the need for additional vehicles for transportation remains high
and in 2011 the Government plans to acquire 250 buses including 16 specialized buses through the
School Bus Program.

191.     The project contributed to the provision of computer classrooms to Ukrainian schools all over
the country. Overall 530 classes were delivered with computers in the framework of the EAQEP,
including two classrooms in two schools of the State Department of Ukraine on Execution of
Punishments providing education services to children detained in penitentiary facilities. The
Government was heavily investing in this area except for the year 2009 (due to financial constraints
caused by the crisis) having delivered over 7700 computer complexes to Ukrainian schools. As a
result, the ratio of students per computer decreased from 54 in 2005/2006 school year to 32 in
2009/2010, which is still too high and requires further actions in equipping general education schools
with modern computers. It is an important priority for the Government as around 40 percent of its
computer equipment is obsolete and needs renewal. Overall 85 percent of schools have Internet
connection (only 54 percent of rural schools), and most of them are connected through dial-up,
preventing effective information exchange for improved educational process. More recently the
Government approved the state targeted program until 2015 called ‘a 100 percent’ envisaging
provision of high-speed Internet access and computerization of all general secondary schools in the
country, using Information and Communication Technologies (ICTs) in the learning process, related
in-service training of teachers, creation of web-sites of all GSE schools and knowledge and
information exchange. The concept of the program was approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of
Ukraine in August 2010 and the program itself - on April 13, 2011 (Resolution №494).

192.    Optimization activities have taken place in the project's pilot regions with several successful
school closures since 2007 when the Ministry of Education and Science, Youth and Sports of Ukraine
defined the pilot districts for school network optimization in the framework of the project (Order
№571 on August 16, 2007). In 2007-2010, seven schools were closed and eight schools stopped
functioning without obtaining official status of closed schools in pilot districts. EAQEP was able to
create the basic conditions for further consolidation in pilots in the near future through necessary
investments like school buses, school labs and textbooks for hub schools. It also stimulated
optimization discussions and work in non-pilots. Nevertheless, optimization of schools was limited to
a few rural districts, thus its impact in the overall education system is negligible.

193.     The Government is progressively coming to the understanding that optimization is key
because it will also allow over time to ease the burden of the education sector on public finances
insofar as education eats up a substantial portion of the public sector budget. As a result, optimization
can become one of the key areas of reforms of the new Government but it will require strong political
will to materialize. The Budget Declaration for 2011 approved by the Government of Ukraine
envisages the launch of optimization of small schools, as defined by level I schools with less than 10
students, level I-II schools with less than 40 students, and level I-III schools with less than 100
students (April 19, 2010). In other words, the school size is the key policy lever and schools falling in
the categories determined above will have to be either closed or merged with others. Also the Budget
Declaration 2011 set to revise the school norms that influence the amount and type of staff to be hired.

194.   The application of the Budget Declaration 2011 implies that roughly one-fifth of the GSE
system across the country is subject to optimization (more than 3,800 schools, out of the almost

                                                   40
20,000 current ones) and one-tenth if two types of schools are excluded from consolidation: a)
schools for students with special needs (especially when disabilities of children in these special
schools do not allow for the integration of these students into regular schools); b) schools
denominated “educational complexes”. The latter types of schools are institutions that also provide
kindergarten classes for which there is an excess demand in the country. Of course, the situation is
not homogeneous across levels of education or jurisdictions of the country. Under the first scenario
whereas approximately 30 percent of level I schools will be subject to optimization, the proportion for
level I-III schools is lower than 20 percent, on average. While the Lviv and Donestk oblasts are the
jurisdictions with the largest number of schools affected in absolute terms (more than 1,000), the
Sumy and Chernihiv oblasts are those most affected in relative terms (more than 45 percent of their
total network will be affected). Nine of the twenty-seven jurisdictions in Ukraine have more than one-
quarter of their network subject to optimization.

195.    In several ECA countries relevant reforms under support of the World Bank produced
impressive efficiency gains and thus allowed the allocation of more resources for capital investment,
increase wages in the education sector and to focus on quality of education, as education is vital to
Ukraine’s ability to respond to current and future development opportunities.




                                                  41
          Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a)     Task Team members
                                                                                 Responsibility/
               Names                             Title                 Unit
                                                                                   Specialty
Lending
Olena Bekh                      Education Spec.                       ECSH2   Task Team Leader
Leonardo M. Concepcion          Consultant                            ECSHD   Operation
Vitaly Kazakov                  Financial Management Specialist       ECSOQ   Financial Management
Ana Maria Parchuc de Jeria      Senior Human Development
                                                                      ECSHD   Task Team Leader
Figueroa                        Specialist
Pasi J. E. Sahlberg             Senior Education Specialist           ECSHD   Task Team Leader
Yingwei Wu                      Senior Procurement Specialist         LCSPT   Procurement

Supervision/ICR
Rajiv Aggarwal                  Consultant                            ECSHD   Education Consultant
Juan Diego Alonso               Education Economist                   ECSH2   Economics
Andrina A. Ambrose-Gardiner     Senior Operations Officer             OPCCS   Operations
                                                                              Financial
Irina Babich                    Financial Management Specialist       ECSO3
                                                                              Management
Olena Bekh                      Education Specialist                  ECSH2   Operations
Irina Davydova                  Program Assistant                     ECCUA   Administration
Galina Diakova                  E T Temporary                         ECCUA   Administration
Daria Goldstein                 Senior Counsel                        LEGAF   Legal
Anna Goodman                    Program Assistant                     ECSHD   Administration
                                                                              Financial
Vitaly Kazakov                  Financial Management Specialist       ECSOQ
                                                                              Management
Natalia M. Kondrashova          Consultant                            ECSHD   Education Consultant
Carmen F. Laurente              Senior Program Assistant              ECSHD   Administration
Antonio C. Lim                  Operations Officer                    ECSS2   Operations
Juan Manuel Moreno Olmedilla    Senior Education Specialist           MNSHE   Operations
Maniza B. Naqvi                 Senior Social Protection Specialist   AFTSP   Social Issues
Iryna Nikolayeva                Temporary                             ECCUA   Administration
Anna Olefir                     E T Consultant                        ECSH4   Education Consultant
Benedicta T. Oliveros-Miranda   Procurement Analyst                   ECSO2   Procurement
Ana Maria Parchuc de Jeria      Senior Human Development
                                                                      ECSHD   Task Team Leader
Figueroa                        Specialist
Lucian Bucur Pop                Senior Economist                      HDNSP   Economics
Juan Prawda                     Consultant                            LCSHE   Education Consultant
Michelle Riboud                 Consultant                            SASED   Education Consultant
Pablo Saavedra                  Senior Country Economist              ECSP3   Economics
Shobhana Sosale                 Senior Operations Officer             AFTED   Operations
Katerina Timina                 Program Assistant                     ECSHD   Administration
Siew Chai Ting                  Lead Finance Officer                  CTRFC   Finance
Yulia Tomilenko                 Program Assistant                     ECCUA   Administration
Anna L Wielogorska              Senior Procurement Specialist         EAPPR   Procurement
Yingwei Wu                      Senior Procurement Specialist         LCSPT   Procurement




                                                  42
(b)    Staff Time and Cost
                                         Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                        USD Thousands (including
                                      No. of staff weeks
                                                              travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY03                                                                   116.30
  FY04                                                                   248.16
  FY05                                                                   226.68
  FY06                                                                     0.33
  FY07                                                                     0.00
  FY08                                                                     0.00
                             Total:                                      591.47
Supervision/ICR
  FY03                                                                     0.00
  FY04                                                                     0.00
  FY05                                                                     0.00
  FY06                                      54.56                        158.43
  FY07                                      44.63                        123.95
  FY08                                      53.56                        180.79
                             Total:                                      463.17




                                          43
                 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Not applicable




                                 44
                 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not applicable




                                       45
              Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR
     Summary of the Government of Ukraine’s Final Assessment of Results of Project
                                     Implementation
                (full 200 page version available on request from the TTL)


196.     The assessment of the Project consists of:

        assessment of the implementation process;
        assessment of results.

197.     It includes:

        assessment of the context of the Project;
        assessment of key factors influenced on the implementation of the Project;
        assessment of the process of implementation of the Project;
        assessment of results of the Project;
        prospect of further improvement of the educational system of Ukraine on the basis of the
         Project’s results.

198.     It concludes with:

        assessment of strengths and weaknesses of the Project;
        conclusions.

Assessment of the implementation of the Project

199.     The first phase of the Project aimed to finish the reform of the educational program, to secure
training of teachers, to use new assessment methods, to improve schools networks and to increase the
number of pupils educated throughout the country. In general it had to influence improvement of
access to quality education especially in rural schools and to provide the level of knowledge and skills
of the secondary school-leavers comparable to the skills and knowledge of pupils abroad.3

200.     Table 1 below demonstrates the planned activities and the state of their implementation.




3
    Project Appraisal Document of the “Equal access to quality education” 24 November 2004, Appendix 4.




                                                      46
                                                 Table 1: Assessment of the Project implementation under the components


     Subcomponent                                Planned*                              State of implementation at Project end                         Expected result
                                                             Component 1. Professional development of educators
                          improvement of institutional ability of the schools and competency of the trainers of the system of in-service teacher trainings
1.1. Training of trainers      1) Preparation of the group of 120 leading       1) 110 leading teachers prepared for further study of    Improvement of the system of constant
                               teachers-instructors.                            innovative methods of teaching.                          teachers’ qualification development
                               2) Development of educational modules by         2) Educational and methodical manuals to improve         through the provisions with instructors
                               the modern and innovative methods of             the teachers’ qualification printed and distributed in   able to model new approaches to the
                               teaching.                                        28 institutes of in-service teacher training.            education of teachers, to secure
                               3) 1,800 instructors and methodologists from     3) Implementation of this subcomponent was               appropriate study without discontinuing
                               the Regional In-service Teacher Training         continued under subcomponent 1.2.                        work and to become the stimulus for
                               Centers (RITTC) and 1500 methodologists                                                                   renewal of all educational institutions.
                               from district methodological centers trained
                               to improve teaching methods.
1.2. Improvement of            1) Improvements in teachers’ qualification       1-3) 397 methodologists of district methodological       Modification and development of
teachers’ qualification        across the whole country.                        cabinets and 70 chiefs executive of rayon                current course system and activity of
                               2) Courses for qualification improvement for     methodological associations of district teachers were    RIPE and rayon methodological
                               400 teachers.                                    trained                                                  centers.
                               3) Training of methodologists and teachers in
                               pilot districts.
                               4) Implementation of new attesting schema        4) Not implemented**
                               for pedagogues
1.3. Training of school        1) Development of educational system             1) Tutorial developed and prepared for publication,      Improvement of professional level,
administrators in the          piloted in chosen schools;                       but not issued according to the decision of the          skills and abilities of schoolmasters of
field of management            2) Preparation of 800 instructors                project executor from MES.                               the secondary schools, governmental
activity                       implementing prepared programs;                  2) 72 instructors were trained in 2008.                  educational authorities at the regional
                               3) Improvement of qualification of about         3) 639 school managers were trained by the new           and district level with concentration on
                               2200 school heads                                administration methods.                                  school management.
                               4) Improvement of qualifications of 210          4) 210 officers of education at the district level
                               senior administrators and officers of            improved their qualification
                               governmental educational authorities at the      Under 1.2 and 1.3, 1637 pedagogues were trained.
                               regional and district level.
1.4. Improvement of            1) Training and development of personnel to      1) Training for chancellors, vice-chancellors and        Modernization of RITTC to a more
regional institutes of in-     improve their management organizational          leading officers of 28 RITTC.                            flexible structure and conduct of
service teacher trainings      culture and efficiency                           531 teachers of RITTC were trained.                      training without discontinuing work,
(RITTC)                        2) Study tour for RITTC administrators           2) Was cancelled**                                       thus they could improve efficiency and
                               abroad                                                                                                    concentrate on clients.
                               3) Face-lift of schools to bring them up to      2) W was withdrawn**
                                                                                        47
    Subcomponent                              Planned*                             State of implementation at Project end                       Expected result
                            modern educational standards.
                            4) Basic improvement, modernization and          4) 28 RITTC were provided with: one educational
                            extension of educational equipment,              computer complex (13 computers), one flexible
                            educational resources such as text-books,        educational class (11 PC), two interactive computer
                            manuals, magazines, software etc for             classes, scanners, printers, network and server
                            teachers’ training.                              equipment. RIPE also got high-speed Internet, video
                                                                             and conference connection.
                                                            Component 2: Improvement of Learning Process
 improvement of the level of educational process in general secondary schools, particularly improvement of educational programs, assessment of educational achievements,
                                 educational resources and initiatives on school’s progress to implement educational reform successfully.

2.1. Modernization of       1) Support for planning and development at       1) 8 seminars conducted and scientific-practical       Further institutionalization and
educational programs        the Department for Educational Content and       conference “Challenge for Ukraine: development of      continuation of dialog according to the
(curriculum)                Working Groups MES.                              framework basis (national curriculum) for general      national policy on the problem of
                            2) Development of standards and                  secondary education inХХІ century” in 2007.            educational program, tutorial materials,
                            requirements to the new text-books, manuals      2) Not implemented                                     security of quality, innovation and
                            and educational and tutorial materials on        3) Conceptual approaches in the field of               school development.
                            CDs.                                             development of content policy (national curriculum)
                            3) Distribution of all documents for             for general secondary education defined.
                            educational program.                             “Framework for general secondary education”
                                                                             prepared.
2.2. Teaching and           1) Assessment of current policy.                 1-4 were not implemented**                             Elaboration of complex national policy
learning tools              2) Support of pilots in development, issuing                                                            for development, production and
                            and distribution of educational                                                                         distribution of educational resources for
                            manuals/determination in rural schools.                                                                 all the schools of Ukraine paying
                            3) Support of pilots in publishing/ issuing of                                                          special attention to the rural schools.
                            new auxiliary educational materials.
                            4) Improvement of school libraries.
                            5) Support of the computerization Program
                            directed to the rural schools.                   5) 530 educational computer classes (ECC)
                            6) Pilot programs of e-books, virtual labs       appropriately furnished were delivered to the rural
                            (scientific-technological), on-line training     schools, computers were connected to Internet.
                            courses and manuals to study foreign             Deliveries of ECC were started from 10 December
                            languages.                                       2010.
                            7) Online Database created containing
                            information about educational material.          6-8 were not implemented**
                            8) Web-portal for ITB, and improvement of
                            web-portal for CTA.
2.3. Monitoring and         1) Development of national system of             1) Material, technical and informational support for   Foundation of complex national system
                                                                                    48
    Subcomponent                             Planned*                              State of implementation at Project end                       Expected result
evaluation of education    education assessment and quality control.         implementation of external evaluation of knowledge     for assessment of educational results
quality                                                                      of the school-leavers of secondary schools who         and monitoring of education quality.
                                                                             wanted to enter the higher institutes during 2006-
                                                                             2010 obtained. In 2006 41,818 school-leavers were
                                                                             tested on Ukrainian language, mathematics, history.
                           2) National research of pupils’ achievements.     82,000 copies of the test materials were distributed
                           Analytical survey of assessment on the base       throughout the districts.
                           of the school and the class and its base for      2) National monitoring survey of quality of
                           consulting services for administration in         mathematical education of the pupils of 4 forms
                           secondary schools.                                carried out.
                           3) Participation in TIMSS.
                           Creation of educational modules to evaluate       3) Ukraine participated for the first time in the
                           the education and pupils’ achievements.           international comparative survey TIMSS in 2007.
                                                                             Preparation for participation in TIMSS–2011,
                                                                             PIRLS– 2011 is continuing.
2.4. Initiatives for        1) Grants to schools, rayon educational          1) Cancelled**                                        Modernization of educational institutes,
schools modernization       authorities.                                                                                           uppermost those which work in
                            2) Creation of network among innovative          2) Cancelled**                                        difficult conditions (for instance, in
                            schools and increase of good practice                                                                  rural places)
                            examples (mainly training of teachers without
                            discontinuation work).
                                                       Component 3. Efficiency and Management of Resources
    improve efficiency of the general education system and intensify the policy development capacities of MES and other institutions responsible for general secondary
                                                                                 education.

3.1. Policy planning and   1) Increased capacity of staff in central and     1) MES Department for Policy Planning organized        Consolidation of abilities to develop
management capacities      regional educational administrative               and conducted 6 surveys on educational policy.         policy through the subdivision of
                           authorities to formulate education policy,        Training of 124 district level administrators on the   political planning in MES, to devise
                           develop strategies for practical                  base of the University of education management         strategic public campaign directed to
                           implementation of the policy in resource          conducted (November 2010).                             increase of knowledge level by the
                           management and monitoring and evaluation                                                                 population regarding the offered
                           of the programs.                                  2) Not implemented                                     programs for education reforms.
                           2) Institutionalization of structural
                           subdivision of MES
3.1.2 . Public             1) Mass media campaign to publish                 1) Sociological survey “System of education in the     Provision of well-timed information
information campaign       analytical, informational and educational         assessments of citizens of Ukraine” conducted. The     regarding the duration and
                           articles in the national and regional press, TV   results of survey were announced for mass media,       implementation of the project.
                           and radio programs                                information is placed on the website of the MES and
                                                                             the World Bank. Three trainings under the program
                                                                                    49
     Subcomponent                                   Planned*                                 State of implementation at Project end                              Expected result
                                                                                      “Efficient relationship with community for the
                                                                                      employees of the education system” (November
                                                                                      2007).
3.2. Education                  1) Development of EMIS for collection,                1) Technical characteristics and requirements of              Implementation of policy analysis and
Management                      processing and analysis of administrative             EMIS worked out. However, the goals of the                    decision-making guided by the data in
Information System              statistic data regarding general secondary            development and implementation of complex                     education management at all levels
(EMIS)                          education, creation of central base for               common national EMIS in administrative statistics             supported by a national Education
                                administrative statistic data.                        of general secondary education including collection,          management information system
                                                                                      processing and analysis of key information                    (EMIS).
                                                                                      concerning the education and creation of central
                                                                                      database of administrative statistics were not met.
3.3. Optimization of            1) Implementation of the large-scale                  1) The rayon plans for schools network’s                      Improvement of the schools network
schools network                 complex of the offered investments to the             optimization are developed and approved by the                for secondary education, provision with
                                pilot ROPs.                                           sessions of district committees in six pilot districts.       investments       directed   to     the
                                                                                      Seminars for administrators of education at regional          enhancement of education services
                                                                                      and district level were conducted. Basic monitoring           rendered in the schools network of six
                                                                                      survey in 6 pilot districts undertaken and model of           selected regions.
                                                                                      impact evaluation of the Project developed.
                                                                                      2) 100 school buses (7 of them specialized for
                                2) During Phase I, about 900 schools will have        transportation of pupils with special needs) delivered
                                been upgraded, with about 300 of these schools        to the pilot regions that secured transportation of
                                comprising the general secondary schools              about 5000 pupils between school and home. In
                                networks in the pilot Rayons.                         December 2010 delivery of equipment for 207
                                                                                      educational cabinets started for the network of
                                                                                      reference schools of the pilot districts of the project.
                                                                                      By end 2010 58 school buses and sports kits, books
                                                                                      for libraries will be delivered. By 16 December 2010
                                                                                      the schools got 30 school buses.
3.4. Schools                    1) Rehabilitation of about 600 schools who            The government approved construction documents                Creation of the most convenient
rehabilitation                  got the biggest amount of points and who are          for three schools. At the end of 2009 agreement was           education environment with emphasis
                                determined in realistic regional optimization         reached to finance only preparation (completion of            on reaching better efficiency and
                                plans (ROP).                                          development and approval) of 17 projects of schools           economy in its service and exploitation.
                                                                                      rehabilitation in this subcomponent. ***.
Remarks: * - taken from «Evaluation of the Project in connection with the credit to Ukraine for the Project “Equal access to quality education” for support of the first phase of the program of
education reform» 24 November 2004.».
** Mid-term revision and Supervisory Mission: March, 30 – April, 12, 2008.
*** Visit of World Bank for implementation support and closing mission of the Project, 6-10 December, 2010 (Aide Memoire).


                                                                                              50
Assessment of results

Component 1. Professional Development of Educators

201.    Sub-component 1.1 - Training of trainers. The target was reached. 110 master-trainers (100%)
underwent training, so they could pass on knowledge regarding the implementation of innovative
education methods, application of information and communicative technologies and development of
course to educators and other employees working at the school.

202.    Sub-component 1.2 - Improvement of teachers’ qualifications. A total of 1637 educators were
trained, although this is fewer than the target (4000 teachers, 2200 schoolmasters). Such poor
achievement is caused by several reasons:

       only 10 of 28 RITTCs took part in the training;
       some RITTC stopped their participation at the beginning of 2010 as the Directorate did not pay
        for their services.4
       lack of institutional support from MES regarding training of trainers and improvement of
        teachers’ qualification
       problems with distant learning because of lack of skills of the teachers and educators to work with
        online system and other web-settings.5

203.     No changes were introduced to the certification system of learning competence following the
piloting of the new educator testing schemes as had been anticipated by the project. However it was an
important step for the modification of the current certification system of competence.

204.     Subcomponent 1.3. - Leadership training for school directors. An appropriate tutorial was
developed and prepared for publication, but this was not issued under the decision of the MES. 639
school directors have been trained in the new management methods. However it is difficult to evaluate
the training efficiency as no changes were introduced to the certification system of learning competence
by the pilot application of new attesting schemes of educators.

205.    Subcomponent 1.4 - Improvement of regional institutes of in-service teacher. At the mid-term
review of the project (2008) it was decided to cancel the foreign training tours.

Component 2. Improvement of Learning Process

206.    Subcomponent. 2.1 - Modernization of Learning Programs. “Framework for general secondary
education” did not turn into the national doctrine of education improvement. No further work on this
document by MES. Also far from achieved was the target index of MES potential, regional and district
educational authority and schools in the field of development, application and distribution of the
modernized educational programs.

207.    Subcomponent 2.2 - Teaching and learning tools.           Delays to approval of the pilot,
production, .design and distribution of text-books; modernization of school libraries; design of online



4
     Equal Access to Quality Education in Ukraine. Visit of expert group of the World Bank for support of the
Project implementation, 10-17 March 2009 (Aide Memoire).
5
     Expert thought of the chief of Policy Planning Division, Director of Central Institute of In-Service Teacher
Trainings, L. Vaschenko (Appendix 3.12).

                                                       51
materials for teaching, also teaching of foreign languages; creation of online database of the present
educational materials for teachers and pupils; creation of web-portal, etc.

208.     Subcomponent 2.3 - Quality monitoring and evaluation of education Ukraine participated for the
first time in international comparative research TIMSS 2007 and is preparing to carry out TIMSS–2011
and PIRLS–2011. A national monitoring survey on mathematics standards of the 4th form pupils was
conducted. External knowledge evaluation of secondary school-leavers who wanted to enter higher
institute during 2006-2010 conducted in 2006 on 41,818 school-leavers on three educational subjects
(Ukrainian language, mathematics, history). Equipment and software for the Ukrainian Center of
Education Quality Evaluation and three regional centers were delivered. By the end of 2010, additional
computer equipment and software will be delivered to the Ukrainian Center of education quality
evaluation and the MES.

209.    Subcomponent 2.4 - School improvement initiatives. Withdrawn entirely at the mid-term review
due to lack of work under this component and the fact that appropriate school modernization will require
too much time.6

210.     The rural schools computerization was implemented with delay. Seventy-five percent of schools
got computers 1-3 years ago.7 About 20 percent of secondary school Directors were trained in computer
techniques, and 5 percent assert they got computers three to five years ago. Directors assess the result of
computer installation in secondary schools as very positive: the level of computer skills of pupils
increased to 8.4 out of 10 points; teachers also benefitted. Other positive results of the program include
pupils’ access to electronic materials, pupils’ after-school use of the computers, and interest in additional
learning about computers. The most frequently cited negative result is the lack of computer maintenance,
insufficient amount of computers, need to improve safety measures and lack of additional financing for
Internet and telephone connection.

Component 3. Efficiency and Management of Resources

211.    Absence of a Supervisory Council which had to secure optimal money flow, supervise realization
of the project and control effective application of the credit, poor attention to the project implementation
from MES, changes in staffing of MES’ Education Development Programs Directorate, delayed payments
for work (up to nine months), and undetermined responsibility of consultants demonstrated the poor level
of project management.

212.     Subcomponent 3.1 - Policy planning and management in education reorganizing the PPD to be an
“incubator” for educational policy, implementation strategies, resource management, monitoring and
evaluation programs was not fulfilled. Six of the eight intended surveys were belated conducted in the
field of educational policy, but the results were not disseminated. Nineteen standard and legal acts about
                                                                                           8
half of which were approved by MES. 124 chiefs of education at the local level trained . The policy
planning division was dissolved in January, 2011 and so the PPD did not become a structural subdivision
of the MES as planned.




6
      Medium-term revision and Supervisory Mission: March 30 – April, 12, 2008.
7
      Report of the results of sociological survey is given in appendix 2.
8
      Equal Access to Quality Education in Ukraine. Visit of expert group of the World Bank for support and
closing-up of the Project implementation, 6-10 December 2010 (Aide Memoire)

                                                     52
213.   Subcomponent 3.2 - Education Management information system. The only result was an
agreement with key education authorities concerning the arrangements to implement EMIS and
development of technical characteristics and requirements to such a system.

214.     Subcomponent 3.3 - School network’s optimization Optimization of the schools network was
carried out in six regions (Chernyakhivs’kyi district of Zhytomyrs’ka region (five schools), Khusts’kyi
district of Zakarpats’ka region (one school), Sokal’s’kyi district of L’vivs’ka region (six schools),
Sarnens’kyi district of Rivnens’ka region (seven schools), Mens’kyi district of Chernihivs’ka region (four
schools) and Novotroyits’kyi district of Khersons’ka region (eight schools)). As a result, the situation in
190 satellite schools will improve. The delivery of 207 education cabinets of physics, chemistry, biology
and mathematics to the network of reference schools was only started in 2010 and by the end of 2010,
sports kits, books for school libraries, 58 school buses, and methodological manuals for school network’s
optimization will be delivered.

215.    Subcomponent 3.4 - Schools rehabilitation was implemented with so many delays that the Credit
funds (48 percent of the entire project funds) appropriated to building and repair works were cancelled.
This was due to poor preparatory work regarding implementation arrangements, insufficient project
management, and unreformed financing system.

ANALYSIS OF THE INDICATOR OF THE PROJECT DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS

216.     In order to evaluate whether the project achieved its development objective, WB and MES drew
up the indices of the project’s achievement and the expected results.

                                                                   9
                                                          Table 2

     Indicator                      Baseline Value                                   Target Values
                      Percentage of students of the 9th grades in the project hub schools achieving satisfactory
Indicator 1:
                      results from 6 till 12 marks in the tests of Math and Ukrainian language
Measurement
                                Mathematics – 77,8%                              Mathematics – 85%
(quantitative or
                            Ukrainian language - 87,2%                        Ukrainian language – 92%
qualitative)
Date of achievement                 05/24/2005                                       12/31/2010
Indicator 2:        Student/teacher ratios of rural schools in pilot network optimization Rayons
Measurement
(quantitative or                       8,4 : 1                                          12 : 1
qualitative
Date of achievement                  05/24/2005                                      12/31/2010
                    Access of the poorest students at the project’s hub schools; % of students from the poorest
Indicator 3:
                    families attending the project’s hub schools
Measurement
(quantitative or                       11,5%                                             17%
qualitative)
Date of achievement                 12/31/2008                                       12/31/2010




9
     The revised version (Medium-term overview and Supervisory Mission: 30 March – 12 April 2008).


                                                          53
        The following results were achieved:

                                                         Table 310

                            2005         2006         2007         2008         2009          2010          Target
                         (baseline)                                                                         values
                                            th
Indicator 1: Percentage of students of the 9 grades in the project hub schools achieving satisfactory results from 6
till 12 marks in the tests of Math and Ukrainian language
Mathematics              77,8*           79,1*         82,5*         74,5*       79,5**     68,6***         85,0
Ukrainian                87,2*           84,0*         90,8*         82,2*       85,2**     76,0***         92,0
language
Indicator 2: Student/teacher ratios of rural schools in pilot network optimization Rayons
                          8,4:1*        8,0:1*         7,6:1*       7,4:1*       8,0:1**      9,6:1***       12:1
Indicator 3: Access of the poorest students at the project’s hub schools; % of students from the poorest families
attending the project’s hub schools
                          11,5*         14,2*          13,6*         15,5*        15,7**      20,6***        17,0

217.     The project did not achieve indicator 1. During the five-year project implementation the average
indicator of 9th forms’ pupils’ learning achievements is somewhat lower than the base indicator. This
situation is explained by the fact that the hub schools did not receive the modern learning equipment: only
in December 2010 were 207 physics, chemistry, biology and mathematics equipment provided to the
network of the hub schools in the project’s pilot districts. Insufficient numbers of teachers and EIGE
administrators attended the extension courses. One hundred school buses were supplied to the pilot
districts between December 2009 and February 2010 enabling the transfer of satellite schools’ pupils to
the hub schools to improve pupils’ learning achievements.




10
      Report on the monitoring of outcomes and outputs indicators of the project December 6, 2010 prepared by the
monitoring and assessment consultant of the Directorate for the development education programs.
*     The report of sociological study “The Survey in the Six Pilot Districts Selected for the School Network’s
Optimization”, Institute of Sociological Technologies, Kyiv, 2008. The study conducted by request of the Joint
project of the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine and the World Bank “Equal Access to Quality
Education in Ukraine” http://www.mon.gov.ua/main.php?query=education/average/topic/2.
** Statistical reports from the heads of rayon education local authority from six pilot rayons, September, 2009
*** Report of the sociological study “Improvement of estimation model of social effect made by the project and the
process of final survey in six pilot rayons selected for the school network optimization”, Research & Branding
Group, Kyiv 2010. The survey was conducted at the request of the MES in the framework of the “Equal access to
quality education in Ukraine” project supported by the World Bank.

                                                         54
                                                           Chart 1.
                Percentage of students of the 9th grades in the project hub schools achieving satisfactory
                 results from 6 till 12 marks in the tests of Math and Ukrainian language (in dynamics)



                                                                                                        Baseline values
                                                                                                                     87.2
              Ukrainian                                                                                 2006 84         90.8
                                                                                                           82.2
              language                                                                                  2007 85.2
                                                                                                       76
                                                                                                        2008                92

                                                                                                        77.8
                                                                                                        2009
                                                                                                         79.1
                                                                                                              82.5
           Mathematics                                                                                   2010
                                                                                                      74.5
                                                                                                           79.5
                                                                                               68.6            values
                                                                                                        Target85


219.    According to the final poll,11 school network optimization resulted in a significant increase in the
average number of pupils in the hub schools: in grade I from an average of 17.4 (in 2008) to 18.8 (in
2010); in grade II from 11.4 to 21.0 pupils and in grade III from 14.7 to 27.6 This is an indicator of
increased efficiency in the hub schools in pilot districts.

                                                  Chart 2
                   The average number of pupils in the forms of the reference schools depending
                                          on the grade (in dynamics)


                                                                            17.4
      I grade                                                                      18.8

          II                                            11.4                                                           2008
        grade                                                                             21
                                                                                                                       2010

         III                                                       14.7
        grade                                                                                                           27.6


220.     There is a progressive trend regarding the pupil/teacher ratio in village schools of the pilot
districts selected for school network optimization (indicator 2). If in 2006 the pupil/teacher ratio was 8:1,
in 2010 after school network optimization it was 9,6:1. The mid-term indicator was 8.1:1, while 12:1
remains the long-run goal.




11
     The report of final public opinion poll in the six pilot rayons selected for the school network optimization in
order to evaluate the project social impact, Research & Branding Group, Kyiv, 2010. The study conducted by
request of the Joint project of the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine and the World Bank “Equal Access
to Quality Education in Ukraine”. The public opinion poll was conducted in November-December 2010.


                                                          55
                                                       Chart 3
                  Student/teacher ratios of rural schools in pilot network optimization
                                                 Rayons
                                                                                               12

                                                                                 9.6
           8.4             8                                        8
                                        7.6          7.4




         Baseline        2006          2007          2008         2009          2010      Target values
          values


221.    This situation can be explained by the demographic crisis in Ukraine. According to the
Governmental Statistics Committee, from 1993 to 2006 the population decreased by 5.5 million people
(12 percent). According to U.N.O. forecast, by 2050 the population of Ukraine might decrease by 20
million (40 percent).

222.    Indicator 3 (Access of the poorest students at the project’s hub schools; percentage of students
from the poorest families attending the project’s hub schools) exceeded the target of 17 percent: the share
of children from families with low income levels who learn at the hub schools almost doubled: from 11.5
percent (basic indicator) to 20.6 percent in 2010 (see Chart 4).

                                                       Chart 4
                     Access of the poorest students at the project’s hub schools; % of students from
                                 the poorest families attending the project’s hub schools
                                                                                       20.6
                                                                                                       17
                                                           15.5          15.7
                           14.2           13.6
           11.5




         Baseline          2006          2007              2008          2009          2010     Target values
          values

223.    The supply of school buses for the transfer of satellite schools’ pupils to hub schools improved
the level of access to education of pupils from low income families. However, the target was met not due
to the project but due to the economic crisis in the country and the growth of inflation. This indicator
depends on the level of the minimum wage that is fixed annually by Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine. Thus,
as the poverty rate grew, this indicator grew as well.




                                                      56
                                                                 12
                                                         Table 3

          Indicator                     Baseline values                                    Target values
Indicator 1:              Percentage of master trainers trained out of the total agreed target
Measurement (quantitative
                                                0                                           100% (110)
or qualitative)
Date of achievement                        05/24/2005                                       12/31/2010
                          Percentage of heads of methodological association of subject teachers and teachers trained
Indicator 2:
                          with improved teaching skills out of the total target
Measurement (quantitative                                                                   100% (400)
                                               0%
or qualitative)
Date of achievement                        05/24/2005                                       12/31/2010
                          Percentage of students in project pilot network optimization schools whose education is
Indicator 3:              providing teachers with improved skills trained by heads of methodological association of
                          subject teachers
Measurement (quantitative
                                               0%                                              80%
or qualitative)
Date of achievement                        05/24/2005                                       12/31/2010
Indicator 4:              Percentage of schools principals receiving management training out of the total target
Measurement (quantitative
                                               0%                                       100% (2,200 осіб)
or qualitative)
Date of achievement                        05/24/2005                                       12/31/2010
                          Percentage of project hub schools receiving learning materials & equipment provided by the
Indicator 5:
                          project
Measurement (quantitative
                                               0%                                           100% (31)
or qualitative)
Date of achievement                        05/24/2005                                       12/31/2010
Indicator 6:              Ukraine is participating in the International Assessment surveys
                                                                        TIMSS – 2007 (completed)
Measurement (quantitative                                               TIMSS – 2011 (participates)
                                               No
or qualitative)                                                         PIRLS – 2011 (participates)

Date of achievement                      05/24/2005                                     12/31/2010
Indicator 7:              National External Assessment implemented
Measurement (quantitative
                                             No                                             Yes
or qualitative)
Date of achievement                      05/24/2005                                     12/31/2010
Indicator 8:              Number of rehabilitated schools
Measurement (quantitative
                                              0                                             211
or qualitative)
Date of achievement                      05/24/2005                                     12/31/2010




   12
        The revised version (Medium-term overview and Supervisory Mission: 30 March – 12 April 2008).


                                                         57
                    The following results were tracked:

                                                                          Table 4*

          2005
                              2006                   2007                  2008            2009                 2010              Target values
   (baseline value)
 Indicator 1: Percentage of master trainers trained out of the total agreed target
                                                                          100%                                                      100 %
           0                    0                     0                                      0                  0
                                                                      (110 persons)                                             (110 persons)
 Indicator 2: Percentage of heads of methodological association of subject teachers and teachers trained with improved teaching skills out of the
 total target
                                                                                                                117%                   100%
           0                    0                     0                      0               0
                                                                                                           (467 persons)          (400 persons)
 Indicator 3: Percentage of students in project pilot network optimization schools whose education is providing teachers with improved skills
 trained by heads of methodological association of subject teachers
           0                    0                     0                      0               0                  7,5%                    80%
 Indicator 4: Percentage of school principals receiving management training out of the total target
                                                                      training of 72
                                                                     master trainers
                                                                                                                29%                    100%
           0                    0                     0                 for school           0
                                                                                                           (639 persons)         (2200 persons)
                                                                         directors
                                                                        conducted
 Indicator 5: Percentage of project hub schools receiving learning materials and equipment provided by the project
                                                                                                                103%                   100%
           0                    0                     0                      0               0
                                                                                                            (32 schools)           (31 schools)
 Indicator 6: Ukraine is participating in the International Assessment
                                                                                                                                   TIMSS-2007
                                            Ukraine took part in
                                                                                                                                   (completed)
                                            TIMSS                                                           TIMSS-2007
                                                                                                                                   TIMSS-2011
           no                  no           (4 498 pupils of 4th                                            (completed)
                                                                                                                                  (participating)
                                            grade, 4 527 pupils
                                                                                                                                      PIRLS-
                                            of 8th grade
                                                                                                                               2011(participating)
 Indicator 7: National External Assessment implemented
                                                                                           Yes.
                                                                      Yes. 512 000                       Yes. Participants
                         41 818 school                                               Participants in
                                               116 327 school             school                           in the external
                        graduates took                                                 the external
           no                                graduates took part     graduates took                          assessment                  так
                             part in                                                    assessment
                                                 in EA*****               part in                             compiled
                           EA*****                                                       compiled
                                                                         EA*****                          1, 270, 040 tests
                                                                                     1,121,153 tests
 Indicator 8: Number of rehabilitated schools
                                                                                                        The design
                                                                                     The WB’s
                                                                                                        estimate
                                                                                     Resolution of                                     100%
                                                                                                        documentation for
           0                    0                     0                      0       December 16,                                    26 (2009)
                                                                                                        3 schools
                                                                                     2009 cancelled                                 185 (2010)
                                                                                                        approved.
                                                                                     repair work.

 The monitoring of outcomes and outputs indicators of the project “equal access to quality education in Ukraine” December 6, 2010, prepared by
the consultant of the Directorate for the development education programs is used. Formed by: Reports of Central In-Service Teacher training
Institute about the contract realization “Training of 110 master trainers of the in-service teacher training system” (June – September, 2007, October,
2007 – January, 2008); Reports of the Ukrainian School Heads Association about contract realization “Organization and conduct of the training of
72 master trainers for school directors” (21 – 24 November, 2008, 12 – 21 December, 2008); Information from the press conference of the Ministry
of Education and Science of Ukraine about the results of participation of Ukrainians pupils at TIMSS, 22 January, 2009 http://osvita.ua/news/2511;
Website of the Ukrainian Center for Evaluation of Quality of Education http://www.testportal.gov.ua/; Statistical reports from the heads of rayon
education local authority from six pilot rayons, September, 2009; The report of final public opinion poll in the six pilot rayons selected for the school
network optimization in order to evaluate the project social impact, Research & Branding Group, Kyiv, 2010. The study conducted by request of the
Joint project of the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine and the World Bank “Equal Access to Quality Education in Ukraine”; Reports of
10 RITTIs, 2010.




                                                                          58
224.   Indicator 1 (percentage of master trainers trained) was achieved 100 percent. It enabled the
mentioned master trainers to pass schools teachers and principals the skills of the innovative teaching
methods, ICT use, development of courses on basis of the competence approach.

225.    Indicator 2 (Percentage of heads of methodological association of subject teachers and teachers
trained with improved teaching skills) was exceeded: advanced training of 400 persons was fully realized.

226.     Indicator 4 (schools’ principals who took the management training) are missing: only 29 percent
i.e. 639 from intended 2200 persons advanced their management ability (see Chart 5)13. In addition, only
10 of 28 RISTTI carried out the advanced training, and only seven carried out the training for schools’
principals.

                                                          Chart 5
                   Percentage of school principals receiving management training out of the total
                                                       target
                                                                                                          100




                                                                                           29


               0              0               0               0             0

        Baseline value      2006            2007           2008           2009            2010       Target values
           (2005)                                                                                   (2200 pesrons)


227.     School network optimization has influenced the pedagogical staff in the schools of the pilot
districts. The average number of teachers-specialists in the hub schools has somewhat reduced (from 10.6
to 10.1 teachers) and of teachers of the second category (from 5.2 to 5.0). Although the average quantity
of the specialist of the higher level has increased: teachers of the 1st category (from 11.5 to 11.8 teachers)
and teachers of the highest category (from 11.9 to 12.7 teachers).14 In the control schools, the average
number of teachers-specialists and teachers of the second category has not changed, while the quantity of
teachers of the highest category has reduced from 7.9 to 7.1 on average.




13
      According to the expert the urgent problem is the increase of professional level of both teachers and principals
(I. Vetrov, RSA of Rivnens’ka region, head of RSA of Zhitomirs’ka region, S. Serebryans’kiy, acting head of
Directorate Administration of education development programs of MES of Ukraine and other – Appendixes 3.4,
3.10, 3.11)
14
      Sociological study “Improvement of the model of the assessment of the Project’s social impact and conducting
the final public opinion poll in six pilot rayons selected for school network optimization”.

                                                         59
                                       Table 5. Schools’ teachers’ professional level

                                                                            Type of EIGE
                                  All EIGE
                                                             Hub             Satellites                Control
                                2008        2010      2008         2010   2008      2010        2008         2010
Qualification categories
Teacher-specialist              7,2*        7,0       10,6         10,1    4,4          4,4      7,6             7,6
Teacher of the 2d category       4,4        4,1        5,2         5,0     4,0          3,4      4,3             4,2
                 st
Teacher of the 1 category        8,4        8,5       11,5         11,8    7,7          7,6      7,1             7,4
Teacher of the highest
category 2008                    7,5        7,5       11,9         12,7    4,1          4,4      7,9             7,1
Title
Senior teacher                   4,1        4,6        6,9         6,9     2,4          3,5      3,4             3,9

Teacher-methodologist            2,4        2,4        3,4         3,5     0,9          1,1      2,5             2,4
Remark:* - average index.

228.    After the school network optimization, the teaching staff is incomplete in 13 percent of hub
schools. This share among the schools of the control districts is a half and makes up 5 percent. Among
EIGE of all types there is a 10 percent deficit of the pedagogical staff. The number of teachers15 that are
missing for complete teaching of the curriculum at school varies from 3.1 (in schools-satellites) to 1 (in
control schools). The average hub schools in the pilot districts need two teachers. This lack of
pedagogical staff caused the loss of 3 percent of academic hours in the 2009-2010 school year. In the hub,
EIGE lost 2 percent of academic hours; in the control and satellite schools about 3 percent.

229.    The hub schools are mostly short of IT teachers (6.3 percent missing). Also in 3.1 percent of
schools foreign language, mathematics, physics, chemistry, labor and physical training teachers are
missing. During the school network optimization several hub schools were staffed with chemistry,
mathematics and biology teachers. But in spite of these changes the problem of the subject-teachers
shortage in rural schools remains urgent.




15
    According to the expert, chancellor of Kyivs’kiy regional in-service teacher training institute N. Klokar, this
Project is important from the point of view of teachers professional development (Appendix 3.5).


                                                         60
                                              Table 6. Teachers missing in EIGE

                                                                                  Type of EIGE
                                      All EIGE
                                                                 Hub                  Satellites            Control
                                   2008       2010       2008          2010     2008         2010    2008         2010
Ukrainian language and
                                   0,7*        1,4      compl.         compl.    2,0          2,0    compl.           1,7
literature
History and social science          0,7      compl.     compl.         compl.   compl.      compl.    1,7        compl.
Foreign languages                   2,6        2,6        3,1           3,1     compl.         4      6,9             3,4
Mathematics                         1,4        1,4        6,3           3,1     compl.         2     compl.      compl.
Physics                             3,6        4,3        3,1           3,1     compl.      compl.    6,9             8,6
Chemistry                           3,6        2,9        6,3           3,1       4            4      1,7             1,7
Biology                             1,4      compl.       3,1          compl.   compl.      compl.    1,7
Labor                               2,9        5,0        3,1           3,1       2            6      3,4             5,2
Natural history                     1,4        1,4      compl.         compl.     2         compl.    1,7             3,4
Health – physical training
                                    1,4        0,7        3,1           3,1     compl.      compl.    1,7        compl.

Informatics                         6,4        5,7        6,3           6,3       8            6      5,2             5,2
Remark: * - percentage of schools where teachers are missing.


230. Taking into account the above, the significant shortfall of Indicator 3 (Percentage of students in
project pilot network optimization schools whose education is providing teachers with improved skills
trained by heads of methodological association of subject teachers) is easy to explain. Instead of the
intended 80 percent we have only 7.5 percent such students.

231.    Indicator 5. EIGE modernization in the pilot districts to provide the rural EIGE with the modern
teaching resources - was accomplished. At the end of the Project, school network optimization has been
realized in 32 schools (instead of 31 planned) and the target can be considered as achieved.

232.    Indicator 6. Ukraine participating in International Assessments) results have been achieved in
accordance with the target value. The participation of Ukraine in the international survey TIMSS 2007
(18 May 2007) was ensured. The selection consisted of 149 schools, 4,498 students of the 4th grade,
4,527 students of the 8th grade. Analysis of TIMSS 2007 is planned and preparation for TIMSS – 2011
and PIRLS – 2011 is being carried out.

233.    Indicator 7. The national model of the external assessment has been practically implemented,
although the relevant legislation has not been passed. In spite of this, the number of school graduates that
pass the test annually has increased from 1,121,153 in 2009 or 87.46 percent of school graduates to
1,270,040 (85 percent) in 2010. As for the hub schools, the number of students that took part in the
independent external assessment remained unchanged during the last three years. The average number of




                                                                61
pupils from hub schools that entered institutions of higher education gradually reduced from 30 students
in 2008 to 20 in 2009 and 16 students in 2010.16

234. Indicator 8 (number of rehabilitated schools) has not been achieved. In December 2009, the
World Bank cancelled repair work. Instead of this design estimates for three schools17 were approved by
the public examination.

Conclusions

235.    The following project development indicators can be considered as fully achieved:

       Indicator 1 (Percentage of master trainers trained out of the total agreed target),
       Indicator 2 (Percentage of heads of methodological association of subject teachers and
        teachers trained with improved teaching skills out of the total target),
       Indicators 5, 6, 7 (Percentage of project hub schools receiving learning materials and
        equipment provided by the project; Ukraine is participating in the International
        Assessment; National External Assessment implemented).
       Indicators 3, 4 were partially realized (Percentage of students in project pilot network
        optimization schools whose education is providing teachers with improved skills trained
        by heads of methodological association of subject teachers; Percentage of school
        principals receiving management training out of the total target).
       Indicator 8 remained unachieved (Number of rehabilitated schools in the framework of
        the project).

ASSESSMENT OF THE OUTCOMES IN EDUCATIONAL POLICY AND ITS IMPACT
ON REFORMING COMPREHENSIVE SECONDARY SCHOOL

236.    In the context of sub-component 3.1 (Planning and management of the educational policy) the
                                                                                            18
policy planning department (PPD) arranged and carried out six surveys in educational policy.

       Complex planning and assessment of the educational policy
       Implementation Mechanism for competence approach to forming the education content and
        organization of the educational process in educational institutions of general education
       Standards of activity of an educational institution of general education


16
      Sociological study “Improvement of the model of the assessment of the Project’s social impact and conducting
the final public opinion poll in six pilot rayons selected for school network optimization”.
17
      According to the consultant-specialist in engineering service DPRO O. Osmolovs’kyi today the quality of
work in the project sector remains low which significantly slows down the process of schools rehabilitation
(Appendix 3.9).
18
      Two researches “Development and approbation of the method of formula financing of the comprehensive
secondary education” were not conducted because the research group and the Directorate could not come to
agreement regarding the payment of the contract. The organization selected by the tender committee refused to sign
the contract (1). “Development and implementation of the model of the national monitoring of education quality”
(2) had to be cancelled because of poor quality of their conduct according to the World Bank experts
(implementation and support mission at the close of the Project’s implementation, 6-10 December 2010 Aide
Memoire). Although the conduct of the research (1) and use of its recommendation and groundwork for pilot
districts of the project could help the processes of school network optimization.

                                                       62
       Creation of the innovative system of advanced pedagogical education
       Development and implementation of innovative models of educational institution of general
        education in the framework of the program “School of future”
       Qualification requirements to the professional activity of pedagogical staff.

237.    The surveys aimed to support the development of an educational policy that would improve
education quality and ensuring of the equal access to it for all citizens of Ukraine.

238.     As part of the research, analysis of teachers’ and educational institutions’ administrators’
professional competence was carried out, which have a number of differences as the key professional
activity for a teacher is education, and for an administrator – management. A competency framework was
drawn up covering professional (pedagogical) and general competences for teachers and integrated
professional-qualification competences of EIGE principals, which will help staff determine his/her further
professional development. Attention was given to motivating teachers to continuing training and to
reviewing training practices to focus on individual needs for competence-oriented training.

239.    The surveys are of high quality and will be a significant basis for providing the basis for equal
access to quality education, but they were only completed recently 19 and their results have not been
properly distributed and discussed. So the resources of the subcomponent 3.1.2 (Campaign of the public
information) were not used and it is not clear yet how the research materials will be assessed by various
expert groups (education specialists, schools principals, educational administrators etc.). The research
findings will be published soon as monographs in education publications. Finally, the best theory remains
theory if it is not put into practice. In this case it is important not to stop at publication of the surveys’
results but through public discussions to assess the possibility of implementation of the models; to
develop implementation plans; and to monitor continuously in order to correct implementation, as
necessary.

SUMMARY

240.    The “Equal access to quality education in Ukraine” project aimed to support education sector
reforms. Understanding of education quality is fundamentally changing, and its measurement by existing
indicators does not represent the real picture of changes, which causes inadequate management decisions
concerning education development.

241.     An important part of the research into equal access to and quality of education was the shift in
focus from the search for optimal unified criteria that would be applicable for the system of administrative
control to defining differentiated criteria for education policy.

242.     There are two main approaches to the issue: access to basic skills and knowledge that define
possibilities of more and more people to have a good standard of living; and access to skills, knowledge
and competences of a higher level that define possibilities of elevating and involving social groups,
society and the state in world development.




19
     According to the consultant in efficient resources use of the Policy Planning Division S. Kulikova the proper
conduct of the researches was hindered by the frequent change of Directorate’s heads and untimely signing of
agreements for execution of works (Appendix 3.12).


                                                       63
243.     This Project aimed to provide both approaches and open the way for Ukrainian students to the
international education network. The project framework and components (professional development of
educators, improvement of education process, efficiency and management of resources) aimed to bring
the Ukrainian education to a qualitatively new level.

244.    Today, it is too early to talk about such a level but the intellectual and material basis created
under the Project can ensure the further improvements in the general education sector of Ukraine.

245.    The following achievements can be ascribed to the project:

       Approval of the cascade education method to increase the qualification of different categories of
        educators by innovative programs, implementation of new education technologies and approaches
        in pedagogical practice at the regional level, and provision of modernization processes both in
        educational institutions and of the education system in general. Teachers trained at the regional
        level started to improve the professional development of educators at the local level;
       Development and preparation of a number of educational materials that will be used for
        improvement of education process through the activity of RISTTI network;
       Improvement of RISTTI technical base;
       A number of monographs and education manuals to increase education quality and development
        of education policy in Ukraine were written;
       Creation of 36 education districts 20 in six hub regions, definition of 32 hub schools and 190
        schools-satellites in the countryside as a basis for optimization of educational institutions of
        general education network;
       Improvements at 32 hub schools (buses, rooms, sports equipment, books for libraries);
       Increase of computer education level of students, teachers, rural EIGE principals; access to
        computer equipment of students from schools where 531 CTC were supplied;
       Participation of Ukraine in the international assessment TIMSS-2007 and preparation for
        TIMSS–2011, PIRLS–2011;
       Improved conditions for external independent assessment by UCAEQ;
       Improvements at MES that had an impact on development and support of electronic documents
        circulation.

246.    Among the main weaknesss in the Project’s implementation are:

       Lack of the integral concept of the project;
       Complicated mechanism for making payments involving 4 levels – MFU, MES, Directorate of
        education development programs and Government Treasury of Ukraine;
       Creation of PA “DRPO” as a separate structure for implementation, which relieved MES of
        responsibility for execution of the project;
       Poor communication and interaction between the executive structures of the Project (MES, MFU,
        Directorate) regarding coordination of plans and realization of the assigned tasks;




20
     According to the director of the Department of comprehensive secondary and pre-school education of MES of
Ukraine O. Yeres’ka the bright example was Chernyakhivs’kyi education district of Zhytomyrs’ka region where
from ten school was created one school where 50 should learn. Before this, about five pupils attended every ten
schools (Appendix 3.3).


                                                      64
       Program Steering Committee (envisaged to be established within three3 months of loan approval)
        and to take responsibility for strategic coordination was not created.
       Frequent changes of Project’s heads in the Ministry of Education and Science, disruption to
        established cooperation arrangements, personnel turnover due to untimely salary payment,
        incomplete team of project executors, inadequate project management;
       Important research and surveys conducted only during the last years (2009-2010) of the Project’s
        implementation, such that the results mainly remain on paper except several actions that can be
        published and discussed in the circle of specialists;
       Delays in creating and implementing the information system of education management;
       Partial fulfillment of the planned indicators of the project’s development objectives and expected
        project’s results.
       The publicity campaign around the project’s activity was not properly carried out.

247.    Nevertheless the Project has laid the solid theoretical-methodological and material-technical basis
for implementation of education reforms in Ukraine including with the assistance of foreign organizations
and donors.

248.    It will be important to distribute the results of the research and surveys through articles in the
education policy literature. An unused, but important, resource to improve access to quality education
remains the creation of electronic schoolbooks and after a while libraries.

249.    The further conduct of national monitoring researches of education quality would enable the
timely correction of learning plans and programs including in-service training for teachers and schools
principals. For this purpose it is reasonable to create the Department for education quality monitoring in
the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine.21

250. Finally, such projects make it possible to review and re-assess the approaches to modern
education for the purpose of their improvement and adaption to conditions of a particular school
especially with the limited material and technical resources.

Suggestions for further reforming of the comprehensive education system in Ukraine in the context
              of implementation of the Project “Equal access to quality education”*

        Component                                                 Suggestions
                                     Project in general (if it is continued)
    1) To create project management groups inside the ministry and have consultants for separate directions of
work**
    2) To improve the mechanism of planning and payment of particular actions.
    3) To reform the financing system and to improve the interaction of the WB financial institutions and the
Ukrainian party
    4) To create scientifically grounded, balanced, purposeful, approved by the society program of education
sector development.
    5) To improve the normative-legal base of education.
    6) To clearly define the functions of the subjects of public participation in planning and control of the


21
     Expert opinion of B. Zhebrovs’kiy, First Deputy Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine (Appendix 3.1).




                                                       65
        Component                                                  Suggestions
education policy quality.
    7) To decentralize (or to reduce centralization) of education management.
                             Component 1. Professional development of educators
1.1. Training of master      1) To continue applying the cascade method of training for the provision of all
trainers                     schools with in-service training of teachers
1.2. In-service teacher      1) Improve internet skills for efficient distance teacher training.
training                     3) Involvement of psychological services for overcoming personal difficulties in
                             the process of transfer to competence education.
                             4) Re-focus training of teacher-coordinator, facilitator, moderator.
                             5) Provide the possibility of training abroad in particular to teachers of foreign
                             languages.
                             6) Creation of a space where new innovation models will be tested through
                             interaction and cooperation of scientific departments, RISTTI, rayon (city)
                             methodical offices, teachers-innovators)
                             7) Use a mix of full-time and distance tuition in in-service training
                             8) Further research of the competence approach in education.
                             9) Increase the social prestige, status, protection of pedagogical activity to attract
                             the best specialists
1.3. Management training     1) Increase efficiency and responsibility of persons in schools helping students
of schools principals        with professional and personal progress.
                             2) Use the Education Management University of NAPS, pedagogical universities
                             of MES and National academy of governmental management by the President of
                             Ukraine to improve qualifications of education administrative personnel
1.5. Improvement of          1) To change the existing system of month long in-service teacher training once
     RISTTI                  per 5 years to regular 3-5 day courses.
                             2) To conduct in-service teacher training on the competence approach; to carry out
                             the psychological-pedagogical training in the framework of existing in-service
                             teacher training.
                             3) To develop standard professional programs and plans for in-service training for
                             every category of general secondary educator taking into account their competence
                             levels.
                             4) To develop the credit-module form of in-service teacher training in the regional
                             system of the in-service teacher training after coordination of function changes in
                             the activity of rayon (city) methodical offices (centers) with the local authorities.
                           Component 2. Improvement of the Learning process
2.1. Modernization of        1) Modernization of content of natural-scientific disciplines.
curriculum                   2) Update of the education content in accordance with the needs of the labor
                             market of Ukraine.
                             3) To provide educational institution with programs, textbooks, learning equipment
                             in sufficient quantity in a timely manner.
                             4) Implementation of the competence approach; update the content of the
                             curriculum in accordance with the requirements of the competence approach;
                             development of the scientific-methodical maintenance of the system of
                             competence-oriented approach implementation in the education process.
2.2. Teaching and learning 1) Provision of informatization program of all EIGE. Supply and constant update
tools                        of the software
                             2) Update of textbooks.
                             3) Improvement of school libraries
                             4) Development and implementation of pilot projects in implementation of
                             electronic textbooks.
                             6) Spread of innovative teaching technologies
                             7) Creation of innovative-technological resources
2.3. Monitoring and control 1) The further institutionalization and continuation of the dialogue about the

                                                        66
        Component                                                  Suggestions
of education quality          national assessment policy by means of passing exams without attending classes,
                              ensuring education quality.
2.4. Initiatives of           1) Further institutionalization and continuation of the dialogue about national
schoolmodernization           policy on innovations and school development.
                          Component 3. The efficiency and management of resources
3.1. Education policy         1) Institutionalization of Policy planning division in the MES.
planning and management       2) Study trips abroad to Europe.
                              3) Publicity campaigns on school network optimization and involvement of the
                              community in preparation and implementation of education system reform.
                              4) Restructure higher education institutions especially of the I and II accreditation
                              levels
                              5) Printing and distribution of programs and teaching materials related to
                              reforming of the general secondary education for teachers
                              6) Public opinion poll to monitor education quality
3.2. EMIS                     1) Improvement of resources required for creation of EMIS.
                              2) Computerization and internet connection of all schools
                              3) Creation of transparent system of access to information.
3.3. School network           1) Involvement of qualified teachers to work in rural schools
optimization                  2) Solve problem of personnel turnover.
                              3) Implement the school network optimization model in all regions of Ukraine
                              4) Create conditions for functioning of general educational institutions with low
                              student numbers. Form education districts and territories with a network of hub full-
                              time-correspondence school with advanced study of particular subjects and
                              consulting centers where children can get quality knowledge after classes.
                              5) Implementation of variant models of different types of schools
3.4. Schools rehabilitation   1) Supervision of construction to ensure construction quality and in-time payment
                              to contractors.
                              2) Attract foreign investments and use the international tenders to improve quality
                              in complex capital repair projects.
Remarks: * - the suggestions were done that require financial and expert support;
** - by forming of these suggestions the experts opinions were taken into account




                                                              67
                 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not applicable




                                                68
                               Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Bank preparation documents
World Bank. Ukraine Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for FY2004-2007 (Report 26448-UA)
discussed by the Board on September 29, 2003.
World Bank. Ukraine Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report (CAS) for FY2004-2007 (Report
32250-UA) discussed by the Board on May 19, 2005.
World Bank “Ukraine- Education Reform Policy Note” 2003.
World Bank. Statements of mission objectives, Aide-Memoires and Back-to-Office Reports from the pre-
identification mission carried out in December 2002 up to the appraisal mission carried out July 2004.
World Bank. Project Concept Note and Minutes of the Review Meeting dated September 12, 2003.
World Bank. Project Appraisal Document (PAD) for the Ukraine Equal Access to Quality Education in
Support of the First Phase of the Education Sector Reform Program Project, Report No. 32175 – UA,
April 27, 2005.
World Bank. Minutes of the Project Appraisal Document Review Meeting dated July 9, 2004.
World Bank. Agreed Minutes of Negotiations. April 19-22, 2005.
World Bank. Ukraine Education Reform Policy Note. 2002.

Bank project implementation documents
World Bank. Loan Agreement for the Ukraine Equal Access to Quality Education Project 4780 - UA.
September 5, 2005.
World Bank. Statements of Mission Objectives, Aide-Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, Financial
Management Reports, Implementation Status and Results Reports (ISRs) and Audit Reports of all the 11
supervision missions recorded in the Data Sheet of this ICR and in the Project’s electronic files from June
30, 2005 to December 2010.

Bank and Borrower other project implementation and post-implementation-related documents
World Bank. Ukraine Country Partnership Strategy Progress Report for FY2008-2011 (Report 54089-
UA) discussed by the Board on April 19, 2010.




                                                    69
           This map was produced by                                          25°E                                                                                           30°E                                                                 35°E
           the Map Design Unit of The
           World Bank. The boundaries,
           colors, denominations and
           any other information shown
                                                                                                                                                                                  To
                                                                                                                                                                                 Minsk                                                           USS I AN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               R US S IA N
           on this map do not imply, on
           the part of The World Bank                                                                                       BELA RUS                                                                                                         FE D E ATI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             F E DE R AT I ON
           Group, any judgment on the
           legal status of any territory,                                                                                                                     To
           or any endorsement or              To                                                                                                            Zhlobin
           acceptance of such                Warsaw                                                                                                                                                                                              To
           boundaries.                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Bryansk
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        UKRAINE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                  na
                                                        North                                                                                                                                                 Des
                                    To
                                                         orth
                                                         orth
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Chernihiv
                                   Warsaw                                Kovel                                      Sarny                                                                                                                                                  To
               POLAND                                                                                                                                                                        CHERNIHIV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Orel

                                                                  VOLYN
                                                            Buh


                                                                                                      RIVNE                                                                                                                 SUMY Sumy
                                                              h
                                                              h

                                                                                                                                                    Korosten
                                                                                                                                                                            Kyiv
                                                                      Luts'k                                                                                            Reservoir
                                                                                                        Rivne
                                                                                                                                      ZHYTOMYR
            50°N
                                                                                                                                                                                         KYIV                                                                                                                To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Voronezh                           50°N
                        To                                                                                                                                                               (KIEV)                                                                                                                                      To
                      Tarnow                                                                                                          Zhytomyr                                                                                                                                                                                    Voronezh
                                                                                                                                                     D                                                 Dn

                                                                                                           KHMELNYTSKYI
                                                                                                           KHMELNY TSKY I
                                                   L'viv                                                                                                                                                                 PO LTAVA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         POLTAVA                                            Kharkiv
                                                                                                                                                         ni                      KYIV                       iep
                                                                                                                                                              ep                                                  er




                                                                                                                                                                                                   Dn
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Dn
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Dniep
                                                  LVIV                                 Ternopil'                                                                       er                                                Low
                                                                                                                                                                            Up                         r                                    Poltava
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      KHAR KIV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      KHARKIV




                                                                                                                                                                                                        e
                                                                                                                                                                                                        e
                                                                                                                                                                                                        e
                                                                                                                            Khmel'nyts'kyi                                       lan                                             lan                                                                       LUHA NSK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LUHANSK
           SLOVAK                       Ca                            TERNOPIL                                                                                                           d    Cherkasy                                  d
           REPUBLIC                          rp                    Ivano-                                                                         Vinnytsya
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Kremenchug
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Sieverodonetsk
                                                  at               Frankivs'k
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Reservoir
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Do                         one
                                                       hi                                                                                                                          CHERKA SY
                                                                                                                                                                                   CHERKASY                                                                                                net




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Kremenchuk                                                                          ts
                                                            a IVANO-
                                                                                 ni                                                                                                                                                                                                              s B
                                                                             D




                                Uzhhorod                                              es
                                                             n                           te   r                                       VINNYTSYA
                                                                                                                                      VI NNYTSYA                                   Uman'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     asin                        Luhans'k
                                                            FRANKIVSK                                                                                 So
                                ZAKARPAT                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Dnipropetrovs'k
                                                                                                                                                           uttth
                                                                                              Chernivtsi                                                                                                                                                                                 DONETSK
                                                                  M
                                                                  M
                                                                  M




                                                                                                                                                                                                              Kirovohrad
                                                                                                                                                               h
                                                                                                                                                               h
                                              Hora Hoverla                                                                                                    Bu
                                                                                                                                                                   h
                                                                  ttt n




                                                 (2061 m)                                                                                                                                    KIROVOHRAD                                 DNIPROPETROVSK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DNIPROPET RO VSK                                                 Donets'k
           HUNGARY                                                       CHERNIVTSI
                                                                      s.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Kryvyi Rih
                                                                                                                                 M
                                                                                                                                 M




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Zaporizhzhia
                                                                                                                                      O
                                                                                                                                      O




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Nykopol
                                     To
                                                                                                                                                                                                  MYKOLAÏV
                                                                                                                                       LD




                                 Satu Mare                        25°E                                 To
                                                                                                  Tirgu Mures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Kakhov
                                                                                                                                          OV




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Reservoir




                                                                                                                                                                                                                               s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             let
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Mariupol
                                                                                                                                                                       ODESSA
                                                                                                                                                                       OD ESSA                                                                          ZAPORIZHZH IA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ZAPORIZHZHIA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           hu
                             UKRA I N E                                                                                                                                                       Mykolayiv




                                                                                                                                                                                                                          In
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Melitopol
                                                                                                                                             A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Berdiansk
                               SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                         To                                                                                    Kherson
                                                                                                                             Birlad
                               OBLAST CAPITALS                                                                                                                                            Odessa                         KHERSON                                                   Sea
                               AUTONOMOUS REPUBLIC CAPITAL
                                                                                                   ROMANIA                                                                                                                                                                          of                                R US S I AN
                               MUNICIPALITIES
                               (CITIES WITH SPECIAL STATUS)                                                                  To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Azov                            F E DE R AT I ON
                                                                                                                             Tecuci
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Kerch
                               NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                   Izmail               Vilkova
                               RIVERS                                                                                To                                                                                                              CRIMEA                                                                                                  45°N
                                                                                                                  Buzau                                                                                            Yevpatoriia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Teodosiia                                                   To
                               MAIN ROADS                                                           45°N                                                                                                                                                                                                          Armavir
                                                                                                                                                                        Mouths of                                              Simferopol’
                               RAILROADS                                                                                                                                the Danube                                                                                                                                        To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Sevastopol                                                                                       Sochi
                               OBLAST BOUNDARIES                                                                                         To




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    IBRD 33505R
                                                                                                                                       Medgidia                                                                                                  Yalta            0       50       100       150 Kilometers
                               AUTONOMOUS REPUBLIC                                                                                                                                 Blac k                     Sea
MAY 2009




                               BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0              50              100              150 Miles
                               INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                 30°E                                                                                 35°E
                                                                                                   BULGARIA
The original had problem with text extraction. pdftotext Unable to extract text.
