Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFCIAL USE ONLY                       FFLE COO
Report No. P-3571-MAS
REPORT AND RECONMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT OF US$15.2 MILLION
TO
MAURITIUS
FOR
A HIGHWAYS PROJECT
July 7, 1983
This document has s restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit            =           Mauritian Rupee (Re)
US$1.00                              Rs 11.0
Re 1.00                              US$0.091
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                               3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                          0.62 mile (mi)
1 sq. kilometer (km2)         =           0.386 square miles (sq mi)
1 hectare (ha)                            2.47 acres (ac)
1 metric ton (im/ton)         =           2,204 pounds (lbs)
ABBREVIATIONS
AfDF      - African Development Fund
BADEA     - Banque Arabe pour le Developpement Economique en Afrique
AM        - Air Mauritius
BCEOM     - Bureau Central d'Etudes pour les Equipements
d'Outre-Mer, France
CAD       - Civil Aviation Department
EDF       - European Development Fund
FAC       - Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
MEPD      - Ministry of Economic Planning and Development
MMA       - Mauritius Marine Authority
MOW       - Ministry of Works
NT&       - National Transport Authority
PSIP      - Public Sector Investment Program
TD        - Technical Division
UNDP      - United Nations Development Program
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 -June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MAURITIUS
HIGHW.AYS PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                      Go'-et-tetit of Mauritiuts
Amount:                        US$15-2 million including capitalized front-end fee
Terms:                         17 years, including 4 years grace at the standard
variable interest rate.
Project:                       Objectives:  The project would (a) protect the
capital investment in selected main roads and
increase their service life; (b) help improve
MOW's capacity to plan and execute road investments
and its capacity to carry out road maintenance; (c)
assist In enforcing vehicle weight and traffic
safety regulations; and (d) improvement in
highways planning.
CompVents: The project consists of (a)
strengttening and improvement of about 75 km of
main 'roeds (b) improvement of the Ministry of
Works maain workshop; (c) construction of a vehicle
inspection center; (d) procurement of road patching
equipment; (e) procurement of portable
weigh-bridges; and (f) consultant services for
project preparation and construction supervision.
Benefits:                      Elimination of costly repairs to roads, and
reduction of vehicle operating costs; in addition,
time savings on two heavily trafficked roads
passing through urbanized areas.
Risks:                         There are-no major risks associated with the
project.  However, there may be some delay in
taking actual possession of land for the project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Project Costs:                            Local       Foreign      Total
--------(US$ Million)--------
Project Components:
I. Strengthening and Improvement of
Roads (including Right-of-Way
Acquisition)                               6.66        10.62       17.28
1.  Port Louis-Mahebourg
(Plaisance Airport) Road                 ( 3.08)      ( 4.95)    ( 8.03)
2.  Port Louis-The Mount Road                ( 1.01)      ( 1.66)    ( 2.67)
3.  Plaine des Papayes Road                  ( 0.83)      ( 1.32)    ( 2.15)
4.  Quartier Militaire-Bel Air Road          ( 1.74)      ( 2.69)    ( 4.43)
II. Improvement to Ministry of Works'
Main Workshop                               0.15         0.27        0.42
III. Construction of Vehicle Inspection
Center (including Land Acquisition)         0.19         0.16        0.35
IV. Procurement of Road Patching
Equipment                                   0.01         0.21        0.22
.V.  Procurement of Portable Weigh-Bridges       0.01         0.04        0.05
VI.  Consultant Services                          0.20         0.79        0.99
Total Base Cost                         7.22        12.09       19.31
Contingencies:  Physical                            0.71         1.19        1.90
Price                             1.03         1.88        2.91
Total Project Costs                       8.96        15.16       24.12
Total Project Costs Excluding Taxes    5.80           15.16       20.96
Front-end Fee on Bank Loan                 -           0.04        0.04
Total Financing Required                  8.96        15.20       24.16
On Rounding                       (9.0)        (15.2)      (24.2)



- iii -
Financing Plan:                                   Local       Foreign       Total
__   (US$ million)---------
IBRD Loan                                                  15.2         15.2
Government Contribution
(including taxes)                         9.0            -           9.0
Total                                     9.0          15.2         24.2
Estimated Disbursement:             Fiscal Year       Annual       Cumulative
1984            1.4            1.4
1985            4.6            6.0
1986            6.0           12.0
1987            3.2           15.2
Economic Rate of Return: 40 percent.
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 4374-MAS dated June 16, 1983
Map: IBRD 16945.



I



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUQTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF TRE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO MAURITIUS
FOR A HIGHWAYS PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Mauritius, for the equivalent of US$15.2 million to help provide financing
for a Highways Project. The loan will be for 17 years, including a 4-year grace
period at the standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
Main Features of the Mauritian Economy
2.        An Economic Memorandum entitled "Mauritius:  Recent Developments and
Prospects" was issued in Red Cover in January 1983. An updating memorandum has
been prepared and its conclusions are incorporated here.  Country data are given
in Annex I to this report.
3.        Mauritius is a small, densely populated island and its economy is
dominated by sugar production. Sugarcane occupies around 90 percent of the
cultivable area and accounts for 70 percent of the contribution of the
agricultural sector to GDP; sugar also accounts for about 60 percent of
merchandise exports. The level of economic activity is therefore extremely
sensitive to fluctuations in sugar production and in the value of sugar exports.
4.        With a GNP per capita of about US$1,240 in 1982, Mauritius enjoys the
standard of living of a middle-income developing country. Standards of
nutrition, health care, and general education are higher than those of
neighboring nations. The adult literacy rate is over 80 percent, life
expectancy is about 65 years, and basic needs are extensively covered. The main
island of Mauritius has a population of 956,000 (1982) on a land area of about
2,000 km2 just over half of which is cultivable, the rest constituted of rocks
and mountainous slopes too steep for any cultivation. The population density is
roughly 850 per square kilometer of agricultural land.
5.        Mauritius' population is a mosaic of various ethnic groups:  about
68 percent are of Indian origin, including 17 percent Moslem; about 29 percent
represent the general population consisting of Franco-Mauritians and population
of African or mixed descent; the Sino-Mauritian population accounts for



3 percent. This ethnic diversity is compounded by the diversity of religious
beliefs, which contributes to a complex political climate. Nevertheless,
despite the ethnic complexity the Government functions in a system of
parliamentary democracy and Mauritius has avoided the emergence of racial,
religious or cultural conflicts.
6.        Rapid population growth is a matter of serious concern for the
Government of Mauritius, despite the spectacular drop in fertility and growth
rates during the period 1965-73. The rate of growth has recently been rising
again and currently stands at 1.5 percent, which implies a doubling of
population over the next 46 years. A sector report on population was recently
prepared by the Bank.
7.        Mauritius enjoys a pleasant tropical climate which makes it attractive
for tourists. However, the country is subject to cyclones between late December
and March which can cause severe damage. Major cyclones occur on average at
12-15 year intervals. The absence of mineral resources and the distance of
Mauritius from major markets, (about 6,000 miles from Europe; from the U.S.,
10,000 miles; from Australia, 6,000 miles; and from Japan, 7,000 miles) affects
the potential for economic activities adaptable to Mauritius. It does not lie
on the main sea routes and thus maritime transport costs are relatively higher
in Mauritius than in countries competing for similar markets. Mauritius must
compensate for this handicap by maintaining lower unit labor costs than its
competitors or by producing high-value items able to absorb air freight costs.
Mauritius' major assets are its highly educated population and its relatively
low wages compared to other countries at a similar level of development.
8.        Mauritius' infrastructure appears adequate for the needs of the
economy. The road network is extensive and in reasonably good condition. With
the completion of the sugar terminal and the deep water quays financed by the
World Bank, for the time being no further investments are needed in the port.
Although the present airport needs some investment to rehabilitate its runway
and to develop terminal facilities, it seems adequate to cater to the needs of
Mauritius at least for the decade.
Economic Development in the 1970s
9.        During 1964-72 the Mauritian economy was characterized by low economic
growth, conservative management and the emergence of a major unemployment
problem. While the economy grew slowly (1-2 percent a year), the labor force
expanded at an annual average of 3.3 percent reflecting post-war population
growth.  Employment including relief work only grew by about 2 percent a year;
thus from around 3,000 persons in 1962, unemployment grew to reach a record
level of 39,000 in 1972, i.e., about 15 percent of the estimated labor force.
10.       An economic boom in the mid 1970s led Government to adopt financial
and economic policies which proved to be excessively expansionary. The causes
for the increase in economic activity were: a) the sharp upward swing in world
sugar prices, the good sugar crop years of 1973 and 1974 and the multiplier



effect of the sugar sector on the rest of the economy; b) the successful and
rapid development of Mauritian exports of manufactured products; c) the current
and capital expenditure of the Government which increased faster than current
revenues; d) the increase in demand resulting from government policy to equalize
income distribution by increasing wages and salaries faster than the cost of
living.
I1.       These factors contributed to very rapid growth, stimulated in 1973-75
by good prices and crops of sugar, investments financed from sugar profits in
the manufacturing sector, and the momentum of accelerated exports of
manufactures. Among those enterprises which were established, the performance
of some of the Export Processing Zone industries and more particularly knitwear
and clothing was especially remarkable.
12.       In 1977-79 there was a deceleration of GDP growth as the decline in
sugar prices which began in 1976 continued, even though the effect of this
decline was tempered by the fact that Mauritius benefited from EEC-supported
prices under the sugar protocol of the Lom6 Convention. The slowdown of the
sugar sector was accompanied by a slow down in the manufacturing sector
resulting from the progressive erosion of export industries due to increasing
labor costs. A number of EPZ firms closed, notably those producing electronics
and garments. The diversification efforts of the sugar industry were also cut
back as its profits were considerably reduced and some sugar firms were even
registering losses.
13.       The growth of the overall economy, the development of tourism,
manufacturing and construction activities, had a positive impact on employment
creation. From 1972 to 1979 employment increased at an average rate of
4.2 percent per year. Employment in large scale enterprises increased by about
31,500 jobs between 1972 and 1979. To further alleviate the unemployment
situation Government undertook a deliberate policy of job creation in the public
sector. Labor intensive parastatals such as the Development Works Corporation
(DWC), the Tea Development Authority (TDA), and the Central Housing Authority
(CHA) were created, generating additional employment for about 13,500 people
over 1972-79. As a result, the level of unemployment declined from about 39,000
in 1972 to 23,000 in 1979, or from 15 percent to 7 percent of the total labor
force.
14.       This increase in employment was accompanied by a deliberate government
policy of increased wages and salaries to improve income distribution. The
benefits of the sugar boom at first percolated quite slowly throughout the
economy with real wages increasing after 1974. Notwithstanding the downturn of
the sugar price, real wages and salaries continued to increase by nearly
15 percent from 1976 to 1978. The increase in salaries was also accompanied by
a substantial change in social legislation.



-4-
15.       This continued policy of wage increases and expansion of public sector
employment led government expenditures to expand at a fast pace while revenues
were declining. With the Government pursuing a large program of public
investment in infrastructure and social services, the overall deficit continued
to widen and government increasingly resorted to domestic and foreign borrowing.
16.       Despite some progress in diversifying exports, sugar continued to
dominate the economy and remained the major export product. Thus, although the
average price for Mauritius' sugar was well above the world price because of
Mauritius' preferential access to the EEC market, the decline of world sugar
prices which followed the 1973-1974 boom had a direct impact on export
earnings. By contrast, the growth of imports increased steadily during the
period with domestic demand for food and consumer goods fueled by Government
expansionary fiscal policy. The widening of the current account deficit (12
percent of GDP in 1979) required increased borrowing and a drawdown of foreign
exchange reserves. As a consequence, debt outstanding (disbursed) increased by
nearly sevenfold between 1973 and 1979 and debt service payments by nearly
nine-fold over the same period. Thus at the end of 1979, the Mauritian economy
was extremely vulnerable.  Foreign exchange reserves had been dr*awn down; there
was an erosion of competitiveness in the burgeoning export industry; and, the
country faced large balance of payments deficits and a growing debt service
burden.
17.       The Government decided to adopt policies to readjust the economy in
the last half of 1979, but natural disasters and unanticipated appreciation of
the exchange rate wiped out the effect of the readjustment measures. To restore
the country's creditworthiness in the short Fun the Government had no choice but
to adopt a stabilization program to reduce domestic demand, imports and the
resource gap to more reasonable levels. The Rupee was devalued by 30 percent in
November 1979 and the Government adopted a package of austerity measures
supported' by an IMF standby agreement.
Recent Economic Developments
18.       The economic events of 1980 were extremely disappointing.  A cyclone
destroyed much of the sugar crop and production declined by 30 percent. The
impact of the shortfall was directly transmitted to the rest of the economy, and
there was a sharp contraction in economic activity and the stabilization program
was compromised. Since 1980 the economy seems to have recovered progressively
in 1981 and 1982. Sugar production recovered from 475,000 tons in 1980 to
575,000 tons in 1981 and 690,000 tons in 1982. However, non-sugar industry
which had increased significantly (annual average rate of 8 percent over the
period 1973-81 due to successful exports of garments to new markets), slowed
down in 1982 to only 1.3 percent as orders for knitwear products fell
dramatically in the last half of 1982 owing to the worldwide recession and
restrictive measures adopted by industrialized countries to protect their own
economies.  The modest tourism recovery of 1981 was short-lived.



-5-
19.        On the demand side, gross fixed capital formation declined by almost
10 percent in 1981 and about 11 percent in 1982. An alarming factor was the
sharp drop of investment by the private sector in 1982, which was apparent from
the 38 percent decline in imports of machinery and equipment and the 7 percent
reduction in imports of intermediate goods. After a short-lived recovery in
1981 due to the accumulation of sugar stocks, gross investment dropped by almost
17 percent in 1982.  Total exports of goods and non factor services rose by 11.5
percent as against an 11 percent decline in imports.  After a slight increase in
1981, total consumption is estimated to have declined by about 3 percent in 1982
mainly due to a reduction in private consumption. Hence 1982 saw a rise in the
domestic savings rate from 14 percent in 1981 to    18 percent in 1982.
20.        Employment and Wages.  With the slowdown of activity in manufacturing
and the Government decision to stabilize public employment imposed by the
financial constraints, unemployment rose in 1979 and 1980. The unemployment
situation, which was already alarming. at the end of 1981, deteriorated further
in 1982 with the number of registered unemployed increasing to about 25 percent
of the labor force in October 1982. The average nominal monthly salary
increased by 16 percent in 1981 and 10 percent in 1982, but average real wages
were successfully contained in 1981 and declined by about 1.4 percent in 1982.
21.        Public Finances.  Despite government's efforts, there was a continuing
deficit in the current account budget for the period 1979/80 - 1981/82.
Slowing down ordinary expenditures and introducing higher tax rates did succeed
in reducing the deficit in 1979/80 to only one-third of the deficit of 1978/79.
But this was short lived since the bad sugar crop, the devaluation of 1979 and
falling sugar prices in 1981 tended to push up expenditures faster than
revenues. Although expenditures in 1981/82 were kept within limits, government
revenues fell short, ironically as a result of government's successful efforts
to reduce the import bill and discourage non-essential imports. With a
continued increase of capital expenditure on account of ongoing programs, the
overall budget deficit increased from 10.7 percent of GDP in 1979/80 to 14.1
percent of GDP in 1980/81. It was only in 1981/82 that the overall deficit
declined to 13.4 percent of GDP, when government decided to reduce capital
expenditures.



- 6 -
22.        The salient feature of government revenues is the high share of
indirect taxes (and import duties in particular) which makes receipts
excessively vulnerable to external circumstances which cannot be controlled.  To
compensate for the decline of income tax receipts government introduced a
surcharge on sugar exports in 1979/80, but export duties declined in 1980/81
when sugar exports declined. Collections from import duties, which benefitted
from the sudden impact of the 1979 devaluation, declined in 1981/82 as
government's efforts to discourage imports, of non-essential goods brought a
shift in imports toward those having lower rates of duty.
23.        But the major cause of fiscal imbalance during the period has been the
level of current expenditures, despite government's successful policy of wage
restraint. The main growth factor was interest payments on outstanding debt
which surged to represent 23 percent of current expenditures as government
borrowing on the Eurodollar market increased and the devaluation raised the
rupee cost of external obligations.
The 1982/83 Budget
24.        The new tax measures included in the 1982/83 budget (sales tax,
increased rate of stamp duty on imports, taxes on gambling) are expected to
provide a 22 percent increase in revenues. The new sales tax, which became
effective in January 1983, is the mst important measure. The stamp duty on
imports has been increased from 5 percent to 12 percent. Tax rates on gambling
have been increased, as have rates and charges related to air travel. Receipts
from export duties are not expected to decline, although the surcharge on the
export duty on sugar was reduced from 75 percent to 50 percent. The projected
increase in volume is expected to compensate for this reduction.
25.        Current expenditures for 1982/83 are estimated to increase by
12.6 percent. Expenditures for wages and salaries (36 percent of current
expenditures) are estimated to increase by about 19 percent. The subsidies on
rice and wheat flour are budgeted at Rs 200 million. This compares with
Rs 287 million for 1981/82--Rs 230 million supported by the Government budget
and Rs 57 million corresponding to the foreign exchange losses incurred by the
Bank of Mauritius on account of the dual exchange rate for rice and wheat flour,
prior to suppression of the dual system in September 1982. Transfers to
educational institutions are planned to remain constant in nominal terms.
Capital expenditures have been budgeted to increase by only 14.7 percent in
current Rupees. Thus the overall deficit is projected to reach Rs 1,416 million
(or 11.5 percent of GDP) as against Rs 1,456 million in 1981/82 (13 percent of
GDP).
26.        Balance of Payments.  Sugar continues to dominate the Mauritian
balance of payments. In 1981 disappointing sugar exports, combined with a
deterioration in the terms of trade, more than offset the reduction in the



- 7 -
volume of imports. In contrast, 1982 showed a marked improvement over 1981 and
the resource gap declined from about 11 percent to 3 percent of GDP, mainly on
account of a recovery of the volume of sugar exports and effective containment
of the import bill. The recovery in the volume of sugar exports was, however,
partly offset by the unfavorable prices prevailing in the world market for
sugar, and exports of manufactured goods continued to decline.
27.        The devaluations of the rupee in 1979 and 1981 and selective use of
import licensing were effective in constraining import demand. Imports of goods
declined by 8 percent a year in 1980 and 1981 and continued to decline by
9 percent in 1982.  Interest payments continued to increase sharply in 1981 and
1982, as charges rose on the Eurodollar borrowings which have accumulated over
the past few years. However, these payments were partly compensated by
increased transfer receipts from both private and public sources. Thus, the
current account deficit was dramatically reduced from 13 percent of GDP in 1981
to about 4.6 percent in 1982.
28.        Quantitatively more significant, amortization on government medium-and
long-term debts also more than doubled in 1982. Since foreign exchange reserves
had already been drawn down in previous years, government resorted to more
Eurodollar borrowing and to the use of standby credits from the IMF to meet the
balance of payments deficit.
29.       At the second meeting of the Mauritius Consultative Group, which was
held June 1 and 2, 1983 under the auspices of the World Bank, the Government
presented its diagnosis of the situation and prospects of the Mauritian economy
and its program of policy reforms to restore economic growth. Participating
delegations indicated that they would be prepared to support the Government's
efforts through special balance of payments assistance for 1983 and 1984 in
excess of $30 million estimated as the minimum required; and expressed their
strong support for increasing their assistance through project financing and
accelerating disbursements.
External Public Debt
30.        Debt outstanding and disbursed is estimated to have reached
US$393 million at the end of 1982 or 36 percent of GDP. Financial institutions
(commercial banks) have become the major source of loans to Mauritius and
account for almost 40 percent of Mauritius' total debt outstanding and
disbursed. As overall terms of external borrowings hardened, particularly due
to Eurodollar borrowings, debt service payments increased from US$49 million in
1981 to US$58 million in 1982. As a consequence, the debt service ratio rose
from 11.6 percent to 13 percent in 1982.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
31.        To date Mauritius has received five IDA credits and fourteen Bank
loans totalling US$148.9 million, to help finance projects in industry
(US$39.5 million), power (US$22.0 million), ports (US$13.6 million), agriculture
and rural development (US$9.4 million), urban development (US$15.0 million),
water supply (US$12.2 million), education (US$22.2 million) and structural
adjustment (US$15.0 million). IFC made a small loan (US$0.6 million) in 1971
for hotel development and is currently studying new investment possibilities.



-8-
Disbursement performance in Mauritius remains close to the Bank-wide average and
has in fact accelerated due to the inclusion of the first SAL loan which was
fully disbursed within one year. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank
loans and their disbursement status as of March 31, 1983 and notes on the
execution of ongoing projects.
32.       The Bank operational program in Mauritius has in the last two to three
years moved in the direction of greater emphasis on the dialogue on macro and
sectoral economic policies that the Government is pursuing in the medium term as
part of the structural adjustment of the Mauritian economy.  In line with this
strategy, a first structural adjustment loan (US$15 million) to Mauritius was
approved by the Executive Directors in FY81.   SAL I became effective at the end
of the Mauritian fiscal year 1980/81, and was in support of a macroeconomic
program running through 1984/85. The government's overall performance in
implementing the first phase of the program has been mixed. While the Public
Investment Program was reduced as anticipated, several economic studies to be
carried out were only completed with delays. In large part, this was due to
delays in the national elections which made many ministers unable to take
decisions in an uncertain political climate.  While the program did not specify
quantitative targets per se, the general objective for the balance of payments
was to reduce the current account deficit from about 12 percent of GDP in
1979/80 to about 8 percent in 1984/85. The stabilization program was
successfully implemented: in 1981/82 the current account deficit of the balance
of payments was reduced to 5.9 percent of GDP and is estimated at 6.4 percent of
GDP in 1982/83. The two devaluations of 1979 and 1981 coupled with the wage
restraint policy did much to restore the competitiveness of the economy. The
dialogue on economic policy with the Mauritian Government has intensified and
based on the studies and actions undertaken under SAL I a proposed second
structural adjustment loan was appraised in January-February 1983 and was
negotiatied in June 1983.
33.       Meanwhile, the Bank's efforts to support renewed growth in productive
sectors are being pursued through project lending. The project lending program
generally supports government's strategy of economic diversification and
employment creation through projects in public infrastructure, utilities, and
technical education as a means of laying the foundation for increased
industrialization.  While the dialogue with the Government on broader policy
matters is being actively pursued under the non-project assistance program
(SAL), specific sector issues, i.e., utility service rates, pricing, cost
recovery, etc. are being addressed in the context of individual projects.
34.       Implementation of current projects is generally satisfactory, and by
and large Mauritian implementing agencies are well able to handle project
responsibilities. Two notable exceptions however, were the first rural
development project and the tea development project recently completed. The
rural development project had mixed success in achieving its objectives. The
tea project encountered serious problems caused by falling international tea
prices, inadequacies in project management and equipment, and lack of interest
from smallholders in taking over tea plots. Government has prepared a
restructuring plan of action for the project to be implemented by the Mauritius
Tea Development Authority with technical assistance under the proposed Technical
Assistance Loan. In addition, a Commission of Inquiry on tea has been set up to
examine the industry-wide problems affecting tea operations in Mauritius and to
make recommendations for their long-term revival.



-9-
35.        Four audit reports on projects in Mauritius have thus far been
prepared by the Operations Evaluation Department. Report No. 2101 of
June 20, 1978 on the first line of credit made to the Development Bank of
Mauritius (Cr. 313-MAS) showed that the project had made a valuable contribution
to development of the Mauritian economy. Report No. 3761 of December 31, 1981 on
the Tea Development Project (Cr.239-MAS) discussed the problems encountered by
the project, and concluded that it had not been successful, especially because
of the institutional difficulties arising from the agency created in connection
with the project, the Tea Development Authority. Report No. 4008 of June 28,
1982 on the Coromandel Industrial Estate (Cr.411-.M4AS) concluded that the general
objectives of the project had been met, i.e., facilitating industrial
develor'iment and employment generation through provision of serviced sites;
howtvrc, specific targets on investment and employment were not achieved.  In
addition, the financial performance of the industrial estate has to date been
significantly below expectation.  A fourth report on the Rural Development
Project, Report No. 3988 of June 22, 1982, was critical of the design of the
project, particularly the failure of its few productive elements.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
Background
36.        The transport system in Mauritius comprises 1,787 km of roads, of
which 90 percent are bituminized, one deep-water port at Port Louis and an
international airport at Plaisance. There are no railways, pipeline, coastal
shipping or inland waterways.  As the port and the airport are for external
communications only, road transport is the only means of internal
communication. The road system provides good accessibility to all parts of the
island, however, with a few exceptions, roads have very low geometric design
standards. Transport communication with the other sparsely populated Islands is
irregular except with the island of Rodrigues to which Air Mauritius provides a
regular service with a small aircraft.
Ports
37.        Port Louis, the country's only deep-water port, has five berths, two
of which are for container traffic. It also has separate terminals for sugar
export and for import of fuel. Under a Bank-financed project, the port capacity
has been significantly increased and is expected to be adequate to meet the
country's needs in the foreseeable future.  In addition, a food grain facility
at the port is being built with the African Development Bank (ADB) and the Arab
Bank for Economic Development in Africa (BADEA) assistance.  Average waiting
time for ships of 30 days in 1978 has been completely eliminated and the port
operations have become more efficient.  Traff-c volume in the port is heavily
influenced by sugar production and its export which can reach about 700,000 tons
per annum out of a total port traffic of 1.7 million tons (1981/82). The
management of the port is in the hands of the Mauritius Marine Authority (tMA)
and is generally satisfactory. Its staff, except for one pilot, is entirely
local. MMA has administrative and financial autonomy under the Prime Minister's
Office.  Its financial position has been good and net revenue increased from Rs
11.9 million in FY80 to Rs 16 million in FY82 (US$1.45 million equivalent).



- 10 -
Civil Aviation
38.      In view of Mauritius' long distance from the African mainland and the
rest of the world, air transport has particular importance for international
communication.  Mauritius is well served by air transport services extended by
12 airlines providing 25 scheduled flights per week to and from Africa, Asia,
Australia and Europe. Due to improved efficiency of operations (increased
capacity utilization, opening of new profitable routes, and cutting down on
operating costs) a profit of about Rs 28 million (about US$2.5 million
equivalent) was achieved by Air Mauritius in FY82, after two years of small
losses.
Highway Subsector
39.       The road network consists of 1,787 km of classified roads.  Except for
176 km of rural roads which have a gravel surface, all roads are bituminized.
The roads are classified into four categories: motorways (26 km), main roads
(837 km), urban roads (578 km) and rural roads (346 km).  The main roads
constitute the principal links in the country's road network and connect
district headquarters and main population centers with one another and with Port
Louis, the capital city. The density of the road network (0.9 km per km2) is
the highest in the region; accessibility is good and almost every village on the
island is served by an all-weather road.
Vehicle Fleet and Traffic
40.       The motor vehicle fleet in 1981 totalled about 52,000 vehicles, of
which 2,200 were owned by the Government -- about 23 inhabitants per vehicle
(excluding motorcycles). Over the period 1976-81, the annual average growth of
the fleet was about 5 percent, however, due to the prevailing economic situation
in the country, there had been stagnation in the size of the fleet during
1979-81. The traffic volumes on the main roads are high -- exceeding 300
vehicles per day (vpd); some road sections, particularly in urban locations,
carry several thousand vehicles per day.
41.       Road Transport Industry.  Passenger transport is generally regulated,
while freight transport is deregulated. The former is handled by 4-5 major
transporters with a total fleet of about 800 buses and by over 200
owner-operators with about 450 buses. Due to surplus capacity of the fleet,
there is fierce competition among the carriers.  The bus fleet is generally in
good condition with about 75 percent being 4 years old or less. The National
Transport Corporation (NTC), the only parastatal company, has a fleet of about
240 buses, covering about 20 percent of the passenger transport on the main
island. The National Transport Authority (NTA) under the Ministry of Works
(MOW), regulates the passenger transport; it provides public passenger carriers
with licenses and route allocations. NTA also regulates tariffs. Freight
transport is carried fully by private operators. With about 3,500 trucks in



- 11 -
use, the capacity is slightly higher than the demand. There are no restrictions
for entry into the freight transport industry and no official tariffs; transport
rates are negotiable.
42.       The Government is undertaking a Public Transport Study under the Urban
Rehabilitation and Development Project (Loan 1926-MAS) with co-financing by the
Saudi Fund.  The study, which will start in the second half of 1983 and for
which terms of reference have been reviewed by the Bank, will make
recommendations for improving public transport, management, routing, pricing
policies, etc. The study will also review passenger and freight transport
regulations. The Government will exchange views with the Bank on the study's
findings and on the technical, financial and economic soundness of follow-up
actions prior to taking any such action (Section 4.05, draft Loan Agreement).
43.       According to the current regulations, no vehicle with a gross vehicle
weight in excess of 22 tons is allowed to use public roads, except with the
special permission of the Commissioner of Police and the Permanent Secretary of
the MOW. However, no limit has been fixed for the axle-load. The Government is
now considering increasing the maximum gross vehicle weight limit from 22 tons
to 35 tons and to make regulations fixing tie maximum axle-load of vehicles; a
maximum load for a single axle of 10 tons has been proposed and is appropriate.
Government will, by December 31, 1984, make and enforce adequate regulations for
vehicle weight, axle-load and dimension limitations for the country (Section
4.03, draft Loan Agreement).
44.       The Technical Division (TD) of the MOW is responsible for
construction, improvement and maintenance of motorways and main roads, and also
for construction and maintenance of buildings. Rural roads are administered by
the three district councils, while the upkeep and maintenance of urban roads is
the responsibility of the five municipal councils. Local authorities rely
mostly on the Central Government for funds. Due to the lack of adequate funds,
their standards of performance are low and they cannot afford to employ the
range of staff required to perform their functions. Government is currently
considering reorganization of the district and municipal councils. While the
Urban Rehabilitation and Development project includes, inter alia, strengthening
of the institutions responsible for urban planning, development and maintenance,
the proposed Technical Assistance Project related to the SAL includes a study on
the needs and organization of rural road maintenance.
45.       The TD is well organized and is adequately staffed; most of the
TD's engineers were trained abroad. The TD has facilities for on-the-job
*      training of its staff, and local training facilities are adequate for the TD's
needs. A few staff received their training at the University of Mauritius (MU)
which offers courses in civil, mechanical and electrical engineering.
Technical, vocational training is also offered by the Industrial Trade Training
Center (ITTC) at Beau-Bassin, established in 1969 and the ITTC at Piton,
established in 1979 with assistance provided under the Bank's First Education
Project (Loan 1033-MAS). In addition, the Lycee Polytechnique set up in 1982
with the assistance of the French Government provides courses in civil,
mechanical and electrical engineering for about 112 students annually.



- 12 -
46.       Engineering and Construction.  The TD of the MOW carries out minor
road and bridge design using its own staff, while all economic feasibility and
detailed engineering studies are done by foreign consultants. As was the case
with studies for the proposed project roads, foreign consultants sometimes form
joint ventures with local firms.  For new roads, such as motorways, design
standards based mainly on those developed by the UK Department of the
Environment, or the French Ministry of Equipment have been followed with certain
modifications to suit local conditions.  These are adequate.
47.       Major construction works are contracted after competitive bidding and
are supervised by consultants. The Development Works Corporation (DWC), a
parastatal organization established in 1970 under the Ministry of Employment,
also undertakes a variety of civil engineering works both in urban and rural
areas. The proposed Technical Assistance Project related to the SAL will
inlcude, inter alia, assistance for restructuring the DWC, which will be given
financial autonomy by July 1984. While there are a large number of private
firms in the country who can handle building contracts, there are only a few
firms capable of undertaking large road works. At present the construction
industry is somewhat depressed due to a drop in construction activity.
48.        Maintenance.  The TD's road maintenance organization is sound.  Road
maintenance in each of the nine districts is carried out under the supervision
of an inspector of works assisted by an assistant inspector of works and other
staff. Routine maintenance is done by force account with the help of road gangs
(6-8 men), while road resurfacing (single/double grouted macadam) is carried out
by special gangs using equipment. The TD has sufficient equipment including
that recently provided under an Indian Line of Credit and under assistance from
the African Development Fund (AfDF), but it still needs equipment for patching
operations. Because of the lack of adequate funds, the TD is unable to purchase
materials, such as bitumen, fuel, spare parts, etc.; and the quantity and
quality of road maintenance is less than satisfactory. Most paved roads have
not been resealed for some ten years or more. The more heavily trafficked roads
show pronounced deterioration in the form of surface deformation, potholes and
cracks over long lengths. The situation has been partially alleviated by the
resurfacing work done on certain roads under the Cyclone Reconstruction Program
financed by the AfDF in 1980.
49.       Due to the structurally weak pavements and inadequate drainage,
widespread damage is caused to roads during rains and the TD is unable to carry
out patching operations effectively with the help of routine maintenance gangs.
It therefore plans to establish mechanized patching units in order to help speed
up operations and cut waste. The project will help finance some equipment for
this purpose.
50.       Planning and Financing.  The MOW is responsible for planning motorway
and main road development and improvement. Planning of urban and rural roads is
the responsibility of the municipal and district councils. The ongoing Urban
Rehabilitation and Development Project provides for strengthening the
institutions responsible for urban planning, development, and maintenance.  In
the case of rural roads not much planning beyond programming of periodic and



- 13 -
routine maintenance is required. Although the MOW has the requisite staff
(transport engineers, economists, statisticians, etc.), there does not exist a
well-defined structure for systematic planning of road investments, project
preparation and monitoring of execution of works.  During preparation of the
proposed project, the Bank recommended and the Government agreed to establish a
planning unit in the MOW and its organization, function and staffing shall be
*      satisfactory to the Bank.  This unit will be established in the MOW by December
31, 1983 (Section 4.06, draft Loan Agreement).
51.       Road maintenance is financed from the Government's recurrent budget,
while road construction is mostly financed from the capital budget but with
foreign assistance. In the period 1977/78-1981/82, only Rs 23.35 million, or
19 percent of total road construction costs was financed by the Government's
capital budget -- less than Rs 5 million per year. For the FY 83-87 Public
Sector Investment Program (PSIP) the Government financing of road construction
is anticipated to incease to Rs 120.4 million, or 28 percent of all investments
earmarked for the road subsector.
52.       The funds allocated to the TD for road maintenance have declined in
recent years and present allocations are far below requirements. The FY 1982
allocation was about Rs 8.1 million, and the amount allocated for FY 1983,
Rs 7.0 million, is far short of requirements. Based on data by the TD, the
estimated requirement for recurrent funds for routine and periodic maintenance
of roads administered by the TD is Rs 15 million (US$1.36 million equivalent) in
1983 prices. During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government
that the annual budgetary allocation for road maintenance to the TD for FY
1984-86 will be at least Rs 15 million (US$1.36 million equivalent) in 1983
prices, and that the Government and the Bank shall exchange views not later than
four months before the beginning of each fiscal year on the adequacy of the
allocation proposed for such year (Section 4.04, draft Loan Agreement).
53.       Actual government expenditure on main road construction and
maintenance is about Rs 12-13 million annually which is far below the needs; in
addition, an amount of about Rs 2-4 million is estimated to be spent on urban
and rural roads. Revenues from road users exceed government expenditures on
roads, In the five-year period FY 1977-81 the Government's total revenues from
road users (import duties on fuel, motor vehicles, spare parts and tires, road
taxes, licenses, etc.) averaged about Rs 196 million. The projected amount of
Government's annual financing for road construction and maintenance will be less
than 20 percent of the annual Government revenue from road users. Hence, road
user revenues can not only cover the anticipated increase in the Government's
share of new road construction, but also provide the additional funds needed for
road maintenance.
Transport Sector Management and Policy
54.       Transport sector management is adequate and given the limited capital
investment needs of the sector, close coordination of developments in different
transport modes has not posed a problem. The Ministry of Economic Planning and
Development (MEPD) assures general coordination of transport sector planning.



- 14 -
Responsibility for the management of the sector is, however, divided among
various ministries/departments. MOW is responsible for development and
maintenance of motorways and main roads while the upkeep of rural and urban
roads is the responsibility of the local authorities; the National Transport
Authority (NTA) is in charge of the road transport industry; MMA handles ports,
operations, while the Civil Aviation Department (CAD) is responsible for
planning, development and operation of air transport; both MMA and CAD report
directly to the Prime Minister's Office.
55.        The transport sector strategy of the Government is to assign priority
to the completion of ongoing projects and to rehabilitation/improvement of
existing infrastructure. Total actual investment in the sector for the
1977/78-1981/82 period was Rs 272.5 million (US$29.3 million equivalent). The
share of transport investments in total public investments was about 9 percent,
which is low considering the strengthening and improvement needs of the main
road network. In the PSIP for FY83-87 the share of transport investment is,
however, increased to 12.6 percent with a total investment for the five-year
period of Rs 934.7 million (about US$85 million equivalent) which is expected to
be largely financed from external sources.  The investment budget is broken down
as follows: 46 percent for roads, 42 percent for civil aviation and 12 percent
for the port. The program for the sector is generally reasonable with the
emphasis on the improvement of the Plaisance international airport and the
strengthening and improvement of main roads.
56.        There are no major outstanding issues in the sector.  Public transport
needs improvement and it is being addressed in the study to be carried out in
1983 under the Urban Rehabilitation and Development Project. Energy pricing for
motor vehicles reflects the real cost of petroleum and consequently there are no
government subsidies in fuel prices. The Bank's assistance is geared to help
the Government overcome constraints to economic development by rehabilitating
and improving the existing transport infrastructure. The Bank-financed port
project has made an important contribution by expanding the port capacity and
modernizing its operations. In regard to the airport project, the Government
has secured external financing for the first phase which is to be implemented
during the period 1983-85. Under these circumstances, the Bank should now
concentrate on assisting the Government with the improvement of the country's
road network. The proposed project will help improve part of the country's main
paved road network which carries high traffic volumes and is in urgent need of
pavement strengthening.
Previous Bank Group Involvement in the Sector
57.        In the transport sector the Bank has so far financed extension and
modernization of the port of Port Louis with a loan of US$10 million in 1974
(Ln 974-MAS). The loan financed the construction of two new berths, two transit
sheds, a workshop, an administration building, port entrance dredging,
procurement of cargo handling equipment, and technical assistance. The project
was later reassessed to reflect price increases caused by initial delays in
implementation and to provide finance for construction of a third berth. A



- 15 -
Third Window Loan of US$3.6 million (1339-T-MAS) was approved in 1976 for the
revised project. The port project was co-financed by U.K. bilateral aid
(US$3.0 million equivalent), and by UNDP (US$514,000) providing for the
technical assistance to the port authority. The project was successfully
completed in March 1983; however, some remedial work has been necessary to check
settlement of land which will be finished by October 1983. Its main objectives
were met and it is working well although port capacity is at present
under-utilized as a consequence of the decline in economic activity and the
reduction in imports.  The technical assistance included in the project was
effective and the management of the port operations has improved.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
58.       A report entitled "Mauritius Staff Appraisal Report" (No. 4374-MAS)
dated June 16, 1983 is being circulated to the Executive Directors separately.
A supplementary project data sheet is attached at Annex III. A Project
Preparation Facility (PPF) of US$246,000 was provided for feasibility studies
and detailed engineering for the strengthening and improvement of the project
roads. The project was appraised by a Bank mission in December 1982.
Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. from May 31 to June 1, 1983. The
Government delegation was led by Mr. D. Manna, Principal Assistant Secretary,
Ministry of Finance.
Objectives
59.       The objectives of the proposed project are to protect the country's
capital investment in selected main roads and to increase their service life, to
help improve MOW's capacity to plan and execute road investments and its
capacity to carry out road maintenance, and to assist it in enforcing vehicle
weight and traffic safety regulations.
Project Description
60.       The proposed project would comprise:
(i)  strengthening and improvement of four main
paved roads, totalling about 75 km, and
related supervision;
(ii)  improvements to the Ministry of Works' main
workshop;
(iii)  construction of a vehicle inspection center;
(iv)  establishment and equipping of mechanized
patching units;



- 16 -
(v) assistance for vehicle weight control; and
(vi) improvement in highway planning.
61.       Strengthening and Improvement of Main Roads.  The four roads to be
strengthened and improved are: Port Louis-Mahebourg (Plaisance Airport) Road,
Port Louis-The Mount Road, Plaine des Papayes Road and Quartier Militaire-Bel
Air Road. Based on a technical and economic evaluation, the consultants
concluded that the preferred solution was to strengthen and improve the roads
for a service life of 20 years. The proposed works would consist of
bituminous/granular overlays of varying thicknesses, improvement of geometrics,
widening/reconstruction of shoulders, and improvement of roadside drains. In
addition, sidewalks along roads in built-up areas will be improved or
reconstructed. Not much land acquisition is involved since shoulders and
roadside drains would be located within the road reserve, about 1.5 m land on
either side of the pavement for depositing materials for road maintenance. A
condition of loan effectiveness would be that all legal and administrative steps
required to ensure access to the road reserve and other land required for the
project shall have been taken. (Section 5.01, draft Loan Agreement).
62.       MOW's Main Workshop and Vehicle Inspection Center.  The MOW's main
workshop lacks adequate facilities for storage of spare parts, sheds for repair
and servicing of vehicles and plant, etc. The project will finance construction
of a spare parts store, sheds for mechanical work and painting, an extension to
the servicing station, and construction of a messroom-cum-office block. The
existing vehicle inspection center on the island is incapable of handling large
size buses and trucks and the large volume of vehicles. The project will
finance construction of a new vehicle inspection center.
63.       Establishment and Equipping of Mechanized Patching Units.  Due to the
widespread damage caused to roads during heavy rains, the TD is unable to carry
out patching operations effectively with the routine maintenance gangs. It will
establish mechanized patching units (average 2 per district) to help carry out
this task. The project includes equipment for 10 of the 18 units required; the
remaining equipment would be purchased with assistance provided by AfDF under
the Cyclone Reconsuruction Program.
64.       Assistance for Vehicle Weight Control.  Government is currently
drafting regulations to fix, inter alia, the maximum axle-load of vehicles
(para. 44). The project will finance 3 portable weigh-bridges to help enforce
vehicle weight and axle-load regulations.
65.       Improvement for Highway Planning.  Government has agreed to establish
planning unit in the Ministry of Work. During negotiations, an assurance Bank
will be established in the MOW by June 30, 1984. The exact functions of the
unit, its staffing and their terms of reference will be prepared by
negotiations.
Project Cost and Financing
66.       Excluding taxes and duties, the total cost is US$21.0 million, with a



- 17 -
foreign exchange component of about US$15.2 million or 72 percent of project
cost. The Government will contribute US$5.8 million to cover all the local
costs of the project, excluding taxes.  The cost estimates for strengthening and
improvement of the project roads are based on unit costs and detailed design
quantities developed by consultants, and those for upgrading MOW's main workshop
and construction of vehicle inspection center on unit area rates as estimated by
MOW, taking into consideration the cost of similar works in Mauritius.  The cost
of road patching equipment and portable weigh-bridges is based on estimates
which reflect c.i.f. prices in end-March 1983.  The supervision of strengthening
*       and improvement of project roads will require about 75 man-months of consultant
services at an average rate of US$9,000 per man-month including salaries,
benefits, international travel, subsistence allowances, overhead, profit and
other miscellaneous items.  Physical contingencies of 10 percent have been
applied to all items except project preparation. Price contingencies have been
applied as follows: local, 10 percent per year in 1983 through 1986; foreign,  8
percent in 1983, 7.5 percent in 1984, 7 percent in 1985 and 6 percent in 1986.
The cost of project preparation work under the Project Preparation Facility is
based on the Government's contract with the consultants. Included in the
project is provision for refinancing an advance of US$246,000.
Implementation and Procurement
67.       Project implementation will be the responsibility of the Technical
Division of the Ministry of Works.  Consultants will be employed for supervision
of the strengthening and improvement of roads. The consultants will be employed
in accordance with the Bank Guidelines for the use of Consultants under
Bank-financed projects published in August 1981 (Section 3.02, draft Loan
Agreement).
68.       The road works, estimated to cost US$14.6 million equivalent,
excluding taxes and contingencies, will be procured under unit price contracts
through international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's
"Guidelines for Procurement". The project roads will be divided into three
contracts: 1) Port Louis-Mahebourg (Plaisance Airport) Road, 31.1 km, (US$6.8
million); 2) Port Louis-The Mount and Plaine Des Papayes Roads, 21.1 km, (US$4.1
million) and 3) Quartier Militaire-Bel Air Road, 22.9 km, US$3.7 million).
Contractors will be invited to bid for one or more contracts. The construction
of a spare parts store, sheds, messrooms-cum-office block, etc. at the MOW's
main workshop and the vehicle inspection center, estimated to cost US$0.70
million equivalent, excluding taxes and contingencies, is unlikely to attract
international competitive bidding. These will be built by local contractors
after competitive bidding in accordance with government procurement procedures
satisfactory to the Bank. All contracts for works would be subject to the
Bank's prior review of procurement documentation. The road patching equipment
and portable weigh-bridges, estimated to cost US$0.27 million equivalent,
excluding taxes and contingencies, is also not expected to attract international
competitive bidding and will be procured after calling for competitive
quotations from established suppliers within the country and abroad in
accordance with normal government procedures which are satisfactory (Schedule 4
(B) draft Loan Agreement).



- 18 -
69.       The project is scheduled to begin at the end of 1983 and be completed
by end-June 1986. The road strengthening and improvement will take 24 months
beginning January 1984 with an estimated 40 percent of works to be carried out
in 1984 and the remaining 60 percent in 1985; the construction of the spare
parts store, sheds, office block, etc., and the vehicle inspection center should
be implemented by the end of 1984. The procurement of road patching equipment
and portable weigh-bridges will be completed by about mid-1984. An
implementation schedule was agreed with government during negotiations.
Disbursements
70.       Disbursements from the loan account would be as follows:
(a) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for strengthening and
improvement of roads, if procured from abroad or 60 percent of
expenditures, excluding land acquisition, if procured locally;
(b) 65 percent of expenditures for improvement to MOW's main workshop;
(c) 65 percent of expenditures, excluding land acquisition for
construction of the vehicle inspection center;
(d) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for procurement of road
patching equipment and the portable weigh-bridges, if procured
from abroad or 80 percent of expenditures if procured locally; and
(e) 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 80 percent of local
expenditures for consultant services.
Accounting, Auditing and Reporting Requirements
71.       Project accounts will be maintained by the Finance Section of the MOW
with separate accounts for each component. The Government has agreed that all
project accounts will be audited by the Director of Audit according to generally
accepted accounting procedures agreed with the Bank (Section 4.02 (b), Draft
Loan Agreement). Government will submit an annual audit report to the Bank not
later than six months after the end of each fiscal year (Section 4.02 (b), draft
Loan Agreement). Government will furnish progress reports and maintain records
and procedures adequate to monitor progress of the project (Section 3.04 (b),
draft Loan Agreement). Government will submit a project completion report to
the Bank not later than six months after the closing date of the loan account
(Section 3.04 (d), draft Loan Agreement).
Benefits and Justification
72.       The four roads included in the project are among the most important in
the country's economy and carry heavy traffic volumes (between 1,000 - 9,000 vpd
in 1982). The main traffic on all of them is the transport of sugarcane to
sugar factories and thereafter transport of sugar to the port for export. The



- 19 -
Louis-Mahebourg (Plaisance Airport) Road is the major trunk road in the country,
linking the northern and southeastern parts of the island and connecting the
capital with the only international airport.  The Port Louis-The Mont and Plaine
des Papayes Roads provide access between the capital and the economically active
northern part of the island, where a number of agro-industrial and textile
enterprises and tourist resorts are located. The Quartier Militaire-Bel Air
Road provides communication between the central and eastern parts of the island
where a number of tourist hotels are situated; the road also goes through a
fruit producing zone and serves a textile factory.
73.       The selected roads directly serve heavily populated areas; total
population in the immediate zone of the four roads is estimated at about
445,000, or about 47 percent of the total population on the island. The roads
also serve 8 out of the island's 21 sugar factories and another 5 factories in
the greater area. Average annual total sugar transport on the four roads is
estimated at about 350,000 tons, or about one-half of the total sugar production
on the island. In addition, food crop production is also significant around the
southern part of the Port Louis-Mahebourg road and in the vicinity of the two
roads in the north.
74.       The main benefits to be derived from the project will be:  (a)
elimination of costly repairs and overlays otherwise necessary to keep the roads
usable; (b) savings in transport costs; and (c) time savings on two heavily
trafficked roads which traverse urbanized areas. Additional benefits will
result from improved road safety but because they are difficult to quantify they
have not been included in calculation of the economic rates of return (ERRs).
The major direct beneficiaries of the reduced transport costs and improved road
safety will be passenger car owners and truck and bus owners/operators. Since
the road transport industry is highly competitive, it is expected that a high
proportion of these benefits will be passed on to transport users -- urban/rural
population and to the consumers of goods being transported in the road zones.
75.       The combined economic rate of return (ERR) for all the project roads
is estimated at about 40 percent; the ERRs for individual roads range from 14 to
87 percent. The wide range of the ERRs is mainly due to the major variation in
traffic volumes on project roads.
Risks
76.       There are no major risks associated with the project.  However, some
delays might occur in takig actual possession of land along the roads already
part of the road reserve. Little additional land is likely to be needed. The
project timetable takes into account the time that may be needed for the
Government to take possession of this land. To ensure that any such delays are
kept to a minimum and do not hinder project implementation, a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed loan will be that all legal and administrative
steps to ensure access to the road reserve and other land required for the
project have been taken (para. 2.08). The project will be the Bank's first
involvement in the Mauritius highway subsector, and hence more frequent
supervision by the Bank would be required in the early stages of project
implementation.



- 20 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
77.       The Draft Loan Agreement between Mauritius and the Bank and the Report
of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section IV (iii) of the articles
of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed separately. As a condition of
effectiveness the Bank must be satisfied that the Government has taken all legal
and administrative steps required to ensure access to the road reserve and other
land required for the project (Para. 62). Special conditions of the project are
listed in Annex III to this report.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
78.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank. I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the
proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
July 7, 1983
Washington, D.C.



- 21 -                                               ANNEX I
page 1 of 5
T A B L E 3A
MAURITIUS                - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MAURITIUS                                REFERENCE GROUPS (WEICGHTED AVERAGES) Ia
MOST                        (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
/1 96U-  1970-RECENT  lB             MIDDLP. INCOME           MIDDLE INCCME
1 96 0-1-   1970'- ESTIMATE-          AFRICA S. OF SAHARA    N. AFRICA I MID EAST
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM)
TOTAL                                    1.9          1.9          1.9
AGRICULTURAL                             1.0          1.1          1.1
GNP PER CAPITA (DS$)                      280.0        400.0       1270.0              1147.9                     1340.0
ENERGY CONSDSPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)        100.0        384.0        524.0                724.2                      810.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POFULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)       664.0        829.0        971.0
UEBAN POPULATION (% OP TOTAL)           33.2         42.0         53.1                29.5                       47.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                                   1.3
STATIONARY POPLLATION (MILL)                                    2.0
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                                  2095
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. ECM.                        357.0        445.7        514.5                 56.5                       36.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRI. LAND              664.0        740.2        839.5                131.8                      449.0
POPULATION AGE SRUCTIIRE (I)
0-14 YRS                            45.7         42.1         34.3                 45.9                       43.9
15-64 YRS                            51.3         54.6         61.8                 51.2                       52.8
65 AND ABOVE                          2.9          3:2           3.8                 2.8                        3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (Y)
TOTAL                                  3.1          2.2          1.4                 2.8                        2.9
URBAN                                  4.5         4.6           3.6                 5.3                        4.6
CRLDE BIRrH RATE (PER THOUS)           41.4          28.0        26.5                 47.6                       42.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)             8.9          7.6          7.0                15.2                       12.0
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATF                  2.9         1.9          1.4                  3.2                        3.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (TKOUS)               ..         9.8         12.2
USERS (r OF MARRIED WOMEN)              ..        25.0         51.0
POOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOCI PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71=100)                         111.0         95.0         91.0                 95.7                       97.5
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (r OF REQUIREMENTS)        109.0        106.0        122.0                 97.1                      102.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)             51.0         50.0         63.0                 56.0                       72.0
OP WHICH ANIMAL ANI  PULSE          18.0         18.0         27.0/c               17.2                       17.8
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RArE             11.0          8.7          2.9                23.6                       15.2
BEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRThI (YEARS)          59.1         62.3         65.8                51.9                        57.2
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)           70.5         61.1         33.7               117.6                      104.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                                   ..         61.0        60.0/d               25.4                       59.3
URBAN                                   ..       100.0        io0.c77               70.5                       84.9
RURAL                                   ..        29.0         22.0/d               12.3                       37.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(X OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                   ..         77.0         82.0/d
URBAN                                              51.0         63.o7;.
RLRAL                                   ..         99.0       100.0/d
PCPLILATION PER PHYSICIAN            4680.0       4190.0       2000.0              12181.6                     3536.0
POP. PER NURSING PERSON              2100.0/e      820.0        610.0               2292.0                     1820.7
                   POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                               210.0        250.0        280.0/c             1075.4                      643.3
URBAN                               110.0/e      250.0        290.0/c              402.3                      545.0
RURAL                                   *        500.0        980. oT             3926.7                     2462.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED               ..        22.7          30.4/c                ..                       26.4
HOO5ING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                  4.9te        5.3/f
URBAI'                                 4.97          ...
RURAL                                  4.7           ..8.
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                  1.9/e         ..
URBAN                                  1.8           .....
RURAL                                  1.9           ....
ACCESS TO ELECT. (2 OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 46.9/e       70.1/f         ..                   ..                      46.2
URBAN                                 81.9/e         ..           ..                  ..                       77.6
RURAL                                 29.2/e         ..           ..                  ..                       16.1



-22-                                             ANNEX I
page 2 of 5
TA B L E  3A
MAURITIUS                - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MAURITIUS                               REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                        (HOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
lb    lb  RECLENT              MIDDLE I NC OME          MIDDLE  INCItER
1960-b       1970-  ESTMATE-          ARICA S. OP SAHARA          AFRICA & MID EAST
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                     98.0         97.0       102.0                 97.2                       89.6
MALE                    103.0         98.0        103.0               103.1                      104.8
FEMALE                   93.0         97.0        102. r'              88.5                       72.4
SECONDARY: TOTAL                     24.0         28.0         50.0                17.2                      41.7
MALE                     32.0         33.0         51.0                23.5                       52.8
FEMALE                   15.0         23.0         50.0                14.2                       31.2
VOCATIONAL ( OF SECONDARY)             2.3          1.4          I.3/g               5.2                       10.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIHARY                              36.0         32.0        20.0                 42.9                      31.9
SECONDARY                            22.0         26.0        27.0                 23.7                      23.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                60.81e       80.0/f       79.0                37.1                       43.3
CONSUTEPT ION
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP            13.6         15.1         27.5/g              18.8                       18.0
RADIO RECE1'IERS/THOUSAND POP          60.2        102.5       205.9                 97.8                     138.1
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP                ..         22.9         80.5                18.6                       45.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION               88.1         78.5         78.6                18.2                       31.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA        l1.0/e       10.2          8.5                 0.6                        1.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)             200.0        256.0       341.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     19.6         20.0        22.8                 36.1                       10.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                40.0         34.0        29.0                 56.8                      42.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   26.0         25.0        24.0                 17.5                      27.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                30.1         30.9        35.1                 37.0                       25.6
MALE                                 48.6         49.6         54.7                47.1                      45.4
FEMALTE                              11.8         12.3         15.9                27.0                        5.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.6          1.5          1.1                 1.3                        1.8
INCOME DISTRIIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
RIGHEST 5I OF HOUSEHOLDS             28.0           ..         31.0/d
HIGHEST 201 OF HOUSEHOLDS            51.0           ..         55.(                  .                          ./
LOWEST 202 OF HOUSEHOLDS              4.5           ..          4. 5/d
LOWEST 40% OF HOUSEHOLDS             14.0           ..         14.07d
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN '.                                            ..        190.0               534.2                      276.1
RURAL                                  ..           ..        190.0               255.9                      177.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (VS$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..            '       290.0                491.5                     400.0
RURAL                                  ..           ..       290.0                188.1                     283.3
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (X)
URBAN                                  ..           ..         12.0                  ..                       22.0
RURAL                                  ..           ..         12.0                  ..                       30.8
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetsc means.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, 'Data for 1960" refer to any year between 0959 and 1961; 'Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; Hnd data for "Most Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 1981.
/c  1977; Id 1975; /e 1962; /f 1972; /g 1978.
May 1983



- 23  -                                              ~~~~~ANNEX i
-                                            ~~~~~page 3 of 5
DEFINITIONS OP SOCI1AL INDOICATO1RI
hon.s   Albthough, the  eoar re  tr.   ...r..a generally (odged the e           -thunIte   atradrttbe   taol   lob   oe   htte   a   o   eItn     oal
cod artib    bnroa  gOth  lokafofnadte   efntosadontosad --                       by dtfteetrnrn  I   o_oto   b  data.  The data act,  oneea,ueflt
The mAcmu-  gruo  r  (11" nb   -t ruounry Dro,op Ats co-abe-  county and (2) Icoanne  group ailhneouebbrrrAciaeehnb norygopOee
nobertootryS acet  on ilo  Inoe Il  bcatrt geP cheer  ttiddle 1enten North Afrlto and Middl   at   econ   ncs   faroeecorbou
al Iole  .  ntrer         -oc    capdaathi cenrase_ople a  nhhedars-elcSot  onechIdbagcro   haoonyotoaeort  o   kro                                                  nrnnI
grop hs dtetoetIn  tobttac   Slnt  bcnanreg  atcaatees  son  te ld lstaa  erede  n te  ootubttcpat0gmoudl~-ea  on toe,  oolo-e-a  h
rurretodIn reu a   nour   ferIdiao   oaasa.T        neee   t   ny  _cfato  coan   she nobue of one tudo-lor -ennln  -sn  the coutr  cod
dAAI Tbcod  nba.                                                                                 oolt   prPyatu     Poplattlot dlrlidd by nosIe  uPpo  ttg
Taal-louSartn  ara-oPrtaog9 land aene and inanCd octers t 1960,                           ttantn   qnllr   in...d...coo   n  crat  btl
ogctuleao I   Canoateof arort-tuco   are  ucd te-poeretty or Pe eeanenntly               taeedPIoegIdat   acr,aa                     dlio   d layes  pr_ta  norf  ae
-P0 on   1-000  - dr..Paukoaoopeobnptkb Od heaet,ord-,ororrrtt-onatotonIfcel
lOAf, 1070, and toot dune                                                                         byd on9 tract annb p      panln   tsnblteheead ~p-ooling pr-aclnly nstodl
tIbOO CttIOPTOftPER CAIA-Ata   ppne   nsae     o   aerntndora  cnnr  notd~d pecannly aatd                                                    ophysIcIa Pthus bp1 a- ndIal
lOll  190, nd  000daTA.     -orh.......no h ospft1                                                         a t__ ad  otto  proctp-lgoe          aptls,     and rarat1,d
POldtOS dll gydIIoyIOIpnaledtsLtul- eneant bode   donly cedartotal
60cag1970ttea b19     r, 1000, an  100  dne-anrur Ie  of11                                                   lttdoartgl  of raracce per  oaneald  Fo Iasul  orhaa,_ad 1ocalM
ttlpp lenciydg-    ndsaoI-hIr,relo   n  ferIlIy                                        SP  onuarnod  fortratsfIalpuplea
teplnaInnat  tene, andfeenl     A.P eapactany iceah6ba197g en 00.5 1                   deeIas,  espnndelp            Ssttgecl Iodana-prnnentenasn
rua ThpuAseeaIc   eelIyranae  bare   cerrroe.                                       onncpld   ere
ocaun-tg declIne -    fetlt  aIoda   oIns  ee   e   usleb                                     Aretsno C         dier idt d b, pa hro  ofbo due   blags) s -total, uran  ad,hatal-
plntng    prtrone   OchfunapI  te   _estgned ate  of ndesnte                             HOUSNGenoa   etlg   btnetlbpI  IIgqat                                spceeg
cobtu 9oeofnrtttyad1      eti9y  red   frprjc ln-apoe.                                 ftoa,  rhn  adtoa  dr lns  epecrey
StatIonar  capulattn - In a  tantnoarypaculanla  nnncr toan genes
Isln of  bfopbto   I   t  mr10, endthet eIea   etn  at                                     pee-dh.rs ha... eduar  fAr b.dcltrn   egaao,r  ndsruetan;odt fee
teraotorc paru-gn--- Itruhd   h-          au   ht tartoep                                    st   hol east p   -yta ar  bab   or  rOo        -t ofy Yu tabo   age
p      Iosoo   btcOlh    Yabd                                                         Ienfr   cho       aa, onadOaur-I-atdahbac   eadr
Poubttn  enbe                                                                                fausaneqtret  eat  ta  yas  l  ppond   rser n'J.ble
fee  q.  a. -godyea  patlonun pr .sune          ...rte  (100' henrs   f fndagrsa    acnaut                                 c  ece   ranao-ronn   e
toalara  lAt T07,  n  100  daaIuIsusaltf1so  7naso   gr.                                                                                irerdcc   ore   r
Per  q.  o.  crtubtrul oed- Cnpuedit  eaafraenlue  ln                                     eeal   ntda
ycpnbatlon; bOAt, 1070, und bOll dm -a  b -uphl-ternro g                                           tl  -  eer,adscnay-   Ttleoenen ldO
Paaabn -rohtle i   pren)     otl-  rna  gothcae  a  ntl  l-                                 nonr  n  setndty  anls  laded bynnhr  a   echd                     I heor
peat  apalsban fr 101-hO,1961-1, en  107101.                                           espantogEletrusits.o
Crd   btbln  perabnso)-  nou  In   lrh  put titootuadh of  ld
pete pupoltlan; tOA , tYo,ed  Ot  ue                                                   C       ..t P i IOS"s           o-iiYi
Crd   nahfte(e  huse)      aa  dea'Iths pe  ao-nand  of sad-yea                               Pas nt  ar   e   thousan  yoonlo(-Pcaoe   ar   oo                        co
poyaatbn; tOl,107, an  001 dta  Itac'sn   ns   ha   igt  eson  ecoanasabnec   enceda
1005h.I'1o  Ii   .  ...d-i                                    t ,                           boceaedrecr   canre   n   nyanae   altuloo   ao
progrltiuca.hoY= ZOO,h                                                                 Pteeorbarhaadcutnoofrolndr  fahbrldgcc
ianty PlnnIn r-- Uert   pecnto  tra-done)     eret-g-o   arid                                    erebpulc  c  tonadpocecn;    boa  nltraedTIrc_or
Y",     tdbatn1Ot 1-10ruc  a.  n   lnhonrl   cle                                             In-- nontoe  anId onftoc  d,tor rogrargto o  T  an   o
obbsurrfedcnneonoceaoge oral0       Ytt,uyhoar- Cargo baiocotuaalcuboo-Saetagudn_nief
Ina   tya   rdato   a  bpc   tt-tlh      oe I't par llbIatu dalto-nl n  cc-                                  u  prongrry_  ro....fa..   g      '-rY neald It is-onedte
fon  oa  lean oY"nd' yP   boatlt.  bora-adtcklr--ra  peurgad   eg                             anea          Otoon  parlp-oaparfrar-ana   ca tIe- n eh                 ..rof
notfr  and 9aooc  ron ladd)  Pgrrut  prdutInofrot  oofpl                                                                                       on b  uit 
bated on national ucarags prudnoor yrtca onOghIs; tooo-as, tOOl, gad tOOt. too
enery;eunln   fntta   op  e   ctel   nanr  per ~                  t-pleas pee" fa                          -1ts an   12ntnr  ho T Y en .l dInghu- ans   nuet ,t.,catIn
end obae   nnah        e  uple   nlddela   ed  ceeda                                na.pr...e  lOt   bOOr and 1001- doca.c                                 It
SeqoresebnarceslsaedY0  eA  tsod -as  pystaelaglaub f neds a-y-       t                   g tosr   ynet       OrfeaI  Panng   oestr,  bonnlngten
attonebl  leet  19501-t0, 190700 sod dSOl  l dEri                                           en`oeaeo tys-br  ndga   s  etanngaatnaallblitred(
ac _aEro   odprdy    eeerl   fPn   sdfnde  atne                                        Pccpai-  linh     e(ecetI-crl d.eatad, und  fatle- --otnopa  jaoa
polar ycuatn,oi     btlI gret  elndheetal              0url     mtett,100   nd08  dn.thsdr  boardd on                                                       ..fl'  sotnle  -notae
atnuraar  aerta         -dan  at  lbStus~ of 'toa  P,aeonr0 rn                           e tentIng  oga-lotsenraror P lfthe pcpletan,an e leegh str_rd.
of.d ensa-yth   b  is anPr0~'-~ oqecog  Oar th  Pncad  hcopa d by PMindthe                   IOSUPra p nt~etsoeto   oionlsno
Thir  Aora Pnd boty  tob-Os,tOl and100  auo.Ecnatoleenenr  0m                                                        at   fppuaInudrh    ndh  o   cra
data--.                                                                                     Itlron,J.  t                     tP1IndTSInb-T                       hA,_ot
Chb  (t n1-)Oat  anitectasad      Mcl  ets  a  hasn  In                                        eren-e  an- PrlcueIoe    te   n  ehadbe)-le odO   Ihs
age groap 0-4  ears, to cIliden On n-Is ag  grdap; tar east~i decaagpR-n ... rIhst 21 pecoes,  ares1prcn,edpoes  bptet
oc9ntytes  ana970rardtree-life  tble-; 106, loop end1901-dana.boacahgdda
IbilalrotTo1001ttOo
lOeEaelnn   c  Ibtyuu-derganlropas ot to t   estin                                      h  Plae     etete   cerc  appran-cae nesauce  agit punern  eonts, od
anorth; 1.0.01ad101dt.aa(dh   nrpee  nIce can 'dealgteO
InatlEtlclaepr thnid                f-Ana deaths at       Pfat  ana   e                        tlee    balt   aet  noe  ae  bygecpte      ca   n   aa
dPe, o   nectr(ereao  oaole     cet.ohn  n   aa  -                                                ueretona b.l adeqeadmpa  aneot oa-goad,   renalra-ennnia ne
F.lampler iof yeee(oa,obn   n   aal   iteeoo                     cesn  sfsTVtntca,ble'.   ,os
enac  nuclo(Intnae  crute  coto-   aetens or    'llete  ho                             enaedtlln   rney_caelgl(ToVe                               fobn)   rbu   n   a
boone.  I rurel   eat rcaae oh l  annenaannIrdt pl  hetetuelea                     n   nel-Pneto   oaibc(ra  and. total)  iba are  es
kg ncss no tIttretu teI p. bo `(percent at ropotobb-ont -ttonal, grOan,iand
tua  -Sntnof pe~y-e(tna,h neha I-andl ened                                                                 I'sonardhicaneY
nay    "   "nIod  the ontleola,ad)  lgpasal,  decl- or  -lnoa  tesne                                  i,atInact   -d  ala  lt   It  Ifb
donut  _nrn   n  nd-ae bi'Y-aarsaeaOcsentn   Lat                                                                               t    Indt  Oa pas  n  Pejettns -       prtr
rtolPna ead ale...r iaIreltaebican.                                                                                                              nay.1003



- 24 -
FAURITIUS - ECCNCMIC INDICAT0ES                ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
GROSS DQIESTIC PRCJUCT IN 1982
Annual rates of Growthl!
US$ million        %         1976-79      1979-80
GDP at Market Prices                 1080.3         100.0          6.4          0.1
Gross DOiestic Livestnent             227.5          21.1          4.1        -16.0
Gross Domestic Saving                 194.3          18.0          7.7          6.1
On-rent Account Balance               -50.2         -4.6           -            -
Exports of Gcods, NFS                 498.9         46.2           5.3          1.7
Lmports of Goods, NFS                 532.1         49.3           3.6         -9.6
ourPur, LABOR FORCE AND PRQDVCTIVIIY IN 1982
Value added2/           Labor Force3/       V.A. per worker
US$ Mln.         %       Thousand       %        US$         %
Sugar                    132.1          14.2        50.0      25.7      2642       56.0
Other Agriculture         35.8           3.9         6.8       3.5     5265       111.5
Other LnIdustry          122.0          13.1        36.6      18.8     3333        70.6
Services                 639.0          68.8       100.9      52.0     6333       134.1
928.9        100.0        194.3    100.0      4721       100.0
GCVERNMENT FINANCE
Central GDverrmsent
PS MIllion               % of GDP
1981/82          1981/82       1982/83
Current Revenue                           2222.8              20.5          21.9
Current Expenditures                      2756.4              25.4          25.1
Current teficits                          -533.6              -4.9          -3.2
Capital Expenditure                        922.6               8.5           8.5
Overall deficit                          -1456.2              13.4          11.7
Foreign Financing (gross)                  947.7               8.7           6.2
MONEY, CREDIT aM PRICES
1978       1979       1980       1981       1982
(Rs million outstarxin-g at the end of the period)
Money a-d QXiasi Money               2861.5     3113.7    3837.4       3992.5    4926.9
Claims on Governtent (net)           1525.5     1967.9    2396.9      3190.6    3991.1
Claics on private sector             1508.1     1721.6    1881.1      2259.1    2460.9
(Percentage or Lnxdex hufters)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP    45.7          40.8      44.1        38.8      41.8
GDP Price Deflator (1976 = 100)       116.6       134.6     171.5       190.1     207.1
AnLnual percentage cha-nges in:
GDP Deflator                          8.8       15.4       27.4        10.8       8.9
Clains on Governnent (net)           32.0       29.0       21.8       33.1       25.1
ClaimS on private sector             11.5       14.2        9.3        20.1       8.9
Note:  All conversions to dollars ln this table are at the average exchange rate
prevailing during the period covered.
1/ Ln 1976 prices.
2/ At factor cost.
/  Eploymeint in large establishffents as of Septeiber 1982.              April 1983
March 1983



- 25 -
MAURIIUS - TRADE PANTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS             ANNEX I
Pag 5 of 5
BAIANCE CE PAYMEN1S                                          MERCHANDISE EXPCIRTS (AVERAG 1979-82)
1979   1980    1981  1982                                   US$ million      %
(US$ million)
Sugar                         233.9       62.0
Exports of Goods, NFS      509.2  578.0   494.2  498.9       1blasses                       10.6         2.8
Imports of Goods, NFS      649.7  693.7   613.6  532.1       Tea                             5.8        1.5
Resource Gap              -140.5  -115.7  -119.4  -33.2      Other agriculture               9.8        2.6
Manufactured goods            117.4       31.1
Investmsat Lncoi  (net)    -16.6  -23.1   -45.5  -45.9         of which clothizg           (76.2)     (20.2)
Net Transfers               12.2   20.6    17.3  28.9
Current Account Balance   -144.9  -118.2  -147.6  -50.2              Total                 377.5      100.0
long-term capital           10.0    3.8      7.8   2.7
Net MU' borrowing:          71.6   64.4    36.9  43.4        EXIRL IEBT, LEaDEQ1R 31, 1982
Disbursenents            (75.6)  (76.0)  (49.1) (69.1)            (UJS$ million)
Amortization              (4.0)  (11.6)   (12.2) (25.7)
Otler capital (net),/       11.1   75.2      1.8  -1.5       Public Debt, outstarnding aid
disbursed                393.3
Change in Reserves          52.2  -25.2   101.1   5.6
( (-) = increase)                                            DEBT SERVICE RATIO FCR 1982
1"m item                                                     Public Debt, in-l. guaranteed   13.22/
Use of SDRs                  1.1    0.8    -7.3    -         IBRD/IIA IENDING  (March 31, 1983)
Use of IMF credit           40.8   41.0    64.3  24.8       (US$ million)
IBED        HIA
RATE CF EXCHAN
Outstandirg & Disbursed        59.62      20.32
1979          1980            1981         1982          Ihdisbursed                    57.10       -
US$1.0=R6.4017 US$1.0=7.6896  US$1.0=9.0911  US$1.0=10.8990   Oatstanding including
R1.0=US$0.1562 R1.0=US$0.1300 R1.0=US$0.1100 R1.0=;US$0.0920   undisblrsed                 116.72      20.32
1/ Includes short-term private capital, SDR allocation and
errors and omissions
2/ Debt service pyments as percentage of estimated export
earnings.                                                                                     April 1983



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MAURITIUS
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of March 31, 1983)
Loan or                                                          US$ million
Credit                                                 Amount (less cancellations)l/
Number  Year      Borrower           Purpose           Bank      IDA     Undisbursed
Six Loans and Five Credits have
been full disbursed                                   43.65   20.42
976-MAS  1974    Mauritius  Port I                     10.00                 1.15
1339-T-MA 1976    Mauritius  Revised Port I              3.60                 0.51
1543-MAS  1978    Mauritius  Second Education           15.20                 8.17
1548-MAS  1978    Mauritius  Second Power               15.00                10.06
1789-MAS  1980    DBM          Development Bank V        6.00                 4.94
1926-MAS  1981    Mauritius  Urban Rehabilitation
and Development       15.00                 12.34
2164-MAS  1982    DBM          Development Bank VI       6.00                 5.90
2229-MAS  1983    Mauritius  Water Supply               12.20                12.20
TOTAL                                                126.65   20.42        55.27
of which has been repaid                            10.97      .10         -
TOTAL outstanding                                    115.68   20.32          -
Amount sold                            4.95
of which has been repaid             4.16              .79      .00         -
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA                       114.89   20.32          -
TOTAL undisbursed                                     55.27     -          55.27
B. Statement of IFC Investments (March 31, 1983)
Year     Borrower              Type of Business         Loan    Equity        Total
1971     Dinarobin Inns        Tourism                   0.6      -          0.6
& Hotels Ltd.
Total gross commitment                       0.6       -          0.6
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                       0.56                0.56
Net held by IFC                              0.04                 0.04
Total undisbursed                            0.0      0.0         0.0
1/ Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
C. Status of Projects in Execution as of March 31, 1983 1/
Loan No. 976-MAS       Port Project:
US$10.0 million Loan of April 12, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: June 13, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
Loan No. 1339-T-MAS:  Revised Port Project:
US$3.6 million Third Window Loan of December 9, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: July 27, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The main elements of the project have been completed including the
construction of three deep water berths, two transit sheds and open shorage
areas. Physical execution is proceeding well. Construction work,is well
advanced on the administration workshop and fire-station buildings and they are
expected to be commissioned by September 1982. Port operating equipment has
been procured and cargo handling operations have improved. Technical assistance
financed under the project has had beneficial effects on the administration of
the Mauritius Marine Authority. The closing date was extended by one year in
order to finish construction of the administration building and to complete
dredging works.
Loan No. 1543-MAS       Second Education Project:
US$15.2 million Loan of April 26, 1978;
Date of Effectiveness: August 8, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
The Project Unit continues to operate satisfactorily. Construction of
12 of the 15 Junior Secondary Schools (JSS) has been completed. The remaining
three, where expansion and upgrading are involved, are expected to be completed
in mid-1983. All 15 schools are in operation, although some have not yet
attained full capacity.  Construction of the additions to the Mauritius College
of Education and the Mauritius Institute of Education are expected to be
completed in April 1983.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress in execution, and in particular to report any problems which are being
encountered and action taken to remedy them. They should be read in this sense
and with the understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced
evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5
The construction of a building for the Ministry of Education has been
deleted and funds used for improvement of primary schools. This modification is
under implementation. After substantial delay, the reorganization of MECA is
now completed.  Educational objectives are expected to be substantially achieved
upon completion of the project. Project closing date has been postponed to June
30, 1985.
Loan No. 1548-MAS      Power Transmission Project:
US$15 million Loan of April 26, 1978;
Date of Effectiveness: January 23, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project consists of construction of 66-kV and lower voltage
transmission/distribution lines and substations; construction of a system
control center; consulting services and training. Almost all material and
equipment have already been ordered except for some distribution material and
equipment. Construction is progressing satisfactorily at various sites in the
country to construct substations and powerlines and the control center included
in the project. The project is satisfactorily on schedule and the original
project cost estimate has not changed.  Studies for long range power planning,
reorganization of CEB (Central Electricity Board), energy sector planning and
CEB training have been completed, and recommendations of these studies are being
implemented by the CEB.
Loan No. 2229-MAS      Water Supply Project;
US$12.2 million Loan of March 30, 1983;
Date of Effectiveness: June 21, 1983;
Closing Date: June 30, 1989.
The project's objectives are to improve the capabilities of the
Central Water Authority's (CWA) management and staff, the efficiency of CWA
operations and the quality of service to customers, and to reduce the amount of
water unaccounted for. The project would improve and expand water supply
facilities in the Mare-Aux-Vacoas, Triolet and Mt. Blanc areas and in 62 housing
estates scattered over the island. It also includes a training component and
supply of spare parts and equipment for the CWA.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5
Loan No. 1789-MAS      Fifth Development Bank Project:
US$ 6.0 million Loan of January 23, 1980;
Date of Effectiveness: April 30, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project assists the Development Bank of Mauritius in financing
directly or through Mauritian-owned commercial banks the foreign exchange
component of loans and investments in industry, agro-industry and tourism. It
also helps cover the foreign exchange investment needs of artisan and
small-scale enterprises. Because clients of commercial banks were reluctant to
use refinancing due to fear of the foreign exchange risks, the $2.0 million
earmarked for the purpose have been reallocated to DBM's general lending
operations; $0.5 million from the $1.0 million earmarked for SSEs was also
reallocated to the same category, because the level of DBM's SSE approvals were
less than anticipated.
Loan No. 1926-MAS      Urban Rehabilitation and Development Project:
US$ 15.0 million Loan of January 8, 1981;
Date of Effectiveness: May 5, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The project will assist the G6vernment in implementing a change in its
policy for providing housing in the public sector, including a reduction in
overall Government expenditure on housing, and redirection from building rental
units at subsidized rates, to provision of housing credit for lower income
groups. It will also strengthen institutions responsible for urban planning,
development and maintenance. The project includes (a) an integrated housing
development at a site (La Tour Koenig) near Port Louis, housing credit and
establishment of a physical planning unit in the Ministry of Planning; and (b)
traffic management and rehabilitation of urban services, to be funded by the
Saudi Fund for Development. Project implementation has started and is
progressing satisfactorily. Implementation of civil works is progressing with
all major contracts awarded. The project is expected to be completed on
schedule by June, 1984.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
Loan No. 2164-MAS      Sixth Development Bank Project;
US$ 6.0 million Loan of June 30, 1982;
Date of Effectiveness: September 22, 1982;
Closing Date: December 31, 1988.
The project has two main purposes:  (i) to finance studies of the
industrial and financial sectors, to be carried out by Government with the aid
of consultants, intended to develop policies and institutional arrangements
conducive to growth of industrial production and exports; and (ii) to assist DBM
in financing the foreign exchange component of loans and investments in
industry, agro-industry and tourism, including the foreign exchange component of
investment by small-scale enterprises. Disbursements have already started. We
anticipated DBM V to be fully disbursed during the course of 1983, but the
political climate prevailing on the eve of the general election of 1982 was not
conducive to new investments nor was the world economic situation.
AV



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1
MAURITIUS
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Highways Project
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a) Identification :                    April 1981
(b) Project Preparation :               July-December 1982
(c) Appraisal Mission:                  December 1982
(d) Negotiations:                       May 31 - June 1, 1983
(e) Planned Date of Effectiveness:      November 1983
II. Special Implementation Action
The Bank has approved a Project Preparation Facility of US$246,000 to
finance the feasibility study and detailed engineering for strengthening and
improvement of the project roads.
III. Special Conditions of the Project
(a) The Government would have an annual budgetary allocation for road
maintenance to the Technical Division for FY84-86 of at least Rs 15 million
(US$1.36 million equivalent) in 1983 prices, and the Government and the
Bank would exchange views before the beginning of each fiscal year on the
adequacy of the allocation proposed for that year (para. 51).
(b) A planning unit satisfactory to the Bank will be established in the
Ministry of Works by December 31, 1983 (para. 49).
(c) Special Condition of Loan Effectiveness
Government would take all legal administrative steps required to ensure
access to the road reserve and other land required for the project (para.
60).



I



MAURTI S 
FIRST HCHWY -PROJECT
-aai0  St  tRoa=d-Network  it;t ;t; i  !       - i/> !
FIRST HfGWAIeW  PROJECT
= , - S:testheRies iOd oPlaraY  Ferr   ;  =  t;  ;  i  t  ;; l  sv yv.  /  t_ ? ; , 7>_ S A g1 r; ES t e / ; :
S;-aI  lSada;     :   9    : T/tSo  /--    ,=   /  S A.   i '-
== -treav  R.                                                          G.! '':=.==:   ===.=/t/~r/o  :)     --
;  t  0 - S--- R rtl F/2ads;; o ;tt 0;  :;l                                              < ' R
4~~~~~~~4
ROSE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
t  --   laK#t:ntLonal Bsend .y . = i ; T = = = . _, f br . f. nsse / / /~ReeSoese             C~ 
Z ;                                   i ..... R... duAcgE.3arfies; g i i ......................... 2 E; 2 0 t i 2: s \ / t * / 
K                                                                                             _______________________--
- W; -2t !;; s l  ,d  t6; L ~~~~~~It                       ;  > u / ~            <          
t =  ; - 2   i . i  ti   ,    ^ ' =  0  ;   X    i  M o._n             i             g        X   0    4 0~~~~y
SS 4 ' "'1' .~~~~~~~~~~-
V!-0tn                                                                                                  X
i;~~~      ~~~ -C:S;ji=                                 <vse        r                                        d =T::
t i t;; -2 t <~~~~~~,neRweeNre.  .... -: , .........\\ r'0         
j;:  :: E  ,  ,,   r   fi /S            A,:\      \_           ,,       w  :, t t: E   ; i   ; C=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cj.,"..



