Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 22072
PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
POLAND
FOREST BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION PROJECT
(GEF GRANT 216852)
April 12, 2001
Operations Evaluation Department
Sector and Thematic Evaluation Group
This document has been prepared for the Global Environment Facility (GEF).



Abbreviations and Acronyms
BPF       Bialowieza Primeval Forest
GEF       Global Environment Facility
GIS       Geographic Information System
ICR       Implementation Completion Report
MENRF   Ministry of Environment Protection, National Resources and Forestry
PAR       Performance Audit Report
SFA       State Forest Administration
Director-General, Operations Evaluation           Mr. Robert Picciotto
Director, Operations Evaluation Department        Mr. Gregory Ingram
Manager, Sector and Thematic Evaluation Group     Mr. Alain Barbu
Task Manager                                      Mr. Andres Liebenthal



i
Contents
Principal Ratings.......................... i
Preface ............v
Executive Summary .......................                                                                                  vii
BACKGROUND ........................                                                                                      I
Country and Sector Context ........................                                                                   I
Bank/GEFRole ........................                                                                                 I
Project Objectives ........................                                                                           2
Components ........................                                                                                   2
Institutional Framework ........................                                                                      3
Other Links ........................ 3
IMPLEMENTATION AND RESULTS ........................ 3
Implementation ........................                                                                               3
PAR Findings ........................                                                                                 3
General ...........................6
Other Issues ........................                                                                                 6
ASSESSMENT OF PERFORMANCE ........................ 7
Ratings ........................ 7
Bank Performance ........................                                                                             7
Borrower Performance ........................                                                                         8
CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS ........................ 8
Conclusions ........................                                                                                  8
Lessons ........................                                                                                     10
Annex A. Basic Data Sheet ........................11






iii
Principal Ratings
Audit
Outcome                                                                               Satisfactory
Sustainability                                                                           Likely
Institutional Development                                                             Substantial
Borrower Performance                                                                  Satisfactory
Bank Performance                                                                      Satisfactory






v
Preface
This is a Performance Audit Report (PAR) on the Forest Biodiversity Protection Project in
Poland, for which the GEF Grant 21685, in the amount of SDR 3.3 million (US$4.5 million
equivalent) was approved on December 12, 1991, and made effective on February 19, 1992. The
grant was closed on December 31, 1995, after a delay of 14 months. The final disbursement took
place on January 22, 1996. The grant was almost fully disbursed, with an undisbursed balance of
US$35,000.
The PAR was prepared by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED). It is based in part
on the Appraisal Report, sector and economic reports, loan documents, review of the project files
and discussions with Bank staff. An OED mission visited Poland in September 1999 and
discussed the effectiveness of the Bank's assistance with government officials, other development
organizations, and other stakeholders. Their kind cooperation and invaluable assistance in the
preparation of this report are gratefully acknowledged.
Following standard OED procedures, the draft PAR was sent to the borrower for comments, and
the comments have been incorporated in the report.






vi'i
Executive Summary
The Forest Biodiversity Protection Project (GEF Grant 21685 of SDR 3.3 r.million,
equivalent to US$4.5 million) was the Bank's first GEF-funded biodiversity project and the first
GEF grant-supported project of any kind to be made in the Europe and Central Asia Region. The
grant was approved in December 1991 and closed, almost fully disbursed, in December 1995,
after a delay of 14 months.
The objective of the project was to protect globally significant forest biological diversity
through a balanced approach of in-situ (conservation in place) and ex-situ (conservation outside
the target area) measures. As a pilot GEF project it was also to gain experience with
environmental benefits, replicability, sustainability, monitoring, and evaluation. The project had
two principal components: protection of the remaining biodiversity in the Sudety Mountain forest
ecosystem, consisting largely of ex-situ measures and in-situ conservation of the Bialowieza
Primeval Forest (BPF). The project also supported training and technical assistance to the Polish
State Forest Administration.
In the Sudety Mountains, with biological resources viewed as being threatened by
immediate extinction, the project was to (a) confirm the extent of the threats to the ecosystem,
especially pollution; (b) map such threats using GIS methods and outline future recovery options;
(c) collect seed and shoots of threatened forest plant species, especially non-commercial species,
and (d) establish a gene bank to preserve such collections for future restoration activities. At BPF,
whose biological resources were not thought threatened by imminent disappearance, the project
was to (a) identify the nature and magnitude of biophysical and sociological threats facing the
forest and initiate pilot mitigation activities; (b) identify and incorporate into protected
conservation units currently unprotected forest associations of exceptional biological value; (c)
design and promote GIS-assisted, integrated land-use zoning and land-use planning at the
landscape level; and (d) initiate public outreach and participatory planning in support of
conservation.
The project broadly met these objectives and carried out most of the above activities. In the
Sudety Mountains, the main emphasis was on the gene bank, partly because the State Forest
Administration was interested in it for more general purposes. The design was expanded and the
final cost was US$6 million rather than US$3.5 million as initially estimated. In the Karkonose
National Park a restoration program is underway, drawing upon the material made available by
the gene bank, to replace the timber-oriented plantations of the late 19h and early 20'h centuries
with indigenous species and strains. At the BPF, the area of the national park (under strict
conservation) has been more than doubled and steps have been taken to modify the management
of the surrounding forest to support the conservation of the park area. The economic structure of
the area is weak, and steps are being taken, with external assistance, to marry economic and
social strengthening with appropriate management of the biological resources.
The audit rates the outcome as satisfactory, institutional development as substantial,
sustainability as likely, and Bank and borrower performance as satisfactory.
The ICR noted that by more recent standards, this operations was under-designed and
noted issues such as the need for clearer and more operationally relevant objectives and targets,
and the importance of greater inclusiveness during both the preparation and implementation
stages. These issues have been highlighted in reviews of the GEF program and have largely been
incorporated in subsequent operations, so are not reemphasized here as lessons from this review.



viii
There are two main lessons from this project. This project made a substantial investment in
the gene bank and GEF should review the potential role of its investments in the development of
gene banks to determine whether there are possibilities for greater collaboration between them
and with other institutions concemed with the global maintenance of germplasm. The more
general lesson from the project is that, if the biological resources that this project sought to
conserve are indeed of global significance, then it is now time to consider whether additional
efforts are required to ensure the longer-term sustainability of efforts to manage them. GEF, and
its implementing partners, should consider taking a lead in seeking to ensure stability of funding
for this purpose.



1
BACKGROUND
Country and Sector Context
The environment was a priority issue at the onset of the relationship between Poland and the
international development agencies in the late 1 980s. In particular, there was great popular
concern about the impact of pollution linked to the form (an emphasis on heavy industry) and
nature (state-owned enterprises) of the economic policies pursued after World War II. These
issues were highlighted by the Bank's first economic report in 1988.
Significant areas of Poland remain forested and the country contains some of the most
biologically significant forests in Europe. However, in 1990, it was estimated that at least half of
the forested area showed signs of pollution-induced disease and decline and, in the worst affected
areas, the forest was almost totally dead. There was a desire to take action to begin to mitigate the
effects of pollution and other ongoing pressures in these areas. But the government, faced by
many other priority areas for action in the early 1990s, was reluctant to borrow at commercial
rates for this purpose. When the Global Environment Facility (GEF) was established, the
government was keen to use it as a source of support to help protect the country's biodiversity.
Two forest areas were identified as priorities for protection: the Siidety Mountain forests in the
southwest (on the border with the Czech Republic), and the Bialowieza Primeval Forest (BPF) in
the northeast (on the border with Belarus). The former was suffering severe pollution-induced
dieback because of its location. It is in the heart of the industrial area of the former Eastern
Germany, Czechoslovakia, and Poland, which was notorious as the most polluted region in
Europe (the "Black Triangle"). The latter forest contains what are reportedly the last remnants of
the primeval lowland forests of Northern Europe.
Bank/GEF Role
The Global Environment Facility was established to address international environmental issues.
The two forests covered by the project are sites of international importance, being among
Europe's largest expanses of remaining natural forests and areas of high endemism.' They are
also transboundary areas, extending into the neighboring countries and, subsequent to the
initiation of the Polish project, GEF-supported projects have been undertaken in Belarus and the
Czech Republic to carry out similar activities in the adjacent areas.
The project was seen as urgent and was prepared and negotiated quickly. GEF was keen to
expedite its first biodiversity grant, and the Bank also wished to get operations in this area
underway in Poland. The project was identified in February 1991, prepared over the summer, and
appraised in October. Negotiations took place in December 1991, and the project was approved
by the GEF Council and the legal documents were signed in the same month. It became effective
in February 1992.
1. The BPF, for example, contains Europe's last wild bison herd. Most of this forest has been protected for
more than 600 years and it contains unique plant associations and significant numbers of anciernt trees
(more then 400 years old).



2
Project Objectives
The project had two objectives:
(a)    Further the protection of globally significant Polish biodiversity at four different
levels - genetic, species, association, and landscape (ecosystem) - through a
balanced approach between in-situ (conservation in place) and ex-situ
(conservation outside the target area) conservation measures
(b)    Define and realize GEF Pilot Phase objectives, namely global enviromnental
benefits, innovation, demonstration value and replicability, contribution to the
GEF portfolio (i.e., testing of particular methodologies or protection of particular
biodiversity not covered elsewhere in the GEF portfolio) sustainability, and
monitoring and evaluation mechanisms.
Components
The project was estimated to cost US$6.2 million, with US$4.5 million to be covered by the GEF
grant, US$0.3 from other bilateral sources, and US$1.4 to be provided by the Government of
Poland. More than 97 percent of the baseline project cost was to be spent in the two forest areas.
The conservation approaches adopted in the two areas were quite distinct and these formed the
principal components:
In the Sudety Mountains, (US$4.3 million), with biological resources under immediate threat, ex-
situ conservation was to be undertaken by:
(a)  Determining the exact nature of the threats
(b)  GIS mapping of such threats and the outlining of future recovery options
(c)  Collecting seeds and cuttings of threatened forest plant species (especially non-
commercial species)
(d)  Establishing a gene bank and nursery to preserve such collections for future
research and restoration activities.
At the Bialowieza Primeval Forest (US$1.75 million, including contingencies whose biological
resources were not considered threatened by imminent demise, the approach was based on in-situ
conservation and was to:
(a)  Identify the nature and extent of the biophysical and sociological threats facing the
forest and initiate mitigating activities
(b)  Identify and incorporate into protected conservation units unprotected forest
associations of exceptional biological value
(c)  Design and promote GIS-assisted, integrated land-use and conservation planning at
the landscape level.



3
(d)  Initiate public outreach and participatory planning in support of conservation.
The project also supported training and technical assistance for the Polish State Forest
Administration (SFA) to undertake such activities during and after the project period, and to
establish international cooperation mechanisms with four neighboring countries in support of
transboundary conservation.
Institutional Framework
The project was implemented by the SFA in the Ministry of Environment Protection, Natural
Resources and Forestry (MENRF). It was the first project supported by the Bank to be
implemented this ministry and, thus, during the project start-up period, both sides needed to make
a special effort to understand the operational procedures of the other.
Other Links
The project has been complemented by the GEF-financed Belarus (FY93) and Czech and Slovak
Republics Biodiversity Protection projects (FY94), and it also assisted in preparing the way for
the Bank-financed Poland Forestry Development Project (FY94).
IMPLEMENTATION AND RESULTS
Implementation
The completion of the project was extended by 14 months (until December 1995) and that the
cost of the project rose to US$8.35 million. The primary reason for both of these changes was
that, in the process of detailed design, the gene bank was extended and, irrespective of the design
changes, the bid prices for the contractual work were substantially above the initial appraisal
estimate. Also, the initial choice of site was deemed not suitable and an alternative had to be
found. These changes delayed the process of tendering and construction. The final cost of the
gene bank was US$6.0 million, compared the initial estimate of US$3.5 million. As a result of
this cost overrun, the share of the Government of Poland was increased to US$3.6 million, about
2.5 times its original commitment.2
PAR Findings
Sudety Mountains
The project activities in the Sudety Mountain area, on the border between Poland and the Czech
Republic, had two principal elements. The construction and development of the Gene Bank, and
field operations in the Karkonose National Park. The highest points of the mountains (about 1300
meters) form the border. On the northern (Polish) side, the land drops away rapidly and the park
forms a long, narrow strip with an elevation between about 200 ard 1,300 meters. On the Czech
side, the mountain forms a plateau sloping to the southwest. The vegetation on the highest areas is
tundra- like (similar to northern Scandinavia) and represents a relic of the earlier post-glacial
period. The region is in the heart of the industrial area of the former Eastern Germany,
2. Part of this government input was covered out of the proceeds of the Forest Development Project.



4
Czechoslovakia, and Poland. This area was notorious as the most polluted region in Europe (the
"Black Triangle"). Significant forest degradation and tree mortality in the 1 970s and 1 980s was
ascribed to the ravages of pollution, including acid rain.
The appraisal report particularly emphasized the need to monitor and counter the effects of
pollution. It proposed to "foster the protection of the remaining biodiversity in the Sudety
Mountain forest ecosystems by identifying and collecting endangered seed and vegetative
materials, for [sic] storing the collected seeds and vegetative materials in a genebank and related
archival nurseries [ex-situ], undertaking intensified air and water pollution monitoring of the
ecosystem and finally by mapping (using GIS) the zone for establishing the criteria for seed
collection in light of the results of the expanded air pollution monitoring" (para 3.01).
In reviewing the outcome, the ICR states that "like the outcomes of the gene bank and nursery,
the results of the research and GIS work, summarized in a Czech-Polish joint publication, seem
disproportionately focussed on trees rather than on the Sudety ecosystem, leading the mission to
assume that the relevant staff did not have a sense of the component's holistic, ecosystem-wide
objectives" (para 25).
This criticism appears to be mis-placed. As noted above, the appraisal did not express the
objectives in holistic, ecosystem-wide terms. When the project agreed, and financed, a cutting-
edge facility for the selection, treatment, and storage of seeds (and, where necessary, of other
forms of germplasm) it essentially ordained the approach that was adopted. Also, by its nature,
the gene bank has to concentrate on the material it is handling one batch at a time, ensuring that
the material is correctly identified, is pure, and that its viability will be ensured for a significant
period. These things the gene bank has done. Also, with a short time horizon of three years and a
wish to see quick results, the focus on narrowly defined research was not surprising. It may also
reflect the general approach to research under the old system, as discussed further below.
It should be noted that the problems in the National Park, in particular the deterioration of the
spruce stands, cannot be solely attributed to pollution, as implied in the appraisal report and ICR.
During the 100 years or more before World War II, when the area was part of Germany, forest
management emphasized timber production. Much of the area, originally covered with mixed
stands, was planted with other species, primarily spruce, planted at high density. While spruce
had been present in the area, the new plantings extended its range to higher altitudes. The high
density and extended range stressed the trees. Pollution damage increased this stress and,
consequently, the susceptibility of the stands to attack by pests such as bark beetle. The current
policy of the national park, as foreseen under the project, is to gradually replace the existing,
degraded plantation stands with plantings more in line with the native stands.
Bialowiesza Primeval Forest
Cross-border collaboration. Cross-border collaboration remains limited and has largely focused
on research rather than operational issues. For example, a workshop was held in September 1998
on the state of knowledge of invertebrates in the border area. A catalogue of the known fauna in
the Bialowiesza Forest, some 11,000 species, is being prepared. Some efforts have been made to
facilitate cross-border tourism. A ministerial-level meeting was held in February 1999, which
reviewed possible steps to reduce formalities for short-term, cross-border visitors. However, little
follow-up is reported and, as the mission found, difficulties and misunderstandings remain.
National Park expansion. Initial planning work was undertaken during the project period, and the
National Park was subsequently extended from 5,500 to 10,500 ha. The role of the buffer zones



5
was agreed, but further follow-up has been limited. Recently, attention has been focused on the
proposal to extend the national park boundaries to encompass the whole forest area, largely under
the pressure of environmental groups and a limited further extension has now been agreed. The
latter were doubtful about the consequences of following multiple-use objectives in the buffer
zones, fearing that it could be harmful to conservation. This, no doubt, reflected a deeper-seated
mistrust of management by the SFA. At the same time, the local communities fear that any
extension of the park area will mean further restrictions on timber production and on wider
economic activities in the region.
As a means of reconciling these conflicting views, the Ministry of Environmental Protection has
initiated the "Contract for the Bialowieza Forest."3 This was published by the ministry in
December 1998 and "is the name for the development programme for the region of the
Bialowieza Forest based on the sustainable use of its natural resources with the purpose of:
*     Provision of organizational and financial support to the sustainable socio-economic
development of the forest residents
*     Extension of the National Park to cover the whole. of the Primeval Forest" (p 3).
As an element of the contract, the ministry is initiating a program of "Promotion, Public
Awareness, Sustainable Management and Population Incomes in Bialowieza Forest" which is to
be supported by Denmark. This will draw up development plans, within the framework of the
agreed management plan, which will:
*    Be aligned with (and complementary to) those existing initiatives of stakeholders and
individuals that also share the project's objectives
*    Create and enhance mutual reliance among members of the community, among different
groups of individuals, and among stakeholders
*    Transfer international experience and skills
*    Target the optimal use of all of Bialowieza Forest's resources to the benefit of the
community
*    Be sustainable following the end of the project.4
In general it should be remembered at the outset of the project only 5,000 ha of the BPF was
protected and was only a small element in a 58,000 ha commercial forest. Now efforts are
proceeding to include the whole of the contiguous forest area as a national park under multiple-
objective management.
The situation in Bialowieza also reflects fundamental problems of the area. The forest straddles
the border with Belarus and is in the region of Poland which was a part of Russia through the 19th
century. In fact, most of the park headquarters in Poland are located in buildings built by the
Tsars in the last quarter of the century as a hunting lodge. The region is one of low agricultural
potential. The topography is flat, sometimes marshy, and soils are sandy. Development during the
Russian period was limited. By contrast, the Sudety Mountains are much closer to the main
population centers of Europe and its spas, as well as its mountain scenery, are attractions for
tourists. Prior to World War II there was significant tourist-related development (hotels, etc.),
together with some manufacturing industry. For these reasons, the overall level of development
3. Ministry of Environmental Protection, Natural Resources and Forestry, "The Contract for Bialowieza
Forest", Warsaw, December 1998.
4. COWI Polska, Consultant's Statement, July 1999.



6
and range of economic activity was, and remains, much higher in the Sudety region than in
Bialowieza.
The potential for tourism development related to the Bialowieza National Park is, therefore,
limited. The attraction of the primeval forest is biological rather than scenic. The park museum is
being upgraded and expanded, and a small wildlife reserve containing examples of the reserve's
bison, deer, wild boars, and bears has been developed. There is potential for self-guided hiking
and cycling tours in the forest, but the nature of the resource means that there is a conflict
between increasing access and degradation. Thus, the potential for generating sufficient finance to
cover the cost of maintaining the facilities and generating adequate local incomes must be
limited. Some other source of external funding must be found. The research value of the area is
high and could be expanded and viewed as a source of funding. But that potential has limits.
General
Underlying the specific objectives of the project was a broader goal of assisting in the shift of
forestry policy in Poland to encompass a wider view of the role of forestry. In 1990, the GDSF
was transferred from the Ministry of Agriculture to the newly reorganized MEPNRF. Under the
former ministry the principal emphasis was on production. In the year after the transfer, 1991, a
new forestry law was passed which laid out a more environmental approach to forest
management. This trend has continued and a further policy shift in the same direction was
reflected in a further statement of the "National Policy on Forests" adopted by the Council of
Ministers in 1997. This states that "the overriding aim of policy concerning forests is to designate
the complex of actions shaping relations between humankind and forests, with the aim of
preserving - in changing natural and socio-economic circumstances - the conditions for the
indefinite maintenance of the multifunctionality of forests, their multi-faceted utility and
protection and their role in the shaping of the natural environment, in line with the present and
future expectations of society."5 The safeguarding of the permanence of forests....will be
achieved by:... reorienting forest management away from the previous dominance of the raw-
materials model towards a pro-ecological and economically-balance model of multi-functional
forest management that corresponds with criteria formulated for Europe by the Helsinki process
and takes account of the specifics of Polish forestry."6
The role of the Forest Biodiversity Protection Project in bringing about this shift in policy is
impossible to assess. The fact that the project was sought and agreed to reflected a movement in
the direction supported by the project, and the above excerpts indicate that a broad set of
objectives for the forestry sector have been internalized by the ministry.
Other Issues
Two somewhat indirect benefits of the project might be noted. First, that it helped to get tri-lateral
cooperation in the Carpathians. During preparation, assistance to a proposal for a cross-border
park with Slovakia and Ukraine was proposed. However, it was decided that the available funds
could not cover effective interventions at all three proposed sites and it was decided to drop the
support for the Carpathians. However, project management did use the name of the Bank and
5. Ministry of Environmental Protection, Natural Resources and Forestry, "National Policy on Forests",
Warsaw, 1997, Section III.1, Page 11.
6. Ibid. Section 111.2.



7
GEF to increase interest in the park and to help leverage input from the MacArthur F'oundation.
Second, on a more general level, the project also helped improve the profile of the Bank in
Poland, i.e., it showed that the Bank was not only interested in narrow and short-temi economic
interests.
Several interlocuters in Poland expressed in various ways the view that, in the very fluid
conditions of the early 1990s, the Bank, and other uxternal agencies, might have been a bit more
adventurous in their approach to institutional issues. Given the length of time that Poland had
followed socialist, statist policies, by the early 1990s almost all senior staff had spent their entire
careers within this system. Thus, although there had been significant contact with non-socialist
countries, so that many professionals had exposure to other approaches, the difficulties of making
major changes and limited flexibility loomed large in their minds. For example, at the outset of
the project, forestry institutions were subject to attack from outside, particularly from parties who
held strong views on ecological issues, but had no responsibility for day-to-day management or to
society as a whole. The sector, thus, adopted a rather defensive posture and it has taken some time
to become more comfortable in the new environment and to operate effectively within it.
It has been suggested that, in these circumstances, once there was agreement on the basic
objectives of the proposed operation, the Bank mignt have suggested the solicitation of both from
the existing ministry and from non-governmental sources (profit and non-profit), for
implementation of at least part of the operation. This might have led to some innovative
public/private collaboration mechanisms and permitted the PMU to be more independent of the
ministry and given it more freedom to maneuver. On the other hand, many of the same
interlocutors also noted that the project had been helpful as an element in fostering the changes in
philosophy that have occurred in the forestry establishment. Forcing the pace at the beginning
might have increased the initial defensiveness and not been beneficial in the longer term.
ASSESSMENT OF PERFORMANCE
Ratings
The audit rates project outcome as satisfactory, sustainability as likely, and institutional
development impact as substantial.
Sustainability is judged as likely as both the elements of the project have become significant
elements of the operations of the Ministry of Environment, and the initiatives continue to be
pursued. However, as noted earlier, especially given the unique nature and global significance of
the biological resources in the Bialowieza forest, as claimed by those involved with the area,
greater efforts might be made to ensure some longer-term, dedicated external source of funding to
secure their future and to reflect this judgment.
Bank Performance
Overall, Bank performance was satisfactory. The operation was relevant and timely. If the project
was being prepared now it would have adopted a more participative approach, both in preparation
and in some aspects of implementation. However, it was a pioneering effort in a time at which
there was a desire to get a project up and running and not spend a great deal of time in
preparation. Given the short time horizon, initially three years, the design might have reduced the
range of activities. This was undoubtedly a contributing factor to the focus on achieving specific
research and other outputs, with less emphasis on broader ecological issues and on efforts to



8
ensure continued financial support. Supervision was intensive, but heavily focused on
technicaVresearch issues. Given that it was the first Bank operation with the Ministry of the
Environment and one of the first in Poland, greater emphasis on operational issues, especially
related to procurement, etc., for which there was little experience in the country, would have been
helpful.
Project management felt a little out on a limb and also would have appreciated more effort from
the Bank to improve communication with other projects, especially those in the environmental
area, so that they could better respond to the inevitable questions from NGOs etc. More funds
might also have been included for public dissemination in support of the project.7 With this type
of project, where there is a need for continued support by the broader public, consideration might
have been given to holding some more visible close-out of the project, i.e., some sort of
publicized ceremony to celebrate its completion. This would have increased the visibility of the
effort in the country as well providing a psychological reward for the staff and other participants.
Borrower Performance
Borrower performance was fully satisfactory. High-quality staff wvere obtained for the project.
Project leadership was strong and innovative and relations with the Ministry of Environment were
good. The operations supported by the project have been absorbed into the work of the Ministry
and the key elements are still on track.
CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS
Conclusions
The overall objectives of the project were largely achieved and the project had a significant role
in encouraging the evolution of broader-based policy towards forestry and the management of
forests in Poland. The principal conclusions from the audit relate to the longer term issues of
funding in support of global biodiversty objectives, the use of the gene bank, and the importance
of the institutional background to the project.
Funding of global biodiversity. The initial GEF support was predicated on the international value
of the biodiversity resources and the need to protect them against the effects of pollution in
particular and encroachment in general. However, the project activities made no provision for
efforts to obtain long-term funding for the region. Unfortunately, this tendency is not confined to
GEF. The Bialowieza park was included on the list of World Biosphere Reserves in 1977 and was
declared a World Heritage Site by UNESCO in 1979. In 1997, the park was also granted the
Diploma of the Council of Europe. But these honors do not result in financial support for the
resource, although they may help in fund raising. Some extemal funding has been obtained for
aspects of the planned work related to the "Bialowieza Contract," and for the improvement of the
museum, but what is needed is some contribution to base funding for management of the park.
Presumably, because of the uniqueness and biological richness of the park, its global biological
value may be assumed to continue to exceed that to Poland alone. On that basis, it might be
adjudged to qualify for continued GEF funding, since GEF is designed to finance "incremental
7. Discussions in Poland suggest that this may have applied to the GEF projects in general, especially given
the ermphasis in that entity on public participation.



9
costs required to achieve global benefits." However, the GEF is not seen as a long-term funding
entity. This leaves open the question of how the "incremental costs required to achieve global
benefits" are to be covered, since the principal costs are ongoing maintenance of the resource,
rather than one-time investments. Given its significant role in environmental funding, it may be
appropriate for the GEF to begin to raise this issue. Otherwise, the benefits it has helped achieve
may risk being undone. That may be less likely in this case than in many countries, but the review
of the project does highlight the issue. Some dedicated source of funding may be desirable. For
example, implementation of the Kyoto Agreement (if it is ratified) appears likely to lead to the
use of carbon emissions trading contracts. Funding will be required to cover the costs of
monitoring these agreements and might be raised by a surcharge on the contracts. Consideration
might be given to using this source to finance other limited, long-term, global environmental
goals such as preservation of biodiversity.
The Gene Bank. The Gene Bank is a substantial investment. The project spent $6 million and
additional, more limited, funding has been obtained from other sources, e.g., EU/PHARE. The
State Forest Administration (SFA) believed that such a facility could play an important role in its
overall forest management program, enabling it to make best advantage of favorable seeding
conditions, so as to build up a supply of high-quality seed and planting material of known
provenance.' The facility was designed to meet SFA's estimate of national needs. It is clearly
larger than would be justified by a localized restoration program, and its capacity may now
exceed national needs. However, this facility is one of a relatively small number in the world of
its degree of sophistication, and its staff have now developed considerable expertise in the
maintenance of perennial plant germplasm. GEF might consider how this type of facility fits into
its overall program of protection of species and genetic material, and how more use might be
made of it by the international plant research community.
Research institutions and practice. As noted, the project focused on research to assess the
severity of the threat to the forests, which would lead to the determination of a range of responses
to them. Companion projects in Belarus and the Czech Republic, which supported similar efforts
in contiguous forests, were used as vehicles to promote cross-border collaboration on this basis.
However, the ICR concluded that the results in this area had been disappointing. This appears to
have been at least partly a result of the structure of research funding in the former socialist
countries, and which has been largely retained in Belarus. This provides a large role to
Academies of Sciences, which disburse significant research funds. These tend to view research
very much from an academic viewpoint, its contribution to a discipline, rather than in a problem-
oriented mold. Given the short duration of the project, research supported was largely based on
proposals made by relevant researchers. They largely made choices based on this disciplinary
rather than problem-oriented perspective9. The results of the joint programs on the Bialowieza
forest were published in two volumes: one on the Polish work.'" and one on Belarus."
In consequence, the results did not lend themselves as much as they might have to the
development of operational programs. This does point up the importance of ensuring that the
8. The possibility of developing a gene bank had first been raised in the late 1980s.
9. Remember, this was nearly a decade ago, shortly after the demise of the socialist structures in Poland.
Attitudes have changed greatly since then.
10. Piotr Paschalis, Kazimierz Rykowski, and Stefan Zajaczkowski, "PTotection of Forest Ecosystems
Biodiversity of Bialowieza Primeval Forest", Warsaw, 1995.
11. Alexander Luchkov, Vladimir Tolkach, Stephen Berwick and Philip Brylski, "Belovezhskaya Pushcha
Forest Biodiversity Conservation". Minsk, 1997.



10
existing institutional structures, including operational procedures, are consistent with the aims of
the project.
Lessons
By more recent standards, this operation was under-designed, and highlighted issues such as the
need for clearer and more operationally relevant objectives and targets, and the importance of
greater inclusiveness during both the preparation and implementation stages. These issues have
been highlighted in reviews of the GEF program and have largely been incorporated in
subsequent operations, so are not reemphasized here as lessons from this review. The principal
lessons bought up by the current review relate to the points discussed above: longer-term funding
for conservation of high-value biological resources, and the GEF's approach to the protection of
genetic material.
GEF should review whether steps are not required to ensure long-term support for efforts to
protect resources of high global biological value. At the outset it was assured that other donors
would follow the GEF lead. In this way, the sustainability of the effort would be ensured. In
practice, this has not happened. However, the logic under which they were seen as being worthy
of GEF support remains valid and would justify further external support. GEF's current pilot
efforts at country program funding, in which GEF itself is taking a more active role in program
formulation and in seeking funding, is a move in this direction. However, a more general review
of the issue may be appropriate in the run-up to the 10kh anniversary of the Rio Conference.
GEF should review its approach to the protection of genetic material and the role of gene banks
in this effort. The investment in the gene bank was substantial and it is primarily being used in
support of the overall program of the SFA. The staff of the Kostrzyca gene bank have now
developed considerable expertise in the maintenance of perennial plant germplasm and GEF
might also consider how more use might be made of it by the international community as an
element in its program of protection of biodiversity.



11                                             Annex B
Annex A. Basic Data Sheet
POLAND FOREST BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION PROJECT
(GEF GRANT 21685)
Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
Appraisal           Actual or             Actual as % of
Estimate        Curre,. estimate        appraisal estimate
Total project costs*                                    6,210                  8,350                    134
Grant Amount                                            4,500                 4,500                     100
Cancellation                                                --
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
FY92          FY93          FY94           FY95          FY96
Appraisal estimate (US$M)           1,000-         3,000         4,500          4,500         4,500
Actual (US$M)                        450            750          1,050          2,140         4,465
Actual as % of appraisal /a          45%           25%            23%           48%            93%
Date of final disbursement January 24, 1996
Project Dates
Original                          Actual
Identification                                                2/91                              2/91
Preparation                                                   4/91                              4/91
Appraisal                                                    10/91                             10/91
Negotiations                                                 11/91                             12/91
Signing                                                      12/91                             12/91
Effectiveness                                                 1/92                              2/92
Project completion                                           10/94                             12/95
Closing date                                                 10/94                             12/95



