Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 17425
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
POLAND
FOREST BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION PROJECT
(GEF GRANT 21685)
February 25, 1998
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =    Polish Zloty (PLZ)
New Polish Zloty (PLN)*
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
1992          1993          1994          1995          1996
US$1 = PLN   1.36           1.81          2.27          2.46           2.96
*on January 1, 1995 the zloty was redenominated: 10,000 old zloties = I new zloty
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BNP -   Bialowieza National Park
BPF -   Bialowieza Primeval Forest
ECU  -   European Currency Unit
EIA -   Environmental Impact Assessment
EU  -   European Union
GDP -   Gross Domestic Product
GEF -   Global Environment Facility
GET -   Global Environment Trust Fund
GIS -   Geographic Information System
GDSF -   General Directorate of State Forests
IBL -   Forestry Research Institute
IBRD  -   International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA  -   International Development Association
MaB  -   Man and the Biosphere
MAF -   Ministry of Agriculture
MENRF -   Ministry of Environmt. Protection, Nat. Resources and Forestry
MOF -   Ministry of Finance
NGO  -   Non-Governmental Organization
PIU  -   Project Implementation Unit
SDR -   Special Drawing Rights
SFA  -   State Forest Administration
SOE -   Statement of Expenditures
UNDP -   United Nations Development Programme
LINEP -   United Nations Environment Programme
POLAND 'S FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Vice President:             Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Country Director            Basil Kavalsky, ECCO9
Sector Director:            Kevin Cleaver, ECSRE
Sector Leader, Environment   Michele de Nevers, ECSRE
Responsible Team:           Emilia Battaglini (ECSRE), Jamison Suter (ENVGC),
Andrew Bond (ENVLW), Stephen Berwick (Consultant)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
POLAND
FOREST BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION PROJECT
GET Grant 21685
Contents
PREFACE .11...............................i
EVALUATION SUMMARY .................................................................                                                             iv
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ASSESSMENT .................................................................                                      I
A.      PROJECT CONTEXT AND  OBJECTIVES .................................................................                                         I
B.      ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES ..................................................................                                              4
C.      MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT .................................................................                                     7
D.      PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY .................................................................                                                  8
E.      BANK PERFORMANCE ................................................................. 
F.      RECIPIENT PERFORMANCE .................................................................                                                 10
G.      ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME .................................................................                                                 10
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS ..............   10
I.  KEY LESSONS LEARNED ........................... 10
PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES ...........................                                                                                          12
1:  SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS ...........................                                                                                          13
2:  RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS ...........................                                                                                      14
3: PROJECT TIMETABLE .1............ 4
3:      PR ANECTD IM ETB       LESEM ................................................................................................................................. .....................I4
4:   GRANT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATiVE ESTIMATED AND AcTuAL (US$ THOusADs) ...................1 5
5:      KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .................................................................1 5
6:      KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION .................................................................5 I
7:      STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT ..................................................................                                            5
8A:  PROJECT COSTS ..................................................................                                                            16
8B:   PROJECT FINANCING .................................................................                                                         6
9:  ECONOmiC COSTS AND BENEFITS ...........................1  6
10:    STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS POLANDFOREST BIODIVERSITYPROTECTIONPROJECT ....................................1 I6
11:    COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS ..................................................................                         17
12:    BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS .................................................................                                            8
13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS .1...........  s*^b 8
Appendixes:
A.  Recipient's comments to the ICR
B.   Ex-Post Project Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






- ii-
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
POLAND
FOREST BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION PROJECT
GEF Grant 21685
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Forest Biodiversity Protection
Project in Poland, for which the GEF Grant 21685 in the amount of SDR 3.3 million (US$ 4.5 million
equivalent) was approved on December 12, 1991 and made effective on February 19, 1992.
The project was completed in December 1995; the original closing date of October 31, 1994 was
extended to December 31, 1995. The grant was almost fully disbursed (93%). The last disbursement
took place on January 22, 1996; the Special Account was fully recovered on November 17, 1997.
The ICR was prepared by Emilia Battaglini, ECSRE together with Messrs. Jamison Suter,
ENVGC, Andrew Bond, ENVLW and Stephen Berwick (Biodiversity Specialist). It was reviewed by
Ms. Michele de Nevers, Sector Leader for Environment and Mr. Gottfried Ablasser, Principal
Agriculture Economist and Portfolio Manager, ECSRE, Ms. Jocelyne Albert, ENVGC and Mr. George
Park, ECC09/ECCPL. The Project Implementation Unit provided information essential for the
preparation of the ICR; the Implementing Agency's comments on the draft ICR are included as
Appendix A to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR began during the Bank's completion mission in October 1996. It is based
on material in the project file and discussions with the Director of the Project Implementation Unit,
officials of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Natural Resources and Forestry, the Forest
Research Institute and other relevant entities involved in project implementation.






- iv -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
POLAND
FOREST BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION PROJECT
GEF Grant 21685
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
i.    The Poland Forest Biodiversity Conservation Project supported by the Global Environment
Facility (GEF) was a pilot project in two ways. It was both the first World Bank-GEF project and among
the first operations implemented by the World Bank in Poland.
ii.    The GEF was established in 1991 with the intention of protecting biological diversity, mitigating
climate change, protecting international waters and reducing depletion of stratospheric ozone. GEF
funds were to be provided as grants or on highly concessional terms to finance the incremental costs
required to achieve global benefits. Poland's forests are biologically among the most important and
unique in Europe; they have been, however, threatened by unsustainable uses and severely damaged by
pollution. By 1991 half of Poland's forests showed sign of pollution-induced decline and in selected
areas they were almost totally dead.
iii.   The GEF Forest Biodiversity Conservation Project was prepared from mid- to late-1991 in
collaboration with Ministry of Environment Protection, Natural Resources and Forestry. It would later be
complemented by the IBRD-financed Forestry Development Project (FY94), the GEF financed Belarus
(FY93) and the Czech and Slovak Republics Biodiversity Protection projects (FY94) (para. 1-7).
Project Objectives
iv.    Project objectives were twofold. The first was to further the protection of globally significant
Polish forest biological diversity at four different levels - genetic (molecular), species, association and
landscape (ecosystem) - through a balanced approach between in-situ (conservation in place) and ex-situ
(conservation outside the target area) conservation measures. The second was to define and realize Pilot
Phase GEF objectives, namely global environmental benefits, innovation, demonstration value and
replicability, contribution to the GEF portfolio (that is, testing of particular methodologies or protection
of particular biodiversity not covered elsewhere in the GEF portfolio), sustainability, monitoring and
evaluation mechanisms.
v.    The project had two principal components: in-situ conservation at the Bialowieza Primeval
Forest (BPF), and protection of the remaining biodiversity in the Sudety Mountain forest ecosystem,
consisting of largely ex-situ measures. At BPF, whose biological resources were not thought threatened
by imminent disappearance, the project would (i) identify the nature and magnitude of biophysical and
sociological threats facing the forest, and initiate pilot mitigation activities, (ii) identify and incorporate
into protected conservation units currently unprotected forest associations of exceptional biological
value, (iii) design and promote GIS-assisted, integrated land-use zoning and conservation planing at the



- v -
landscape level, and (iv) initiate public outreach and participatory planning in support of conservation.
In the Sudety Mountains, with biological resources threatened by immediate extinction, ex-situ
conservation would be undertaken by (i) determining the threats (esp. pollution), (ii) GIS mapping of
such threats and outlining of future recovery options, (iii) collecting seeds and shoots of threatened forest
plant species (esp. non-commercial species), and (iv) establishing a gene bank and nursery to preserve
such collections for future restoration activities. The project also supported training and technical
assistance for the Polish State Forests Administration to undertake such activities during and beyond
implementation, and the establishment of international cooperation mechanisms with four neighboring
countries to support transboundary conservation (para 8-10).
Achievement of Objectives
vi.    Overall the project produced satisfactory results. Although nearly all of the work planned was
vigorously pursued, some project activities fulfilled or exceeded their objectives while others proved
unproductive. Many sub-components were of high value (land use zoning/planning, certain research
components, the foreign technical assistance, public participation, and the Man and the Biosphere
Secretariat) while weaker elements did not fulfill expectations (environmental impact assessment
training, ecological agriculture component, gene bank) (para. 14-17).
vii.   The project-wide elements of the project were successful. The Polish counterparts confirmed
repeatedly that the project supported an attitudinal shift towards more ecologically sensitive forestry.
Productive international cooperation between Poland and four of its neighbors surpassed original project
expectations, as if the potential were there but simply needed to be released (para. 18-19).
viii.  The Bialowieza Primeval Forest component was judged to have been successful. The project
funded the analyses, planning, public outreach and capacity-building within SFA that helped make
possible the decision to expand the National Park and zone the surrounding areas as buffer zones.
Admittedly, other forces were at work, too, but the timing of the GEF intervention was excellent.
However, the success came at the end of project implementation, so the completion mission was unable
to observe yet in the field how the decrees will translate into improved protection of the greater
Bialowieza forest complex, and thus into improved biodiversity protection (para. 20-23).
ix.    The mission was unwilling to make a final judgment on the success of the Sudety Mountains
Protection Program component since collection and maintenance of non-tree and non-commercial
material had not been completed as planned during project implementation. The component however has
the potential to be satisfactory if the requisite rare and non-commercial materials are stored at the gene
bank and nursery, and highly satisfactory if they are later used for ecosystem restoration activities. The
results of the research and GIS work, summarized in a joint Czech-Polish publication, seem focused on
trees rather than on the Sudety ecosystem, leading the mission to assume the relevant staff did not have a
sense of the component's holistic, ecosystem-wide objectives. The completion mission concluded from
this that training in ecology and conservation biology was insufficient and should have occurred early in
the project, integrated through systems analysis into the component, to orient the component (para. 24-
25).
x     Global Benefits. "Global biodiversity benefits" for this project consist of not only the in-situ
conservation of unique and threatened biological resources, but also an improvement in the enabling
environment for their conservation. The project successfully confirmed the BPF's biological value at the
genetic, species, association and ecosystem levels, and furthered its protection in numerous ways. It also
had the more diffuse global benefit of introducing new paradigms of forest management and new



- vi -
methods of decision-making to SFA. In the Sudety mountains the Polish authorities have not yet
effectively used the gene bank to protect unique, non-commercial genetic material, although this
situation is expected to change. Thus tangible global benefits are relatively lower for this component
than for BPF but hopefully, future activities will be built on the foundations laid by this component
(para. 26-27).
xi.   Innovation. The project demonstrated that for "innovation" to be a meaningful criterion, it must
be understood as locally innovative while transferring international good practices. Most aspects of the
current project were innovative for Poland but not for biodiversity conservation in general. The project
introduced, among other things: (i) a gentler version of land management and forestry that incorporates
considerations of ecosystem health, biodiversity, recreation/tourism, education, participatory decision-
making, small-scale sustainable economic activities and more; (ii) ex-situ conservation for non-
commercial and non-tree plant species; (iii) new technologies such as GIS for land-use planning and
forest management; and (iv) improved communication between Polish and foreign agencies with much
to offer each other that previously had not been in contact (para. 28).
xii.   Demonstration Value and Replicability. The project was judged fairly successful from the
standpoints of demonstration value and replicability.  The project had led to applying various
technologies and paradigms, like GIS-assisted land-use planning and Forest Promotion Complexes, to
areas beyond the original target sites. The Bialowieza initiative was expanded to the neighboring
Beloveskaya Forest in Belarus, too. The Sudety restoration sub-components have not yet resulted in firm
plans for field activities, although preliminary restoration efforts were extended to the Sudety Mountains
in the Czech Republic. The gene bank, too, was expanded to store genetic materials from more sources
than were originally planned (para. 29-31).
xiii.  Incremental Costs. the project does not provide insight into defining eligible GEF incremental
costs by today's standards. In fact, it funded some activities that would not be GEF-eligible today.
However, thinking on biodiversity conservation and sustainable forestry was less evolved then than
today, internationally but in Poland especially, and Poland almost certainly would not have funded such
activities on its own at the time. In current (1997) terminology, the project could thus be considered in
part a barrier removal project where the barriers were attitudes and entrenched practices in the forestry
sector. The Poland Forestry Loan (FY94) and the ministerial decrees creating forest promotion
complexes are proof that the project reduced such barriers (para. 32).
Major Factors Affecting the Project
xiv.   The project was one of the first Bank projects during the phase of transformation from planned
to market economy. By 1991 the Bank had initiated activities on the environment with the Ministries of
Agriculture, Environment and Social sector. These ministries were among the weakest in structure and
capacity (human, financial, physical), and the lowest in priority for reform. Many were accustomed to
the bureaucratic procedures and practices of a command economy and were not well prepared for
embracing collaborative approaches to performing their responsibilities or alternative solutions promoted
by the NGO sector (limited willingness to cooperate was also characteristic of the Polish NGO sector,
particularly in the early phases of the project). Initially, many local institutions were also highly
reluctant to accept external technical assistance. This attitude resulted in a slowdown of project
activities, particularly at the beginning. On the positive side, the appointment of very qualified,
independent and very committed professionals within the PMU ensured a smooth implementation of the



- vii -
project, relatively consistent with the original design although somewhat delayed by the lack of
experience in the Bank's operations, particularly as concerns procurement and project accounting (para
33-35).
Project Sustainability
xv.    Overall, the project achieved biological, technical, institutional, social and to some extent
financial sustainability. However, because the true test of sustainability is whether the momentum begun
under the project will still exist many years later, the mission was able to give only an early indication of
potential project sustainability (para. 36-41).
Bank and Recipient Performance
xvi.   The Bank's performance in preparation and appraisal was satisfactory. The Bank's missions
were staffed with professionals having appropriate technical expertise to address both the country and
GEF's priorities in protecting biological diversity.  The project was innovative and pioneering;
nevertheless, its design was kept relatively simple. Bank performance during implementation was also
satisfactory. Supervision was quite intensive, particularly in the first half of project implementation.
Most missions were staffed with biodiversity specialists and foresters, although it seems that more
operational support could have been provided during implementation, particularly as concerns training
on procurement and project accounting.
xvii.  The Recipient's performance was more satisfactory during appraisal and implementation than
during identification and preparation. During project preparation, line ministries and government
institutions were not always ready to provide full support and their input was only partial at this stage.
However, the appraisal mission made sure that all major institutions participated fully in project design
and as time went by, most institutions involved in project implementation took a proactive role
establishing the basis for project success and sustainability. Performance during implementation
improved especially because of the high professionalism and commitment of the PMU director and his
staff. Participation of NGOs, universities and other local entities gave visibility to the project and
ensured its social sustainability. With one main exception, the performance of project consultants and
contractors was in general satisfactory. All main legal covenants were met in timely fashion (para. 42-
47).
Assessment of Outcome
xviii.  Overall, the project produced satisfactory results. Although more time is needed to assess its
final results, the project already achieved a number of significant milestones: the expansion of the
Bialowieza National Park; the introduction of multiple-objective forest management and new methods of
decision-making for SFA; adoption of a more conservation-oriented forestry policy; demonstration of in-
situ conservation cost-effectiveness; international dissemination of experiences and lessons; and raising
local awareness and local communities involvement in BPF conservation actions (para. 48).
Future Operations
xix.   The Recipient has not prepared a formal operational plan. A follow-up project proposal for a
National Forestry Education Center to train foresters and other professionals from Eastern and Central
Europe in multiple-objective, ecologically sensitive forest management has been submitted to donors for
financing (para. 49).



- viii -
Key Lessons Learned
xx.   The project was intended to test a balance of in-situ and ex-situ conservation, depending upon the
imminence of the threat on the environment. To date, it has demonstrated that in-situ conservation is
more cost-effective than ex-situ conservation, and that the time horizon of the threat and outside social
and economic forces are factors to consider when allocating scarce resources. Furthermore, it teaches
that without directly linking in-situ restoration activities to ex-situ conservation, the usefulness of the
latter is jeopardized.
xxi.   By today's standards, the project seems underdesigned. The project design lacked sufficient in-
situ actions to follow through on what it initiated. At BPF, for example, the project developed
management options that were not binding (until a later ministerial decree made them so); and it did not
develop a management plan for the National Park (although it provided a large and focused database for
the development of a future management plan which has subsequently been adopted based in large part
on the GEF project results). The lack of explicit targets and indicators for measuring progress against
implementation plans and project objectives prevented the assessment of success, cost-effectiveness and
basic usefulness of most components throughout implementation. Training was insufficient and should
have occurred early in the project, integrated through systems analysis into the project.
xxii.  The project suffered from a lack of a proactive, thoughtful outreach/public relation activities at
local as well as national level. It must be recognized, however, that at the local level, after a certain
resistance was overcome, the project was able to generate some important support for BPF through
outreach activities like Man and the Biosphere.
xxiii. Links with the IBRD Forestry Development Project, which came 19 months later, leveraged
changes in support of forest biodiversity conservation. The project helped to pave the way for a more
ecologically sensitive forestry project by redesigning one component to complement it.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
POLAND
FOREST BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION PROJECT
GET Grant 21685
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT CONTEXT AND OBJECTIVES
Project Context
1.    The Poland Forest Biodiversity Conservation Project supported by the Global Environment
Facility (GEF) was a pilot project in two ways. It was both the first World Bank-GEF project and among
the first operations implemented by the World Bank in Poland.
2.    The Global Environment Facility (GEF). The GEF was established in March 1991 with the
intention of protecting biological diversity, mitigating climate change, protecting international waters
and reducing depletion of stratospheric ozone. At that time, it was foreseen as a three year pilot
initiative, funded with one billion Special Drawing Rights. The funds were to be provided as grants or
on highly concessional terms to countries eligible for assistance under the programs of the GEF
Implementing Agencies (UNDP, UNEP and the World Bank). They were required to be additional to
regular development assistance, that is, limited to financing the (ill-defined) "incremental costs required
to achieve global benefits."
3.    A key objective of the GEF Pilot Phase was to test pioneering approaches and seek innovative
and replicable solutions responsive to global environmental challenges. As a result, while adhering to
the GEF criteria for project selection, the Pilot Phase biodiversity investment portfolio developed a two-
pronged approach to strengthening countries' biodiversity conservation efforts consisting of foundation
building and forming strategic coalitions of government and non-government interests. The first sought
to establish a foundation of institutional and human resource capacity to sustain biodiversity
conservation actions over the long term. The second consisted of strategically brokering coalitions of
interest groups that formerly had not necessarily cooperated, tailored to the unique circumstances of each
country and project site. Such alliances included government agencies, non-governmental organizations
(NGOs), academic/research institutes, local communities and the private sector, each with its individual
strengths as agents of change.
4.    Poland and its Forestry Sector. World Bank relations with Poland were renewed in 1986,
beginning with intensive analytical work. Although a Country Strategy Paper was prepared in 1987, no
proposals for collaboration materialized until November 1989 when preparation of the Economic
Transformation Plan began, designed to stabilize the economy and create conditions for the rapid
transition to a market economy.



- 2 -
5.    In its transition from a centrally planned to a market economy, Poland had to deal with a
precipitous drop in employment and declining GDP, reflecting rapid privatization and the productive
crisis of the state-owned enterprise sector. This left Polish forest resources at great risk of unsustainable
"mining" since the transition to a market economy created strong pressures for rapid short-term
production. Poland also had to face the costly environmental legacy from decades of development that
failed to consider environmental factors in macroeconomic and sector development strategies and plans.
This was especially obvious with externalities like pollution: half of Poland's forests showed signs of
pollution-induced decline in 1991, and in selected areas its forests were almost totally dead.
6.     Biologically, the forests of Poland are among the most important and unique in Europe. Some
form of forest management had been practiced in Poland for approximately 200 years, an element of
which was the anthropogenic movement of tree seeds from one region to another. Much of the
translocated genetic material was not adapted to the sites being reforested which made the existing forest
stands more vulnerable to pollution stress, particularly at the higher altitudes. Thus a program aiming to
modernize the management of Poland's forest resources and to protect them needed to consider
conservation programs for both natural and highly managed systems.
7.    Not wanting to borrow at market interest rates, the Government turned to GEF to help protect its
biodiversity. The Sudety montane forests in the heavily polluted "Black Triangle" of southwest Poland,
which were suffering severe pollution-induced die-back, and reportedly the last remnant of European
lowland forest at Bialowieza were identified as among the most important of Poland's biological
resources, and appropriate for GEF assistance. The GEF Forest Biodiversity Conservation Project was
prepared from mid- to late-1991 in collaboration with Ministry of Environment Protection, Natural
Resources and Forestry. It would later be complemented by the IBRD-financed Forestry Development
Project (FY94) and the GEF financed Belarus (FY 93) and the Czech and Slovak Republics Biodiversity
Protection projects (FY 94). It was the first World Bank project to be prepared and implemented with
the Polish State Forest Administration (SFA), and so it required both agencies to become acquainted with
each other's objectives and business style.
Project Objectives
8.     Project objectives were twofold. The first was to further the protection of globally significant
Polish forest biological diversity at four different levels - genetic (molecular), species, association and
landscape (ecosystem) -- through a balanced approach between in-situ (conservation in place) and ex-
situ (conservation outside the target area) conservation measures. The second was to define and realize
Pilot Phase GEF objectives, namely global environmental benefits, innovation, demonstration value and
replicability, contribution to the GEF portfolio (that is, testing of particular methodologies or protection
of particular biodiversity not covered elsewhere in the GEF portfolio), sustainability, and monitoring and
evaluation mechanisms.
9.     The project had two principal components: in-situ conservation at the Bialowieza Primeval
Forest (BPF), and protection of the remaining biodiversity in the Sudety Mountain forest ecosystem,
consisting of largely ex-situ measures. At BPF, whose biological resources were not thought threatened
by imminent disappearance, the project would (i) identify the nature and magnitude of biophysical and
sociological threats facing the forest, and initiate pilot mitigation activities, (ii) identify and incorporate
into protected conservation units currently unprotected forest associations of exceptional biological
value, (iii) design and promote GIS-assisted, integrated land-use zoning and conservation planning at the
landscape level, and (iv) initiate public outreach and participatory planning in support of conservation.
In the Sudety Mountains, with biological resources threatened by immediate extinction, ex-situ



-3 -
conservation would be undertaken by (i) determining the threats (esp. pollution), (ii) GIS mapping of
such threats and outlining of future recovery options, (iii) collecting seeds and shoots of threatened forest
plant species (esp. non-commercial species), and (iv) establishing a gene bank and nursery to preserve
such collections for future restoration activities.
10.   The project also supported training and technical assistance for the Polish State Forests
Administration to undertake such activities during and beyond implementation, and the establishment of
international cooperation mechanisms with four neighboring countries to support transboundary
conservation.
Evaluation of Objectives
11.   The project's objectives were clearly defined in terms of the resources whose conservation they
targeted, and they represented a reasoned and realistic response to the perceived threats of the time,
including physical (principally pollution), economic (risk of short-term resource mining), sociological
(lack of local support for conservation), and institutional (lack of appreciation of the need for ecosystem
management, conservation biology, multiple-use forest management, and integrated land-use planning).
This response consisted of research to assess the severity of the threats, and a range of response measures
to address them. The project would test the use of ex-situ conservation measures as a last resort to halt
extinction of the most threatened biological resources. Through training and research, it was to introduce
new approaches to forest management in support of in-situ conservation. It also intended to promote
public outreach and conservation-compatible economic activities.
12.   At the outset, however, the project generally did not clearly define what constituted successful
achievement of these objectives, although some targets and timelines were developed early during
implementation, such as for Professional Development and Training component. But in most cases,
objectively verifiable indicators were simply left implicit. In this situation, any progress towards
meeting its objectives could have been construed as success, and "satisfactory" progress was left open to
individual interpretations and expectations, which varied tremendously considering the context in which
the project was conceived and implemented. The project was also intended to give substance to the
GEF-specific objectives (see para. 8) since they were ill-defined at the time of project preparation, and so
that they might become useful in guiding future GEF projects. It was realistic to expect the project to
help define and explore how to meet the GEF objectives, but unrealistic to expect that the project fully
realize all of them.
13.   By today's standards, project design lacked sufficient in-situ actions to follow through on what it
initiated. At BPF, for example, the project developed management options that were not binding (until a
later ministerial decree made them so), and no management plan was developed for the National Park as
part of the project, although one has subsequently been adopted based in large part on the GEF project
results. At Sudety, no direct links were established between ex-situ conservation facilities and
restoration plan development. Additionally, had the project been better coordinated with the IBRD
forestry operation, which came 19 months later, it might have leveraged greater changes in support of
forest biodiversity conservation. Yet the project took advantage of a window of opportunity, helped to
pave the way for a more ecologically sensitive Forestry Development Project, and did redesign one
component to complement the Forestry project.



-4 -
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
14.   Overall, the project produced satisfactory results. Due to uneven identification of success
indicators for project components, the evaluation mission judged success against the prevailing
conditions in Poland and in the GEF at the time of project preparation. The mission devised Indicators
for project objectives and components ex-post facto; they are discussed individually in Appendix B.
15.   Although nearly all of the work planned was vigorously pursued, some project activities fulfilled
or exceeded their objectives while others proved unproductive. Many sub-components were of high
value, such as the land use zoning/planning, certain research components, the foreign technical
assistance, public participation, and the Man and the Biosphere Secretariat. This was due to the use of
appropriate technologies and methods and to project staff who understood how to apply them. The
Polish State Forests Administration, and the Ministry of Environment Protection, Natural Resources and
Forestry generally, were inherently "fertile ground" for the new approaches the project sought to
stimulate.
16.   Weaker elements did not fulfill expectations for a variety of reasons, including lack of a legal or
policy requirement (for example for the Environmental Impact Assessment training), poor sub-
contractors (Ecological Agriculture sub-component), and a lack of common understanding of the activity
by the project management unit (PMU) leading to partial stonewalling and re-programming (such as with
training in wildlife ecology and conservation biology).
17.   The value of most activities is not yet known for the following reasons: (i) long-term
conservation of biological resources is an objective that by its very nature involves greater time horizons
than a project implementation period; (ii) the project laid the groundwork for future activities, in terms
of a knowledge base and institutional and human capacity, that were not intended to show immediate
results (research on restoration options in the Sudety, much of the research around Bialowieza, training
and capacity-building of SFA staff); (iii) certain project activities were not satisfactorily completed
during project implementation but have been partially completed and will be finished with other funding
(gene bank, nursery); and (iv) no monitoring mechanisms were established to measure impacts of certain
components (fuel switching, Bialowieza foundation funded activities, conservation-friendly economic
activities).
18.   The project-wide elements of the project were successful. The Polish counterparts confirmed
repeatedly that the project supported an attitudinal shift towards more ecologically sensitive forestry.
19.   Productive international cooperation surpassed original project expectations, as if the potential
were there but simply needed to be released. After some initial diffidence had been overcome,
productive international collaboration was quick to take root and flourish between Poland and four of its
neighbors. It occurred more rapidly between scientists, and more slowly between managers and
administrators. Under the project, the first workshop on biodiversity conservation in transboundary areas
was held jointly with Ukraine and Slovakia in 1994, to support the development of the tri-national park
in the Carpathians.
20.   The Bialowieza Primeval Forest component was judged to have been successful. The project
funded the analyses, planning, public outreach and capacity-building within SFA that helped make
possible the decision to expand the National Park and zone the surrounding areas as buffer zones.



- 5 -
Admittedly, other forces were at work too, but the timing of the GEF intervention was excellent.
However, the success came at the end of project implementation, so the completion mission was unable
to observe yet in the field how the decrees will translate into improved protection of the greater
Bialowieza forest complex, and thus into improved biodiversity protection.
21.   Within the Polish government, the component was one of many elements working towards
changing the way publicly owned natural resources are managed. Specifically, it helped to introduce
multiple-objective forest management in a milieu where timber production had been essentially the sole
objective. This change in motivation is evident in the Minister of Environment's decrees in late 1995, as
well as in the project follow-up proposal, requesting GEF assistance for the Forestry Education Center
which is envisioned as a center for training in multiple-objective, ecologically sensitive forest
management. The component also helped to introduce to SFA new processes of making management
decisions. The Administration was confronted with the fact that decision-making in state-owned forests
is not just a knowledge-based perception problem where it knows the answers and explains them to the
public. Rather, it is a process involving trust-building, cooperation and compromise with a wide range of
actors.
22.   The component funded a significant amount of largely high-quality biological, ecological,
pollution-related, sociological and economic research, intended to provide the basis on which to
construct plans for future conservation and sustainable use in BPF. However, poor sequencing of
research, training and land use planning activities, and researchers' lack of understanding of how the
studies fit into the "big picture", often kept the full potential of the research from being realized through
its incorporation into the land use planning and GIS mapping sub-components.
23.   The component appears to have strengthened the perception of BPF as a unique and valuable
resource, and that it is worth protecting in spite of lost short-term economic opportunities. Local
authorities interviewed seem to appreciate that the BPF is a cash cow, possibly theirprimary one. They
stated outright that expansion of the park and implementation of buffer zone rules makes economic self-
sufficiency more difficult if not impossible. The authorities stated furthermore that the GEF project to
them was not easily distinguishable from the other recent conservation initiatives in BPF, but that the
attention has helped them to mobilize funds for improvements in their communities and they are grateful
for that. They explicitly requested more systematic information-sharing on conservation planning and
opportunities for assistance related to sustainable development in BPF. The component should have
done more to instill a local entrepreneurial spirit so that BPF is seen and used as an economic asset rather
than a liability requiring compensation.
24.   Sudety Mountains Component. The mission was unwilling to make a final judgment on the
success of the Sudety Mountains Protection Program component since collection and maintenance of
non-tree and non-commercial material had not been completed as planned during project
implementation. As of late 1996, large quantities of commercial tree species genetic material were
stored in the gene bank. Limited seeds and buds/shoots from non-tree and non-commercial species had
been collected, but had not been stored properly. To overcome the lack of adequate seed storage
facilities a number of collections were grown in the bare root nursery and in a series of plastic greeen
houses near the gene bank. During the last year of project implementation, mixed conifer and hardwood
stands employing local native seed sources were esteablished as a pilot ecological restoration project.
Thus the component has the potential to be satisfactory if the requisite rare and non-commercial
materials are stored at the gene bank and nursery, and highly satisfactory if they are later used for
ecosystem restoration activities. Because the gene bank had opened recently, it may have been too early
to expect it to be stocked with the non-traditional materials the GEF project envisaged. Because the



-6 -
component was redesigned during implementation to expand the gene bank with additional financing
from the IBRD Forestry Development Project (and the Polish Government), the Forestry Project will
maintain oversight of the implementation of an action plan for collection and storage of non-tree and
non-commercial material at the gene bank by SFA.
25.   Like the outcomes of the gene bank and nursery, the results of the research and GIS work,
summarized in a Czech-Polish joint publication', seem disproportionately focused on trees rather than on
the Sudety ecosystem, leading the mission to assume the relevant staff did not have a sense of the
component's holistic, ecosystem-wide objectives. The mission concluded from this that training in
ecology and conservation biology was insufficient and should have occurred early in the project,
integrated through systems analysis into the component, to orient the component.
26.    Global Benefits.  A definition of "global biodiversity benefits" for this project would need to
consist of not only the in-situ conservation of unique and threatened biological resources, but also an
improvement in the enabling environment for their conservation. This enabling environment includes
the scientific knowledge base of the resources, the priorities and technical and managerial capacity of
staff charged with their management, the genetic stock with which to pursue restoration activities, the
institutional (and legal) context for conservation, the appropriate mechanisms to ensure drawing lessons
from experience, domestic and international information sharing mechanisms and fora, the economic
opportunities and restrictions created by conservation needs, and the general public's awareness of
attitudes towards and participation in conservation.
27.   The project successfully confirmed the Bialowieza Primeval Forest's biological value at the
genetic, species, association and ecosystem levels, and furthered its protection in numerous ways. It also
had the more diffuse global benefit of introducing new paradigms of forest management and new
methods of decision-making to SFA, too, which will have a positive long-term impact on all the
biodiversity contained in Poland's state-owned forests. Significant strides were made in preparing for
the conservation needs of the Sudety (and the Carpathian) Mountains. The Polish authorities have not
yet effectively used the gene bank to protect unique, non-commercial genetic material, although this
situation is expected to change. Thus tangible global benefits are relatively lower for this component
than for BPF but hopefully, future activities will be built on the foundations laid by this component.
28.   Innovation. The project demonstrated that for "innovation" to be a meaningful criterion, it must
be understood as locally innovative while transferring international good practices. Most aspects of the
current project were innovative for Poland but not for biodiversity conservation in general. The project
introduced, among other things:
(i)    a gentler version of land management and forestry that incorporates considerations of ecosystem
health, biodiversity, recreation/tourism, education, participatory decision-making, small-scale
sustainable economic activities and more;
(ii)   ex-situ conservation for non-commercial and non-tree plant species;
(iii)   new technologies such as GIS for land-use planning and forest management; and
I   Protection ofForest Ecosystem: Selected Problems of Forestry in the Sudedy Mountains, Warsaw, 1994



-7 -
(iv)   improved communication between Polish and foreign agencies that previously had not been in
contact.
29.    Demonstration Value and Replicability. The project was judged fairly successful from the
standpoints of demonstration value and replicability.  The project had led to applying various
technologies and paradigms, like GIS-assisted land-use planning and Forest Promotion Complexes, to
areas beyond the original target sites. The Bialowieza initiative was expanded to the neighboring
Beloveskaya Forest in Belarus too. The Sudety restoration sub-components have not yet resulted in firm
plans for field activities, although preliminary restoration efforts were extended to the Sudety Mountains
in the Czech Republic. The gene bank, too, was expanded to store genetic materials from more sources
than were originally planned.
30.    The project was intended to test a balance of in-situ and ex-situ conservation, depending upon the
imminence of the threat. To date, it has demonstrated that in-situ conservation is more cost-effective
than ex-situ conservation, and that the time horizon of the threat and outside social and economic forces
are factors to consider when allocating scarce resources. Furthermore, it teaches that without directly
linking in-situ restoration activities to ex-situ conservation, the usefulness of the latter is jeopardized.
31.   A key element of demonstration value and replicability is disseminating experiences and lessons.
The project did this through numerous publications (many translated into English), international
committees, and extensive domestic and international travel by the project manager to discuss the
challenges and results of the project. With hindsight, these could have been disseminated better with a
suitable monitoring system, if plans and resources had been incorporated into project design for regional
and international symposia on conservation initiatives, and if better translation had been accessed to
ensure wider publication in international journals.
32.   Incremental Costs. The project does not provide insight into defining eligible GEF incremental
costs by today's standards. In fact, it funded some activities that would not be GEF-eligible today.
However, thinking on biodiversity conservation and sustainable forestry was less evolved than today.
Internationally, but especially in Poland, Poland almost certainly would not have funded such activities
on its own at the time. In current (1997) terminology, the project could thus be considered in part a
barrier removal project where the barriers were attitudes and entrenched practices in the forestry sector.
The Poland Forestry Loan (FY94) and the ministerial decrees creating forest promotion complexes are
proof that the project reduced such barriers.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
33.   The project was one of the first Bank operations during the phase of transformation from planned
to market economy. By 1991 the Bank had initiated activities on the environment with ministries such as
Agriculture, Environment and the social sector ministries. These ministries were among the weakest in
structure and capacity (human, financial, physical), and the lowest in priority for reform. Most of them
were accustomed to the bureaucratic procedures and practices of a command economy and were not well
prepared for embracing collaborative approaches to performing their responsibilities or considering
alternative solutions promoted by the NGO sector (a limited willingness to cooperate was also
characteristic of the Polish NGO sector, particularly in the early phases of the project). Initially, many
local institutions were also highly reluctant to accept external technical assistance. This attitude resulted
in a slow down of project activities, particularly at the beginning. Moreover, frequent changes of high-
rank officials within the MENRF and SFA (3 undersecretaries and 3 state forest directors were replaced



-8 -
during the life of the project) somewhat weakened government commitment to the project and limited
the support to the PMU.
34.   On the positive side, the appointment of very qualified, independent and very committed
professionals within the PMU ensured a smooth implementation of the project, relatively consistent with
the original design although somewhat delayed by the lack of experience in Bank's operations,
particularly as concerns procurement and project accounting.
35.   Poor integration of sub-components into the larger project also limited the impact of the project,
mostly due to inadequate systems planning at project preparation, lack of critical path analysis during
implementation and a reductionist, non-integrationist approach to research on the part of many of the
researchers. Moreover, the bilateral financing foreseen at project appraisal did not come through and the
respective project components had to be modified to be realized within the available resources. The gene
bank component almost doubled its cost during project life due to an expansion in design and an
unexpected increase in construction costs. The implementation of this component was delayed but
eventually completed mostly with government financing. The project closing date was extended by 14
months to allow completion of all project activities.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
36.    Sustainability can be assessed from many angles, such as from the biological, technical,
institutional, financial and social standpoints. Because the true test of sustainability is whether the
momentum begun under the project will still exist many years later, the following is an early indication
of potential project sustainability.
Bialowieza
37.   The long-term biological integrity of the BPF ecosystem is now undeniably better protected than
prior to the project, although one cannot say definitively if it is adequately protected for perpetuity. This
depends upon one's time scale, and whether the state of biological resources is monitored. The technical
equipment and processes acquired or introduced were all reported to be in operation, although often too
few people received training in the operation of certain equipment, like pollution monitoring instruments,
to ensure its continued use. Of the new approaches introduced through the component, the value of
activities like GIS mapping, interdisciplinary research or participatory planning is much better
appreciated and is likely to be used again and refined in the future. However, project staff said they
would like more training and support to pursue them.
38.   Institutionally, even though the capacity-building elements of the component did not go as far as
intended, the 1995 ministerial decrees and the project follow-up proposal are proof of MENRF and
Poland's commitment to changing its modus operandi.  The communication initiated under the
component between Polish institutions (SFA/IBL, universities, National Parks, local communities), and
between Poland and neighboring countries, is increasing and producing good results. The component did
not create the financial means to continue limited project activities. Furthermore, without having
significantly bolstered the economic case for protecting the greater BPF complex, conservation
advocates are lacking critical justifications for limiting BPF's buffer zones to conservation-friendly
economic activities only.



- 9-
39.   The component was successful in initiating momentum to bolster the social sustainability of the
project. Although certain aspects of public involvement were not as constructive as they might have
been, the experience exposed SFA and communities and leaders around BPF to new ideas regarding
decision-making, and persuaded representatives of SFA that training in participatory planning, conflict
mediation and resolution, and public relations strategies could be useful for similar future efforts. At the
local level, the MaB office began many activities to raise local awareness and involve local communities
in BPF conservation actions.
Sudety
40.   From the biological standpoint, no in-situ conservation took place whose sustainability can be
assessed, so it is unknown whether the (intended) ex-situ conservation can safeguard the biological
integrity of the Sudety Mountains. Technologically, the gene bank, pollution monitoring equipment and
GIS software remain appropriate for SFA's needs, and their maintenance and/or continued use are likely.
41.   Institutionally and financially, SFA appears committed to maintaining the gene bank. Capacity-
building improved the technical expertise of those managing the ex-situ conservation facilities, but a new
appreciation of biological diversity and ecosystem protection was not as apparent in this component's
outcomes as at Bialowieza. The scientific capacity to study and monitor the biological resources of the
Sudety, and to collaborate with Czech counterparts, is strong; but the will and financial resources to
translate this research into in-situ action are not currently present. Social sustainability was not an issue
for this component.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
42.   The Bank's performance in preparation and appraisal was satisfactory. The Bank's missions
were staffed with professionals having appropriate technical expertise to address both the country and
GEF's priorities in protecting biological diversity. The project was innovative and pioneering;
nevertheless, its design was kept relatively simple.
43.   Bank performance during implementation was satisfactory. Supervision was quite intensive,
particularly in the first half of project implementation: eight main supervision missions took place
between February 1992 and December 1995, with an average of 14 staff/weeks per year spent on
supervision. However, most missions were staffed with biodiversity specialists and foresters. More
operational support could have been provided during implementation, particularly on financial issues,
procurement, disbursement and project accounting.
44.   Generally, the Bank planning, supervision and evaluation focused on reviews with managers and
scientists directly benefiting from GEF support. It was difficult to get past the inevitable filter and bias of
this selected group of sole contacts and interlocutors. By dealing with colleagues and technical experts,
rather then those targeted by public meetings, land use plans, environmental education, etc., the Bank
teams virtually missed some of the real targets, with limitations on the ability to understand and fully
evaluate the project impact and sustainability.



- 10 -
F. RECIPIENT PERFORMANCE
45.   The Recipient's performance was less satisfactory during identification and preparation than at
appraisal. During project preparation line ministries and government institutions were not always ready
to provide full support and their input was only partial. However, the appraisal mission made sure that
all major institutions participated fully in project design and as time went by, most institutions involved
in project implementation took a proactive role establishing the basis for project success and
sustainability.
46.   Performance during implementation improved especially because of the high professionalism
and commitment of the PMU director and his staff. Participation of NGOs, universities and other local
entities gave visibility to the project and ensured its social sustainability. With one main exception, the
performance of project consultants and contractors was in general satisfactory. All main legal covenants
were met in a timely fashion.
47.   The grant was almost fully (93%) disbursed; the undisbursed amount corresponds to gains on the
exchange rate between SDR and dollar which were not utilized by the Recipient. The PMU
administrative skills improved during implementation; training and technical assistance were provided as
planned and all legal requirements were met. This justifies the Bank continuous rating of the project
development objectives as satisfactory during project implementation.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
48.   Overall, the project produced satisfactory results. Nearly all the work planned was pursued, and
some results exceeded expectations (land use zoning/planning, international cooperation, some research,
public participation). Weaker components however did not fulfill project expectations (some training and
capacity building, the ecological agriculture component, the gene bank). Although more time is needed
to assess its final results, the project already achieved a number of significant milestones: the expansion
of the Bialowieza National Park; the introduction of multiple-objective forest management and new
methods of decision-making for SFA; adoption of a more conservation-oriented forestry policy;
demonstration of in-situ conservation cost-effectiveness; international dissemination of experiences and
lessons; raising local awareness and local communities involvement in BPF conservation actions.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
49.   The Recipient has not prepared a formal operational plan. A project follow-up proposal for a
National Forestry Education Center to train foresters and other professionals from Eastern and Central
Europe in multiple-objective, ecologically sensitive forest management has been submitted to donors for
financing.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
50.   The project was intended to test a balance of in-situ and ex-situ conservation, depending upon the
imminence of the threat on the environment. To date, it has demonstrated that in-situ conservation is



- 11 -
more cost-effective than ex-situ conservation, and that the time horizon of the threat and outside social
and economic forces are factors to consider when allocating scarce resources. Furthermore, it teaches
that without directly linking in-situ restoration activities to ex-situ conservation, the usefulness of the
latter is jeopardized.
51.    By today's standards, the project seems underdesigned. The project design lacked sufficient in-
situ actions to follow through on what it initiated. At BPF, for example, the project developed
management options that were not binding (until a later ministerial decree made them so); and it did not
develop a management plan for the National Park (although it provided a large and focused database for
the development of a future management plan which has subsequently been adopted based in large part
on the GEF project results). The lack of explicit targets and indicators for measuring progress against
implementation plans and project objectives prevented a clear assessment of success, cost-effectiveness
and basic usefulness of most components throughout implementation. Training in ecology and
conservation biology and in project management was insufficient and should have occurred early in -the
project, integrated through systems analysis into the project.
52.    The project suffered from a lack of proactive, thoughtful outreach/public relation activities at
local as well as national levels. It must be recognized, however, that at the local level, after a certain
resistance was overcome, the project was able to generate some important support for BPF through
outreach activities like Man and the Biosphere. In the end, at least 15 local NGOs directly supported the
project.
53.    Links with the IBRD Forestry Development Project, which came 19 months later, leveraged
changes in support of forest biodiversity conservation. The project helped to pave the way for a more
ecologically sensitive forestry project by redesigning one component to complement it.



- 12 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
POLAND
FOREST BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION PROJECT
GET Grant 21685
PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:      Summary of Assessment
Table 2:      Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:      Project Timetable
Table 4:      Grant Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:      Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:      Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:      Studies Included in Project
Table 8A:     Project Costs
Table 8B:     Project Financing
Table 9:      Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:     Status of Legal Covenants
Table I1:     Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:     Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:     Bank Resources: Missions



- 13 -
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievementof Obiectives          Substantial      Partial        Negligible     Not applicable
Macro Policies                       El              Ol              Ol               0
SectorPolicies                       Ol             0 E0                              0
Financial Objectives                 O               O               0                0
InstitutionalDevelopment             0               0               0                O
PhysicalObjectives                   0               Pi              0                0
Poverty Reduction                    O               O               O                0
Gender Issues                        O               0               OE 0
Other Social Objectives              0              E0               0                O
Environmental Objectives             0               0               0                0
Public Sector Management             0               0i              0                0
Private Sector Development           0               0               0                0
GEF Objectives                       0              0                0                0
B. Proiect Sustainability             Likely                 Unlikely                 Uncertain
0                        El                       E
C. Bank Performance                Highly satisfactory      Satisfactory               Deficient
Identification                      0                       0                         E
PreparationAssistance               0                       o                         o
Appraisal                           E                       0                         El
Supervision                         E                       0                        Eo
D. RecipientPerformance            Hinhly satisfactory      Satisfactory              Deficient
Preparation                         El                      0                        0
Implementation                      E                       0                        El
CovenantCompliance                  0                       0                        E
Gene Bank                           E                       E                        0
E. Assessment of Outcome           Highly satisfactory Satisfactory Highly unsatisfactory Unsatisfactory
E                               E                El



-14-
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS
Loan/credittitle                          Purpose                       Year of      Status
approval
Preceding operations
None
Following operations
1. Forestry DevelopmentProject   Support to MAF and State Forests to expand     1993      Ongoing
(Loan 3641 -POL)              environmentally sound forest management
practices, control environmental damages, increase
forest management efficiency and introduce
institutional and financial reforms in the forestry
sector
2. Agricultural Sector        Support to Poland's medium-term sector adjustment  1993     Closed
Adjustment(Loan 3600-POL)     program trough selective sectoral policies, structural
reforms and institution-buildingmeasures in the
agricultural sector
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in Project Cycle                 Date Planned             Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification(Executive Project Summary)                 2/91                     2/91
Preparation                                               4/91                     4/91
Appraisal                                                10/91                     10/91
Negotiations                                             11/91                     12/91
Board Presentation                                       12/91                     12/91
Signing                                                  12/91                    12/91
Effectiveness                                             1/92                     2/92
Project Completion                                       10/94                    12/95
Grant Closing                                            10/94                    12/95



- 15 -
TABLE 4: GRANT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
(US$ THOUSANDS)
FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95    FY96
Appraisal estimate             1,000    3,000    4,500    4,500      4,500
Actual                          450       750     1,050    2,140     4,465
Actual as % of estimate         45%      25%       23%      48%       93%
Date of fnal disbursement                                           1/24/96
Note: * Original closing date: October 31, 1994; revised closing date: December 31, 1995
* As a result of SDR appreciation against the US dollar, an additional of $315,133 were utilized
under the project.
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
No implementation indicators were defined in the project document
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION
No operation indicators were defined in the project document
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Study                            Implementing Agency                  Status
7 studies on development of natural    IBL, Polish Academy of Science (Kornik)   Completed
regeneration in the BPF
30 studies on forest protection and forest    Voivodship Nature Conservation (Bialystok),  Completed
management in Bialowieza               IBL, Bialowieza National Park, Nicolaus
Copernicus University (Torun), Warsaw
University of Agriculture,
2 studies on ecological farming in     Warsaw University of Agriculture          Completed
Bialowieza
5 studies on pollution monitoring and  IBL, Regional Directorate of State Forests  Completed
reduction in Bialowieza                (Bialystok)
3 studies on biodiversity protection in the    Polish Academy of Science (Kornik), IBL  Completed
Sudety.
80 scientific articles and 5 publications  Various institutions                  Completed
summarizing project research results



- 16-
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS
Appraisal estimate          Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)                (US$ million)
Item                                     Local  Foreign    Total        Local  Foreign   Total
costs   costs                 costs   costs
1. Bialowieza                             0.53     1.22     1.75                         1.43
A. Conservation of Biodiversity        0.08     0.35     0.43                         0.50
B. BPF Protection and Management       0.18     0.36     0.54                         0.50
C. GIS                                  -       0.20     0.20
D.EcologicalFarminginBPF               0.13     0.12     0.25                         0.12
E. Pollution Monitoring & Mitigation   0.11     0.12     0.23                         0.21
F. Coordination with Belarus           0.03      -       0.03                         0.01
G. Professional Devt. & Training        -       0.05     0.05                         0.05
H. Established. Bialowieza Foundation   -       0.02     0.02                         0.04
2. Sudety                                 2.00     2.32     4.32                         6.66
A. Assessment and Seed Collection      0.30    0.19      0.49                         0.35
B. GeneBank                            1.70     1.83     3.53                         6.00
C. Pollution Monitoring                 -      0.25      0.25                         0.25
D. Professional Devt. & Training        -      0.03      0.03                         0.03
E. Joint Czech/Polish Committee         -      0.02      0.03                         0.03
3. ProjectManagementUnit                  0.10     0.01     0.11                         0.23
4. Joint Scientific Review Committee        -      0.03     0.03                          0.03
Total                                     2.63     3.58     6.21                          8.35
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING
Appraisal estimate            Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)                   (US$ million)
Item                                Local   Foreign    Total         Local   Foreign    Total
costs    costs                  costs    costs
1. GEF Grant                         1.5      3.0       4.5           1.5      3.0       4.5
2. Government of Austria              -       0.3       0.3            -       0.3       0.3
3. Government of Poland              1.0      0.4       1.4           3.0      0.6       3.6
Total                                2.5      3.7       6.2           2.5      1.7       8.4
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
No economic analysis ofproject was estimated at appraisal



-17-
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
POLAND
FOREST BIODIVERSITYPROTECTIONPROJECT (GET GRANT 21685)
Covenant   Present     Original     Revised                 Description of Covenant                  Comments
Agreement  Section    Type       Status    Fulfillment   Fulfillment
Date         Date
Grant      3.01 (a)  2, 3, ,4, 5   C       Continuous              The Recipient shall carry out the project through MENRF
with  diligence,  efficiency  and  with  appropriate
administrative and financial practices, and shall provide
funds and other resources required for the project
3.01 (b)  5, 9, 10     C        Continuous              The Recipient shall carry out the project in accordance with
the Implementation Program
3.02     5             C          1/31/92    2/10/92    The Recipient shall establish a project management unit
with qualified and experienced staff
3.03     5,9           C         2128192     5130192    The Recipient shall establish a joint scientific review
committee
3.04     5, 10         C        Continuous              Procurement of goods, works and services shall follow
World Bank guidelines
4.01 (a)   I           C        Continuous              The Recipient shall maintain records and accounts in
accordance with sound accounting practices
4.01 (b)  I            C         Within 4               The Recipient shall have the records and accounts audited Audits carried out
months of end            each fiscal year and shall submit the audit report to the by Polish auditors
of FY                 Bank within four months of the end of the fiscal year
4.01 (c)   I           C       One year after           The Recipient shall ensure that all records evidencing
each audit             expenditures for which withdrawals were made on the basis
of SOE are included in the audit reports and shall maintain
such records for at least one year after the Bank receives
the audit report
Covenant types:                                                                                 Present Status:
1. = Accounts/audits                          8. = Indigenous people                            C = covenant complied with
2. = Financial performance/revenue generation from    9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting    CD = complied with after delay
beneficiaries                               10. = Project implementation not covered by categories   CP = complied with partially
3. = Flow and utilization of project funds       1-9                                            NC = not complied with
4. = Counterpart funding                      11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other
5. = Management aspects of the project or executing  resource allocation
agency                                      12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6. = Environmental covenants                     regulatory/institutional action
7. = Involuntary resettlement                  13. = Other



- 18-
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
No lack of compliance was observed
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Planned              Revised                   Actual
Stage of project cycle           Weeks   US$          Weeks    US$           Weeks       US$
Preparation to appraisal           5      15,000                              4.8       13,400
Appraisal                          10    30,000                               14.8      42,200
Negotiations through Board approval   1   3,.000                 n/a          4.5       14,200
Supervision                       49    147,000                               51.3     155,200
Completion                         5      15,000                              4.7       24,600
Total              70    210,000                               80.1     249,600
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Performance Rating
Stage of Project Cycle    Month/  No. of  Days in  Specialization'  Implement.    Dev.  Types of
Year   Persons   Field                    Status    Objectives   Problems
Through appraisal    04/91      4        10       F,F,B,B         n/a       n/a          n/a
Appraisal through Board   12/91    2                  E,B,B          n/a       n/a          n/a
Supervision I       2/92      2       20          B,B           S          S
Supervision II      6/93       5       15      E,F,F,B,B         S         S           M, P
Supervision III     11/93      3       10         B,B            S         S
Supervision IV       3/94      3       12          B             S         S             F
Supervision V       5/94       4       8       F,F,FS,B,B        S         S           F, P
Supervision VI       7/95      1        5          B             S          S
Supervision VII      10/95      1       10          B             S         S
Completion         10/96      4       6        B,F,F,E          S         S
1- Specialization:                    2- Performance rating:        3- Types of Problems
E = Economist                         S = Satisfactory              F = Financial
B = Biodiversity Specialist                                         M = Management
F = Forester                                                        P = Procurement
FS = Financial Specialist



FROM WORi". 'ANK' FACS( '.ILE DEPART MENT      (FRI)02. 13'98 08:23/ST. 08:22/NO, 3561480990 P 3
. . ._ r-.                                 8 A   S                       Page 553
W -ff919a20  01;:23  FROr                             TO
A93visi-gy air wm~AjRo            a      . *,-
3ISTY   OF I    AOItrKlSA  I9.OEC; ON. ?CT)A  Ri~UC13
AND YUuJaTRr-Y D      AtT01tiOESlJY
DIz1-03 5/35
:  ;'         ^01fl2f1YLr
*,'   '    it i'    ' DlwzlSo5A,
i  s           13~~~ Febrtuary 999
7*6~~. ,Ccced   et
Se*orLeadier Ex Evu:':                                                                      :
~ De~iopn~ ad Enviwn~m3
Iguarpen4 C=lra APa Reg=n
I &H H StraftN.W.
Washuin  D.C. 20433
U.S.A                                                            -       A
..     . A
Dear Ms de Num 
's-ith risp~~ to yor lettw W O=ober J1, 1997, p'eaae and acdosed comienwSefti* to
'be imnple'  twoion completiom R,p. ;
The abvw mentionzx cv,n uak  acoute by fte Fo0*sUiy Depaxzt of the MwsLiy,vf
nv$O*rmia1 PruteEan, NAki Emux and Fo  h avrb& t  prep&edby Pf Piom
Paschalis - ri'om3r Dliwwr of the nuaae     Unit Dr Poland - G    3iodi8wvut Probacion
Taking ihis vppor~znizy I shallike to  iss the   eh.t the amoum  of fizIls lIisa iLnder tlis
prtect reic12d 4,465 nin S wch           to app~ slatm   of 4,500 m1m S afied us to
sni&the deivznes otfic' iid,azOO.  pu, 99,2%.
Youm S!u&~
I ~ ~     ~     ~     ~      * I,        COX   at 
D
p                                                         *Sr ra*
"~~ ~ ~ ~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ '  '   .oe   l
Euld: opa            ,         r        i ;                    !,  : a  .  .         i*~.
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ :        _  ' '?.,



- 20 -                              Appendix A
Prof. dr. habil. Piotr Paschalis
Wydzial Lesny
Katedra UzytkowaniaLasu
i Inzynierii Lesnej
Comments to the Implementation
Completion Report
prepared by: Emilie Battaglini, Jamison Suter, Andrew Bond, Stephen Berwick
Preparation of this Report began during the mission in October 1996. It was based mainly on material
in the project file and official and unofficial disscussion and meetings in Poland.
Firstly I would like to refer to the so called "philosophy" of the Project, their aims and objectives. It
seems to me the most important items, when we are going to get a real feedback from our knowledge and
experience.
We have to realise, that this Grant GEF was the first directed to the country "in transition" where we
had enormous amount of good will for active participation officials from the Ministry of Environmental
Protection, Natural Resources and Forestry, the Forest Research Institute and other research organisations.
Additionally - we had at that time extremely, agressive and moneyless environmental groups, mainly NGO's
seeking to all possibilities for money, and their future existence.
This situation creating special atmosphere to the project, for one side - very pragmatic, with strict financial and
methodological rules and procedures, very often on the level, which was completely not understable for
existing banking level, bidding procedures, methods of payment etc. in Poland, and from other hand -
expectations from all sides - from NGO's to the scientisist, for finally obtaining enough money to carry out
research, etc.
The life was much prosaic - very soon was obvious, that there is no room for improvisation, sophisticated and
unrealistic ideas and money for all NGO's groups. In 1992 we had over 250 different NGO's groups in Poland.
Once again - at that time we had just one GEF Grant - no Small Grant GEF programme no other institutions
sponsoring forest protection. This aspect of GEF - it should be seen through specialistic, sociological studies
with evaluation of frustration, agression, fightings for and against etc. etc.
So, as we spoke with prof. S. Krugman, Mr A. Schumacher and dr S. Berwick, we were trying to create at the
beginnig the atmosphere for better understanding the aims of the Project in the long perspective. As a process,
evaluation of way of thinking, not only among the administrations and NGO's groups, but mainly among
professional foresters. These tasks were very complicated and only partially succesfull during the
implementationof the Project.
I think, that this point of my statement is important, because I realise, at the beginning of the Project, that it was
not only a "seed" money, but also some "seed" ideas, and the final effect of objectives we will get much, much
later, even now, not yet.
Coming back to the Evaluation Report, I would like to stress, that I fully accepted the final conclusions
in the Report.
Maybe, with some reservations, or with some more explenations from my side where the final score, in
my opinion are too low.
Referingto the Table 1. Summary of Assessments.
I should to underlined, that among these objectives are:
-      macro policies. The new Forest Policy, based on sustainable development rules, consuming so much
from the biodiversity strategy taken from the Project.
-      financial objectives. The rules and procedures which were completely "terra incognita" 5 years ago and
we were used in our Grant, now are the common and accepted by our finantial system.



-21 -                              Appendix A
-     private sector development. In my opinion, GEF Grant "philosophy" based on holistic approach to the
environmental protection. The ownership structure of the forest has a impact on balance between
different functions in multifunctional forestry, but it was no way to change the ownership structure
using the GEF money.
-     borrower performances (preparation). If we could agree, that we had at the beginning no satisfactory
"infrastructure" and we have been not well prepared to run the GEF bussines" it doesn't means, that
from professional, and mainly conceptual part of preparation - it was much better than "deficient".
The evaluation of forest protection strategy from ex situ to in situ - depends on each specific area in the
whole World. There is no any arguments, that we can say, that in the light of today's standards, project design
lacked sufficient in situ actions, but was more directed to the ex situ conservation. Additionaly, the project was
not intended to test balance of in situ and ex situ conservation. We had in Poland a realistic situation of forest
biodiversity management. It was a really urgent to design and implement a Forest Gene Bank to preserve still
existing our natural forest genetic heritage. And they very comprehensive programme for forest biodiversity
protection based on Forest Gene Bank in Kostrzyca (Sudety Mountains) has been achieved. The lack of better
understandingtheir role and position for the Europe lies in rather weak disseminating of information.
Also I would like to refer to the some Authors statements - for example - "the project developed
management options that were not binding (until a later ministerial decree made them so), and no management
plan was developed for the National Park as part of the Project".
Firstly - two management plans for Biosphere reserves - Bia_owie_a and Karkonosze National Park has been
completed.
Secondly - I didn't found in the literature another examples, where during the 2-3 years after having the GEF
Project, the Government took the decisions according to the GEF Project Management Unit proposals. Until
now, only in Poland we have so clear seen results and their impact on political decisions following the GEF
Grant achievements.
One of the important aspects which could prove in the long term achievements of objectives are the
lack of monitoring mechanism to measure impacts of Project components on environmentallyactivities.
Key lessons learned and future operations
I1.    Beside the score of evaluation summary (which in fact was good) in my opinion, we got a experience
and their results we should very carefully analised:
-     to identify the hierarchy of the aims and goals,
-     to analyse environmental and also political, cultural and social conditions of receipent country,
-     to evaluate the Banks performance,
-     to evaluate also the original version of Project after being completed,
-     to establish monitoring mechanisms from a period 3 to 5 years after the Project,
-     to prepare a standard of rules which can compare different GEF projects in different countries
(which some reservations),
-     using the people with experience in evaluation teams,
-     to promote or award people working in GEF projects (in preparation, implementation and
evaluation).
2.    To keep going the GEF activities through further sponsoring operational plan.
Poland has prepared follow up proposal for a National Forestry Education Center, ecologically sound
forest management and biodiversity protection. It is necessary to establish a working group for
preparation a formal operational plan including the specialist with GEF knowledge.



- 22 -                                       APPendix B
TABLE A. PROJECT-WIDE OBJECTIVES'
Global Objectives: 1) Support an attitudinal shift towards more ecologically sensitive forestry; 2) Test a combination of in-situ and ex-situ approaches to biodiversity
conservation; and 3) Foster international cooperation and coordination for biodiversity conservation
Specific Objective               Indicator(s)            Was objective                          Notes on achievement of indicator
realized?
More ecologically sensitive   Changes in national forestry policies  ?
forestry policies and      and regulations
regulations adopted
Widespread use of more     Implementation of Forest          Not yet but in  A broad ministerial decree created seven forest promotion complexes in BPF and other
ecologically sensitive     Management Complexes; reformed    process        ecologically valuable forests throughout Poland. A core protection zone is to be
forestry practices         forestry in other state forests                  surrounded by buffer zones with use regimes designed to protect the forest's biodiversity.
These have yet to be implemented.
Training in holistic,      Training courses, lectures and study   Partly    The training supported by the project was generally highly appreciated, and succeeded in
ecological approaches to   tours completed; surveys of those                introducing new approaches and tools. However, the Polish counterparts often did not
forestry, and in multi-   trained; requests for further training            understand well the uses for some training such as for EIA or conservation biology, or did
purpose forest management  in such topics                                   not consider it important and therefore it never occurred. This attitude kept the project
from introducing many cutting edge ideas, and kept the project from realizing its full
potential. A new attitude towards forestry, however, is evident in the project follow-on
proposal, requesting funds to tum the National Forestry Education Center into a node for
foresters and other interested professionals from Eastern and Central Europe to receive
training in multiple-objective, ecologically sensitive forest management.
Make use of genetic        Transplanting/reintroduction of ex-   Too early to    Restoration activities have not yet been undertaken. The availability of such materials is
material conserved ex-situ    situ propagated flora into its original  judge  discussed under the Sudety Mountain component.
in in-situ restoration     habitat
initiatives
Foster international       Meetings, scientific collaboration,    Yes       International cooperation with Belarus and Czech Republic described below. A later add-
cooperation with           publications, joint management or                on to the project was the creation of the tri-national Transcarpathian Conservation Trust, a
neighboring countries      restoration plans, committees or                 foundation for international cooperation to conserve the Trans-Carpathian Mountains,
other mechanisms                                 shared by Poland, Ukraine and the Slovak Republic.
The evaluation team derived these objectives and created the indicators ex-post.



- 23 -                                    Appendix B
TABLE B. CONSERVATION OF FOREST BIODIVERSITY AT THE BIALOWIEZA PRIMEVAL FOREST.
General Objective: Increase the Degree of Protection of the Bialowieza Primeval Forest - Reduce Threats to its Integrity
Specific Objective             Indicator(s)            Was objective                       Notes on achievement of indicator
realized?
Increase in the size of the  Legal declarations of the National    Yes   Component helped convince the MENRF to double the size of the Bialowieza National
Bialowieza protected area    Park and the surrounding Forest             Park and to declare the BPF a "forest promotion complex" (FPC) designed to protect the
Promotion Complex (buffer zones)               BPF's biodiversity while permitting controlled resource extraction outside the park.2
Official protection       Promulgation/implementation of the   Yes       The BPF complex will consist of a core zone of strictly protected or lightly managed
status/use regulations    BPF Management Plan's land-use                forest (national park) surrounded by three concentric buffers zones, delineated through
recommendations                                GIS mapping procedures integrating ecological and socioeconomic considerations, with
increasingly controlled resource use regimes from the outermost to the innermost buffer
zone. Implementation of BPF FPC only beginning
Increased capacity to    Training/study tours (number of   Mostly       International study tours, training courses, field trips and lectures by international experts
manage BPF                sessions, number of participants,              on forest management, monitoring and pollution (cited as particularly useful by the
follow-up surveys on the utility of            PMU) were held. Participants included forestry students and public forest
such training) Training in all the             administrators. Training in the use of equipment and software procured by the project
disciplines envisioned in the project          was successful. Certain training, such as in EIA and conservation biology, never
document.                                      occurred despite drafting a Training and Professional Development Plan, and repeated
requests by subsequent supervision missions to implement it fully.
Assessment of impacts of    Reports and publications.      Yes           Impacts of forestry, agricultural and other economic activities on the forest were recorded
current economic activities   Confirmation from GIS team that            or measured. Impacts of pollution on forest health were measured. However, initial poor
results were useful                            quality work delayed these sub-components and kept the full potential of the research
from being realized through its incorporation into the management planning exercise.
Publications produced.
2   One notable omission from the process, however, was the development of a management plan for the park, which is proceeding separately without GEF or IBRD assistance.



-24 -                                           Appendix B
Reductions in destructive     Implementation of low impact         Probably        Timber extraction plans are reportedly more ecologically sensitive, but no hard data were
economic activities in BPF    logging, reduced timber extraction,                  collected to verify this. Only anecdotal information was obtained on development
reduced development encroachment,                    encroachments, which appear to be manageable due to an increasing awareness of the
reduced poaching                                     unique nature of the BPF and the desire of local residents to maintain this resource and
even to develop ecologically sensitive economic activities. However, the GIS planning
exercise revealed many potential conflicts with local municipalities, especially in the
outermost buffer zone which is outside the traditional limits of BPF. No information
available on poaching. Project ended before monitoring of any indicators occurred (no
provision was made for such monitoring).
Public support of            Consultations with the public,        Mostly          A 3-day Town Meeting was held in Bialowieza in December 1994, the first ever for BPF,
conservation in BPF          changes in local attitudes towards                    to present the results of research completed to date and the GIS planning exercise. It was
BPF and conservation, public                         attended by over 300 people from State Forests, National Parks, research
acceptance of protection plans, local                institutes/universities, local & national NGOs, local government and local communities.
activities in support of conservation                While only partially successful in generating support, the town meeting impressed on
State Forest staff the need to adopt more participatory approaches to decision-making.
Locally, the MaB sub-component was instrumental in generating grass roots support.3
The component brought conservation of BPF to the attention of several national and
international NGOs, mobilizing support from some groups while generating criticism
from others, with the result that a mixed land-use compromise is now widely accepted.
Development of               Number and types of ecologically      No              No new economic activities integrating conservation and development were initiated as a
ecologically viable          benign economic activities; revenues                  result of the project.4 New, more sensitive forestry practices have been defined for the
economic activities          from such activities; tourism                         BPF FPC buffer zones.
visitations; ecological agricultural
production; production of non-
timber forest products; retraining
local inhabitants for new professions
3    The MaB program worked with (or helped to establish) local clubs interested in ecology, cultural-archaeological heritage or the outdoors generally, sometimes providing small grants to
undertake research activities. it funded presentations in schools and other municipal venues, led expeditions into the forest, published posters and brochures, mobilized locals to be guards for
tourist attractions in the forest, convened workshops for foresters, local and national conservation NGOs and local authorities to exchange attitudes and concems, and prepared a community
conservation action plan so local people could become directly involved in protecting BPF. With project support MaB produced films on nature at BPF which were viewed on national
television.
4    Conservation planning secms to have involved mostly restrictions on former resource use patterns. This is possibly because local entrepreneurs do not know what the possibilities could be, or
are lacking the capital to undertakc conservation-friendly ventures. A legacy from the 1945-90 period is that people still expect to receive support from the central govemmcnt. In this context,
the component did not create the mindset that conservation and market niche economic activities are complimentary. Opportunities do exist, however. Tourism appears on the rise in BPF, and
the mission heard a report of organic farming catering to ecotourists.



-25 -                                        Appendix B
Reduction of pollution loads  Lower air and water pollution levels,  Not known  Pollution loads (air and water) were found to be less problematic than anticipated during
esp. at hot spots near saw/pulp mills,           preparation, although hot spots were identified around the saw/pulp mills, and certain
and near population centers                      non-local pollution types (acid rain, heavy metals) are increasing. The component
funded three pollution reduction investments (2 through the Bialowieza Foundation):
two for air pollution and one for sewage treatment. These activities raised the project's
profile locally, but their impact on BPF will not be known since future monitoring of
pollution was not planned. Results of pollution measurements were documented in
several published articles.
Establishment of baseline  Publications of research on        Yes            Baseline information collected on numerous indicator species, forest associations and
data against which to      biological, pollution-related,                    forest dynamics. Baseline pollution data collected. Attitudinal and demographic surveys
measure future changes     attitudinal, economic and                         conducted. Baseline economic data was not systematically compiled. Results
demographic topics                               documented in several publications.
Identification of formerly    Identification of genetic variety  Yes         Several species discovered in BPF for the first time (fungi and terrestrial arthropods); a
unknown biological         within species, species new to the                few species recorded that are new to science. Genetic analyses were completed for
diversity                  area or to science, formerly                      several important tree species. Valuable forest associations outside the strictly protected
unknown associations                             area were identified. Research on fauna provided valuable information on BPF
management strategies. Publications (books and articles) documenting these results were
produced in Polish and often English.
Acquisition/sharing        I - Information sharing between    Yes            Collaboration between State Forests and National Park Administration was catalyzed.
formerly unavailable       agencies; and                                     Collaboration with Belorussians (meetings between administrators and scientific
conservation-related       2- Meetings of international                      collaboration on research) was initiated.
information                scientific and protected area
management bodies



- 26 -                                      Appendix B
TABLE C. SUDETY MOUNTAIN BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION
Component Objective: Protect Remnant Sudety Mountain Biodiversity through In-Situ and Ex-Situ Means
Specific Objective               Indicator(s)             Was objective                        Notes on achievement of indicator
realized?
Construction, equipping   Building constructed and staffed,   Partly        Gene bank was constructed, equipped and opened in December 1995. Its design was
and stocking of a gene bank  equipment installed & operational,             expanded to accommodate additional materials from across Poland in support of the
number and variety of species'                   National Afforestation and Restoration program, and from the Sudety zone of the Czech
genetic material stored including rare            Republic. Large quantities of seeds from commercial tree species had been stored in the
or non-commercial species, diversity              gene bank, while seeds and buds/shoots from non-tree and non-commercial species had
of material within species                        been collected in limited quantities but not yet stored at the gene bank. An action plan
for collection and storage of non-tree and non-commercial material at the gene bank was
requested. State Forests has plans to add a conservation education center to the gene
bank, although funds are lacking.
Establishment of a nursery   Equipment installed, staff in place,  Partly   A number of collections were grown in the bare root nursery and in a series of plastic
for threatened genetic stock   number and variety of species'               green houses near the gene bank. Mixed conifer and hardwood stands employing local
genetic material stored including rare            native seed sources were established as a pilot ecological restoration project. to develop
or non-commercial species, diversity             the technique.
of material within species
Acquisition of baseline data  Reports, publications, GIS maps  Yes?         Data collected on the state of the forests and genetic resources of the Sudety was
on pollution and the state                                                  published in ajoint Czech-Polish publication: Protection of Forest Ecosystems:
and distribution of genetic                                                 Selected Problems of Forestry in the Sudety Mountains. There is no evidence that the
resources and ecosystem                                                     results of the GIS training were incorporated into the restoration plans, nor into the seed
health                                                                      and shoot collection plans. It appears that the seed collection that did occur (of
commercial species?) happened before GIS results were available.
Capacity established to use   Training sessions completed; results    Yes   Training in the use of equipment appears to have been undertaken satisfactorily.
new equipment (GIS and    obtained from use of equipment
pollution monitoring)
Restoration plans prepared   Plans prepared, papers or       Partly         Recommendations for restoration of Sudety ecosystems were made in the previously
publications                                      mentioned book, but no firm plans were devised.
Representative ecosystems   Hectares restored                No             Actual restoration activities were never intended to be undertaken by the project; they
restored                                                                    would be a product of it. The mission was not aware of any field restoration activities
underway.



- 27 -                                       Appendix B
Continued monitoring of    Reports, publications               ?               Continued monitoring of pollution does not seem to be underway.
pollution and the state of
genetic resources
Cooperative international    Signed agreements, regular meetings   Yes         International cooperation fora were created with scientists in the Czech Republic,
management arrangements   of scientists and park/forest                       resulting in regular and productive meetings, in sharing of data related to forestry,
functioning                administrators, sharing of                          pollution and other topics, and in a joint publication.
information, collaborative research,
joint publications, standardization of
data sampling and reporting
p:\poland\urenvVorestbioV7icr\icrpigef.doc
Februavy 25,1998 12:33 PM
EB/ib



