GLOBAL                IO19  ?OL
ENVIRONMENT
FACILITY
POLAND
FOREST BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION PROJECT
January 1992
PROJECT DOCUMENT
U



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout this report.
EXCHANGE RATE
Polish Zloty 11,025 = US$ 1
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BNP      -   Bialowieza National Park
BPF      -   Bialowieza Primeval Forest
ECU      -   European Currency Unit
EEC      -   European Community
ETP      -   Economic Transformation Program
GEF      -   Global Environmental Facility
GIS      -   Geographic Information System
GDP      -   Gross Domestic Product
GDSF   -   General Directorate of State Forests
IBL      -   Forestry Research Institute
IBRD    -   International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB      -   International Competitive Bidding
IMF      -   International Monetary Fund
LCB      -   Local Competitive Bidding
MaB      -   Man in the Biosphere
MAFE   -    Ministry of Agriculture and the Food Economy
MENRF  -   Ministry of Environment Protection, Natural Resources and
Forestry
PMU      -   Project Management Unit
SOE      -    Statement of Expenditure
TA       -   Technical Assistance
ZL       -   Polish Zloty



POLAND
FOREST BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION PROJECT
Grant and Project Summary
Grantee:           Global Environmental Facility
Beneficiary:       Ministry of Environment Protection, Natural Resouces and Forestry
Amount             US$4.5 million
Terms:             Grant from Global Environmental Facility
Onlending:         Not applicable
Financing Plan:
Local     Foreign      Total
Source                         (USS Million)
GEF Grant                                 1.5         3.0        4.5
Committed Bilateral Grants               0.0          0.3        0.3
Govenmment                                1.0         OA        1A
TOTAL                             2.5         3.7        6.2
Economic Rate of
Retun:                Not calculated, though substantial economic and environmental benefits.
Staff Technica Report Report No. P-5675-POL dated January 8, 1992
Maps:                 IBRD 23379R
IBRD 23380R



I



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE DIRECrOR
OF THE CENTRAL EUROPE DEPARTMENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE REGIONAL VICE PRESIDENT
ON A GRANT FROM THE GLOBAL ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITY
TO THE MINISTRY OF ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION, NATURAL RESOURCES
AND FORESTRY OF THE REPUBLIC OF POLAND
FOR A FOREST BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION PROGRAM
Backgund
1.    The forests of Poland are among the most important and unique in Europe.! The montane forests
of the southwest and the last remnant of the vast lowland European forest now found only at Bialowieza
are the most important of these disappearing biological treasures. These areas remain because of the
protection afforded their fauna by regal hunters since the tenth century. However, this rationale has
disappeared with the royalty to be replaced by a broader appreciation of the values of such rare resources:
* they offer a glimpse at the environmental "baseline" in which European civilization was
forged;
- they house threatened and endangered species and system processes found nowhere else;
they are at the margins of distribution for several commercially important forest species such
as Norway spruce, and can clarify questions of adaptability important to their management;
- they are the only sites of some genetic material of importance (e.g. the best adapted trees,
the healthiest soil fauna and flora) to renewable resource management, and the restoration
of polluted natural systems;
t they are still of a viable size and can therefore offer the best opportunities to explore the
preservation and management of natural forests in Europe;
they are a recognized priority of the Government and people of Poland, as well as of
international conservation organizations such as the WWF (a "Green Lung of Europe",) and
UNESCO (as a designated "Man and the Biosphere" site);
* they can serve as models for the planning and management of shared intemational resource
systems. The initiative recently taken by a local joint bilateral (Poland and Republic of
Belarus) technical group can constitute a model which is of benefit to other such protected
areas.
2.      If such areas are to be protected, even reclaimed, several issues which have lead to their current
status will need to be addressed. These issues make the GEF Project particularly timely and useful.
Pollution is one problem. Inefficient and inappropriate land uses have resulted in accelerating human-
related incursions and transformations threatening natural areas here. More benign land uses which are
compatible with the natural resource base need to be encouraged, even as the tendency to high-grade for
short term gain becomes increasingly evident with the dislocations of the transition to modem market
economies. A mix of such appropriate land uses will shield the sanctum sanctorum-areas under strict
protection. This Project is particularly timely for Polish foresters and ecologists who will benefit
j/ These forests have become a major source of germplasm for the afforestation of the rest of Europe.



-2 -
enormously from some of the modem approaches to biodiversity conservation and management emerging
throughout the world.
3.       An additional program to widen the protection program for the Bialowieza Primeval Forest was
also identified. This program, whose estimated cost is $1 million would support a biodiversity
management program to protect the forest ecosystem on the abutting 87,000 ha, located in the Republic
of Belarus (see Map 2). The specific investments and technical services to be supported under this
program would be developed in the quarterly meetings of the Joint Scientific Committee (Poland and the
Republic of Belarus) to improve the management of the full area on both sides of the border. A separate
Grant Agreement would be developed with officials in the Republic of Belarus (see Annex 8).
Rationale for GEF Involvement
4.       This project supports the environmental policy framework. An environmental strategy 2 for
Poland was completed by the World Bank in August, 1991. The document suggested that relatively
untouched and unpolluted areas as the Bialowieza would constitute cost effective foci for conserving living
natural resources. Also, applied research efforts to re-establish the forest zones (with understory) in the
higher elevations of the Sudety Mountains were also recommended. This Project is also consistent with
the goals of the Ministry as confirmed during the Appraisal. The southwestem Sudety Mountain area and
the Bialowieza forests of Eastem Poland are important zones of ecological biodiversity. These key
endangered forests are sites of international importance being among Europe's largest expanse of
remaining natural forests and areas of high endemism.3
5.       The GEF project has been accorded high priority by Government and is being linked with a
possible Bank financed Forestry Development Project now being identified and prepared. However, funds
are not available from govemment sources to carry out the work proposed here and the government does
not want to borrow extemal resources for it at market rates of interest. The GEF project would provide
the Government with urgently needed support to assess the environmental damage to Poland's forests and
to support urgently needed biodiversity protection in the Sudety Mountains encompassing the Karkonosze
National Park in southwestem Poland and in the Bialowieza (BPF) border area with the USSR.
6.       There is a global environmental benefit. Both the Sudety and the Bialowieza contain rare,
endemic species found nowhere else. Of particular significance as a model for many similar areas around
the world is the attempt to treat in an integrated fashion, four major levels of biodiversity-at the molecular
level with ex-situ genome conservation (e.g., gene bank), at the species level (e.g., research to delineate
the seasonal ranges of species such as the European bison and lynx), at the habitat or community level
with the identification and incorporation of currently unprotected forest associations, and at the landscape
level with the buffer zone land use planning. The activation of the MAB will integrate this Project with
activities at other MAB sites around the world. Both the Karkonosze and the Bialowieza are shared
transboundary ecosystems, and the models developed for their integrated management will be of
;/ See also: Ministry of Environment Protection, National Resources and Forestry. Natural Environmental Policy of Poland.
(1991, Warsaw, 21 pp).
/ Endemism means that the population of a plant or an animal species which is isolated to some extent has formed a common
gene pool by the interaction of the ecological factors with the genetic structure of the population during evolution. The result
is an indigenous population being highly adapted to the site and containing genetic structures different from populations within
the range where gene flow is frequent. An area of high endemism in an area, in which many populations of plant or animal
species occur showing this mode of evolution and adaption.



- 3 -
intemational utility. The global significance of the two areas initially selected is confirmed and supported
by their designations by UNESCO and the World Wildlife Fund (International) (being identified among
the "existing ecological bricks" of Europe).
7.       This Project will constitute a contribution to the GEF Portfolio. In its efforts to preserve global
biodiversity, the GEF will encounter more of the transnational issues being addressed in this Project. It
will also frequently encounter the need to balance in-situ and ex-situ preservation with innovative
techniques. It wiUl, in particular, face the conflicting demands of a resident population which can be a
force either for further eroding biodiversity or a potent ally in its preservation. In these ways, the progress
of this Project will be gennane to ongoing activities of the GEF and have utility as a test bed. These will
not be a one-off or eccentric set of activities.
Proiect Obiective
8.       The proposed GEF project will initiate programs to conserve the biodiversity of key endangered
forests and wiU provide institutional support to the Ministry of Environment, Natural Resources and
Forestry to undertake biodiversity conservation management activities, including the establishment of a
forestry gene bank.
9.       The Project would start with an ecological perspective and would investigate both in-situ and
ex-situ options to conserve biodiversity. This would entail a program approach involving scientific study
of the flora and fauna of the selected key endangered forests, including threats to their viability from
human pressures and detailing options to ensure the conservation of species considered at risk.
Project Description
10.      The GEF operation would support  Poland's effort to protect its forest ecosystems. Selection
of the parks, reserves and zones under the proposed project are based on agreed conservation priorities.
Project investments include:
(i) institutional support to the Ministry of Environment, Natural Resources, and Forestry to
enable it to carry out its biodiversity conservation management activities including the
establishment of facilities for ex-situ conservation of genetic material in the Sudety forests
of southwest Poland and for a biodiversity protection program for Bialowieza Primeval
Forest ecosystem of Eastem Poland; and
(ii) investment in programs to preserve endangered forest ecosystems for biodiversity
conservation through provision of funding for pilot investments in air and soil monitoring
equipment, a forest genebank and related archival nursery equipment, land planning (GIS)
equipment, air and soil monitoring equipment (fixed and mobile), protected area planning,
financial support for a program for supporting transition to ecological agriculture for
farmers operating within the BPF, and professional development, training and consulting
services.



-4 -
Agreed Actions
11.     During negotiations on the Grant Agreement, assurances were obtained as follows:
a) Gene Bank. Prior to disbursement on the gene bank component of the Project, detailed
final designs for the civil works and a final list of equipment would be submitted to the
Bank for approval. Supervision of the construction and management of the gene bank would
be undertaken by the State Board of Forests. Assurances would also be sought that the
annual operating costs for the proposed gene bank, estimated at $100,000 annually would
be provided by MENRF.
b) Joint Scientific Committee. The MENRF shall establish a Joint Scientific Committee no
later than February 28, 1992.
c) Grant Effectiveness.   The Grant would be declared effective upon submission of
documentation satisfactory to the Bank that the Project Manager has been appointed and a
separate account, subject to internationally accepted auditing standards, has been established.
d) Accounts. A separate account would be established in a commercial bank for the MENRF
prior to disbursement of the grant. This account would be audited annually by an auditing
firm acceptable to the Bank.
e) Project Management.  A Project Management Unit (PMU) would be established in
MENRF, at the level of the GDSF, prior to disbursement of the grant. The PMU would be
under the supervision of the Project Manager, appointed by the Minister, and be acceptable
to the Bank. The PMU would be responsible for the management of the Project Account,
for coordinating Project operations and expenditures and for submitting quarterly progress
reports to the Bank.
Benefits
12.     The principal benefits are to protect two zones of substantial ecological intemational importance.
The Bialowieza Primeval Forest is unique in Europe and a source of endemic biodiversity. The Sudety
Mountain Forests, while badly impacted by air pollution, still retains significant intemational sources of
forest and understory biodiversity. The Project would undertake a number of integrated programs to
further protect the biodiversity in both areas, providing a rich resource of plant material for future
generations.
13.     Innovation is fostered by the integration of the various levels of biological diversity to address
issues in conservation planning (as described above), by the unique (for Poland) collaboration of groups
from a variety of interests in addition to foresters in issues of forest planning and management, for the
balancing of ex-situ with in-situ approaches to biodiversity conservation, and by the use of consultation
at the local level in the identification of viable land uses compatible with the preservation of endangered
natural systems. Technically, the Project will break new ground in the development of the preservation
of genetic material and in the applications of GIS and simplified methods of digital processing.
14.     The Project is designed for sustainability. The long-term viability is achieved thrugh the
building of institutions within the Ministry, including some which are relatively disenfranchised but



-5 -
important to biodiversity such as the Department of National Pals. Another facet which is designed to
ensure a Project legacy are the training and professional development components. The goal of sustainable
revenue generation activities based on consultation with residents who would engage in these activities
is another way of ensuring longevity of interventions. These activities are premised on their compatibility
with the preservation of biodiversity. They include nature and culture-based tourism, the selling of minor
forest products, harvesting game, balancing uneven-aged, small-scale forest production with natural
regeneration, and other economicaUy sound and environmentally compatible activities.
15.     There is a demonstration value and replicabiliq through the use of integrated plaming, of new
technologies, of bilateral organizational structures which foster international resource management
approaches, this GEF Project is going to be evolving solutions for conserving biodiversity. As a test of
this approach to regional issues in biodiversity, the Project can have significant demonstration value.
Risks
16.     The major risks are primarily technical and managerial, technical in that the basic approach to
biodiversity protection in the Sudety Mountains and the Bialowieza Primeval Forest be further delayed,
resulting in continuing biodiversity degradation of the two ecosystems, and managerial in that Government
salaries are extremely low resulting in the top scientists and technicians expected to manage and
implement the project leaving Government and Institute service. The project would mitigate these risks
by implementing this project in 1992 and 1993 to initiate this protection program and by providing
funding to support the work of the key scientists and technicians working on the project.
Environmental Assessment
17.     The Project has been reviewed by the Regional Environment Division and it has been placed
in the environment screening category "B". Monitoring and evaluation are built into the terns of reference
for the Project Management who will be reporting on a quarterly basis. Another node of Quality
Assessment and Control is the proposed small secretariat at Bialowieza to foster its UNESCO designation
as a "Man and the Biosphere" Reserve (MaB). There are built-in quality control and monitoring elements
because of the research which will be published in peer-reviewed joumals of intemational quality. The
intemational Joint Scientific Review Committee will review the Project and its progress on a semi-annual
basis.
Attacluments



SCHEDULE A
-6-
POLAND
FOREST BIODIVERSrTY PROTECT[ON PROJECT
COST ESTIMATES
(Current US$ Thousands)
USS in Thousands
Local Foreign Total
A. Blaowleza
1. Conservation of Biological Diversity       68      330    398
2. BPF Protection and Management              144     335    480
3. Geographical Information System (GIS)       0      192    193
4. Ecological Faming in Buffer Zone           98      109    207
5. Pollution Monitoring & Mitigation          88      113    200
6. Coordination wI Republic of Belars         25        0      25
7. Professional Developnent & Training         0       50      S0
8. Establishment of a Bialowicza Foundalion    0       25      25
Sub-Total                             423    1,154  1,578
B. Sudety
1. Aessment and Seed Collection              240      175    415
2. Genebank                                 1,425    1725   3150
3. Pollution Monitoring                        0      250    250
4. Professional Development & Training          0      30      30
S. Joint Czech/Polish Committee                0       25      25
Sub-Total                            1,665    2,205  3,870
C: Project Management Unit                          100       10    110
D. Joint Scientfik Review Committee                   0       30     30
Totl BASELINE COSTS                                2188    3399   SS88
Physical Contingency                          103     149    252
Price Contingencies                          339       35    373
Total PROJECT COSTS                               2,630    3,S83  6,213



-7-                                   SCHEDULE B
POLAND
FOREST BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS OF GEF GRANT
PROCUREMENT METHOD
(US$ Thousands)
Procurement Method
Items                 LCB'         IS & Dpl        Other3          Total
(1)  Civil Works (genebank)       1580            -              -             1580
(460)           -              -             (460)
(2)  GIS, Air Monitoring and       -             3000            -             3000
Supporting Equipment,         -            (2400)           -            (2400)
including equipment for
genebank
(3)  Technical Assistance          -              -             1240           1240
(1240)         (1240)
(4)  Salaries, Operations and      -              -             400            400
Maintenance                   -              -            (400)           (400)
TOTAL                    1580           3000            1640           6220
(460)         (2400)         (1640)         (4500)
NOTE: FIGURES IN PARENTHESIS ARE GEF GRANT
Loc1al Competitive Bidding for civil works for gene bank.
Intermational Shopping and Direct Purchase.
/ Includes services procured under Bank's consultnt guidelines.
DISBURSEMENT
Disbursement
Items                 Amount
(US$ million)   % Financing
(1)  Civil Works                    .46        30 % of Total
Expenditure
(2)  Goods and Equipment             2.2          100 %
(3)  Technical Assistance            1.1          100 %
(4) Salaries, Operations &
Maintenance                    .37           100 %
(5)  Unallocated                     .37
TOTAL                       4.5



-8-
SCHEDULE B
(continued)
ESTIMATED IBRD DISBURSEMENTS
IBRD FISCAL YEAR
1992      1993      1994
A ual               1.0        2.0       1.5
Cinmulative         1.0        3.0       4.5
Cloig Date: October 31, 1994
SCHEDULE C
FOREST BIODIVERSlTY PRoTECION PROJECT
TIMETABLE OF KEY PROJECT PROCESSING EVENTS
(a) Tm  Taen o Prepue .........              ................ S months
(b) Prepared by ................M...inistry of Envirnment with Bank Assistance
(c) Fust Buik Milon ........             .................  April 1991
(d) Appns Mission Dep e  .........................   October 1991
(e) Negoiticn  ..............Dc........... Dember 10 - 12, 1991
(f) Plumed Date of Effectivenew: .........................  January 1992
(g) List of Relevant PCRs and PPARS .........................    None



GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
THE COUNTRY DIRECTOR'S RECOMMENDATION
TO THE
REGIONAL VICE PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT TRUST FUND GRANT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$4.5 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF POLAND
FOR A
FOREST BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION PROGRAM
PART II: TECHNICAL REPORT
January 8, 1992
Agriculture and Water Supply Operations Division
Central Europe Department
Europe and Central Asia Region



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout this report.
EXCHANGE RATE
Polish Zloty 11,025 = US$ I
FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BNP      -   Bialowieza National Park
BPF      -   Bialowieza Primeval Forest
ECU      -   European Currency Unit
EEC     -   European Community
ETP      -   Econornic Transformation Program
GEF      -   Global Environmental Facility
GIS      -   Geographic Information System
GDP      -   Gross Domestic Product
GDSF   -   General Directorate of State Forests
IBL      -   Forestry Research Institute
IBRD    -   International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB      -   International Competitive Bidding
IMF      -   International Monetary Fund
LCB      -   Local Competitive Bidding
MaB      -   Man in the Biosphere
MAFE   -   Ministry of Agriculture and the Food Economy
MENRF -   Ministry of Environment Protection, Natural Resources and
Forestry
PMU    -   Project Management Unit
SOE      -   Statement of Expenditure
TA       -   Technical Assistance
ZL      -   Polish Zloty



POLAND
FORESTRY BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION PROJECT
Table of Contents
I.  INTRODUCTION  . ..................................................................    1
H. THE FORESTRY SECTOR AND THE ENVIRONMENT .......                                   .....................                          3
A. Forest Resources  .................................................    3
B. Environmental Impact and Stress ......................................   4
C. Forest Biodiversity  ................................................   4
D. Priority Areas for Protection .......................................... S
E. Proposed Protection Strategy  .........................................    7
IH. THE PROJECT ......................................................                                                              8
A. Summary Description  .............................................         .                         8
B. Detailed Project Description               .......................... ................    8
1. Conservation of Biological Diversity of the Forest
Ecosystems of the Bialowieza Primeval Forest
(BPF) .........................................   8
2. Sudety Mountains Biodiversity Protection Program  ....               ..........  12
3. Professional Development and Training  ......................  14
4. Project Management Unit ................................  14
5. Joint Scientific Review Committee  .........................  14
C. Proposed Project Costs and Financing ...................................   15
D. Procurement           ........................             ............................   16
E. Disbursement ....................................................  17
F. Accounting, Reporting and Auditing  .......              ...................    .                   18
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .                       ........................................................  8
V. NEGOTIATIONS, EFFECTIVENESS AND DATED COVENANTS
IN THE GRANT AGREEMENT .........................................  19
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS TO BIODIVERSITY  IN POLAND  ......................................  20
GLOSSARY
ANNEXES
1. Detailed Project Costs
2.  Proposed Ecosystem  Protection Program  for the Bialowieza Primeval Forest
3.  The Gene Bank Component
4. Geographic Information System (GIS) Mapping of the Bialowieza Primeval Forest
and the Sudety Region
5. Ecological Farming for Protection of Bialowieza Forest Primeval Ecosystem
6. Institutional Responsibilities
7. GEF Proposed Program for Belarus Segment of the Bialowieza Primeval Forest
8. GEF Proposed Czechoslovakian/Polish Joint Scientific Sudety Mountains Committee
9. Proposed Supervision Plan
MAPS
1. Project Areas (IBRD 23379R)
2. Bialowieza Primeval Forest (IBRD 23380R)






POLAND
FOREST BIODIVERSITY PROTECIION PROJECT
TECHNICAL REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01     The project is the first phase of Poland's long term effoit to proect its endangered forest
ecosystems. It will initiate programs to conserve the biodiversity of key endangered forests (Sudety and
Bialowieza Primeval Forest) and will provide institutional support to the Mlnlstry of Environment
Protection, Natural Resources and Forestry to undertake biodivenity conservaton management activities,
including the establishment of a gene banlk and supporting archive nurseries.
1.02     The forests of Poland are among the most important and unique in Europe.! The montane
forests of the southwest, and the last remnant of the vast lowland European forest now found only at
Bialowieza are the most important of these disappearing biological treasures. These areas remain because
of the protection afforded their fauna by regal hunters since the tenth centuy. However, this rationale has
disappeared with the royalty, to be replaced by a broader appreciation of the values of such rare resources:
* they offer a glimpse at the environmental "baseline" in which European civilization was
forged;
* they house threatened and endangered species and system processes found nowhere else;
* they are at the margins of distribution for several commercially important forest species
such as Norway spruce, and can clarify questions of adaptability important to their
management;
* they are the ordy sites of some genetic material of importance (e.g. the best adapted trees,
the healthiest soil fauna and flora) to renewable resource management, and the restoration
of polluted natural systems;
* they are still of a viable size and can therefore offer the best opportunities to explore the
preservation and management of natural foest in Europe;
* they are a recognized priority of the Government and people of Poland, as well as of
intemational conservation organizations such as the WWF (a "Green Lung of Europe",) and
UNESCO (as a designated "Man and the Biosphere" site);
* they can serve as models for the planning and management of dhaed intemational resource
systems. The initiative recently taken by a local joint bilateral (Poland and the Republic
of Belarus) technical group can constitute a model which i8 of benefit to otier such
protected areas.
1.03     If such areas are to be protected, even reclaimed, several IsoUe which have lead to their
cunrent status will need to be addressed. These Issues make the GEF Project particulaudy timely and
j/ These forests have become a major source of germplasn for the affoatat  of de rent of Europe.



- 2 -
useful. Pollution is one problem. Inefficient and inappropriate land uses have resulted in accelerating
human-related incursions and transformations threatening natural areas here. More benign land uses which
are compatible with the natural resource base need to be encouraged, even as the tendency to high-grade
for short term gain becomes increasingly evident with the dislocations of the transition to modem market
economies. A mix of such appropriate land uses will shield the sancnum sanctorun-areas under strict
protection. This Project is particularly timely for Polish foresters and ecologists who will benefit
enormously from some of the modem approaches to biodiversity conservation and management emerging
throughout the world.
1.04     In some parts of southwestem Poland, close to the so called "Black Triangle", severe damage
has already occurred at the higher elevations and losses are spreading. Still, the losses are not in-eversible.
These forest resources are vital to the quality of life in Poland. The Govemment and the people of Poland
and many in the world community are concemed at the potential loss of critical flora and fauna in parts
of Poland's forests. As a result, the Govemment tumed for assistance from the Global Environmental
Facility to assist in the identification, development and financing of key biodiversity protection and
management measures. Even though there is a sense of urgency to start this project, there is still time
to be effective in protecting the majority of the biological systems now being threatened.
1.05     The Project would investigate both in-situ and ex-situ options to conserve biodiversity. This
would support a program approach of scientific study of the flora and fauna of the selected key
endangered forests, including threats to their viability from human pressures and detailing options to
ensure the conservation of species considered at risk.
1.06     The project has been accorded high priority by Government. It is being linked with a possible
Bank financed Forestry and the Environment Project now being prepared for Bank consideration in FY93.
This initial GEF operation is expected to be the first phase of a longer term World Bank and donor agency
involvement with the forestry sector of Poland. However, sufficient funds are not available from
government sources to carry out the urgent biodiversity protection work proposed here. The government
does not want to borrow external resources for it at market rates of interest. This GEF project would
provide the Government with urgently needed additional finance to develop a program to protect the
biodiversity of plants and forests in the Sudety Region of Southwestem Poland and the Bialowieza
Primeval Forest and its buffer zones in Eastern Poland (see Map 1).
1.07     An additional program to widen the protection program for the Bialowieza Primeval Forest was
also identified. This program, whose estimated cost is $1 million, would support a biodiversity
management program to protect the forest ecosystem on the adjoining 87,000 ha located in the Republic
of Belarus (see Map 2). The specific investments and technical services to be supported under this
program would be developed in the quarterly Bialowieza meetings of the Joint Scientific Committee
(Poland and the Republic of Belarus) to improve the management of the entire Bialowieza area on both
sides of the border. A separate GEF Grant Agreement would be developed with officials in the Republic
of Belarus no later than July, 1993. Details are provided in Annex 7.



-3 -
II. THE FORESTRY SECTOR AND THE ENVIRONMENT
A. Forest Resources
2.01      The Polish forests cover an area of 8.7 miUion ha, corresponding to 28 percent of the national
territory. The dominating species are pine and larch (69 percent), spruce (6 percent), fir (3 percent), beech
(4 percent), oak (4 percent), and other broadleaves (14 percent). The forest area is scattered over the
country. The state forest areas are reasonably consolidated from the management point of view, but the
average size of private forests is only one hectare. The overall age structure of the forests is skewed, with
a scarcity of young and old ages, if present rotations are maintained. The dominating species, pine,
spruce, oak, and beech, are wel suited to enable Poland to expand its position as a producer of high
quality, high value wood and wood products.
2.02      The bulk of the forests in Poland (83 percent) are publicly owned. Of the total forest area,
79 percent is state forest under the management of the General Directorate of State Forests. The
remaining public forest area is national or municipal park land. Privately owned forests comprise 17
percent, owned almost entirely by individuals. The fact that one organization controls the nationwide
forests could be a positive factor for the strategic planning of forestry.
2.03      The basic law on state forest management (1949), together with laws enacted on game
management (1959), the management of private forests (1973) and the protection of forest lands (1980
and 1982) provide the legal instruments for forest policy and management in Poland until very recently.
On August 30, 1991, a new, consolidated forest law was passed. It legislates protection, preservation, and
expansion of forest areas. This new law will be effective on January 1, 1992.
2.04      The General Directorate of State Forests (GDSF), located in the Ministry of Environment
Protection, Natural Resources and Forestry, is responsible for the management of the forestry resources
of Poland. Before January, 1990, the forest resource was managed by the Ministry of Agriculture,
Forestry, and Food Economy. Wood processing industries are, since 1985, handled by the Ministry of
Industry, when the Ministry of Forestry and Woodworking Industries were dissolved and the two
responsibilities were split between the Ministries of Agriculture and Industry.
2.05      The GDSF manages all state forests and supervises private forests. Seventeen regional District
Boards of State Forests, comprising 402 forest Superintendencies, are self-financing, legal entities. The
District Boards are responsible for the operations in the state forests, including maintenance of the forestry,
harvesting, transport, the establishment of nurseries, road and building construction, and other investments,
as wel as the supervision of private forests. Revenues earned by the sale of wood and other related
services are partly retained by the District Boards. The District Boards allocate ten percent of their
revenues for central administration. In addition, there are free-standing enterprises in the GDSF for the
manufacture and repair of forest machinery.
2.06      The Government is reformulating its national forest management plans. Currently, there are
17 national parks (mostly in forest), a total of 985 nature reserves totalling 117,000 ha, and 2.3 million
ha in protective forests, managed specifically to protect the environment, watersheds and wildlife. The
balance, 6.2 million ha, is managed for wood production. A Rockefeller Foundation study reports that
"at least one-half and perhaps up to three-fourths of all Polish forests show symptoms of decline or
pollution damage".



B. Environmental Impact and Stress
2.07      The most serious threat to Polish forests is the heavy air pollution and the secondary pests to
which the weakened trees are exposed. The main sources of environmental pollution are the complexes
of the energy, steel and chemical industries. Polish emission levels are about 4.2 million tons/year of S02
and 1.5 million tons of NO, emissions. The impact of pollution from neighboring countries is about equal
to that of domestic sources.
2.08      In the 1980s, forests began dying in Poland, as well as in Czechoslovakia and Germany.
During the period 1983-1988, the sanitation fellings 2 constituted 69 million cum, and there are still 12
million cum of dead trees requiring sanitation harvesting. In addition, a number of forest regions in
Poland are suffering from excessive depositions of sulfur and nitrogen. A slight decline in foliage is
observed in 54 percent of the forests, moderate decline in 18 percent, and severe decline in 2 percent of
the forests of Poland.
2.09      Forests in Southwestem Poland are particularly effected. In this area, 26,000 ha of forests are
dead. The Karkonosze area of the Sudety Mountains, located in this area, is included in the World
Wildlife Intemational (Austria) listing of "Ecological Bricks for our Common House of Europe" (1990).
The southwestem Sudety Mountain area is an important zone of ecological biodiversity. Much of the
forest in the rest of the country is also beginning to show stress from local air and water polluting
industries.
C. Forest Biodiversity
2.10      In this destructive climate, concem is rising for the maintenance and conservation of biological
diversity. Once considered an academic subject, there is now a realization that the maintenance of
biological diversity influences and impacts the quality of life, productivity and stability of society.
2.11      There are many definitions for biodiversity but they all have the following common elements:
biological diversity includes all living elements and their processes in some spatial arrangement; a plot,
valley, a mountain or a country. Biological diversity is assessed at the genetic, species and community
level. More recently, the landscape level has become the fourth feature. Biological diversity also has
some additional general features. These are living systems and as such are dynamic and ever changing.
They are not static in their composition nor development over time. Biological diversity refers to both
natural and man-made biological systems. In referring to biological diversity, one must consider more
than mere numbers of individual components, but must consider intra-and interrelationships, interactions
and processes. Natural events such as floods, droughts and natural fire all shape, impact and change the
dynamics of natural diversity, but rarely shift the stability of natural system for very long periods of time.
In contrast, man's influence directly or indirectly can alter permanently the stability of natural diversity.
2.12      In central Europe, including Poland, the natural systems are subjected to a series of ecological
risks including excessive inputs of toxic pollutants, pesticides and nutrients. Direct physical destruction
of biological systems are taking place by land clearing, compaction, poor harvesting procedures and
y Sanitation fellings are the harvesting of tress which are dead or whose growth is so stunted by pollution or disease that
cutting is necessary so that the remaining trees have room in which to grow.



industrial waste. All of these activities are drastically shifting the composition and structure of biological
systems to an unstable condition. For example, the forests of Poland are currently receiving approximately
five tons of pure sulphur per km2 of forest.3 In the mountain soils of the Sudety, this has contributed to
a lowering of the PH from 3.2 to 2.6 since 1980. This has resulted in a major shift in available nutrients,
soil structure, micro-organisms and the ultimate rapid decline of forest ecosystems on some 20,000 ha in
the Sudety region which totals 234,000 ha.
2.13      As bad as the situation appears, the declining forest health situation is not uniformly distributed
across Poland. As classified by the Polish National Program, 24.3 percent of state forest districts are
situated in areas of ecological hazard. In the extreme cases, such regions as Wroclaw (60.5 percent),
Katowice (33.3 percent) and Lublin (30.8 percent) have areas of high ecological iisk. By contrast,
Bialystok, Pila and Olsztyn are situated outside the most serious areas of ecological risk. Current
assessments suggest that 24.4 percent of coniferous forests are essentially undamaged compared to 46.6
percent of broad leaved forests. Even in the damaged forests, there are still ample opportunities to protect
the remaining biological resource. There is, however, a real sense of urgency since in high hazard areas,
individual plant populations are disappearing or being rapidly reduced. This includes the dominant woody
plants as well as other flowering plants.
2.14      There are a number of strategies for the conservation and protection of biodiversity. The
choice of strategy or strategies will depend on the nature of the biological system to be protected. In
Poland, there is an array of conditions that must be dealt with. As noted, some systems are seriously
impacted and others are not. In addition, in the forested regions, there are both natural and man made
forests. Some form of forest management has been practiced for approximately 200 years in Poland. An
element of this management has been the movement by man of tree seeds from one region to another.
Thus conservation programs for both natural and highly managed systems would be considered in this
program.
2.15      There are two basic forest conservation systems: in-situ (conservation in place) and ex-situ
(conservation done outside the target area). Whenever possible, in-situ management is the most desired.
But as noted with the high hazards, especially air bome toxins in some regions of Poland, this in-situ
practice is neither feasible nor desirable, especially in the Sudety. Yet, where possible, in-situ strategies
will be applied in this project. In this way, both major and minor elements of the various biological
systems can be protected as a unit. There will be less chance of unintentional loss of essential biodiversity
with this practice.
2.16      When in-situ practices cannot be applied, then the Project will support two strategies of e,x-situ
conservation. These include the establishment of plantings of plant material to be conserved in areas of
little or no hazard and the storage of seeds or plant parts in a long-term storage facility (gene bank).
D. Priority Areas for Protection.
2.17      Polish forestry and environmental specialists have identified two priority forest areas for
immediate attention under the proposed biodiversity protection program. In east-central Poland (See Map
1), the intemationally significant Bialowieza Primeval Forest would be further protected. The Sudety
N/ Lonkiewiez ed aL 1990. National Report on Forestry in Poland for 10th World Forestry Congress



-6 -
Mountains in southwestern Poland (where the biodiversity is threatened with extinction from air pollution)
would be included in the project.
2.18      The "Bialowieza" Primeval forest area on the Polish/Russian border covers some 145,000
ha., one of the last remaining natural assemblages of biodiversity in central and eastern Europe containing
unique species of native plants, forests, and animals. Of the 145,000 ha, 58,000 is in Poland and 87,000
ha in the Republic of Belarus. The area is a UNESCO designated "Biosphere Reserve" and was placed
on the World Heritage List in 1979. Some unusual and spectacular species which represent relict and
endemic fauna and flora include the European bison, lynx, wolf, moose, masked shrew and numerous
varieties of orchids and other flora.
2.19      This forest is also of unusual ecological value because it lies at the distributional limits of
several important species. The adaptive tolerance and ecological amplitude of species are often studied
at the extremes of their range. Such variability is also expressed in the genome of each species. This is
a critical consideration for species such as Norway spruce and oak which are experiencing extreme
environmental stress and require study and experimentation. The Bialowieza Forest is a significant
"natural" laboratory waiting to be used in the development of packages of restoration and mitigation
activities in other regions of Poland. However,the Bialowieza Primeval Forest ecosystem in eastem Poland
is also beginring to show stress from local air (particles from area coal buming industries, apartiments and
homes) and local water polluting industries. This endangered forest is a site of international inportance
being among Europe's largest expanse of remaining natural forests and areas of high endemism. Its
protection has considerable intemational importance.
2.20      The international nature of the forest and the importance of coordinated management also
renders the Bialowieza forest a useful "model" for developing coordination mechanisms essential to the
survival of such transnational resources. For example, Poland shares extraordinary pockets of forest
biodiversity with the Ukraine and Czechoslovakia in the Bieszcady region. The movement of animals,
propagules, pollutants and other important management variables does not recognize the political
boundaries, and would benefit from coordinated management of, for example, seasonal ranges. In such
a way, the large size of the system can be capitalized upon in protecting it, as well as managing its
conservation. Currently, little is known about conditions on the Belanis side (See also Annex 7).
2.21      The Sudety Mountains. Poland's mountain forests 4 are located along the Czechoslovakian
border, in the Sudety, Bieszcady and Carpathian mountain regions in the southwestem, south and
southeastem parts of Poland. In the Sudety mountain region is the Karkonosze National Park, numerous
"health spas" and a rare mix of recreational opportunities. The forests in this zone in the past consisted
at one time of extensive stands of both native and introduced Norway spruce, larch and Scots pine at the
lower elevations with a rich mixture of broadleaved species. Some 26,000 ha of the forest ecosystems
on the highest areas of this area have now been destroyed by air pollution, impacting watershed
management, recreation, and wildlife.
2.22      The region where Poland, Czechoslovakia and Germany come together is known in
environmental circles as the "Black Triangle". Here, in a relatively small area, are 16 large coal burning
/  Here the mouain forests are meant. High forests is a technical term and means forest consisting of tress grown from seed
(e.g., natural regeneration or from artificial plantings. The opposite term is coppiced forest, that is forest consisting of
trees, which have grown from re-sprouts of the stumps after felling. The latter ones are often crooked and slow growing.



-7 -
power plants and smelters. It is also the region of the highest industrial pollution in Poland. There is
evidence that air pollution has influenced directly the tree mortality and increased the presence and spread
of insect pests and fungal diseases. For example, larch bud moth which appeared in large numbers in
1977, damaged an area of approximately 30 km2 and certainly was a major contributor to the complete
deforestation of some of the mountain regions. Root and stem diseases have also played a role in killing
weakened trees. The result has been essentially total deforestation in the higher elevations, extensive
deforestation at mid-elevations and weakened stands at lower elevations.
2.23     Recently, an agreement was reached between Germany, Poland, Czechoslovakia and the EC
to undertake an urgent program to reduce pollution in this Triangle. Protection of the forest resource and
forest biodiversity in this zone has featured importantly in the initial working discussions of the
participants. The proposed GEF project component in the Sudety would contribute significantly to the
biodiversity protection and more generally to the scientific understanding of the pollution impact on the
forests of the Triangle.
2.24     The forest destruction in the Sudety is both intensive and serious, yet not entirely hopeless.
Scattered throughout the Sudety Mountains are still some remaining forest stands of Norway spruce, larch,
Scots pine and silver fir in various stages of decline. Both native and planted stands can still be found
scattered at mostly mid and lower elevations.
E. Proposed Protection Strategy
2.25     The Government has designed a program to cover the biodiversity protection needs in both
Bialowieza and the Sudety which will be supported by the proposed projecL At Bialowieza, however,
there would be added scientific advantages in extending the program to cover the part of the Bialowieza
Primeval Forest which lies in the Republic of Belarus. A relatively small (US$1M) but scientifically
important follow-up component covering this area has, therefore, also been identified for subsequent
implementation should circumstance permit the GEF to fund such an activity on the Belarus side of the
border. The implementation of the component is not essential for the success of project appraised in this
respect, but it is recognized that there would be considerable scientific advantage of its implementation.
The program has thus two phases:
I)  The Proposed Project which has been appraised in detail and would support investments
(including consulting services) to the Polish Ministry of Environment Protection, Natural
Resources and Forestry to carry out its biodiversity conservation management activities in
Poland. The project would include the establishment of facilities for conservation of
endangered genetic material from the Sudety forests of southwest Poland and for further
biodiversity protection of the Bialowieza Primeval Forest area of eastem Poland. Specific
investments to be funded include a gene bank, greenhouse and nursery equipment, seed and
vegetative collection equipment, air and soil monitoring equipment (fixed and mobile), a
program for ecological farming in the project zone of Bialowieza, land use planning
equipment (GIS), buffer zone protection and professional development, training, and
consulting services.
2) A separate GEF operation ($1 million) was identified during appraisal. It would support
a biodiversity management program to protect the 87,000 ha of the Bialowieza Primeval
Forest which is in the Republic of Belarus. A detailed investment program to suggest air



- 8 -
and water monitoring, buffer zone planning and establishment, wild game management, and
visitor transport is being identified by the recently established Joint Polish/Belarus Scientific
Committee on the Bialowieza Primeval Forest and finalized by officials in the Republic of
Belarus. The final details of this Belarus investment program and the organization for the
investment of the funds, as well as the legal arrangements of this component, would be
submitted to the GEF for final review and approval prior to actual disbursement.
2.26     It is noted that another biodiversity project covering the needs of the Czech and Slovak
Republic is currently being designed and should this proceed, a useful interface with the Sudety activities
on the Polish side could be achieved.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Summary Description
3.01     The GEF operation would be the first phase of support to Poland's longer term effort to protect
forest ecosystems. Selection of the parks and reserves under the proposed project are based on agreed
conservation prioities. The project would:
* Conserve the Biological Diversity of the Forest Ecosystems of the Bialowieza Primeval
Forest (BPF) by stabilizing and improving the natural regeneration, by the development
of a protection and management program, by designing a program for mitigating local air
and water pollution, by fostering ecological agriculture on fanns operating within the BPF,
and by furthering cooperation with the Belarus management of the abutting forest
ecosystem, and
* Foster the protection of the remaining biodiversity in the Sudety Mountain forest
ecosystems by identifying and collecting endangered seed and vegetative materials, for
storing the collected seeds and vegetative materials in a genebank and related archival
nurseries (ex situ), undertaking intensified air and water pollution monitoring of the
ecosystem and finally by mapping (using GIS) the zone for establishing the criteria for seed
collection in light of the results of the expanded air pollution monitoring.
B. Detailed Project Description
1. Conservation of Biolofical Diversity of the Forest Ecosystems of the Bialowieza Primeval Forest
3.02     Introduction. The BPF represents the largest natural remnant of the vast lowland forests
which covered the greater part of the European continent. Despite human activity since Neolithic times,
it has maintained in parts its basic primeval conditions. The current natural richness and variation of the
flora of BPF provides a unique opportunity to strengthen the existing protected core area of 4,747 ha of
the BPF by better game management, protection from local pollution and an expansion of the protected
area.



- 9 -
3.03      Immediate needs includes a more in depth analysis of the scale of pollution or related biotic
or abiotic hazards to communities and individual plant species. This may be especially needed for the
dominant keystone tree species such as oak, ash, and Norway spruce as well as sensitive plant
communities. Early pollution detection is essential before losses become permanent. In-situ conservation
of a number of natural plant communities is well underway in the BPF. However, such is not the case
for areas outside the protected core of the BNP (see Map 2). Even within the BNP, some individual tree
species or even individual trees as well as selected understory plants and associated fauna are threatened.
To maintain the threatened individuals, both in-situ and ex-situ conservation strategies are proposed. For
the dominant woody species, individual trees 200 years or older will be the highest priority for collection
and preservation of genetic material. When in-situ methods are not available nor appropriate, then a series
of ex-situ methods including clone collections from trees 200 years or older will be initiated. Seed
production orchards from these clones for each natural site in the forest will be established. Seed
production orchards from seedlings will be established to ensure future sources of natural material for the
various sites. Long term storage of seed and pollen will be also conducted.
3.04      Where there is adequate knowledge, a similar program would be initiated to maintain
herbaceous plant material. Every effort will made to maintain natural communities. This will ensure that
the trees selected for protection are part of the natural population. The major tree species that compose
the overstory include Scots pine, Norway spruce, European white oak, Sessile oak, European ash, and
three native elm species. In addition, the initial sample will also include 11 species of woody shrubs and
appropriate other flowering plants that are elements of natural communities.
3.05      Enhancement of Natural Regeneration in the Bialowieza Primeval Forest. ($430,000) To
accomplish the objectives of protecting existing natural plant communities in the Forest and to strengthen
the natural biodiversity in the Park, the following activities would be supported under the GEF project:
Risk assessment of Pollution Load on Individual Sites. ($165,000)
In order to determine the pollution load on individual plant communities both in the
BPF and the buffer zone, a mobile automatic air and soil monitoring station is required.
To determine the impact of pollution on individual woody and herbaceous plants
reproductive systems, a non-destructive x-ray sampling machine is needed. To manage
and process the data from the risk assessment activity, a high powered personal
computer with cartographic plotter is necessary.
Seed and Plant Parts Collection and Storage. ($85,000)
To ensure that only native trees are employed in both maintenance and restoration in
BPF and BNP, specialized sampling, collection, and small-scale extraction equipment
is required. In the case of forest trees, only very large trees 200 years or older will be
sampled (to ensure their native character). To ensure that this material is viable at some
future date, long term low temperature storage is required for seeds, pollen, and plant
parts.
In-Situ Conservation of Native Populations. ($10,000)
Conservation of native populations will be maintained in part by the establishment of
common gardens in their native sites in order to procure seeds for future restoration
activities. A 1.2 ha clonal seed production stand will be developed for maintaining the
progeny from 200 year old or older Scots pines.



- 10-
Determination of Genetic Diversity. ($50,000)
It is now feasible to determine the genetic structure and diversity of selected individual
plants, as well as populations by means of iso-enzyme scanning and separation
equipment. Working closely with associated Universities in Poland, various plant
populations will be individually identified through these methods.
Technical Equipment Support for Field and Laboratory Activities. ($100,000)
An array of field data including temperature, moisture, irradiation, and wind instruments
are required on a routine basis to complete field measurements. In order to protect
sensitive lab equipment and ensure quality laboratory data, electric power stabilization
equipment is necessary.
Professional Development and Training. ($20,000)
To ensure that current concepts of biodiversity are applied and equipment is properly
employed, additional professional and staff training is required. Such activities include
on-site training, seminars, and attendance at professional meetings inside Poland and
extemally.
3.06       Primeval Forest Protection and Management. To ensure, to the degree possible, the
protection of a viable and complete primeval forest at Bialowieza, five activities would be supported under
the GEF Project (details given in Annex 2):
The Expansion of Protected Areas to Indude Remaining Natural
Associations. ($22,000)
The viability of such a small area needs to be further protected. More than the current
35 percent of the natural forest associations needs formal protection. The Project funds
wiUl support an inventory and the costs of the inter-Ministerial transfer (from the Forest
Service to the National Parks Department of the Ministry of Environment Protection,
Natural Resources, and Forestry) of remaining parcels of rare forest systems (See Map
2).
Conservation Planning. ($112,000)
The BPF will function to insulate the strictly protected areas of remnant natural forest
ecosystems from incompatible land uses and accidental intrduction of exotic species.
It will also permit the continued existence of native species, such as bison, wolf, and
some birds whose ranges exceed the area (4,747 ha) under strict protection (Map 2).
In keeping with the Man and Biosphere designation, uses which do not compromise
the natural forest ecosystem, but which afford residents of the area economicaly
attractive activities will be carefuUly planned and zoned. Project funds wil support an
inventory of public knowledge, desires, capabilities and needs, the development of
supporting data and descriptions of candidate land uses, zoning and mapping, and a
training/education component.
Computer Assisted Mapping (GIS). ($205,000)
Because the changes and impact on species and communities are uneven and to
various degrees of significance in terms of stability of the system involved, there is an
urgent need to remap the BPF in terms of hazard assessment. Because of the
complexity of the potential data base for such an assessment, a GIS (Geographic



- 11 -
Information System) would be included for data management under the project (see
Annex 6).
Supporting Applied Research. ($224,000)
Because of the urgency of protecting the biodiversity of the BPF and the considerable
information from three decades of research in the area, the identification of areas for
protection can be made. However, not enough is known about the BPF ecosystem
pattem and process to permit the designation of keystone species and other management
elements important to the Conservation Plan, expansion of Protected Areas, and the
projection of land use-related impacts. For example, a "protected area net" needs to
embrace the seasonal ranges of important wildlife species. Knowledge of nutrient and
chemical cycles will enable the natural restoration of abandoned marginal farmland.
To achieve the biodiversity goals of the GEF project, some initial applied research has
been designed in three topical areas of concem to support the other elements of the
Project: social and economic studies of the demographic characteristics of residents,
their attitudes and decision processes, and their uses of the natural resource base; forest
pattern studies of ecosystem composition, distribution and structure; and studies of
forest ecosystem processes which define the forest and will enable management and
rehabilitation in the buffer.
The Application of Environmental Impact Evaluations. ($84,000)
Adapting existing protocols for the conduct of environmental (including social) impact
evaluations will insure that appropriate uses are fostered in the buffer zone. Many of
the problems which plague the BPF could have been avoided or mitigated with such
procedures. A training element is included.
"Man and the Biosphere" Secretariat at Bialoweiza. ($52,000)
The Bialowieza Primeval Forest has been designated a "Man and the Biosphere"
Reserve. The existing designation needs to be activated to provide the oversight,
coordination, brokering and information dissemination activities which the innovations
of this integrated approach to biodiversity protection require. An important element is
the active participation of local NGO's. A very modest MaB Secretariat at Bialowieza
will be started and supported through the GEF projecL
End-of-Phase I Meeting and Transition. ($42,000)
The results of research, the public review of the Conservation Plan, and opportunity to
incorporate results and reactions in an updated Plan will be achieved during a
review/plenary meeting marking the termination of Phase I of BPF activities. This
meeting is expected to be held in late 1993. The resulting plan will be the product of
all parties of concem. It will constitute the basis of a package of future additional
investments for the land uses compatible with biodiversity goals of the BPF.
3.07       Pollution Monitoring and Mitigation in the Project Area. ($232,000) The Bialowieza
project area is impacted by both air and water pollution. Air and water monitoring within the project area
would be carried out with project support and sources of both air and water pollution within and abutting
the project area would be identified. Once these sources are located and identified, project funds would
support the detailed engineering and designs for the installation of mitigation equipment to eliminate local



- 12 -
pollution impact on the project area (details are provided in Annex 2 (c)). One possible idea would be
the conversion of coal-burning steam generation plants to wood-burning operation.
3.08       Ecological Agriculture. ($241,000) An estimated 450 small farmers, mostly part-time,
operate farms within the Bialowieza Primeval Forest. Primary production focuses on basic grains (wheat,
rye), forage crops, and potatoes. Dairy and pork production are the primary cash producers of most of
the farners, many who work as loggers in the abutting forest. In a small portion of the southern portion
of the BPF, the use of chemical fertilizer and pesticides is forbidden. This project component would foster
expansion of ecological farming practices and provide technical assistance and cash incentives as necessary
to farmers to shift from chemicals to ecological agriculture. Funds from the project would support
technical analysis of the impact in the Bialowieza Primeval Forest of changing from conventional farming
methods to ecological chemical-free farming methods on small family farms on (a) farm yields, farm
income, and farm employment; (b) soil, water, and product quality; and, (c) would estimate and compare
the costs of these two farming systems on farms in the Bialowieza Primeval Forest (details given in Annex
5).
3.9        Scientific Cooperation at Bialowieza with the Republic of Belarus in Forest
Management. ($25,000) Some 60 percent of the area of the Bialowieza Primeval Forest is in the
Republic of Belarus. Regular meetings of local scientists from Bialowieza (Poland) and Belarus have
begun to explore joint efforts in scientific forest protection and management as well as the exchange of
scientific data on pollution sources, wildlife populations and foraging impacts, and mapping of possible
future abutting protected reserves (Map 2). These scientific contacts would be encouraged under the
Project with funds provided to support quarterly local scientific meetings at the Bialowieza Station. This
initial work should contribute substantially to the proposed investment and technical support to be prepared
for the Belarus zone of the Bialoweiza Forest ecosystem for which $1 million has been reserved for a
separate, but complementary GEF project (see Annex 7).
3.10       Bialowieza Primeval Forest Foundation. ($25,000) To sustain the biodiversity protection
program for the foreseeable future, a Bialowieza Primeval Forest Protection Foundation is proposed. The
GEF would organize the legal and financial structure of such a Foundation and encourage contributions
from eco-debt conversion resources and from bilateral and intemational (EC, Foundations, etc.) donors.
Some $25,000 would be expended from the initial GEF Core Grant to develop the legal and financial
underpinnings for the foundation, operating procedures and the terms of reference for its operation.
2. Sudetv Mountains Biodiversitv Protection Program
3.11       This area has been described in Chapter 2 above. Here it is both urgent and essential that
seeds and plant parts be collected from the remaining stands in order to permit future restoration of these
forests in a rational manner. The following strategy are would be supported under the GEF project:
a) GIS Systemns Mapping for Risk Assessment. ($127,000) Employing both remote
sensing, ground control and standard plots, cartographic displays will be prepared of the
location and size of risk hazards to individual species and their populations. These
displays will be developed utilizing GIS systems procured under the Project and located
in the Project area. This analysis will contribute to establishing collection priorities.



- 13 -
b)  Development of Plans for Biodiversity Conservation. ($48,000) The development
of detailed plans and programs for the conservation of the major forest species,
associated woody shrubs and herbaceous species are needed in order to identify priority
needs.
c)  Seed Collection. ($256,000) From as many of the stands that appear to be native,
seeds will be collected. In some regions of the Sudety, non-native, but adaptive stands
will be the source of the seed. Stands will need to be located in each of the major
ecological zones. Mapping and seed collection criteria for these work have been
developed by the Forest Service and are satisfactory. In addition to the dominant
woody plants, seed collections of woody shrubs and herbaceous plants would be
collected, stored and archived in order to be able to restore these plant communities
over time.
d)  Vegetative Propagation. ($47,000) Trees in declining stages of health will not
normally produce seeds and if produced, the seeds often will be of lower vigor. In such
a case, clonal material,i.e. branch tips will be collected and protected.
e)  Gene Bank. ($3.5 million) It would be desirable to grow tree populations from the
collected material in the appropriate Sudety regions in order to minimize selection
pressure. However, because of the level of pollution both already in the soil, and still
being produced in the air of the region, the seeds will need to be stored in the proposed
gene bank (see Annex 2). Clonal material will need to be rooted and grown outside of
the areas impacted by pollution. It is very unlikely that sufficient seeds can be
collected from the high hazard areas for future use. Seed collections will be made in
adjacent regions of lower hazard in the Sudety from each of the major ecological zones
in order to have future material when there are gaps in natural plant materiaL
This material will also be stored in a proposed project gene bank for future restoration
of the impacted Sudety forest zone. Using this clonal material, both rooted cutting and
grafted seed production orchards will need to be established. These should be
established in areas of low hazard in the appropriate ecological zone in the Sudety
Mountain region. Funds for these seed production centers are provided under the
project. The genebank facility will be combined with a commercial seed extractory and
storage, and some of the physical plant will be shared. The portion of the costs
associated with the commercial seed extractory will be financed by Government
(detailed description in Annex 3). During negotiations assurances would be sought that
the annual operating costs of this gene bank, estimated at $100,000 would be provided
by MENRF.
f)  Air Pollution Monitoring.  ($250,000)  These proposed biodiversity protection
programs in the Sudety are based on the assumption that pollution will be reduced over
time as plants are cloned or modified. In addition, there is indication that the pollution
load is not evenly distributed over the whole region.  In order to further the
understanding of the pollution load, its distribution and composition, the pollution
monitoring capabilities in the Sudety Mountains will be expanded by an intemational
team from Holland, Norway and Sweden. The technical support and equipment for this
work (approximating some $250,000) will be provided from bilateral sources in those



- 14 -
three countries. An agreement to provide this monitoring equipment was signed in
October, 1991 between Poland, Holland, Norway and Sweden.
g)  Proposed Czechoslovakian/Polish Joint Scientific Sudety Mountains Committee
($25,000) The need for a Joint Scientific Committee reflects the commonality of issues
in the Sudety Mountains which is shared by the forest service authorities of both
nations. A small sum is included in the project to cover the travel, subsistence,
honorariums, and organizational and meeting costs for semi-annual meetings and
necessary follow-up costs for work emanating from the work of the committee.
3. Professional Develooment and Traininif
3.12       The Project would provide for intensive professional development and training, both within
Poland and extemally. Key areas of focus would be on gene bank management, buffer zone protection,
GIS mapping techniques, wildlife control and management in natural reserves, and ecological agricultural
techniques.
4. Project Mana2ement Unit
3.13       A small unit would be organized in the GDSF, consisting of a project manager, and one
assistant The project manager would be responsible for the management of project funds, coordinating
project operations and for the preparation of quarterly progress reports. To assist this unit, two part-time
scientific advisers would be appointed to assist in the drafting of research contracts, and planning and
reviewing research. Start up costs plus the operating costs of this unit ($110,000) would be supported for
the first two years of the project.
5. Joint Scientific Review Committee
3.14       A Joint Scientific Technical Committee of six scientists, three intemationally selected (forest
geneticist, forest ecologist and land use specialist) and three from Poland in related disciplines would be
established no later than February 28, 1992. The qualifications and experience of the members of this
Committee would be acceptable to the Bank. The Chairmnan would be designated by the Ministry of
Environment Protection, Natural Resources, and Forestry. The Committee would meet semi-annually to
advise on the scientific progress under the Project Expenses (travel, subsistence and honoraria for both
Polish and extemal) would be supported from the Project ($30,000).



- 15 -
C. Proposed Project Costs and Finandng
3.15         Estimated project costs are as foliows (detailed project costs are given in Annex 1):
Table 3.1 PROJECT COST SUMMARY
USS in Thousands      Percentage Total
Foreign    Base
Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange  Costs
A. Bialowieza
1. Conservation of Biological Diversity        68      330    398        83        7
2. BPF Protection and Management              144      335    480         70       9
3. Geographical Information System (GIS)        0      192    193        100       3
4. Ecological Farming in the BPF               98      109    207         53       4
5. Pollution Monitoring & Mitigation           88      113    200         56       4
6. Coordination wl Republic of Belarus         25        0      25         0       0
7. Professional Development & Training          0       50      50       100        1
8. Establishment of a Bialowieza Foundation     0       25     25        100       0
Sub-Total                              423    1,154  1,578        73       28
B. Sudety
1. Assessment and Seed Collection             240      175    415        42        7
2. Genebank                                  1,425    1725   3150         55      56
3. Pollution Monitoring                         0      250    250        100       4
4. Professional Development & Training          0       30      30       100        1
5. Joint Czech/Polish Committee                 0       25     25        100       0
Sub-Total                            1,665    2,205   3,870       S7       69
C. Project Management Unit                           100       10    110         9        2
D. Joint Scientific Review Committee                   0       30     30       100        1
Total BASELINE COSTS                                2188    3399   5588         61      100
Physical Contingency                          103      149    252        59        5
Price Contingencies                           339       35    373          9       7
Total PROJECT COSTS                                2,630    3,583  6,213        58      111



- 16 -
Project Financing Estimated project financing plan is as follows:
Table 3.2 PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
(US$ Thousands)
Committed
GEF Core   Government or    Bilateral
Program    Other Bilateral    Grants       Total
Foreign
Amount  %   Amount  %   Amount  %   Amount  %    Exchange    Lca
A. Bliowkza
1. Conservation of Biological Diversity  430  100       0    0        0    0       430    7        350         S0
2. BPF Protection and Managemnent        537  100       0    0         0    0      537    8        358        179
3. Geographical Infonnation               0   0       205  100         0    0      205    3        204          0
4. Ecological Fanning                   241  100        0    0         0    0      241    4        116        125
5. Polution Mon. & Mit.                 232  100        0    0         0    0      232    4        120        112
6. Coordination w/ Republic of Belamis    25  100       0    0         0    0       25    0          0         25
7. Professional Dev. & Training           50 100        0    0         0    0       50    1         50          0
S. Establishment of Foundation           25  100        0    0         0    0       25    0         25          0
B. Suedety
1. Assessment & Collection              361  74       127   26        0    0       489    8        185        303
2. Gene Bank                           2.403  68    1,132   32         0    0    3,534   57       1,829      1705
3. Pollution Monitoring                    0   0        0    0       250  100      250    4        250          0
4. Pmofessional Dev. & Training           30  100       0    0         0    0       30    0         30          0
5. Joint Czech/Polish Cormittee           25  100        0   0         0    0       25    0         25          0
C. Project Management Unit                   110 100        0    0        0    0       110    2         10        100
D. Jolnt Scdtifc Revlew                      30 100         0    0        0    0        30    0         30          0
Totl Disbursement                      4,500  72    1,464   24       250    4    6,213  100       3,583     2,630
3.16           Core financing for this project would be provided by the GEF ($4.5 million) and by the
Government of Poland. Additional grant funds would support the provision of geographic information
system capability (GIS) to provide computerized mapping support to analyze the existing biodiversity in
the two project areas and to assist in planning conservation activities. There may be other important
investments that would could attract cofinancing partners which would be identified. Civil works and
equipment connected with the seed extraction and storage facility for production forestry, which will also
be included in the same facility as the gene bank site, will be financed by the Government
D. Procurement
3.17           Goods and equipment listed in Annex 1 would be carried out through international shopping
with a minimum of three quotations from two different countries. Domestic civil works for the gene bank
facility would be carried by local competitive bidding under procedures acceptable to the Bank. Bidding
documents would be reviewed to ensure that they are satisfactory to the Bank. Consultant services would
be obtained in accordance with the World Bank guidelines on the use of consultants. The estimated
procurement plan is as follows:



- 17 -
Table 3.3 PROCUREMENT METHOD
(USS Thousands)
Procurement Method
Items                LCB'        IS & DP'       Othe3          Total
(1)   Civil Works (gene bank)   1580           -             -            1580
(460)          -             -            (460)
(2)   GIS, Air Monitoring and
Supporting Equipment
(including equipment for   -            3000           -             3000
gene bank)                 -           (2400)          -            (2400)
(3)   Technical Assistance       -             -            1240          1240
-           (1240)        (1240)
(4)   Salaries, Operations and   -             -            400            400
Maintenance                              -            (400)         (400)
TOTAL          1580          3000           1640          6220
(460)        (2400)        (1640)         (4500)
NOTE: FIGURES IN PARENTHESIS ARE GEF GRANT
jj Local Competitive Bidding for civil works for gene bank.
2/ International Shopping and Direct Purchase.
I Includes services procured under Bank's conslnt guideline.
E. Disbursement
3.18       A special account would be established in the Polish Development Bank for the Project Unit
in the Ministry of Environment Protection, Natural Resources and Forestry. An initial deposit of $450,000
would be made into this account by the World Bank. All categories of expenditure (listed in table below)
would be eligible for disbursement from the special account. For each payment made out of the account,
project management would furnish to the World Bank such documents and other evidence showing that
such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures. The account would be replenished upon
submission of this documentation. The Disbursement Plan for GEF grant funds is as follows:
Table 3.4 DISBURSEMENT PLAN
Disbursement
Items               Amount
(US$ million)  % Financing
(1)  Civil Works                  .46       30 % of Total
Expenditure
(2)  Goods and Equipment          2.2          100 %
(3)  Technical Assistance         1.1          100 %
(4)  Salaries, Operations &
Maintenance                  .37           100 %
(5)  Unallocated                  .37
TOTAL                      4.5



- 18 -
F. Accounting, Reporting and Auditing
3.19       The project accounts would be audited annually by a firm whose qualifications are acceptable
to the World Bank. A quarterly report on Project progress and statements on project expenditures would
be submitted to the World Bank by the Project Manager.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
4.01       The Ministry of the Environment, Natural Resources, and Forestry (MENRF) would be
responsible for the overall implementation of the project. A list of project institutional responsibilities is
given in Annex 6. Within the Ministry, the following Departments would have specific implementation
responsibilities:
The State Board of Forests would have principal authority for designing, constructing and
managing the gene bank supported under the Project at Jarocin. The revised civil works
designs and equipment specifications would be subject to scientific review by scientists from
the IBL and would be reviewed and approved in the World Bank prior to release for
domestic bidding (civil works) and international quotations (equipment). The General Board
of State Forests would carry out seed collection and in-situ conservation, in cooperation
with IBL.
The Forestry Research Institute (IBL) would advise on the scientific aspects of the collection
and characterization of genetic materials, applied research, pollution monitoring, and
environmental impact assessment in both project areas.
4.02       Project Management Unit (PMU). This independent unit would be established in the
MENRF, located at the level of the GDSF prior to the initial grant disbursement. One full time Project
Manager, a full time Assistant Manager and one assistant would be provided. The Project Manager
(acceptable to the GEF) would be appointed by the Ministry of the Environment Protection, Natural
Resources, and Forestry and would be responsible for coordinating project operations and expenditures
and for submitting quarterly progress reports to the Bank. The operating costs of this unit would be
supported under the project for a period of two years.
4.03       To assist the PMU, two part-time scientific advisers would be appointed to assist the Unit's
manager in designing and drafting applied research contracts, planning and reviewing research and
technical assistance. Honoria and per diem costs of these advisors would be provided under the Project.
4.04        A number of additional organizations would be sub-contracted  to carry out specific
activities (Annex G). The proposed PMU, assisted by its scientific advisors, will design, contract out,
and supervise the agreed program. These additional institutions will carry out activities under the direction
of the PMU. Among the additional organizations that would be contracted to carry out project activities
under the Project are:



- 19 -
The Man and Biosphere Secretariat, which will be constituted under the project, will be
specifically responsible for conservation and transition planning at Bialowieza Primeval
Forest
Agricultural University in Poznan and the Jauiellonian University in Krakow would be hired
to manage the applied research under the buffer zone component in BPF.
Pollution Monitorinq and Mitigation at the BPF will be carried out by a private sector
engineering/environmental firm to be selected under World Bank procedures.
Warsaw Agricultural Institute would carry out the ecological agriculture component at BPF.
Polish Academy of Sciences will host the joint scientific review committee and coordinate
joint scientific work with Belarus.
V. NEGOTIATIONS. EFFECTIVENESS AND DATED COVENANTS
IN THE GRANT AGREEMENT
5.01       During negotiations on the Grant Agreement, assurances were obtained as follows:
a)  Gene Bank.  Prior to disbursement on the gene bank component of the Project,
detailed final designs for the civil works and a final list of equipment would be
submitted to the Bank for approval (para. 4.01). Supervision of the construction and
management of the gene bank would be undertaken by the State Board of Forests.
Assurances would also be sought that the annual operating costs for the proposed gene
bank, estimated at $100,000 annually would be provided by MENRF (para. 3.11(e)).
b)  Joint Scientific Committee. The MENRF shall establish a loint Scientific Committee
no later than February 28, 1992 (para. 3.14).
c)  Grant Effectiveness.  The Grant would be declared effective upon submission of
documentation satisfactory to the Bank that the Project Manager, whose qualifications
and experience are satisfactory to the Bank, has been appointed and a separate account,
subject to internationally accepted auditing standards, has been established.
d)  Accounts. A separate account would be established in the Polish Development Bank
for MENRF prior to disbursement of the grant. This account would be audited annually
by an auditing finn acceptable to the Bank (para. 3.18 and 3.19).
e)  Project Management. A Project Management Unit (PMU) would be established in
MENRF, at the level of the GDSF, prior to disbursement of the grant. The PMU would
be under the supervision of the Project Manager, appointed by the Minister, and be
acceptable to the Bank. The PMU would be responsible for the management of the



- 20 -
Project Account, for coordinating Project operations and expenditures and for
submitting quarterly progress reports to the Bank (para. 4.02).
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS TO BIODIVERSITY IN POLAND
6.01        The southwestern Polish mountain forests(especially in the Sudety region) of Poland are rich
in their natural biodiversity and their value to the quality of life in Poland is without measure. This
biological resource is unique in Europe. This project as outlined would initially maintain the keystone
genetic resource, i.e. forest trees, woody shrubs and selected non woody plants. Although it is not possible
to protect all of the genetic resources now being threatened, it is possible to protect reasonable
representations of the various populations.
6.02        These mountain forests are threatened by the direct actions of man and by anthropogenic
factors. Both of these activities can be reversed by appropriate administrative activities. To reverse the
damage done will require time. However this project will enable the Government to initiate and carry out
an ecosystem restoration project in the long term. By maintaining adequate biological populations of the
appropriate ecological zones, it will be feasible to a certain degree to re-establish "natural" systems, as
well as managed forests. Thus, it will be feasible to re-introduce wildlife into areas once lost. Overtime,
by managing ecological succession, an essentially natural condition can be restored.
6.03        The Bialowieza Primeval Forest protection program in eastem Poland is directed to protect
the last remains of a unique low level forest ecosystem. By expanding its buffer zone, by linking
protected reserves in the Forest, and by initiating natural restoration within the Forest, it is both possible
and feasible to essentially restore a wide range of natural ecological processes that in a relatively short
period of time can heal the wounds caused by man's inappropriate practices.
6.04        The forests of Poland are important to the overall economy of the country. By inappropriate
management practices and by environmental abuse, their value and contribution to society has been
reduced. This current project offers a unique opportunity to restore the genetic variability of these forests
and as such productivity in the fullest sense can also be restored. In essence, the project would permit
genetic sustainability to occur and as such the forests would be in a far better position to withstand
natural as well as unplanned changes, i.e. global climate change possibilities.
6.05        The Project's specific benefits would:
greatly reduce the genetic erosion and losses of genetic resources which are part of the
heritage of nature. In the Bialowieza, this program of genetic conservation addressed
the 113 known forest associations, two-thirds of which are not yet protected. This GEF
Project strategy is important in assuring the maintenance of the forest fauna as well as
flora. The endangered bison, for example, are known to consume 350 species of forage
plants, thereby requiring a comprehensive representative of these forest ecosystems.



- 21 -
enable man to restore ecosystems destroyed by either natural or anthropogenic factors
by re-introducing populations into their natural or equivalent habitats after having
reduced the influence of the most striking destroying factors;
stabilize ecosystems by maintaining a high level of genetic variability within species.
Thus the species can adapt themselves to the site, even if the site conditions are
changing to a certain extent; and
increase the forest economy at a long term by being able to use the full amplitude of
genetic variability available, e.g., by replacement of not adapted species by better
adapted ones and tree improvement programs.



- 22 -



- 23 -
GLOSSARY
Afforestation: Establishing trees on ground where they have not previously grown.
Biological Diversity (biodiversity): The variety and variability among living organisms and the ecological
complexes in which they occur.
Biosphere Reserve: A unique category of protected areas combining both conservation and sustainable use of
natural resources. Each biosphere reserve conserves example of characteristic ecosystems
of one of the world's natural regions.
Buffer Zone:   An area surrounding a conservation or protected are which is extensive enough to insulate the
protected core from the dispersion of exotic genetic material. LAnd uses in a buffer zone must
be compatible with its primary function of maintaining the core.
Clone: Group of genetically identical plants produced by vegetatively propagating a single plant over one or
more vegetative generations.
Coppiced Forest:   A forest of trees grown from re-sprouts of the stumps following harvesting.
Ecosystem: A community of organisms interacting with one another and the environment in which they are
found. Ecosystem boundaries are often physical (such as watersheds, fields, or lakes).
Ex-situ:   The management of planted stands of trees outside of their natural range; the conservation or
preservation of trees as seed, pollen, tissue culture or excised plant parts.
Gene bank:    An institution or center that participates in the management of genetic resources, in
particularly, maintaining er-situ or in-situ collections.
Genome:   Sum total of an organism's genetic information i.e. all hereditary traits.
Geochemical Cycling:  The movement of mineral elements and organic nutrients in an ecosystem.
Geographic Infornation System (GIS): Employs an array of spatial information (maps) and displays such
data as themes (forest cover, pollution damage, habitats, etc.) to
overlay, spread or otherwise objectively analyze and display the
solution to a land management problem.
Germplasm:   Living reproductive material including pollen, seeds and plants and their parts.
Germplasm collection: A collection of many different varieties, species or subspecies representing a diverse
collection of genetic material.
High Forest:   Forest consisting of trees grown from seed.
In-situ: The managing of organisms in their natural state or within their normal range.
Keystone species:  A plant or animal species which largely determines the stability of an ecosystem through
its functions in key processes such as reproduction or nutrient cycling.



- 24 -
Man and the Biosphere:    A conservation, scientific and management program of the United Nations
Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization.
Provenance:   Origin or source for trees, an identifiable region in the natural habitat of a species from where
the seed of the trees originally came.
Reforestation:, The introduction of trees on land from which they had previously been removed.
Seed Production Orchard (Seed Orchard):  A collection of selected trees planted and managed for the
purpose of producing seeds.



POLAND
Forest Biodiversity Protection Project
Table 101. BiaLowieza
Enhancement of Natural Regeneration
DetaiLed Cost Table
Th. USD
Breakdown of Totals IncL.Cont.
Quantity           B.C. in Th. USD                   Th. USD
1992  1993 Total      1992  1993 TotaL      F.Exch   Local   Taxes   Total
... ...........................  ... ..... ......... .  -- - - - - - - -- - - - - - - -
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. In Situ Conservation
Est. and Prep. of Site <7>          1     0     1         8     0      8          0        9       0        9
B. Scientific Equipment
Tabletop X-Ray machine              1     0     1        10     0    10          11        0       0       11
Personal Computer c2>               1     0     1         5     0      5          5        0       0        5
Cartographic PLotter                1     0     1        10     0    10          11        0       0       11
Sampling & Collection Eqp           1     0     1        12     0    12          13        0       0       13
Misc. Scientific Equip. <3>         1     0     1        20     0    20          21        0       0       21
Refrigerating Equip. <4>            1     0     1        70     0    70          74        0       0       74
Extractory Chambers <5>             1     0     1         3     0      3          3        0       0        3
Instruments and Gauges              1     0     1        15     0    15          16        0       0       16
Elect. Power Stabilizer             1     0     1        25     0    25          26        0       0       26
Mobile Monitoring Equip. <1>        1     0      1      140     0   140         148        0       0      148
Sub-Total                                                310     0   310         328        0       0      328
C. Professional Support                  1     1      2       10    10    20           21       0        0      21
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                          328    10   338          350       9        0     359
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Operation and Maintenance             1     0      1       60      0    60           0      71        0      71
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                            60      0    60           0      71        0      71
Total                                                        388    10   398         350       80        0     430
<1> Mobile Automatic station for air and soil monitoring
<2> IBM 386/486 or similar.
<3> Chemicals and support materials.
<4> Low temp refrig. container of 2000 l capacity for seeds.
<5> Small chambers and devices for extracting/cleaning seeds from samples.
<6> Including Seminars and meetings.
<7> Establishment of 1.2 ha. clonal seed production area.
Unit Costs Scaled by 1000.0 - Values scaled by 1000.0  11/14/1991  11:23
a ,
oI3



POLAND
forest giodiveruity Protectton Project
Table 102. lialowleza
Protectlin Progrm
Detaited Coat Table
Th. USD
Breakdown of Totals Incl.Cont.
Quantity          lace Costs in Th. USD                     Th. US0
a.s..       . .... a.......  s  ss........Sweu......ta..t.....cm......t...   sE======.S..===
1992  1993 Totat        1992   1993  Total       F.Exch   Local   Taxes   Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Protected rea Enhence. 41)
Labor                                1      0     1         14       0      14           0       17       0       17
Equlpnent                            1      0     1          5       0       5           5        0       0        5
Sub-Total                                                    19       0      19           5       17       0       22
S. Conservation Plan '2'
Labor                                1      1     1          9       9      l          10       12       0       21
Consultants                          1      1     1         23      23      45          24      29        0       53
Equipent                             1      1     1          4       4       7           4        4       0        8
Trvel and Perdiem                    1      1     1         13      13      25          13       16       0       29
... -   -- --   -----    --- --    -- - -   -------   -----.--.. . .
Seb-Totat                                                    48      48      95          51      61        0      112
C. Socionric Research
Labor                                1      0     1          4       0       4           0        5       0        5
Consultants                          1      0     1         30       0      30          32        0       0       32
Tr-vet nd perdiem                    1      0     1         58       0      58          61        0       0       61
Sub-Totat                                                    92       0      92          93        5        0      98
D. Forest Pattern Research
labor                                1      1     1          4       4      8            0       10       0       10
Equipent                             1      1     1          1       1       1           0        1       0        1
Sub-Total                                                     4       4       8           0       11       0       11
E. Forest Process Research
Labor                                1      1     1          8       8      15           0       19       0       19
Consultants                          1      1     1         23      23      45          48        0       0       48
Equipmnt                             1      1     1         10      10      20          21        0       0       21
Travel and perdiem                   1      1     1         13      13      25          27       0        0       27
....  . ......  ........ .......    .......   . .......    . ........    .......   .........    .......
Set-Total                                                    53      53    105           96       19       0      115
F. Erviroruaental Inpact Anal
Labor                                1      1      1         5       5      10           0       13       0       13
Consultant                           1      1      1         8       8      15          16        0        0      16
Travel and perdiem                   1      1     1         26      26      52          56        0       0       56
Sub-Total                                                    38      38      77          72       13        0      84
G. Man in the Biosphere
Labor                                1      0      1        12       0      12           0       14       0       14
office                               1      0      1        10       0      10           0       12        0      12
Travel and perdiem                   1     0      1         22       0      22           0      26        0       26
.. .. . ... . ..... ...... ..... .. ....... . ......
Sub-Total                                                    44       0      44           0       52       0       52
H. End of phase meeting
Expeses                              0      1     1          0       1       1           0        1       0        1                                             C'
Consultants                          0     1      1          0      15      15          16       0        0       16                                                IZ
Travet and perdien                   0     1      1          0      23     23           25       0        0       25                                               j
Stb-Total                                                     0      39     39           41        1       0       42
......     ......    ......  .......................    ........ .......... ,,,,,,,,,,,
Total INSVETENT COSTS                                               Z98    182    480          358      179        0     537
wnnz.  .7... t%..Z.    ...n.=  ===--= .*===.Z; .s....;
Total                                                           298    12    480            358      179        0     537
........ a .....=.... a=esoo.W ..........  ...........ssf --------  S--=--==*=2-B==S2=========--=S 
t1' Vehicles, NMpping Software, Printing Equip., end Suppties.
2> Specialists in ecosystem, apping, land use, and related skills.
lnit Costs Scaled by 1000.0 - Vatues scaled by 1000.0  11/14/1991  11:23



POLAND
Forest Biodiversity Protection Project
Table 103. BiaLowieza
Ecological Farming
DetaiLed Cost TabLe
Th. USD
Breakdown of Totals Incl.Cont.
Quantity         Base Costs in Th. USD                   Th. USD
==Z==s22znnninnfl5       nnS==       =====2=22ns*n 
1992  1993 Total      1992   1993  Total      F.Exch   Local   Taxes   Total

1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Vehicles and Equipwent
4WD Pickup                         1     0      1        17      0      17         18       0        0      18
Personal ComputertPrinter          1     0      1         4      0      4           4       0        0       4
Sub-Total                                                 21      0     21          22       0        0      22
B. Tech. Advisory Panel <1>             1     1      2         8      8      15         16        0       0      16
C. External Specialists <2>
Fees                              23    11    34         23     11     34          36       0        0      36
Per Diem                          12     6    18         12      6      18         19       0        0      19
Travel                            12     9    21         12      9      21         22       0        0      22
Sub-Total                                                 47     26      73         78        0       0      78
D. Local Experts <3>
Salary Supplements/ Fees           1     1     2         16     16     33           0      42        0      42
Perdiem                            1     1     2          5      5      10          0       13       0      13
Travel                             1     1     2          2      2      4           0       5        0       5
Sub-Total                                                 23     23      47          0      60        0      60
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                           99      57    156         116      60       0      176
11. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Vehicle Maintenance                  1      1     2         3       3      6          0        8       0       8
B. Ernuerators <4>                      1      1     2         3       3      5          0        6       0       6
C. Analysis of Smples <5>               1      1     2        15      15     30          0       38       0      38
D. Sundries                             2      1     3         2       1      3          0        4       0       4
E. Report Prod/TransLation              4     3      7         4       3      7          0        9       0       9
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                            26      24     51           0      65       0       65
=====CZ zzzszx .===z   ======= ======= ======= ===s===
Total                                                        125      81    207        116      125       0     241
<1> Three external advisors: Agric. Economist, Soil Chemist, and Sociologist
<2> Nkt. Econ. (yrl-2 months, yr2-2 mo.), agronomist (yrl-1 mo., yr2-lmo)
<3> a500/month x 6 months x 4 persons, $250/month x 6 months x 3 persons
<4> Five enumerators (Farm Economic Survey).
<5> Soil, Water and Plant sampling team (contract).
Unit Costs Scaled by 1000.0 - Values scaled by 1000.0  11/14/1991  11:23



POLAND
Forest Siodiversity Protection Project
Table 104. Slalowieza
Geographic Information System
Detailed Cost Table
Th. USD
Breakdown of Totals Incl.Cont.
aumntity         Base Costs in Th. USD                   Th. USO
*:.--...u.uuun        *       s.zs.s.    -SUma ..... .aU .=====- ...... ----
1992  1993 Totat       1992   1993  Total      F.Exch   Local   Texes   Total
..... ..................  ---------------------... .....------....----------..----....--------.-. 
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Initial Inventory 013
Forest Research Intitute          2     0      2         0       0      0          0        0       0        0
8. Consultants
Forest Ecologist/ LUP              1     0      1        13       0     13          14       0       0       14
GIS Specialtst                     2     0      2        26       0     26          28       0       0       28
Travel wnd Pwrdeem  5                                    18      18     35         37        0       0       37
Sub-Total                                                 56      18     74          79       0       0       79
C. Comuter Naridrw
Person l Computer <Z>              2      0     2        14       0     14          15       0       0       15
Hi-Res Color mnitor                2     0      2         3       0      3          3        0       0        3
Internel *ackp  Tape Dev.          1     0      1         2      0       2          2        0       0       2
Digitiaziq Tebet 3                 1     0      1         5       0      S           5       0       0        5
Color Pletter4>                    1     0      1         5       0      5           5       0       0        5
Laser Printer                      1     0      1         3       0      3          3        a       0        3
Uninteruptabe Peuor Sup            2     0      2         2       0      2           2       0       0        2
Misc C.Cpuer supplles             -      -                5       5     10          11       0       0       11
Sub-Total                                                 37       5     42         45        0       0       45
D. Imagery,Oecodfn,1er1ing
TH Ing 9ry Date                    2     0      2         9       0      9          9        0       0       9
TM GeN eoding                      2     0      2         2       0      2          2        0       0        2
SPOT loma r Date                   3     0      3         7       0      7          8        0       0       8t'
SPOT SpaeiolAcquleitlon            3     0      3         2       0      2          2        0       0       2
Spot Diital Noaoic                 3     0      3         2       0      2          2        0       0        2
SPOT eocoding                      3     0      3         3       0      3          3        0       0       3
TM/SPOT Nerge                      1     0      1         3      0       3          3        0       0       3
......     ......     ......  -------     -------     -- - -   .....-...
Sub-Total                                                 27       0     27         29        0       0      29
E. Change Detection
Digital Chong  Detection           1     0      1         2       0      2          2        0       0        2
GIS Dat  Conversion                1     0      1         0       0      0          0        0       0       0
Sub-Total                                                  2       0      2          2        0       0        2
F. Photo. Prints & Process.
TM                                 2     0      2         5       0      5          5        0       0        5
TM/Spot erge 1:50000               5     0      5         6       0      6          6        0       0        6
Land Cover Ctassification          3     0      3         5       0      5          5        0       0        5
Sub-Total                                                 is       0     15          16       0       0       16
G. Computer Software
Arc/info GIS                       1     0      1         6       0      6          6        0       0        6
H. System Training                      2      0     2        26       0     26          28       0        0      28
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                           170     23    193         204       0        0     205
Total                                                        170      23    193         204       0       0      205
(DZ
1> Initial inventory of MNps Mapping Activities  a*nd GIS Cap. in Poland.
<2> 386 or 4U6 with VGA Graphics Card  dueal disk drive, 300M8 NDo  ath cop.
c3  36x48 inch with electric pedestal
<4  Eight pen, 36 inch width
56> AssL.aes two int'l trips wnd 75 days coabined.
Unit Costs Scaled by 1000.0 - Values scaled by 1000.0  11/14/1991  11:23



POLAND
Forest liodiversity Protection Project
Table 105. Blulowieza
Pollution Monitoring and Mitigation
Detailed Cost Table
Th. USD
Breakdown of Totals Incl.Cont.
Quantity       Base Costs in Th. USD                   Th. USD
as-stsss-R--   22=22a=ss= -               ====-s-t   3
92-93 Total        1992-93       Total     F.Exch   Local   Taxes   Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Pollution Mitigation <2>           1     2             25          50         40       16       0       56
B. Engineering Services (3>           1     2             75         150         80       96       0      176
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                      100         200        120      112       0      232
====fss=== 3===Xfl33=    ======= ======= ======= =======
Total                                                    100        200         120      112       0      232
<1> Mobile Automatic station for air and soil monitoring.
<2> SuWorting equipment to complete detailed engineering design.
<3> Consulting services for detailed engineering designs.
Unit Costs Scaled by 1000.0 - Values scaled by 1000.0  11/14/1991  11:23
POLAND
Forest Biodiversity Protection Project
Table 106. Bialowieza
Coordination with Bielorussia
Detailed Cost Table
Th. USD
Breakdown of Totals Incl.Cont.
Quantity      Base Costs in Th. USD                    Th. USD
92-93 Total        1992-93      Total      F.Exch   Local   Taxes   Total
------------~ .. . . . . .. . . . .  --- --- -- --- -- --- -- --- --
I. INVSTMENT COSTS
A. Meetings, Conferences          1     2             13         25           0      25        0      25
...............    ..........  -------    ----...   -----.   -.
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                   13         25           0       25       0       25
*333.==== .. ===3=33     ==a3=== ==Z .==33 ====3== ==3===2
Total                                                 13         25           0       25       0      25
t=CostsSc=3ted=by33=U3=U  -    V=== t=ue3=s3 == ======s=   = S= 11o1421991  112                    2 3
Unit Costs Scaled by 1000.0 - Values scaled by 1000.0  11/14/1991  11:23                                                                         X



POLAND
forest Siodiversity Protection Project
Table 107. liaLowieza
Professional Development and Training
DetailLed Cost Table
Th. USC
Breakdown of Totals Incl.Cont.
Quantity       Base Costs in Th. USC                     Th. USC
2fl222fl2ss    s=23===-==s==   == E=====aE==33        2K====22=
92-93 Total         1992-93       Total      F.Exch   Local   Taxes   Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Professional Developnent c1>           1     2              20          40          40        0        0      40
B. Training                               1     2               5          10          10        0        0       10
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                            25          50           50       0        0       50
S==========         2-===========   ===
Total                                                          25          50          50        0        0      50
<1> Including Seminars and Meetings
Unit Costs Scaled by 1000.0 - Values scaled by 1000.0 11/14/1991 11:23
POLAND
Forest Siodiversity Protection Project
Table 108. BlaLowieza
Establishment of Bialowieza Foundation
Detailed Cost Table
Th. USD
Breakdown of Totals Incl.Cont.
Quantity           Base Costs in Th. USC                     Th. USD
1992  1993 Total        1992   1993  Total        F.Exch   Local   Taxes   Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Est. of Legal Framework          1      0      1         25       0     25          25        0        0       25
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                         25       0      25          25        0        0      25
======233 =====s=       ===   ===   ===   ===s
Total                                                       25       0     25          25        0        0       25                                           n
====2s=== =2 ====             2====ss======-===2========                     2U=s==t2  2== = ==========                                                   m 2>
Unit Costs Scaled by 1000.0 - Values scaled by 1000.0 11/14/1991 11:23 v
o' z
ohX



POLAND
Forest Biodiversity Protection Project
TabLe 201. Sudety
Assessment, Pluming, ColLection, and Propogation
Detailed Cost Table
Th. USD
Breakdown of TotaLs Incl.Cont.
Quantity          Base Costs in Th. USD                    Th. USD
1992  1993 Total       1992   1993  Total       F.Exch   LocaL   Taxes   Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Mapping for Risk Assess. <1>           1     0      1       120       0    120         127        0        0     127
B. Dev. of Plans for Conserv <2>          1     0      1        45       0     45          48        0       0       48
C. Seed CoLLection <5>                    1     1      2       100    100    200            0      256       0      256
D. Vegetative Propogation <3>             1     0      1        40       0     40           0       47        0      47
E. Est. of Plantations <4>                1     0      1        10       0     10          11        0       0       11
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                            315    100    415          185      303        0     489
=s==== ====== ======    ======= ======Z ======= =======
TotaL                                                          315    100    415          185      303       0      489
<1> Prepare cartographic displays of risk hazards to species & populations.
<2> Col. of Data, conferences & workshops to dev. plans for conservation.
<3> Modernization of greenhouses in Sekocin for veg. multiplic. of species.
<4> Est. of plantations and gardens for plants to increase approp. species.
<5> Collection of seed from each of the major ecological zones.
Unit Costs Scaled by 1000.0 - Values scaled by 1000.0 11/14/1991 11:23
Ig>
(Dz
tz
or'm
-X



POLAND
Forest Biodiversity Protection Project
Table 202. Gene Bank
Detalled Cost Table
Th. USD
Breakdown of Totals IncL.Cont.
Quantity          Base Costs in Th. USD                    Th. USD
===zZ====== =====   =f=lU      UzUf=l===s=22=2
1992  1993 Total       1992   1993  Total       F.Exch   Local   Taxes   Total
I. INVESTMENT CDSTS
A. Civil Works
Site Preparation                   1     0      1        300      0    300            0     354        0     354
Civil Works - Govt.                1     0      1       658       0    658            0      m77       0     777
Civil Works - GEF                  1     0      1        142      0    142            0     168        0     168
Greenhouse                         1     0      1        200      0    200            0     236        0     236
Sub-Total                                                1300      0   1300            0    1536        0    1536
B. Extraction/Cleaning <1>               I     0     1        650       0    650         689        0       0      689
C. Testing & Eval Equip. <2>             1     0     1        300       0    300         318        0       0      318
D. Low Temp. Storage Equip. <3>          1     0      1       650       0    650         689        0       0      689
E. Supplies <4>                          1     1     2         50      50    100         107        0       0      107
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                          2950      50   3000        1802    1536         0    3338
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Training & Prof. Dcv. <5>             1     1     2         25      25     50          27       32       0       59
B. Salaries and Op. Costs               0      1     1          0    100    100            0      138       0      138
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                             25    125    150           27      170        0     197
Total                                                        2975    175   3150         1829    1705        0    3534
<1> Defruiting, dewinging, drying, cleaning equipment.
<2? Microscopes, Moisture sensing equipment, etc.
<3> Compressors, Temp. Controls, Backuqp Generator, Panelling, Vacuum Cont.
<4> Chemicals, Containers, Glassware, etc.
<5, Seminars, courses, conferences in advanced seed testing and storage.
Unit Costs ScaLed by 1000.0 - Values scaled by 1000.0 11/14/1991 11:24
9 >
CD z
_o Z



POLAND
Forest Biodiversity Protection Project
Table 203. Sudety <1>
Air Pollution Monitoring
Detailed Cost Table
Th. USD
Breakdown of Totals Incl.Cont.
Quantity       Base Costs in Th. USD                    Th. USD
92-93 Total        1992-93       Total      F.Exch   Local   Taxes   Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Mnitoring Equipment  2>           1      2            125         250         250       0        0     250
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                       125         250         250       0        0      250
*UflSflSfl nafaUSsUUU    iZzSms   Uf=if== Z-r=zUu   EnnE=aS
Total                                                     125         250         250       0        0     250
1> To be financed from Bilateral Sources.
23 Expansion of monitoring capabilities by an international team.
Unit Costs Scaled by 1000.0 - Values secaled by 1000.0  11/14/1991  11:24
POLAND
Forest Siodiversity Protection Project
Table 204. Sudety
Professional Development and Training
Detailed Cost Table
Th. USO
Breakdown of Totals Incl.Cont.
Quantity       Base Costs in Th. USD                    Th. UISD
SSSUZSUUM=3   f=NE=US==hl=USflS=flUU       2==.===t=--== =SSU==U=SSSflStS
92-93 Total        1992-93       Total      F.Exch   Local   Taxes   Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Professional Development <1           1     2             10          20          20        0       0       20
B. Trafning                              1     2              5          10          10        0       0       10
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                          15          30          30        0       0       30
Total                                                        15          30          30        0       0       30
c1> Including Seminars and Meetings
Unit Costs Scaled by 1000.0 - Values scaled by 1000.0 11/14/1991 11:24



POCAND
Forest Uiodiversity Protection Project
Table 205. Czechoslovakian/Polish Joint Scientific
Sudety Maintains Committee
Detailed Cost Table
Th. USD
Breakdown of Totals IncI.Cont.
Quantity       Base Costs in Th. USD                    Th. USD
SX2MUZlEUauS    UsUUS-U-UUUUSUaflaUU       S*UUSUSUUUUUUUUUUUUflUZUfltnZmf
92-93 Total        1992-93       Total       F.Exch   Local   Taxes   Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Travel, eetings                 1     2             13          25          25        0        0      25
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                     13         25           25       0        0       25
--------- -- s-------3U  -ufus  luu auu a3=33=3  ==3=sz
Total                                                  13          25          25        0        0      25
Unit Costs Scaled by 1000.0 - Values scaled by 1000.0  11/14/1991  11:24
POLAND
Forest Biodiversity Protection Project
Table 301. Project Marngement Unit
Detailed Cost Table
Th. USD
Breakdowin of Totals Incl.Cont.
Quantity          Base Costs in Th. USD                     Th. USD
Z==3sss==flEf=l          UUUUUUUEUUUflUUflflzz   333333U333sss==s==x=========
1992  1993 Total        1992   1993  Total       F.Exch   Local   Taxes   Total
-----------------                                                          .......
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Computers and Equip.             1     0      1         10      0      10          10        0       0       10
......    ........ ......  .......... ............ .......    .............. .............
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                        10       0     10          10        0        0      10
II. RECUJRENT COSTS
A. Inc. Salaries & PerDiem          1     1      2         50     50    100            0      100       0      100
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                         50      50    100           0      100        0     100
=====  ====== 2=====      ======= =2===== =2=====  ======
Total                                                      60     50    110           10      100       0      110
====s==szsss=a=s=========sss=================3=======================3==3=t
Unit Costs Scaled by 1000.0 - Values scaled by 1000.0  11/14/1991  11:24
O 



POLAND
Forest Biodiversity Protection Project
Table 401. Joint Scientific Review Committee
Detailed Cost Table
Th. USD
Breakdown of Totals Incl.Cont.
Quantity      Base Costs In Th. USD                   Th. USD
muus.zuzma-u   sunnzuzmnnununzrs sss su    uuuuusiS nu==s= u=zz   mnns-s===sssr
92-93 Total        1992-93      Total      F.Exch   Local   Taxes   Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Travel, Honoraria             1     2             15         30          30       0        0      30
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                  15         30          30       0        0      30
==5=======  -------SEEN    ====-- ====== =    =======                                                w
Total                                                15         30          30       0        0      30
=ni Co=stsSct=e================= V  =s= s  ===b=S        11141========99112========E
Unit Costs Scaled by 1000.0 - Values scaled by 1000.0  11/14/191  11:24
AU2
_ Z
_IZ



- 36 -



ANNEX2
- 37 -                             Page 1 of 7
POLAND
FOREST BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION PROJECT
PROPOSED ECOSYSTEM PROTECTION
PROGRAM FOR THE BIALOWIEZA FOREST
I. OBJECTIVES
The Bialowieza Primeval Forest is the last example of the vast continental lowland forest that
once covered Europe. Because of its position as a threatened, unique Global Biosphere Reserve, the
broad goal of the Polish Biodiversity Protection Project at Bialowieza is to insure, to the degree still
possible, the stability of this primeval forest ecosystem.
The Forest is currently preserved in a number of protected patches which total about 58 km2
(22 sq mi), an area which is so small that it is vulnerable. By comparison, the Yellowstone National Park
of America, which does not represent the last remnant of an endangered ecosystem, is about 9600 km2
(3500 sq mi), nearly 200 times the size of the Bialowieza protected areas.
This is significant not just because the small size of the Bialowieza Forest ecosystem renders
the area vulnerable due to a surface-area-to-volume type of phenomenon, but because a representation
of the types of forest associations and communities (which define the forest) is not currently embraced
by the gazetted protected areas. Although much larger, Yellowstone, like Bialowieza, is not a complete
ecosystem, with serious threats to its integrity and the management problems associated with such
incomplete ecosystems. Much of Yellowstone is being transformed through overuse by elk (Cervus
elaphus canadensis, a close relative of the red deer of Bialowieza) who previously migrated to winter
foraging grounds now in ranchlands outside of the Park. As the Bialowieza protected area is threatened,
such management issues and risks to the entire Bialowieza ecosystem are magnified.
II. PROPOSED STRATEGY
To achieve the goal of preserving the maximum feasible representation of the Bialowieza
Primeval Forest, five related activities would be supported under the Project.
* the expansion of protected areas to include all remaining critical natural associations;
* land-use planning for management of the forest which is interspersed with the protected area
network;
* applied research supportive of both protected area expansion and land-use planning;
* an assessment of the impact of any suggested land allocations which emerge during the
course of this Project;
* consultation with concerned agencies, individuals, Ministries, legislative bodies at local and
national levels, to review draft land-use plans, and the convening of a meeting of these
parties to agree to implementation activities and responsibilities, i.e., "Scoping".



ANNEX 2
-38-                                   Page 2 of 7
The vehicle for tying the activities and plans together will employ the existing Man and
Biosphere designation for the BPF as well as some innovative uses of this facility in the coordination of
activities.
Two phases are envisioned. The first will be dominated by the conduct of research required
to make informed decisions, the immediate acquisition of missing forest associations and corridors
between them for complete protection, the development of a planning and analysis capability with a GIS,
the initiation of land use planning activities, and the strengthening of a MaB Board and Secretariat. The
first phase will culminate in a plenary meeting to approve the draft of an integrated regional land use plan
for the Bialowieza.
The plan will detail the policy implications and regulatory, legislative, and organizational
support required. The second phase will continue to pursue the initial four activities, but emphasis will
shift to implementation activities. These may include, for example, accelerated conversion of marginal
farmlands to forest, tourism infrastructure development, training programs in specific skills such as
hospitality management, coal to gas conversion, etc. This Project will terminate after the Phase I - Phase
II transition assistance period.
Protecting "Relict" Forest Communities. The old watchsmith's dictum of "keeping all of the
bits and pieces in case they are needed to reconstruct a useful mechanism" is a compelling rationale (but
by no means the only one) for doing as much as one can to retain the intact remnants of the Bialowieza
Primeval Forest (BFP). The wisdom of this guidance is being demonstrated today in the attempts of local
foresters to evaluate the characteristics of ancient, locally adapted timber species so that they can replace
the less adapted, more vulnerable old plantings of these species which used genetic material from
elsewhere. Much of the existing forest, both protected and managed, has been inventoried and mapped
(Map 2).
The vegetation of the National Park is known in detail. Vegetation maps of 1 :10,000 are used
at the FRI/B field station. Ocolow (1987) states that 40 of 113 plant associations (35 percent) are
protected. We understand that no recent changes to this figure have occurred. Surveys (ecological and
cadastral) and selection of priority areas for strict protection designation (e.g., National Park) should be
initiated as soon as the annual work plan for this Project is approved. The legal requirements to be met
for a reclassification can be arranged within the MENRF. The elements of a proactive, aggressive
program of assembling a more complete and secure representative BPF are incomplete but adequate.
For example, although considerable data exist on plants and large ungulate hervivory, nothing
is known of the seasonal movements and densities of animal populations. We realize that complete
knowledge will never exist. However, enough information is available to initiate an informed expansion
effort now. The missing elements will emerge as the data from the research tasks (below) emerge. The
Project is structured so that information from this Project can be used up through the planning meeting
at the end of the first Phase.
Conservation Planning. The BPF is not so much a geometrically distinct area surrounding the
protected core, but is the aggregate area of minimally modified parcels which interdigitate with protected
areas. If the program to transfer the classification of relict and rare forest associations to that of strictly
protected areas and corridors is successful, a clearer buffer zone for the multiple uses of forest wildlands
will emerge.



ANNEX 2
39 -                                  Page 3 of 7
The purposes of such an area include the filtering of exotic living material to reduce potentially
catastrophic impacts to the protected areas. Furthermore, the buffer can provide economically attractive
and sustainable land uses consonant with the overarching goal of maintenance of the pattern and processes
occurring only in the unmodified primeval forest. It is very important to engage the local farming
population in uses which are acceptable, profitable yet do not negatively impact the forest ecosystem.
A major enforcement effort aimed at a resident population of Robin Hoods is not an effective,
efficient, or equitable goal for natural forest maintenance. The local enjoyment of BPF-centered uses is
an important product of the land use planning which is suggested in this section. The old conflict
between protection and conservation (defined here as "wise use") can and will be avoided with creative
land use planning. Not only will the financial picture of residents contribute to an appreciation of the
BPF, but an environmental education program will be targeted to them. The product of planning for an
appropriate mix of land use in the buffer zone will be a prioritization of development in optimal use
zones.
The zones will reflect the uses which will have minimal impact on the BPF while having
positive impacts on the residents who need to make a living in these areas. This product will be called
a Conservation Plan, distinguishing it from Land Use Plans which are not so constrained in development
options.
As data from the inventories and research come in, the GIS will be employed to assist in the
determination of the "region-of-influence" of the BPF. An initial determination which employs these data
and the GIS will be available for drafting the land use plan which will be evaluated at the end of the first
phase of work. Initially however, the buffer zone can be considered to include all of the area subsumed
by connecting the outermost points plus one kilometer of relict natural forests associations.
A review of forest-community buffer zone activities will reveal the plausible uses of this
particular landscape. The socioeconomic research suggested below will also be employed to indicate
some of the possible uses. The types of uses expected can fit the following taxonomy. Note that this
list is not exhaustive. Also, the categories can be debated, i.e., the assumption that the development of
tourism infrastructure is environmentally inert implies that no currently unmodified areas will be used.
Similarly for low-input ecological agriculture.
Resource-based                 Resource-based
Consunptive                  Non-consurnptive                    Inert
sport hunting              nature/culture tourism              think-tank
production forestry          forest-related arts/crafts            cultural
minor forest products         environmental education            tourism sales
research                    infrastructure
reclamation                  waste treatment
Each of these potential activities can occur in the BPF without compromising the goals of
protecting the biological diversity. Each will have to be developed in theory and on-site. The use of the
GIS will greatly assist in developing these activities. Separate Annexes discuss the potential, scale, and
development of the low impact ecological agriculture, hunting, and pollution control activities.



ANNEX 2
- 40 -                                  Page 4 of 7
Supporting Applied Research. The initial research supportive of the goals of the GEF-supported
Project will focus on three areas of concern: the social and economic environment and trends, forest
biology, and the effects of air and water pollution.
The social and economic investigations are designed to:
* inform the land use plan with details of local uses or historic uses of the forest;
* establish the most acceptable types of conservation-related vocational changes;
* determine the degree of decision flexibility and trainibility in distinct segments of the
population;
* define tenurial patterns and constraints; and
* define the relevant markets for the plausible products of a regional Conservation Plan.
The studies of forest biology will clarify the patterns and processes which define this particular
forest ecosystem. Armed with this information, an objective assessment of the impacts of land uses and
their mitigation in the BPF can be developed-a requirement of both the land use planning (above) and
the impact assessment activities (below). Furthermore, initiation of the transformation of marginal
agricultural lands to natural forest will require such information.
The type of studies of forest pattern (e.g., species composition, distribution, structure) include:
- an inventory of forest associations and their distribution along forest gradients (e.g.,
microclimate);
* an identification of "guilds" of plants and animals and their seasonal uses of habitats;
* the phenology and seasonal quality of forage and other plants;
* an inventory of forest soils;
The studies of process will reveal the determinants and rates of important processes which define
the forest as much as the species which are found. No rehabilitation can be planned without some of this
knowledge. The list is not explained in great detail, however in most cases the utility of the suggested
study for the goals of the Project are fairly evident. 'For example, the studies of geochemical cycling will
constitute a baseline for evaluating the impacts of pollution and forest treatments (e.g., the current
practice of 6 ha clearcuts). The characterization of trophic position, herbivory, and habitat use can be
used to rationalize the selection of "keystone" species on which most of the studies can be focussed.
Some such rational parsimony must be imposed since each species or phenomenon cannot be studied.
Again, this list is notional and illustrative, not exhaustive:
* the site-specific successional patterns can be experimentally and historically studied. Various
forest interventions need such information. For example, hunting often manages for
successional stages;
* studies of herbivory and the co-evolution of plants and animals;
* trophic efficiency and characterization of energy flows through various levels of the forest
ecosystem;



ANNEX-2
- 41-                                 Page 5 of 7
* a geochemical cycling (inputs/output);
* the population dynamics of selected plant and animal species; and
* dead/dying material, their decomposition and fate.
Studies of pollution do not characterize the natural system. However, given the present threat,
even in this relatively clean area, such studies serve as important baselines and early warning systems.
These studies will be described in the section treating pollution monitoring and mitigation.
The Impact of Various Land Uses. A protocol for projecting environmental (including social)
impacts has developed over the past 20 years. The basic approach follows the experience accumulated
in complying with the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) of the United States. NEPA provides
the longest record of impact assessment and the broadest development of analytic tools applied to the
particular requirements of impact assessment. Just as many countries are now developing adaptive,
indigenous approaches to the use and conduct of an EIA, Poland will undoubtedly have particular needs
which will yield a local approach. These will emerge during Scoping. The elements of a successful
effort which transcend borders are:
* early pro-active use in planning an intervention rather than as a mitigative bandaid;
* a predictive capability which employs some objective methods of prognostication;
* an integrated, interdisciplinary approach;
* use as a technically sound disclosure document rather than as a political decision document;
* demonstrably. supportive of development rather than antagonistic to development; and
* staged in tiers of complexity so that a relatively simple screening process (an Initial
Environmental Examination (IEE)) can eliminate most need for a detailed EIA, but which
is powerful enough to reveal potentially serious impacts and trigger a more complete EIA.
The generic approach involves:
1) the identification of all legal requirements at the site and for the EIA process - timing,
required products and milestones such as Scoping, cumulative effects analysis, a mitigation
plan;
2) the submission of a description of project actions and alternatives by the proponent to the
responsible lead agency;
3) an initial environmental evaluation which employs off-the-shelf data, interviews, and a site
reconnaissance to rapidly score a checklist of attributes;
4) the determination of the need for a full EIA; and
5) the holding of Scoping hearings on the proposed actions and the IEE determination.



ANNEX-2
-42-                                Page 6 of 7
The Project will do an IEE for all uses suggested by the Conservation Plan. Any further EIA
work will be the responsibility of the lead Agency and proponent in accordance with regulation.
The final set of activities include support for the constitution of a MaB Secretariat, an end-of-
phase one meeting, and the development of a package of investments during the transition period after
the meeting. These investments will be informed by the research and the Conservation Plan, and will have
been evaluated for their environmental impacts.  The MaB Secretariat will act as a broker for
coordinating research and information exchange, communication with UNESCO, and facilitating the
investments.



BPF WORK . AN
I7                MONTH OF 1992                   |                   MONTH OF 1993
Protected Area Enhancement                                        1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8   9   10  11  12  1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8   9   10  11  12
1. Survey/verfy all tores assoclatnonss
2. Rst8   requirements ad keystonde/featured species
3C Intervlew foreo ers/residents for seasonal range oP specles
4. Acqulsitn criteria br protected areas=s
5. lNRIZe maps, GIS analysb                                                    l   ll- _ _ _ _ __s            
10. Ualstra suoecnrveyseac
7. Legal descriptons and transfer 
1. Anlsyz Info at a/rst and seor>d years
Conse      rvatio n Plan
9. CoDlev/create thematic maps e
16. Initil demo land uses 
Research 
17. Useocio-econo resIc c
18. Foruet biologypatterns
19. Foryesdtabiology-proceses
Environmental Impact Analysi
20. Revelo legfal/requireme nts ed
21. EtAtraining for FRI staff                                         7VIIIIII EIE III_
22. Develop gudemolindues.ceditadfomfrpoontsT                                                                                 t
23. Conduct IEEs for vauious buffer uses                      -   -             _                                      EbEIi' _-
Ma1 Secretariat end-phase meeting
26. Recrut MaB staf develop tem ms o reference
27vonnd enda I phase meetlng Isisl                                                                     1                     i       i         _   _
21. ELA training for FRI staff ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      I   * *          I I 
228 Develop gudeins chcdssadfffsfrpooet
Initial Batarus Progr m
24. Inegatd S lanning sWonsho 
MaS Secretariat, arid-phase nisedng
26. Recrult MaB staff, develop terms of reference
27. Hold end-of-phase ffwetlng~~~~~q 
28. Develop BPF nvestment packag



- 44 -



ANNEX 3
- 45 -                               Page I of 5
POLAND
FOREST BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION PROJECT
THE GENE BANK COMPONENT
I. OBJECTIVES
The proposed gene bank for Forest Genetic Resources will meet two objectives:
(1)  to preserve the genetic resources of Polish forest ecosystems, principally of forest tree
species, woody shrub species and associated herbaceous species that are components of
the ecosystem being protected; and
(2)  to provide material and propagation methods for the use of genetic resources, e.g., for
re-introduction to their natural habitat, forestry purposes or other (research, establishing
new habitats, etc.)
As the gene bank will serve the entire country, all forest tree species and their associated species
would be included in this "national program for the preservation of forest genetic resources". Activities
of the gene bank comprise the in-situ and ex-situ conservation of populations, stands and groups of trees
or single trees and their associated species which are important for the maintenance of genetic makeup
of the species because of the special composition, the uniqueness or the scarcity of their genetic structure.
As the Polish Forest Service (GDSF) has a long tradition in the country, a scheme for the
selection of seed stands (a stand from which seed is collected) has been in place for many decades. It
was restructured in 1990. The scheme covers all forest tree species of silvicultural significance (conifers
and deciduous tree species) on a country wide area in plots whose total area is 13,344 ha. These seed
stands serve as resources for the collection of seed for forest purposes (reforestation and afforestation).
Together with the regional seed extractory station, the seed stands are essential for the procurement of
tree seeds. The proposed gene bank, therefore, must not necessarily be involved in the procurement of
forest reproductive material and can focus their activities on the preservation of genetic resources. The
gene bank and the GDSF, however, should cooperate to the benefit of both.
II. MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION
The proposed gene bank requires flexibility in operation to meet changing needs. The Technical
Review Team of the GEF recommends that the gene bank be provided the status of a Division within the
Forestry Service. The staff should include:



ANNEX 3
- 46 -                                Page 2 of 5
1 - Director
1 - Secretary to the Director
3 - Scientists (preferably knowledgeable in provenance research of forest tree species, seed
physiology, ecology, phytopathology)
1 - Data Manager
1 - Engineer
4 - Technicians (laboratory, field etc)
5 - Workers (nursery maintenance, cleaning, vehicle, etc.)
16  Total Staff
The proposed total staff is subject to change according to needs, but it should not be lower than
a total of 16, which is considered to be a minimum number.
III. DETAILED PROJECT DESIGN
The proposed gene bank would carry out two complementary strategies. The ex-situ work
would be primarily done at the gene bank. The in-situ work would be organized and managed by the
GDSF.
A. Activities
The principal activities of the proposed gene bank would be the following:
1. Evaluation.
* Inventory of species, populations and relicts.
* Genetic characterization by suitable phenotypical and genotypical traits.
* Characterization of the adaptedness of the populations to be preserved.
* Checking the importance for biodiversity and use for afforestation and reforestation.
* Setting up the programs for the species and/or tree sources to be preserved according to
the priority list.
2. Prepare Working Plans for both in-situ or ex-situ conservation of the species to be
protected.
3. In-situ Conservation.
* Applying proper silvicultural treatment.
* Natural Regeneration (inducing and stimulating).
* Minimizing impacts from adjacent stands or areas on the conserved material.



ANNEX 3
- 47 -                                 Page 3 of 5
4. Ex-Situ Conservation.
* Collection of seed (cones of coniferous species and fruits of deciduous species).
* Extraction, cleaning and further pre-storage processing of seeds, e.g., drying.
* Storage according to the requirements of the seed.
* Testing the quality of the seed before storage, health, viability, germination rate, repeated
testing of germination rate during storage.
* Use of the seed after storage, e.g., conditioning, stratification, preparation for sowing
and raising plants, multiplication of small seed samples by vegetative propagation
techniques.
* Collection of other plant material such as part of plants (cuttings, tissues) and pollen, pre-
storage treatment, storage, testing, post storage treatment before use.
* Ex-situ conservation under field conditions such as collection of plant material,
propagation of the plant material, e.g., by vegetative means (grafts, cuttings), raising
plants in a nursery, and establishing orchards and clone archives in the field.
5. Databanrk of in-situ and ex-situ genetic resources.
* Collection and administration of data on the source of the material, the amount, quality,
the year of collection, the registration, the storage (place and conditions), and other items
of scientific need.
* Installation of proper software for the management of the genetic resource including the
development of programs and strategies.
6. National Cooperation with:
* Forest landowners to get permission for collections.
* Forest service and seed extractory stations to get technical assistance for the forecast
about seed crops, collection (tree climbers), establishment of orchards and clone archives
and other related activities.
* National program for the preservation of ecosystems in-situ (e.g., national parks and
protected reserves) to ensure the compatibility and the complementary character of the
activities of the gene bank.
* National research organization to make use of the scientific and technical knowledge
available and to enhance research.
7. International Cooperation.
* Exchange of scientific and technical information.



ANNEX 3
- 48 -                               Page 4 of 5
Exchange of seed and other plant material for use or storage at a second location (for
security reasons).
B. Building and Eguipment Requirements
The project would support the construction and equipping of a gene bank center in Central
Poland. The site chosen should be sufficient in size (a minimum of 10 ha) for the buildings, the nursery
and some contiguous area for growing stock material and clone archives.
Building Requirements
The buildings would consist of four sections, which may be integrated into a complex of
buildings. These are bureaus and laboratories, rooms for extraction and processing, rooms for storage
and a greenhouse. The extraction and processing part should be separated from the storage part to
prevent contamination. The approximate sizes area as follows:
Bureaus and Laboratories:                       600 m2
Rooms for Extraction and Processing           1,000 m2
Rooms for Storage                               300 m2
Greenhouse                                  ___200_L
Total                                 2100 m2
Nursery Area                                      2 ha
Stock material, clone archives, buffer zone       8 ha
Equipment Requirements
*  Laboratory equipment for testing purity, germination (x-ray, germination chambers) health
of seed (microscopes) for pollen handling and assessing genetic variation, e.g., by
isoenzyme studies (electrophoretic equipment), etc.
*  Extraction equipment for extracting and processing seed from conifers and broad leaved tree
species and shrubs (extractors for cones, extractors for seed from fruits, cleaning and
dewinging facilities). Rooms are also needed for the pre-treatments under controlled
conditions. Packaging and sealing facilities would also be included.
*  Cold storage rooms are needed at different temperatures, e.g., from -5 to -20 C, facilities
for storage at very low temperature using liquid nitrogen (-196 C).
*  Greenhouse facilities would also be included in the project. The greenhouse would be
equipped with automatic shading and watering systems. It would be subdivided into 3 to
4 compartments to meet the requirements of different species. Some small chambers would
be included for the collection of pollen to keep different pollen donors separately.



ANNEX-3
- 49 -                            Page 5 of 5
C. Estimated Costs
Assuming the landsite of 10 ha is available without cost, the proposed gene bank components
of the project are estimated as follows:
(US$ Including
Site Preparation and Civil Works:             Contingendes)
Site Preparation                                   354,000
Civil Works (Government)                           777,000
Civil Works (GEF)                                  168,000
Greenhouse (200 in2)                               236,000
Sub-Total                                   1,535,000
Laboratory, Storage and Processing Equipment:
Extraction & Cleaning Equipment                    689,000
Testing & Evaluation Equipment                     318,000
Low Temperature Storage Equipment                  689,000
Supplies                                           107,000
Sub-Total                                   1,803,000
Operating Costs, Professional Development
and Training                                        197,000
Total Estimated Costs                       3,534,000
IV. BENEFITS TO BIODIVERSITY IN POLAND
There are a series of important benefits of the genebank in fostering forest biodiversity in
Poland. These are:
*  stop the genetic erosion and losses of genetic resources which are part of the heritage of
nature;
*  enable man to restore ecosystems destroyed by either natural or anthropogenic factors by
re-introducing populations into their natural or equivalent habitats after having reduced the
influence of the most striking destroying factors;
*  stabilize ecosystems by maintaining a high level of genetic variability within species. Thus
the species can adapt themselves to the site, even if the site conditions are changing to a
certain extent; and
*  increase the forest economy at a long term by being able to use the full amplitude of genetic
variability available, e.g., by replacement of not adapted species by better adapted ones and
tree improvement programs.



0
vt
CD



ANNEX 4
- 51 -                               Page I of 7
POLAND
FOREST BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION PROJECT
GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION SYSTEM (GIS) MAPPING OF THE
BIALOWIEZA BIOSPHERE RESERVE AND THE SUDETY REGION
I. BACKGROUND
A GIS system uses spatial data which are displayed as "themes" (forest cover, pollution damage,
threatened habitat, etc.) to objectively analyze and display the solution to a spatial land management
problem. Such useful products can include, for example, the least cost siting of a logging road, areas
of highest return on habitat development activities, dispersion of pollutants, etc. Such data are usually
acquired through remote sensing of the environment from a platform such as a satellite, or aircraft.
The aerial photographs or images of digital information transmitted from a satellite are then
"processed" manually or statistically to make them meaningful for aiding the achievement of the goals
of the project. Perhaps the greatest failures of GIS technology lie not in the technology but in the failure
of the resource scientists familiar with the area of interest, to educate both the image (ground truthing),
as well as the computer scientist who provides the image and does the initial processing. Lack of precise
communication at this point can lead to expensive but useless products whose categories are meaningless
in terms of real habitat or forest types.
Forestry applications of GIS are now more common. Forest inventory, infrastructure, wildlife
habitat, geotechnically suitable sites for extraction activities, and other themes can be overlaid. Likewise,
the least expensive environmentally acceptable travelsheds can be spread over a compartment, silvicultural
treatments allocated, and other analyses performed of use to foresters. Graphic output can include hard
copy maps or digital files.
Other environmental applications of GIS of particular use in the conservation of biological
diversity are emerging. One common problem is in inventorying valuable resources such as endangered
species. Often they are fugitive, furtive, and their ranges are not fully known. In one application which
involved assessing impacts (in this case of roads) to one such important but poorly located species, field
studies were conducted on twenty habitat variables such as vegetation type, and distance from water, at
the few known population sites.
Statistical analyses revealed that only four of the environmental features contributed to the
presence of the bird on its mating display grounds-the critical environmental requirement in its annual
cycle. These four map variables were overlayed and the priority areas for habitat preservation were
predicted. Furthermore, forest succession and encroachment due to effective fire control efforts were
predicted and the habitat losses due to the loss of open mating grounds were also predicted for twenty
years.
Another use of the GIS was in predicting the impacts of poaching due to the siting of a mine in
a rich wildlife area. Surveys revealed that people would travel up to two hours to recreate and a
"travelshed" of two hours on three different grades of roads and trails was created by the GIS. The
travelshed was overlain on key habitat and revealed that only 3 percent of the area described by drawing



ANNEX 4
- 52 -                               Page 2 of 7
a circle of two hours travel at 80 kph (the traditional method) needed to be ;,atrolled. The GIS analysis
produced an efficient focus of effort and savings of project money.
II. SYSTEM SELECTION
The acquisition of a GIS will, to a degree, lock the IBL and the Forestry Department into the
hardware and software system selected. It must be able to satisfy the requirements of the Department
while being adaptable to future needs and compatible with the systems of related users (and sources of
data) in the Sudety Mountain area, Mazurian Lakes, for the proposed National Forest Development
Project and related national mapping agencies, and other resource agencies. An important step is
inventorying the activities and systems of other parts of Government. The next step is in conducting a
workload analysis.
This lays the groundwork for making appropriate choices which will have a long-lasting effect.
It reviews current uses which are being made of spatial information, projects future uses, and assesses
those uses which can be replaced by such an automated system as a GIS. How many maps are used for
how long? How many users? Are uses centralized or distributed? How many maps are created by the
different uses? How many overlays? The answers will reveal system requirements. Specifically, what
will need to be purchased, the supporting infrastructural requirements, and staff.
The product will be a five-year implementation plan with annual costs and progress- i.e., a life
cycle analysis. At this point the procurement people can craft a procurement contract and RFP for the
system, including the training necessary before operations can be productive. At that point the potential
vendors will provide considerable ad hoc planning advice. It should be stressed that although the process
will take several months and an initial pulse of money, the savings from the up-front planning are
inevitably considerable. As mentioned at the beginning of this Annex, the entire process must be closely
supervised by knowledgeable resource scientists-i.e., the users (the biologists and foresters), not only
the providers (vendors and programmers), or the system is guaranteed to be maladaptive. However, a
well-planned GIS is a proven and essential tool in the kit of today's resource planners and managers.
For example, the provision of GIS-aided impact assessment analysis by the National Ecology
Research Center of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service for Forest Plans of the U.S. Forest Service has
resulted in a 75 percent saving of time and money over traditional manual methods. Although the initial
tasks involve inventorying existing resources and capabilities and projecting the demands and uses of a
GIS, we have provided an initial estimate of such needs based upon our visits and discussions with the
likely users. These estimates will be useful in budget estimates now, but may require revision after the
systematic analyses conducted during the initial tasks.
III. A GIS AT BIALOWIEZA
Land Use Planning and Zoning. Some resources are, in part, spatially defined. These include
seasonal ranges of such wild animal species as the herbivores (e.g., cervids and bison), as well as other
important faunal elements upon which the ecosystem may depend-i.e., pollinators such as insects and
bats. The distribution of forest stands and unique plant and animal associations is also mapable. Land
use activities, physical features, cultural features are also mapable "themes". In support of the land use
planning activities elaborated in Annex II, these resources will need to be inventoried and mapped. The



ANNEX 4
- 53 -                               Page 3 of 7
GIS will assist in analyzing these resources and in planning their uses by "map modeling'-overlaying
them, spreading them onto each other, subtracting some from others, etc. Locating the resources is the
first requisite to planning for zones of their best uses.
Pollution Monitoring and Analysis. A GIS can be of immense value in projecting the dispersion
and attenuation of pollutants from a source. The GIS applications software 'spreads" the pollutants from
their sources and will complement the use of the data which are now being collected by researchers at
Bialowieza. The use of these spatial data will be coordinated with the land use planning described above.
For example, forest thinning where pollutants are projected to increase, placement of monitoring stations
where anayses indicate problems, the placement of research plots, the replacement of marginal
agricultural sites in heavily polluted areas, the location of the most viable candidate sites for protection
in the primeval protected area network, and other uses influenced by the projections of pollutants can be
materially assisted with inventive applications of the GIS.
Siting of Development Features. As the implementation of the land use plan occurs, the siting
of supporting infrastructure such as roads, tourist lodges, waste disposal/treatment facilities and other
such features which attend development can be assisted with a GIS.
Although numerous uses will be made of this analytic tool, those mentioned above are indicative.
The final point is the need to coordinate any GIS system development with the broader needs of the FRI
and the Forestry Department. It is critical that the system be reviewed and found suitable in outline by
the Forest Development Project planners.
GIS Work Plan, Level-of-Effort. and Budget
WORK PLAN
MONTH OF THE FIRST YEAR
TASK  ~1                  3   4   S   6   7   8   9   10  11  12
1. Inventory current activities/resources
2. Workload analysis
3. Implementation Plan-FRI/Bialowieza  
4. Review, Forestry Project coordination  
5. Facilities enhancement 
6. Secure equipment, imnager/photos/maps  = = = = * _ = = = =                        =
7. In-situ training_
S. Training tour                                                                        _
9. Initial analyses                  _             _ _ _ _         



ANNEX 4
- 54 -                                   Page 4 of 7
No. of          $     Total
COMPONENT                         Units   Cost/Unit     Cost
A. Initial Inventory of Maps, Mapping Activities, and
GIS Capabiities in Poland
(ro be conducted by Forest Reseach
Institute) - 2 months
B. Work Load Analysis and GIS Implementation Plan
Consultants:
Forest Ecologist/Land Use Planner - 1 mo.
GIS (Land use and forestry experience) - 2
mo.
TOTAL for Item B                                     39,000
C. Computer Hardware
1. 486 PC                                        2          7,000    14,000
2. Hi-resolution Color Monitor                    2         1,500     3,000
3. Intemal Backup Tape Device                     1         1,500     1,500
4. Digitizing Tablet 36 x 48' w/ lec. pedestal    1         5,000     5,000
5. Color plotter 8-pen, 36" width                 1         4,500     4,500
6. Laser Printer                                  1         2,500     2,500
7. Uniterruptable Power Supply (UPS)              2           750     1,500
8. Additional Serial & Parallel Cables                                  300
9. Supplies (paper, plotter, pens, etc. for 2 yrs)
TOTAL for Item C                                             42,300
E. Imagery, Geocoding, and Digital Merging
TM Imagery Data                                   2         4,350     8,700
TM Geocoding                                      2           900     1,800
SPOT Imagery Data                                 3         2,450     7,350
SPOT Special Aquisition                           3           600     1,800
SPOT Geocoding                                    3           900     2,700
SPOT Digital Mosaic                               3      600/edge     1,800
TM/SPOT Merge                                     1         3,000     3
TOTAL for Item E                                             27,150
F. Change Detection
Digital Change Detection                          1         2,000     2,000
GIS Data Conversion                               1           250       o
TOTAL for Item F                                              2,250
G. Photographic Prints and Processing
TM                                                2         2,300     4,600
TM/SPOT Merge 1:50,000                            5         1,200     6,000
Land Cover Classification                         3         1,500     4
TOTAL for Item G                                             15,100
H. Computer Software
Arc/Info GIS                                      1         6,000     6,000
1. Air Fare and Related Expenses
Assumes 2 Int'l trips, 75 Travel Days"                               35,000
J. System Training
Consultant for 2 months including workshops                          27,000
TOTAL                                                       193,800
*   A Unix system may also be considered, as it provides additional power at marginal cost increase.
The consultant would review with IBL the final choice of equipment most suited for long term needs.
** Two study tours (Task 8) are not budgeted here but in the Training



ANNEX I
55                                 Page 5 of 7
Therefore, a working GIS unit within the Forest Research Institute/Bialowieza Station, would
require about $193,800 to achieve a GIS capability. This cost may increase by some $10,000 if the IBL
and the Consultant concur that a somewhat more powerful UNIX system is appropriate.
This does not include an image processing capability. Image processing of digital data from
satellites is an esoteric activity quite removed from the interests and capabilities of the Forest
Department/FRI. It should be the function of the Survey and Mapping Agencies of Government, or
contracted from, for example, EOSAT at about $8,000/TM image.



- 56 -



ANNEX 4
- 57 -                            Page 6 of 7
A GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION SYSTEM
FOR THE CONSERVATION OF BIOLOGICAL RESOURCES
IN THE SUDETY REGION OF POLAND
I. BACKGROUND
The montane regions of Southwestern Poland are distinguished as reservoirs of an internationally
significant biological system characterized by a high level of endemism. These resources are threatened
by industrial pollutants from both domestic and transboundary sources. The important variables which
define this issue include:
* characteristics of the materials being burned;
* the climatic patterns which are agents of the distribution of pollutants;
* the location of the sources;
* the dispersion characteristics of the gases and particulates;
* the relative vulnerability of the different forest systems;
* and the seasonal variation in these factors.
These variables need to be understood to project future impacts, to understand the mechanisms
of pollutant action, and to take prophylactic and mitigative measures. Many of the variables are spatial
in nature-i.e., they can be mapped. A better understanding of their action and dispersion can be greatly
assisted by analysis which employs "map modeling" through the use of a Geographic Information System
(GIS). A fuller description of the elements and uses of such a technical tool provided in the treatment
of GIS at the Bialowieza Primeval Forest.
The acquistion of a GIS system for the needs of the BPF, can leverage the applications which can
be so useful in the Sudety. For example, if a compatible system is available at the Sudety, the two
systems can back each other up, do comparable analyses of similar phenomena which both Stations are
investigating like pollution dispersion, and will benefit from the specialized training which will need to
be imported from time to time. In a significant sense, there are large economies of scale which should
be taken advantage of.
II. SYSTEM CHARACTERISTICS
A workload analysis, similar to that suggested for Bialowieza, will target the hardware and
software requirements to which a Sudety GIS system must respond. The analsis can be added to the
Bialowieza's to achieve some savings in consultant travel and fees. Similarly, training would be
simultaneously attended by scientist/users of both systems. Because of the specific uses for dispersion
analysis, particle behaviour, etc., it is anticipated that some differences in applications and tailored
software development will occur. A library of existing dispersion models will need to be acquired which,
for example would include the U.S. EPA models.



ANNEX 4
- 58 -                                   Page 7 of 7
BUDGET
Budget assumptions and costs are largely presented in the discussion of the Bialowieza GIS. The
costs below are additional to Bialowieza estimates, and like them, are indicative for budgeting purposes.
We expect some revision after the workload analysis.
Component                         Cost (US$)
1.   An initial inventory of relevant literatue, data, models and
thematic maps.
A. FRI Station and Central Staff - 2 months              1,000
2.   Workload Analysis and Sudety Implementation Plan
A. Consultants: Forest Pathologist (0.5 months),
Meteorologist (0.5 months), GIS Specialist (I month)
40,000
Travel                                              14,000
3.   Computer Hardware
486 PC (with UNIX and DOS), color monitor,
digitizing tablet, color plotter, laser printer, UPS,
supplies                                            25,000
4.   Imagery, coding, merging                                 27,000
5.   Processing                                                3,000
6.   Software and training to be shared with BPF Station
TOTAL                                              120,000



ANNEXS
Page I of 8
POLAND
FOREST BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION PROJECT
ECOLOGICAL FARMING IN THE BIALOWIEZA PRIMEVAL FORESI
1. INTRODUCTION
An estimated 450 small farmers, mostly part-time, operate farms within the Bialowieza Primeval
Forest. Primary production focuses on basic grains (wheat, rye), forage crops, and potatoes. Dairy and
pork production are the primary cash producers of most of the farmers, many who work as loggers in
the abutting forest. In a small portion of the southern portion of the Park (see Map 2), the use of
chemical fertilizer and pesticides is forbidden. This project component would widen this practice and
provide technical assistance and cash incentives as necessary to farmers to shift from chemicals to
ecological agriculture.
Objectives:
To study the impact in the Bialowieza Primeval Forest of changing from conventional farming
methods to ecological agrochemical-free farming methods on small family farms on:
A. farm yields, farm income, and farm employment;
B.  soil, water, and product quality; and
C. To estimate and compare the costs of these two farming systems on farms in the
Bialowieza Primeval Forest
11. BACKGROUND
In recent years, agricultural technology which depends substantially on chemical inputs and
fossil fuels as a means of increasing yields and quality of produce, or maintaining already high levels of
yield and quality, has become under review. The main focus of this review has been in the industrialized
countries of Western Europe, the United States, and Japan, due largely to concerns about pollution of soil
and groundwater, but also to fears of chemical residues in food which may affect human health.
Consequently, there has been a search for alternative approaches to sustaining agricultural, and
particularly food production. Attenition has been directed principally to farming based on organic
measures to maintain soil fertility, and to biological or physical means of controlling pests, diseases, and
weeds.  Various labels have been attached to this type of agricultural technology:  ecological
agriculture is synonymous with organic farming which is defined precisely by the International
Federation of Organic Agricultural Movements (1FOAM). While not yet widely practiced by a large
number of farmers, this movement is spreading and claims as to its potential are being made by its
proponents.    Consumer demand  for products  grown  organically  is  also  increasing  in
Poland,(especially by hospitals and clinics in Krakow, Katowice and Wroclaw), and some markets now
have special sections for organic produce, often at premium prices. It is important to distinguish



ANNEX 5
- 60 -                                Page2of8
organic food, produced entirely without the use of synthetic chemicals, from that ambiguously labelled
healthy food which may (or may not) be grown with chemical inputs.
Because some of the alleged benefits are difficult to document or have been inadequately
studied, skepticism has been expressed concerning these claims. There are fears that, if such claims are
accepted at their face value by farmers in a very competitive economic environment, they may lead to
cut backs in their already low levels of fertilizer and pesticide use, making it difficult if not impossible
to maintain their living standards during the difficult adjustment period in the agricultural sector of
Poland.
Moreover, it is of paramount importance that ecological farming is economically viable for the
producer.
Ecological Agriculture in the Bialowieza Buffer Zone
As concern about environmental damage increases in the Bialowieza Primeval Forest, the role
of current conventional agriculture, as a contributor to environmental pollution and degradation of the
natural resource base, requires further attention. Attempts are now being made to quantify and value
these external costs in order to reflect a more realistic economic framework with which to compare
conventional and ecological farming systems.
There are a number of local ecological societies and action groups in Poland, and a desire to
prevent further environmental degradation. One important consequence of this spontaneous development
is an increasing demand for foodstuffs produced without chemicals on healthy land and ad hoc small
markets for food certified as organic are evolving spontaneously. Similarly, there is a corresponding
movement on the part of a small number of farmers towards ecological farming, mainly through the
medium of an organization known as Ekoland.
Ekoland is a small organization of ecological farmers in Poland, and of academics teaching
and researching in ecological farming methods. Established unofficially in 1982 on the initiative of a
Professor at Warsaw Agricultural University, it was registered formally in 1989 following political
changes. Ekoland promotes ecological farming, registers and certifies genuine organic farms according
to IFOAM standards, and has established a reputable trademark for their products. Ekoland is reported
as having 190 members in mid-1990, and there is a waiting list for new entrants who have to undergo
a conversion period under supervision before their produce can be registered.
Conversion Issues
Two major problems would face farmers in the Bialowieza shifting to ecological agricultural
practices: a lack of financing during the difficult conversion period when former chemical-boosted yields
are reduced and the still-uncertified farms are not eligible for price premiums, and a lack of organized
markets for their produce.
Despite an apparently considerable demand, markets for registered organic products are not
organized or monitored. Consequently, farmers may fail to realize their full price potential and are open
to competition from imitators.



ANNEX5
- 61-                                Page 3 of 8
Costs of Conversion
An even more critical problem affecting the progressive expansion of ecological farming, and
one which is of crucial importance to the survival of such farmers, is the initial impact on yields of
switching from predominantly agrochemical inputs to nonchemical methods of growing crops and feeding
livestock.
Evidence suggests that yields fall substantially once synthetic chemicals are excluded from the
farm and take several years to be restored to comparable levels. Similarly, profits are reduced because
premium prices for produce are not available during conversion. In some cases, it seems probable that
farmers would have gone bankrupt had it not been for off-farm employment. Cereal yields seem to have
been most seriously reduced, by up to 30 percent, but no crop is immune. One farmer reported that
growth of his young cherry trees was lagging about a year behind that of his neighbor's orchard,
although he had lost less trees from disease. Indeed, diseases or pests do not seem to have been a major
contributory factor to the reduction in yields, despite the substitution of chemical methods of control by
other approaches. Other reasons for the reduction in yields may include increased weed competition, and
nutrient deficiencies-especially of nitrogen on cereals.
Furthermore, it seems probable that lower purchased input costs are more than offset by the
combination of higher labor costs and initial lower yields, leading to net income loss during the
conversion period.
III. THE PROJECT COMPONENT
A. Objectives
-   To study the impact on farmers in the Bialowieza Primeval Forest of changing from
conventional to ecological farming methods on small family farms, on (a) farm yields,
farm income, and farm employment; and (b) soil, water, and product quality.
*   To estimate and compare the costs of these two farming systems in this buffer zone.
B.  Procedure and Methods
The project is designed as a 2-year program, with two principal stages:
Stage 1 - the establishment of baseline data, preliminary reports, review of farm
sampling and methodology
Stage 2 - collection of comparative data for analysis, preparation of a research report,
and conclusions concerning the future project implications of the results.



ANNEX S
- 62-                                  Page 4 of 8
Stage 1 (Year 1)
Establishment of Baseline Data
This would proceed as shown below:
1. Survey of the general environmental situation impacting farmers in the Bialowieza
buffer zone. Retrieval of data on the air, soil, and water environment of the sample
farms from the project supported mobile monitoring station.
2. Survey on a rapid rural appraisal basis to establish baseline data on the following
parameters:
*  Farm size
*  Key ecological data: soil type and pH, drainage, agroclimate and frost-free days,
altitude, slope, and aspect
*  Land use, farming system, and crop rotation, before and after change in farming
methods
*  Nature, levels, time, and methods of application of purchased inputs (fertilizer,
pesticides, fungicides, herbicides, seed dressings, animal feed, hormones, tractor
fuel, lime, etc.)
*  Farm livestock and system of management, before and after change
*  Crop and livestock yields, before and after change
*  Main sales of produce, before and after change
*  Location of main markets for organically grown produce
*  Family descriptions, size, composition, and education levels
*  Farm labor force: permanent, part-time, casual
3. Procedures for soil, water, and plant material sampling and analysis.
The following approach will be followed to permit meaningful collection and
analysis of different parameters without involving unnecessary details:
Soil:   Before taking soil samples, data will be collected and assessed to
establish a 5-year historical information base on the use of the land in
terms of cropping, livestock, fallow, etc., and the quantities of inputs
and output. All fields on each farm will thence be sampled twice a year:
in spring before seeding and in the autumn. Samples will be taken at
three levels: surface, topsoil (15 cm), and subsoil (30 cm). General



ANNEX 
- 63 -                                Page5of8
information on soil type is likely to be available from maps, and from
soil profiles if it is not. Mechanical composition, bulk density, particle
size, porosity, water-holding capacity, total soil carbon, organic matter
content, and microbiological activity will be determined. Chemical
analysis will include: pH; total, and available N and P; N03; K; Mg,
Ca; micronutrients; Pb, Cd, pesticide residues.
Water:  Leachate, runoff, and well water will be sampled three times a year in
early spring, autumn, and winter, from each farm. Infiltration rate will
be determined. Chemical analysis will cover the same elements as for
soil analysis. Well water will also be analyzed for microbiological
activity of significance to human health, e.g., E. coli.
Plant material:    Each crop will be sampled twice, once after germination in
the vegetative stage, and once at maturity both grain (or root
crop) and straw. The crops to be sampled will be specified
after the selection of farms. Dry mass will be determined
and chemical analysis will cover the same elements as for soil
analysis.
Health condition of crops:    These will be estimated from field inspection, and
sampling where essential to establish the nature of
a problem.
Analysis of soil and water quality will be undertaken by contracted research
institute or university staff at appropriate intervals as indicated above, in parallel with other
farm survey work, once the work on identifying and mapping of ecological farms has been
completed. This information will be incorporated into the baseline survey data base, and
sampling will continue at scheduled intervals in subsequent years.
Qualitative analysis of farm produce will be undertaken at harvest time in year 1,
and at appropriate intervals during storage and marketing thereafter for year 1 produce;
with similar procedures in subsequent years.
Consumer opinion surveys will be taken at appropriate intervals once established
outlets for organically grown produce have been identified.
C. The Proposed Work Program
The First Year (1992). January to April: Project Preparation
1. Identification, visiting, mapping, and categorization of farms in the Bialowieza
Primeval Forest; selection and mapping of participating farms using up-to-date soil and
land-use maps. Selection and development of agreements with farmers to participate
in the project.



ANNEX 5
Page 6 of 8
2. Establishment of an appropriate sample of participating farms (stratified, clustered, or
pooled) for detailed socioeconomic evaluation; and soil, water, and plant analysis.
3. Preparation of the questionnaire for rapid rural appraisal of participating farms.
4. Selection and training of enumerators and spot-checking questionnaire.
5. Finalizing arrangements for rapid rural appraisal, soil, water, and plant sampling and
analysis (meeting of project staff with external advisory panel).
The First Year (1992). May to September: Survey or Environmental and Baseline
Data
6. Collection of environmental data on sample farms from monitoring stations.
7. Collection of farm management and socioeconomic data from individual farm surveys.
8. Initial (spring) sampling of individual farms for soil, water, and plant analysis.
9. Fall sampling of individual farms for soil, water, and plant analysis.
The First Year (1992). September to December
10.    Analysis and interpretation of baseline farm management and socioeconomic data.
11.    Analysis and interpretation of soil, water, and plant sample data.
12.    Preparation of report on first year's results and implications for subsequent year's
work.
The Second Year (1993).
Three months:  Review and synthesis of results of first years work and discussion with
external advisory panel.
Preparation of final report, conclusions, policy implications, and
recommendations for developing a detailed program ecological farming
in the Bialowieza Primeval Forest.



ANNEX 5
- 65 -                                                 Page 7 of 8
D. Proposed Composition of the Project Team
Specialist in Ecological Methods of Food Production (Manager)  ... .. Polish
Agricultural Production Economist (Deputy Manager) . . External Consultant
Soil Scientist (Fertility Specialist)  ........................ Polish
Research Administrator   ..............................  Polish
Farm  Marketing Specialist .............................  Polish
Soil Hydrologist .......                  ...................   External Consultant
Agronomist .            ............................   External Consultant
3 Enumerators part-time (Farm  economic survey)  ....                           .......... Polish
Soil and water sampling and analytical team  (contract)  ...                       ........ Polish
III. DETAILED COST ESTIMATES
Base Costs           Including Contingencies
Ouantity             USS 'housands)             (USSThousands)
Foreign
1. INVESTMENT COSTS                               1992   1993   Total   1992    1993   Total   Exchange   Local   Total
A. Vehicles and Equipment
4WD Pickup                                       1      0        0       17       0       17          18        0      18
Personal Computer & Printer                      I      0        1 ....
Sub-Total                                                   21       0       21          22        0      22
B. Technical Advisory Panell                        I       1       2        8       8       15          16       0       16
C. External Specialise
Fees                                            23     11       34      23       44      34           26        0      36
Per Diem                                        12      6       18       12       6       18          19        0      19
Travel                                          12      9       21 -------2____ J9_    _2j_____ _2____                 _,2
Sub-Total                                                   47      26       73          78        0      78
D. Local Experts3
Salary SupplementslFees                          I       1       2       16      16      33            0       42      42
Per Diem                                         I       1       2       5        5       10           0       13      13
Travel                                           I    1          22.....A...._-
Sub-Total                                                   23      23       47           0       60      60
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                            99      57      156          116      60      176
n. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Vehicle Maintenance                              I      1        2       3        3       6            0        8       8
B. Enumerators4                                     I       1       2       3        3       5            0        6       6
C. Analysis of Samples5                             1       1       2       15      15      30            0       38      38
D. Sundries                                         2      1        3       2        1       3            0        4       4
E. Report Production/Translation                    4      3        7        4       3       7            0        9       9
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                             26      24       51           0       65      65
TOTAL                                                                       12       X1    2X17          116      12g     2A1
I Three external advisors: Agricultural Economist, Soil Chemist and Sociologist
2 Mkt. Econ. (Year I - 2 months, Year 2 - 2 months), Agronomist (Year 1 - I month, Year 2- I month)
3 500/month x 6 months x 4 persons, $250/month x 6 months x 3 persons
4 Five enumerators (Farm Economic Survey)
5 Soil, Water and Plant sampling team (contract)



ANNEX 5
Page 8 of 8
- 66 -
POLAND
FOREST BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION PROJECT
BIALOWIEZA PRIMEVAL FOREST
POPULATION STRUCTURE BY SOURCE OF INCOME
OMINA       TOTAL             NON-FARM           FARM                         SOCLkL BENEFITS
rYEAR   POPULATION                                                I
OF WHICH HAVE ADDlllONAL
AS                    INCOME
TOTAL   PERCENTAGE
TOTAL    FARMER    TOTAL                    OF TOTAL    TOTAL        ON           AS
WORKERS                                                   FARM   PERCENTAGE
_______     -    -                     _____                OF  TO~~~~~~~TAL
BIALOWIEZA
1978  j        3512      1552          255       390      1960             56        157     151              96
1918  j        3327      1273          291       198      2054             62       212      201              95
HAJNOVAA
1978           5900      3389          562      2358      2511             43        109     102              94
1988           5338      2799          562      1813      2539             48        681     676              99
NAREW
1978  T        6641      3725          183      3130      2916             44        80       78              98
19SS1          5530127961              184J  2225127341                    4         77117671                 99
NAREWKA
1978           6118      3382          672      1964      2736             45        161      155             96
1938           5226      2660          612      1381      2566             49        551     542              98



ANNEX 6
- 67 -                               Page 1 of I
POLAND
FOREST BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION PROJECT
INSTITUTIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES
I.  Conservation of Biological Diversity of the Ecosystem of the BPF
A. Risk Assessment - IBL
B. Seed/Plant Collection - GDSF and IBL
C. In-situ Conservation of trees, shrubs and herbaceous plants - GDSF and IBL
D. Determination of Genetic Diversity - IBL
E. Field and Laboratory activities - IBL
F. Training - GDSF and IBL
II. Protection and Management
A. Protected Area Expansion - MENRPF (Minister)
B. Conservation Planning - MENPRF
C. Applied Research - IBL and Agricultural Academy (Warsaw) and other scientific
institutions selected by recipient
D. Environmental Impact Assessment - IBL
E. Man and the Biosphere, Secretariat at Bialowieza - IBL
II. Pollution Monitoring and Mitigation
IBL and State Inspectorate for Environmental Protection of MEPNRF
IV.  Ecological Agriculture
MENPRF and Ministry of Agriculture with support from scientific institutions
V.  Scientific Cooperation with the Republic of Belarus
IBL and other scientific institutions
VI.  Bielowieza Primeval Forest Foundation
Bialowieza Foundation Board
VII. Sudety Biodiversitv Protection
A. GIS - IBL
B. Planning for Forest Biodiversity Conservation - GDSF and IBL
C. Seed Collections - GDSF and IBL
D. Vegetative Propagation - GDSF and IBL
E. Forest Gene Bank - GDSF and IBL
F. Air Pollution Monitoring - State Inspectorate for Environmental Protection of MEPNRF,
GDSF and IBL
G. Scientific Cooperation with the Czech and Slovak Republics - IBL and other scientific
institutions



- 68 -



ANNEX7
-69-                                Page I of 4
POLAND
FOREST BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION PROJECT
GEF PROPOSED PROGRAM FOR THE BELARUS SEGMENT
OF THE BIALOWIEZA PRIMEVAL FOREST
I. OBJECTIVES
The Bialowieza Primeval Forest (BPF) is the last remnant of a vast continental forest type which
covered Europe after the last continental glaciers receded about 10,000 years ago. It is significant as the
home of early European man and the ecosystem which supported him. His institutions, material culture,
behavior, and technology were molded by this environment, now only found in this remnant patch of
about 1,500 square kilometers of which only 20 km2 is strictly protected and essentially unmodified.
Although the forests were still largely intact in the Middle Ages, requirements for food and fiber extended
those areas largely modified by humans. By the 12th century, the primitive cow or auroch was extinct
in France, and by the 16th century it was found only in the Bialowieza with the rapidly disappearing
European bison, and tarpan (Przewalski's) horse. By the 18th century the need for ship timbers and
masts had caused the disappearance of most of the best old growth forests. Schools of Forestry appeared
in France and Germany to redress the unsustainable uses of forest resources. This Project is the latest
initiative in this effort to insure the sustainability of the forest resource.
Although 58,000 ha (the area of primeval forest in Poland) seems like a large tract of land, it
is not quite 600 km2, about the area needed to sustain one pack of wolves at average densities of one
wolf/150 km2. Only two wolves were regularly observed in the Polish BPF. Similarly for the very rare
European lynx. Furthermore, the edge to total area ratio renders the protected area vulnerable to
catastrophe such as windfall or fire. The small area under strict protection in Poland currently houses
only 40 of the 113 natural plant associations known for the area. Other than its importance in archiving
elements of a disappearing natural system, it is likely that a much wider range of plant species than is
now protected is required for the foraging of the European bison. One study catalogued nearly 350 plant
species in the diet of the bison at Bialowieza.
Two-thirds of the 145,000 km2 forest is within the Republic of Belarus. Although the GEF
Project appraised by the team on the Polish side will be important to the continued existence of the BPF
and stands alone (i.e., does not depend on any further input to achieve its goals), the incorporation of the
forest resources on the Belarus side will significantly add to the value of the Project. The same basic
approach suggested for the Polish side is no less appropriate for the Belarus side. However, some
differences exist, such as a much poorer data base. The program suggested below accommodates such
differences.
As noted in 3.08 (and above), the BPF is a truly transnational as well as global resource. The
suggestions which follow provide for stimulating coordinated planning and management on this basis
through the MaB vehicle, and joint research and planning structures. A detailed investment program
will await the initial deliberations of the Joint Polish/Belarus Scientific Committee on the Bialowieza
Primeval Forest. They would take place no later than July 31, 1992, at which time the program will also
be finalized. Based upon the Appraisal of October, 1991, full details of the following activities will be
developed and costs refined.



ANNEX 7
- 70 -                                 Page 2 of 4
The Appraisal Team assessed the requirements of a Project for the Polish side of the BPF. We
understand that the local forest management and forest research administration feel strongly about the
need for such joint bilateral coordination to achieve an effective research, planning and management
approach for the BPF. They had just initiated such joint technical meetings at the local level prior to our
Appraisal.
H. ASSUMPTIONS
The basic premise of the Bialowieza program as devised by Government (and reviewed by the
Appraisal team) is the importance of treating the forest as a whole integrated system (which it is), and
not as two political departments, 113 forest associations, or some other compartmentalized categorization
which may be administratively convenient but unmanageable. Since the forest occurs in both Poland and
the Republic of Belarus, it is more realistic to devise a degree of cooperative planning and management
if the basic goal of preserving the unique forest is to be achieved. One researcher simply stated that most
research needed for managing the Polish BPF resources could only be done if it was conducted in the
whole forest which is currently divided by the border.
HI. DETAILED PROJECT DESIGN
The Project elements summarized below include the costs of consultants and their travel. Costs
are based on a 2-year life of project:
1) $85,000 Joint management structures will be discussed. These will be the permanent
institutional structures and arrangements which ensure that overall goals for the entire forest
are pursued without surrendering responsibilities - i.e. that suggestions and activities are
above individual, sectoral, or national styles or agendas, and beyond short-term time frames.
It will be useful to have a symmetrical MaB designation for each side. The Project will
support a MaB Secretariat for each side who will coordinate activities such as the hosting
of the Joint Scientific Committee, international coordination and publicity (with UNESCO
and other MaB programs), and land use planning-related activities. Some other joint
structures may need to be tested - enforcement for example. This funding will support the
MaB Secretariat (of two), travel, office, and consultants.
2) $125,000 Coordination of research which addresses the connections or common attributes
of the forest. Clearly, most research can not be conducted on only one side of the border.
The investigations might address biological topics such as seasonal migrations of bison, or
keystone' seed dispersers and pollinators such as the bats and insects. Investigations of
human uses of the forest and related transhumance, pollutants and other topics for
investigation will be supported by the Project. The studies of forest pattern and process,
human residents, and selected markets, will constitute a subset of the work described for the
Polish side, will employ student research, and will include the acquisition and maintenance
of equipment and a vehicle.
1/  Species which play a fundamentally important role in ecological processes which define/maintain a particular ecosystem,
without which it would experience a state change to a different system.



ANNEX 7
- 71-                                 Page 3 of 4
3) $65,000  The Project will support initial basic inventories of the wildland resources and
human ecology which are necessary on the Belarus side. Many years of research and
thousands of publications reflect a state of knowledge which can permit some initial land use
planning on the Polish side. However, very little is currently known about the nature and
disposition of natural resources on the eastern side of the border. This is an absolute
necessity for the development of symmetrical programs (of management, research,
protection, etc.). These inventories will require transport and maintenance, chemical
monitoring equipment, and field equipment to be for by the Project.
4) $35,000 Coordination of land use planning to permit treating viably sized working units
which would be too small if only the resources on one side of the border were treated, or
preserved. This is essential, for example, in planning the geometry of protected areas which
should reflect the minimum critical areas or habitat corridors required by some of the species
and forest associations, for viable hunting management, planning and marketing of tourism,
projection of privatization approaches, etc. The land use planning, including required
- hardware, analytic software, a data base manager, and staffing will be supported by the
project. Periodic information exchanges and public briefings/Scoping are also supported.
5) $200,000 Field trials of new land uses are going to constitute an important element in the
monitoring of the benefits of these interventions. They are also needed to iteratively "tune"
the treatments, and, possibly most important, to serve as demonstrations of the efficacy of
the new use to conservative resource managers who have been largely isolated from
developments in new types of sustainable land uses in topics of great significance to the
global environment. The Project will support such work in, for example, uneven-age,
natural regeneration, small-scale forestry, lo-input ecological agriculture, etc. At least 3
replicate treatments, with the required supporting technology transfer are envisioned at
present. This will establish variance and replicability, and the proof of the concepts which
are suggested by the applied research and land use planning. Included in the costs are
business management/microenterprise and marketing assistance where appropriate.
6) $275,000 This Project will foster technical collaboration with common or shared technical
resources which should be compatible. For example, the project needs to provide a similar
GIS/MIS and training to Belarus counterparts as it does for Polish scientists so that maps are
the same scale and match. In the absence of a genebank facility on the Belarus side, rare
genetic material should be stored at the Jarocin facility. The costs of a GIS and MIS, seed
collection/ interim storage, and pollution monitoring equipment are included.
7) $40,000   Under the auspices of the MaB Secretariat, an initial planning workshop
employing a integrative protocol such as the Integrated Planning Technology will be
supported to:
* initiate the identification of important human resources on both sides of the border;
* bring together scientists and planners from the West and both sides of the border;
* inventory and collate existing data; and
* focus on planning for a collaborative planning and management program.



ANNEX 7
- 72 -                               Page 4 of 4
The goals, concerns, and perceptions of the participants need to be identified early as a part
of the coordinated process supported by the Project. This seminal event will engage the
technical assistance available around the world as well as local interests and knowledge. The
meeting will take a week. This element of the GEF will support the meeting and 5
consultants.
8) $175,000 Each of the seven elements described above require a degree of training. study.
and professional development to ensure competence and a permanent legacy of the Project.
On-site training of local participants with the assistance of consultants is funded here. The
Project will also support such human development with study tours and shared educational
expenses. This element will support one Masters degree and seven study tours.



ANNEX-8
Page 1 of 2
POLAND
FOREST BlODIVERSIT PROTECTION PROJECT
THE PROPOSED CZECHOSLOVAKIANIPOLISH JOINT SCIENTIFC
-  SUDETY MOUNTAINS COMMITTEE
A small sum ($25,000) is included in this GEF project to cover travel, subsistence, honoraria,
organizational and meeting costs for semi-annual meetings and necessary follow-up publication costs of
work emanating from a proposed Joint Scientific Committee for the Sudety Mountains of Polish and
Czechoslovakian Specialists.
Rationale
The need for a Joint Scientific Committee reflects the commonality of issues in the Sudety
Mountains which is shared by the forest service, parks, research and land use planning authorities of both
nations. The issues are shared, the ecosystems are shared, there are economies of scale such as the
common use of a gene bank and opportunities exist to work cooperatively on problems which can not be
tackled alone.
The advantages of a coordinated effort can be illustrated by looking at the issue of the dying
forests on both sides of the border in the Sudety Mountains. Restoration in this transborder area will
eventually require the banked genetic material at the gene bank planned for the GEF Project at Jarocin,
Poland. Effective restoration will depend on process-related research in montane ecosystems in Czech
natural areas, since such work is not provided for in the Polish GEF project.
Such research will look at succession in the forest types, nutrient cycling, soil dynamics and other
rate-dependent phenomena important as goals for restoration work. Such data do not currently exist and
air pollution is erasing local baselines. Re-establishment of the forest will also depend on control of red
deer populations which move freely across the border and which will have to be cooperatively researched
and managed.
Economic efficiencies will also depend on cooperative working arrangements. Sharing the
nature/culture-based tourism will be important if a situation leading to the destructive competition
experienced between Kenya and Tanzania, for example is to be avoided. The natural units are not that
large. The natural attractions are located in both countries and tourists will not experience what they
might if they are precluded from seeing, for example, a herd of chamois located just across the border
in one of the countries. Skiing can utilize runs on the whole mountain rather than on one slope (the ski
"circus", or haute route concepts familiar in the alps of Western Europe).
The increasing ease of border crossing will facilitate such resource sharing for the greater good.
Ultimately, the client markets which have the hard currency to be shared by the two countries, will reflect
the greater enjoyment of an approach which uses the entire resource complex.
Proposed composition of the Joint Scientijfic Committee for the Sudety Mountains. The Joint
Scientific Committee for the Sudety Mountains (JSC) should have certain general characteristics. It
should embrace a minimum capability set which reflects the types of issues which it will address.



ANNEX 8
- 74 -                              Page 2 of 2
Therefore, it is recommended that it include a forester, wildlife biologist, environmental scientist,
agricultural scientist, land-use planner, sociologist/decision analyst, economist/microenterprise specialist
and recreation/parks planner from each country.
The JSC will be dealing with some new issues-from private enterprise to land-use planning and
impact analysis. Therefore, provision should be made for easy and regular access to global expertise.
One regular Committee member come from outside the two countries and be rotated as to skill and
source. It is also suggested that such a JSC structure be considered for each distinct resource set (i.e.,
a protected area or protected area complex in a region).
For the first two meetings, an Integrated Planning Technology is proposed to identify goals,
problems which might attend each goal, key questions which need to be answered to solve the problems
and data required to answer each key question identified. The initial two meetings will employ
consultants in the skill areas noted below, in addition to the regular members of the JSC. A facilitator
may also be used for the initial two meetings.
All regional JSC bodies should meet regularly, perhaps annually, to present progress, share
information, technology, prevent duplication and incompatible data sets, etc. The "European Trust for
the Conservation of Nature and Culture" in Eastern and Central Europe would be a suitable venue for
such integrated plenary meetings. The products of the JSC will be contributions to land-use plans, quality
assessment and quality control.
The Polish GEF could use the results of some specific research to take full advantage of the
banked genetic material on which so much emphasis has been placed. The Czech GEF could help with
its provision. The Czech Project could benefit from using the gene bank and from the GIS-assisted land-
use planning for the buffer areas to protected sites. These can be assisted by the Polish GEF Project.
The JSC is the bilateral vehicle for such scientific coordination.



ANNEX 9
Page I of 2
POLAND
FOREST BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION PROJECT
PROPOSED SUPERVISION PLAN
Supervision Program for the Project
With the number of innovative components in this Project being implemented in a short time
frame, a wider and more intensive program of supervision is proposed than is commonly applied in Bank
Projects. For example, the life of this GEF Project is only 2 years, rendering the Annual Project Review
less meaningful. Also, its thrust differs somewhat from the normal concerns of the implementing Agency
(Forestry). This will probably not be unusual for such relatively new technical concerns as biological
diversity in many areas of the world which most require such efforts. The normal checks and balances
and quality assessment mechanisms of such agencies may be unfamiliar with the novel elements of such
Projects, and may therefore benefit disproportionately from Bank supervision activities.
As was the case with the response to the Environmental Impact Assessment requirements of the
initial U.S. law of 1969 (NEPA), there is the distinct danger of a paper blizzard with lots of raw data but
little analysis and useful synthesis. The Supervision Plan suggested is more frequent (three times per
year) as well as more scientifically oriented compared to the normal schedule of semi-annual
staff/consultant efforts in regular Bank projects. The scheduled supervision visits respond to milestones
proposed in the Project.
The skill mix proposed in the table below is tentative, but suggests that the initial consultants or
scientists with similar skills be employed to work with the Task Manager-all of whom worked on the
initial documentation (Appraisal). The rationale is driven by the desirability of comparing progress or
unanticipated changes against the conceptual baseline at Project development. The requirement is to
maintain the vision of the goals of the Project while avoiding rigid adherence to the original design if
changes are warranted.
Staff Weeks              Staff Weeks       Staff Weeks
Proposed Staffing Pattern    April   July    Oct.   April   July    Sept.   June 1994
1992    1992    1992    1993    1993    1993    Wrap-up
Task Manager                2        2       2       2        2       2         2
Forest Ecologist            2        1       1       1        1       1         1
Forest Geneticist           ^        2       1       2        2       1         1
GIS Specialist (Trust Fund)  I      -       -        1       -       -          -
Ecological Farning Specialist  1     1      -        1        1       1
(Trust Fund)
Gene Bank Specialist        2        1       1       1        1       1
(Trust Fund)
Wildlife Specialist        -         1      -       -         1      -          -
Proposed Supervision     10       8        5       8       8       6          4
Staff/Weeks



ANNEX9
-76-                                 Page 2 of 2
Three supervision missions are planned for each year of the proposed two year project
implementation period (estimated at 2 weeks each, with 1 week of report writing upon return). Each of
these missions should have the flexibility to adapt to the conditions at the time. The Core Team would
include the Task Manager, the forest ecologist, and the forest genetics specialist supplemented by
additional scientists. The first supervision is proposed for April, 1992. At this critical juncture, the
initial Joint Scientific Committee (Czechoslovakia-Poland) workshop would be held, equipment and
infrastructure procurement would be underway, the MAB staff at Bialowieza would be finalized, the GIS
implementation plan completed, and the applied research initiated. The second supervision mission will
take place in July, 1992 when the work is largely in progress, and the initial JSC meeting with Belarus
counterparts would be scheduled. The penultimate supervision mission would occur in September, 1993
for the End-of-Phase I meeting which will summarize progress, and the land use demonstrations are just
underway.
The proposed budget for this intensive supervision work is 49 staff weeks, 23 staff weeks for
1992, 22 staff weeks for 1993 and 4 staff weeks for the wrap up work in 1994. The estimated total
supervision cost is estimated at $75,000 for 1992, $70,000 for 1993 and $16,000 for 1994, for a total
supervision cost estimate of approximately $160,000 (inclusive of staff costs, consultant fees, travel and
subsistence) according the detailed program outlined in the matrix above. The Division expects at a
minimum of 20 staff weeks of the specific scientific supervision work on the GIS, Ecological Agriculture
and air and water monitoring work would be eligible for Trust Fund support. This would leave a direct
supervision charge of 29 weeks, which is in line with regular GEF supervision co-efficients on an
annualized basis (12 staff weeks per annum).



-mo



a



0
ii






MAP SECTION



a



*. 15  I5502C-                                           72>      t                    2-                      |                                                               IER 2337U72
RUSSIAN                                                      /                               POLAND
FEDERATION                       L I T H U A N I A                                 FOREST BIODIVERSITY
PROTECTION PROJECT
\1 . eSt JPSK--- G6too ~_ _B_ 5 roK<X~|$ JPROJECT AREAS
5^    Stolword   q        . ~~~~K057ALIN                                     LLG P             9                           SUWALKI?              -
> > S                               .+  )        t             _                  A                           X  _   <    ggb_3t; V.lr:Ws                                                                 ZONES OF BIODIVERSIIY PROTECTION.
PHASE I
|  5: DSZCZECIN    J               /?-a                            o     E \           -     ~            5     - /   /   SJ         0       4PEPHASE 11
(                                                                                                                                                                                     _K       -AIN RO ~-  -     M    ROADS    MAJOR PORTS
,,> ;C ; 0; 0 i _ iRZOW                                                                            CA> -EVCHS9AE
RAILROADS                       -- \ - RIVERS
W t O C t A W E K 1 ;   n  t   h   t   ( )   . 1   I R Y B U N A L S K I . k s  )                               N O R Y                 _AIR P O R T S       C A N A L S
RSAW                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NATIONAL CAPITAL
52,                                                                                                                              32,          (D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~         ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ PROVINCE CAPITALS  PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
O    CITIES AND TOWNS         -        INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
| _ = 0         GO           >                        ;            ;                       -                       w          D           ~                     s          E         ONRANO
KC,,H.~~~~~~~~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~ ~~                                                                         ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - --? |  SWDE 7    >>J Q|0t4 N DLATV
SIE                                       CZ                               C              UKRAIN ;2              DENMR)K
R L) BUNALSKI;L<5<                                                                                                                                  ;\   RAE  ESTONICA~-7
g A <Wt __ , NOC%{ZY _ Lf S i               wu LI8                                                                                                                                             RUSSNUB LIT   j  S
LEG  C ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FDRTO~                                                                             FEEATO
',~~~~~~JEI~~~~~~.ECEN                                                                                                                                         SWELENUSATVI
00                 A0  ,ND- .                                                                                 .K.,         ...                                                      , _rt   
6~~~Ll~~~STOCIOSN                                                                                              RPULW SC             L ITHVANK
~lLOME5E,                                                    SLOACK/2- '    REPUBLIC < 9.ts  -y   OAI 
_____________________________                                                                       ~                                                                        USTRIARUNGIAR
~~gRAI~FEDER
CZECH  REPUBLICIn SL.VA    R                                                                      r                                                                       ITALY        :                   R   'D
t. ~ ~  ~         ~         ~         ~       ~T AUST                I                                                                                                      -3 .  'I ,Ro2'    7   ERZEGOaNA VUGvOSLAVIA._  .-EVAE I-A
UKRAIN E__






BRD 23310R2
Z=l<-cny    f7   _____Hrynb W,.lki    -                                         NORWAY                                         ESTONIA
<KaLonnat- 0s \- ~~~~-~~ K \- - Kaonno < ' ' ~~~~ ' ~~ < ' RUSSIAN
;-'~-- K>onno -tuL=--.-K.  .     j\   ....   _ Suy   -=  'SEN                               arA          FEDERATION
Ncrew ~   ~     ~      - ,                                                   loooo ,                                                W;einwc 1-/ '% zldzeii~  L O- 0. FFEAIN>                                      .
'-- \---                                                                            wLow                                                                           SWEDEN                         LAtVIa
. < ~     ~     ~            ~~~              ,.. '                                                                                                                            RESSI*Nc                        K. <; t (  z.-.~j/i< RPBI   zS*
DuUnyS- ,ea, ooLiowyCiod.   C:n   .                                 -     i         <                      f*o kaDf6,                         FED_    ITHUANI
--_ -]I;wk > 00< 1 -t>\t_ f _ NATINALoPARK -   .-  s -   /    _i   _   S   4s,  I                \---r-
G    irnc J3 on Sm    +-L-           S              ~                                                                                                                             ~~                ! _ \ .      .  /$ \ _ . Io  .~  By \<iELA ELAUS 
/  \ w-S  _   ,;                                                                                                   )       N      ,Olkh-ki  /                           0  L A_O9D
LoS    /     r,f_ 'R0                              ] N;. 't,  OIkoo Biowez                                                                                                                         PO_, /L    N._PO AN
II  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~          ~~~~~ ~GERMANY
CZECH                           ~~~~~~~~UKRAiNE
,,-aOC      N                                                                                                                                                             CZECH -K  !  . -  .
/N. Ore;K-m    _Y,          ..  oyB                          l\      .     ,_
AUSTRIA -R                                          C-
'         Uo .,oo'yGd i/>oo~.                                                                   ~                                                 ~. 5_T                HUOADSY
6ib;y/
ROMAN IA
ITALY            -
,    >  Slcrzvno  ~~  _ ~               /                           _       ._ _ _  _               \                     _                                                         --A PAR  INENTONA 30UDAR
EOSNIA AND'O   -.-
____                                                                            POLAND           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ERZEGOVINA5I~EGOSLAVI.~   ~
FOREST BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION PROJECT
BIALOWIEZA PRIMEVAL FOREST
PROTECTION AREA                                    ___-ROADS
RAILROADS
F-                                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EXISTING PROTECTED RESERVESIVR
K~~yn.oAo          ' ~~PROPOSED PROTECTED RESERVES                         -      TOWNS AND VILLAGES
---INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY
PROTECTED TREE SEED STANDS
RESERVES OF BISON, WILD HORSES, AND ELKS
MODEL SOIL AREA
Omiel miec  Swinie ~  E ozL6oo -j                                                                 Chidm-y-Noo_n                                         e                    ILOMETYRS
' Chid,y-SN-                                            U1E                            DRI
00                                                                                             ~~              ~~             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  5     ID1
I Ooo,Lo~~~~~                Podoom.s      )ChoorySOE
D--i...
SEPTYS-R 199









THE GEF ADMINISTRATOR
c/o WORLD BANK
1818 H STREET, NW
WASHINGTON, DC 20433 USA
U
WORLD BANK
THE WORLD BANK GEF COORDINATOR
ENVIRONMENT DEPARTMENT
1818 H STREET, NW
WASHINGTON, DC 20433 USA
1LiLL2
UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME
GEF/TECHNICAL ADVISORY DIVISION
UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME
ONE UNITED NATIONS PLAZA
NEW YORK, NY 10017 USA
UNITED NATIONS
ENVIRONMENT PROGRAMME
GEF/UNEP
c/o CLEARING HOUSE
P.O. BOX 30552
NAIROBI, KENYA



