Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 67744 - MR
EMERGENCY PROJECT PAPER
ON
A PROPOSED GRANT
FROM THE FOOD PRICE CRISIS RESPONSE CORE
MULTI DONOR TRUST FUND (FPCR-MDTF)
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$5 MILLION
AND
A PROPOSED ADDITIONAL GRANT
FROM THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.4 MILLION
(US$5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
FOR AN
INTEGRATED DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM FOR IRRIGATED
AGRICULTURE (PHASE II) PROJECT - (PDIAIM II)
July 6, 2012
Agriculture and Rural Development Unit
Sustainable Development Department
Country Department AFCF1
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank
authorization.


﻿CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 31, 2012)
Currency Unit = Mauritanian Ouguiya
MRO 293.00 = US$ 1
US$1.51025 = SDR 1
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  -   December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AF          Additional Financing
APL         Adaptable Program Loan
BP          World Bank Policy
CAADP       Comprehensive Africa Agriculture Development Program
CAIE        Livestock inputs central procurement unit (Centrale d'Achat des Intrants
d'Elevage)
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
CFAA        Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CDR         Regional Development Committee (Comit de Diveloppement Rfgiona[)
CPAR        Country Procurement Assessment Review
CRSCA       Regional Agriculture Committee (Comiti Rdgional de Suivi de la Campagne
Agricole)
CSA         Food Security Commission (Commissariat i la Scurit Alimentaire)
ESMF        Environment and Social Management Framework
FAO         Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FCPMF       Food Crisis Prevention and Management Framework
FM          Financial Management
FPCR-TF     Food Price Crisis Response Trust Fund
GFRP        Global Food Crisis Response Program
IDA         International Development Association
ISN         Interim Strategy Note
M&E         Monitoring and Evaluation
MDR         Ministry for Rural Development (Ministere du Diveloppement Rural)
MDR-DA      Ministry for Rural Development-Agriculture Directorate
MDR-DE      Ministry for Rural Development-Livestock Directorate
MDR-DR      Ministry for Rural Development-Regional Delegation
MRO         Mauritanian Ouguiya
MT          Metric Ton
NGOs        Non-Governmental Organizations
OMVS        Organisation pour la Mise en Valeur du fleuve S6n6gal
OP          Operational Policy
PCU         Project Coordination Unit
i


﻿PDIAIM II   Second Phase of the Integrated Development Program for Irrigated Agriculture
(Deuxieme Phase du Projet de Diveloppement Intigrd de l'Agriculture Irrigude)
PDO         Project Development Objective
PEFA        Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability
PIM         Project Implementation Manual
PMP         Pest Management Plan
PNIA/SA     National Agriculture and Food Security Investment Program (Programme
National d'Investissements Agricoles et de Scuriti Alimentaire)
PPR         Small Ruminants' Plague (Peste des Petits Ruminants)
PRECASP Public Sector Capacity Building Project (Projet de Renforcement des Capacits du
Secteur Public)
SAVS Village Level Food Security Stocks (Stocks Alimentaires Villageois de Scuritd)
SONIMEX National Import and Export Corporation (Socidtd Nationale d'Importation et
d'Exportation)
SNDR        National Rural Development Strategy (Stratigie Nationale de Diveloppement
Rural)
SNSA National Food Security Strategy (Stratigie Nationale de Sicuriti Alimentaire)
TF          Trust Fund
UN          United Nations
UNDP        United Nations Development Program
UNHCR       United Nations High Commission for Refugees
UNICEF      United Nations Children's Fund
VMC         SAVS - Village Management Committee
WFP         World Food Programme
Vice President:   Makhtar Diop
Country Director:   Vera Songwe
Country Manager     Moctar Thiam
Acting Sector Manager:   Martien van Nieuwkoop
Task Team Leader:    Christian Berger
Hi


﻿
﻿ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
INTEGRATED DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM FOR IRRIGATED
AGRICULTURE (PHASE II) PROJECT (PDIAIM II)
EMERGENCY AND FOOD PRICE RESPONSE COMPONENT
CONTENTS
ADDITIONAL FINANCING DATA SHEET ....................................................................................IV
I.  INTRODUCTION    ....................................................................................................................................... 1
II. BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE FOR ADDITIONAL FINANCING...................................................... 2
III.  PROPOSED   CHANGES     ..................................................................................................................... 4
IV.  A PPRAISAL   SUM  MARY   ........................................................................................................................ 8
ANNEX 1: REVISED RESULTS FRAMEWORK AND MONITORING INDICATORS........................................ 12
ANNEX 2: OPERATIONAL RISK ASSESSMENT FRAMEWORK (ORAF)................................................ 18
ANNEX 3: DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF NEW PROJECT ACTIVITIES.................................................... 20
ANNEX 4: REVISED ESTIMATE OF PROJECT COSTS.............................................................................. 26
ANNEX 5: REVISED IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS AND SUPPORT ............................................... 28
111


﻿
﻿ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
INTEGRATED DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM FOR IRRIGATED
AGRICULTURE (PHASE II) PROJECT (PDIAIM II)
ADDITIONAL FINANCING DATA SHEET
Basic Information - Additional Financing (AF)
Country Director: Vera Songwe              Sectors: General Agriculture (80%),
Acting Sector Manager/Director:            Animal Production (20%)
Martien van Nieuwkoop/Jamal Saghir         Themes: Rural Services and
Team Leader: Christian Berger             Infrastructure (50%), Global Food
Project ID: P128994                        Crisis Response (50%)
Expected Effectiveness Date: August        Environmental category: B (partial
2012                                       assessment)
Lending Instrument: ERL                    Expected Closing Date: February 28,
Additional Financing Type: Modified /      2014
New activities
Basic Information - Original Project
Project ID: P088828                        Environmental category: A (full
assessment)
Project Name: Integrated Development       Expected Closing Date: September 30,
Program for Irrigated Agriculture          2012
(second phase)
Lending Instrument: APL                    Joint IFC: N/A
Joint Level: N/A
AF Project Financing Data
[ ] Loan  [ ] Credit  [X ] Grant  [ ] Guarantee  [X ] Other: FPCR-MDTF
Proposed terms: N/A
AF Financing Plan (US$m)
Source                             Total Amount (US $m)
Total Project Cost:                                       10.00
Cofinancing:
*  Global Food Price Response                          5.0
Program (FPCR-MDTF)
Borrower:                                               0.0
Total Bank Financing:
IDA                                                  5.0
New                                                5.0
Recommitted                                        0.0
iv


﻿Client Information
Recipient: Islamic Republic of Mauritania
Responsible Agency: Ministry of Rural Development
Contact Person: Baba Ould Soufi
Telephone No.: +222 45 25 12 66
Fax No.: +222 45 29 10 43
Email: soufi pdiaim(,yahoo.fr
AF Estimated Disbursements (Bank FY/US$m)
Estimated Disbursements IDA (Bank FY/US$m)
FY                              2013                      2014
Annual                          4.75                      0.25
Cumulative                      4.75                      5.00
Estimated Disbursements GFRP (Bank FY/US$m)
FY                              2013                      2014
Annual                          5.00                      0.00
Cumulative                      5.00                      5.00
Project Development Objective and Description
The PDO of this Additional Financing to PDIAIM II is to improve availability of critical
agricultural inputs and food staples for targeted beneficiaries.
The Project will intervene in ten administrative regions affected by the drought emergency
situation (Trarza, Brakna, Gorgol, Guidimaka, Hodh Chargui, Hodh Gharbi, Assaba, Tagant,
Adrar, Inchiri).
With the Additional Financing, a new Component E "Emergency and Food Price Response" will
be added to the on-going PDIAIM II, and resources will also be added to the existing
Component D of PDIAIM II for project management and coordination of this operation.
Component E - Emergency and Food Price Response (US$9 million, of which IDA support
is US$4 million and GFRP support is US$5 million) is (i) to support Agricultural and
Livestock Productivity Enhancement through the supply of agricultural inputs and livestock
sanitation against drought induced diseases, and (ii) to support the existing Food Safety Net by
providing access to cereal for vulnerable rural beneficiaries.
Component D - Project Administration (IDA support of US$1 million) will build on
institutional arrangements and trained management capacity already in place through the
existing Project Coordination Unit of PDIAIM II. It will also allow for studies aimed at
improving preparedness in dealing with food security issues.
An estimated number of 279,000 rural people, among whom approximately 40 percent female
are expected to benefit from the AF.
Safeguard and Exception to Policies
v


﻿Safeguard policies triggered:
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01)                        [X]Yes [ ] No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                [ ]Yes [X] No
Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                         [ ]Yes [X] No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                    [X]Yes [ ] No
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11)                     [ ]Yes [X] No
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10)                              [ ]Yes [X] No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                        [ ]Yes [X] No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                  [ ]Yes [X] No
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP 7.50)             [ ]Yes [X] No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60)                      [ ]Yes [X] No
Does the project require any waivers of Bank policies?       [ ]Yes [X] No
Have these been endorsed or approved by Bank management?     [ ]Yes [ ] No
Conditions and Legal Covenants:
Financing Agreement             Description of                 Date Due
Reference               Condition/Covenant
Article 4.01 (a)      The Recipient has adopted the    Prior to effectiveness
revised Project
Implementation Manual and
the revised Administrative and
Financial Management
Manual
Article 4.01 (b)       The recipient has appointed a   Prior to effectiveness
Procurement Specialist and an
Environmental & Social
Specialist at the PCU
Article 4.01 (c)       The GFRP Grant Agreement        Prior to effectiveness
has been executed and
delivered and all conditions
precedent to its effectiveness
or to the right of the Recipient
to make withdrawals under it
(other than the effectiveness
of this Agreement) have been
fulfilled
Schedule 2, Section I.A.4   Appointment of an internal     Not later than three (3)
auditor             months after effectiveness
vi


﻿Schedule 2, Section I.D.1 & 2  The ESMF and the PMP have   Before disbursement of
been updated and disclosed  corresponding funds and not
in-country and at the Bank's  later than three (3) months
Infoshop                after effectiveness
Schedule 2, Section II.B.4  Appointment of an external  Not later than four (4) months
auditor                after effectiveness
Schedule 2, Section IV.B.1 (a)  Retroactive financing may    After effectiveness
apply to eligible expenditures
for payments made prior to
the date of the financing
agreements but on or after
January 1s, 2012 up to an
aggregate amount not to
exceed forty percent of each
grant
Schedule 2, Section IV.B. 1 (c)  A service agreement has been  Before disbursement of
entered into with the CSA      corresponding funds
vii


﻿ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
INTEGRATED DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM FOR IRRIGATED
AGRICULTURE (PHASE II) PROJECT (PDIAIM II)
I. INTRODUCTION
1.    This Project Paper seeks the approval of the Executive Directors to provide an additional
financing IDA Grant in the amount of SDR 3.40 million (US$5 million equivalent) and a GFRP
Grant' from the FPCR-MDTF in the amount of US$5 million to the Integrated Development
Program for Irrigated Agriculture (Phase II) Project (PDIAIM II-P088828-IDA credit number
4043 MAU). The PDIAIM is a three phase APL which started in 2005 and helped develop the
irrigated agriculture in Senegal River valley with a focus on rice and horticulture. The second
phase is currently been completed with a closing date of September 30, 2012. The PDIAIM II
offers a convenient opportunity to fast-track the Bank's emergency response in drought affected
areas.
2.    The proposed Additional Financing (AF) is the Bank's response to the January 16, 2012
Government's request for assistance under the current drought situation in Mauritania. It will be
used to finance the activities under a new Emergency and Food Price Response Component that
will be added to the existing PDIAIM II Project. This new component will include two sub-
components which are: (i) Agricultural and Livestock Productivity Enhancement; and (ii)
Support to Food Safety Net.
3.    Activities financed under this new component will be in the form  of short-term
emergency assistance, including: (i) provision of agricultural inputs (such as fertilizers,
veterinary products and livestock vaccination) to targeted households of rice farmers and
herders; (ii) provision of a safety net to food insecure households through support to a network of
cereals stocks at village level; and (iii) increasing resources towards project management and
coordination, including the undertaking of studies aimed at improving preparedness in dealing
with food security issues.
4.    The Project is seeking to address major adverse economic and social impacts resulting
from the current crisis and supports part of the Government's programs to avert deterioration in
economic and social services in the face of drought emergency. This is done in close
coordination with other development partners including United Nations (UN) Agencies.
5.    In addition, the proposed Additional Financing will be used to initiate the preparation of
future agricultural investments with a view to continue developing the long term, supply side
response to the recurring food shortages in Mauritania.
1 A request submitted by AFTAR unit to the GFRP Secretariat on October 27, 2011 for the amount of US$5 million
has been processed and approved on December 12, 2011.
1


﻿II. BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE FOR ADDITIONAL FINANCING
A. COUNTRY CONTEXT
6.     The Sahel is currently experiencing a drought situation, which is severe in Mauritania
because of a rainfall deficit of 60 percent in 2011. According to the World Food Programme
(WFP)2, this is expected to result in a lower cereal production in the agro-pastoral and rain-fed
agricultural zones by about 50 percent compared to average and losses of up to two-thirds of
livestock. Furthermore, the increase in commodity world prices, notably for wheat, maize, sugar
and oils (wheat and rice being the most important commodities for the majority of Mauritanians)
is eroding consumers' purchasing power.
7.     A World Bank Disaster Risk Management team3 did a rapid assessment of the drought
impact and formulated an initial drought recovery plan. The latest WFP report4 indicates that
about 25 percent of households are food insecure (severe and moderate) in rural areas or nearly
700,000 people. The east and south part of the country are currently the most affected regions,
namely Hodh C/;argui, Guidimaka, Gorgol and Assaba. Acute food insecurity is expected in
2012, with a peak for emergency assistance between May and September 2012 .
8.     As a response to this, the Government of Mauritania has prepared an Emergency Plan
estimated at about US$157 million, to be implemented during year 2012. The Government
expects to fund up to US$83 million and raise US$74 million from donors. This plan named
EMEL 2012 includes three main components: (i) preventing human food insecurity through free
food distribution and access to subsidized food, (ii) providing health care for vulnerable groups
and children, and (iii) preserving livestock through imported feed supply, animal health measures
and access to water points. The following table gives an overview of current support to the
Government emergency plan:
Table 1: Synthesis of current support to EMEL Plan 2012 as of May 31, 2012 (in US$
million)
EMEL Plan components         Total  Government contribution Donor contributions Remaining
expected      (expected)         (committed)   financing
costs                           _       _
1 Preventing food insecurity        76             31                 28.2         16.8
2 Providing health care for vulnerable  3                              2             1
groups & children
3 Preserving livestock              78              52                              26
TOTAL                 157.0           83.0               30.2         43.8
9.     Technical and financial partners active in the country (including the WFP, UNICEF,
WHO, FAO, IFAD, USAID, the EU and the Bank) meet under the umbrella of the "Forum de
coordination des urgences" to provide support in a coordinated manner. The European Union,
2 WFP latest FEWSNET data (May 17, 2012).
3A DRM mission was in Mauritania, from November 14 to 17, 2011.
4 Sahel Crisis update No.18 (WFP Regional Bureau for West Africa, May 11, 2012) and WFP/Mauritania EMOP
report No.1 (May 20, 2012)
The situation is further aggravated by the flux of Malian refugees (estimated at 63,000 as of May 11) due to the
current political unrest in Mali and which will most likely result in additional challenges to the Government in
delivering adequate humanitarian assistance
2


﻿the United States of America, the Qatar, Japan, the African Development Bank, the Islamic
Development Bank and the World Food Programme (WFP) have so far formally committed to
support this Plan6
10.    Besides the EMEL Plan, crop intensification on irrigated land is also considered by the
Government, particularly for rice7 imports substitution which has shown sharp price increase on
world markets. The PDIAIM and a few other projects have contributed to develop Mauritania's
irrigated acreage which has been equipped for about 40,000 hectares (ha) along the Senegal
River over the years. There is a much larger irrigation potential of approximately 85,000 ha in
the Senegal River valley according to the Senegal River basin organization (OMVS:
organisation pour la mise en valeur dufleuve Senega). The national target for rice cultivation in
2012 in the Trarza, Brakna, Gorgol and Guidimakha regions is quite ambitiously set at 30,0000
ha, with the expectation of high yields through a Government program to expand the use of
subsidized urea as a nitrogen fertilizer.
11.    On January 16, 2012, the Government introduced a request by which it is seeking Bank
support for a US$10 million emergency assistance, not only to contribute to the EMEL Plan
through rural food safety stocks and livestock health support, but also to provide fertilizer
support for rice intensification. Shortly after, the Government completed the Mauritania National
Food Security Strategy (SNSA) and validated the National Agriculture and Food Security
Investment Program (PNIA/SA) under the CAADP8. A Government request dated March 22,
2012, therefore sought Bank assistance for longer term investments in the irrigation sector.
12.    The Bank was asked to combine short term      emergency drought support, with the
preparation of new investments for water development in agriculture and stronger drought
resilience for the future. Because the PDIAIM II is already active in several regions of southern
Mauritania and has adequate institutional and fiduciary capacities, this Project offers the most
convenient opportunity to fast-track the Bank's emergency response in drought affected areas.
The proposed Additional Financing will also be used to initiate the preparation of an agricultural
investment operation taking into account the new national strategies established or under
preparation for food security and rural development9. A US$10 million IDA allocation is already
earmarked for this purpose and it could be complemented from development partners such as the
Global Environment Fund (GEF) and Arab funds that have shown an interest.
B. ORIGINAL PROJECT
13.    Background: the PDIAIM is a three-phase, 11-year program funded by an APL, with the
current project being the second phase (approved on March 17, 2005). The total amount of
PDIAIM II is US$46.6 million over 5 years, of which US$39 million is IDA credit.
6 The WFP is currently implementing an emergency operation aiming to assist over 500,000 people; the European
Community Humanitarian Aid Office (ECHO) allocated £10 million for the Sahel region, out of which C2-3 million
are earmarked for Mauritania; the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) agreed to provide
an initial US$10 million, including support to the WFP emergency operation and to the United Nations Children's
Fund (UNICEF); Qatar committed support for US$10 million, Japan for US$5.3 million, the African Development
Bank for US$1 million and the Islamic Development Bank for US$0.4 million.
7 Wheat and rice are the most important food commodities for the majority of Mauritanians
Comprehensive Africa Agriculture Development Program
9 Including the existing SNSA and PNIA/SA, and the forthcoming National Rural Development Strategy (SNDR:
Strategie Nationale de Developpement Rural) which is expected for September 2012
3


﻿14.    The development objective of the overall PDIAIM   is to increase the value-added of
irrigated agriculture and related incomes and employment in the Senegal River Valley through
the judicious use of the country's most precious natural assets: water and arable land. The
development objectives of PDIAM II are to: (i) consolidate key incentive measures for irrigated
agriculture; (ii) increase sustainable irrigation schemes; and (iii) intensify agricultural
diversification.
15.    The PDIAIM II has three main components: (i) rural incentives and capacity building; (ii)
infrastructure for irrigated agriculture; and (iii) support to agricultural supply chains.
16.    Status of Project Implementation: the PDIAIM 11 (i) is in full compliance with its loan
covenants; (ii) has no outstanding fiduciary, environmental, social or other safeguard issues; (iii)
has no audit issues and all audits are current; and (iv) followed the Bank's procurement
guidelines. The PDIAIM II overall risk is rated "substantial" before mitigations measures, with
key identified risks being related to (i) poor contract management and (ii) weak financial
management controllo. The residual financial management risk rating for the Project is
considered "Moderate" after implementation of corrective measures.
17.    The ISR ratings of PDIAIM II over the most recent twelve months, including those for
implementation progress (IP) and development objectives (DO) have been consistently rated as
"moderately satisfactory". The main reason is that targets for irrigated acreage have not been met
since irrigation investment costs have shown to be higher than initially expected. However, the
outputs, outcomes and results recorded in the most recent ISR report for the Project reveal that
its impact has been consistent with the expectations set out in the PAD. Most of the activities of
the Project have now been completed. The project has disbursed 98 percent of the original
amount of credit approved by the Board.
18.    The support under the Additional Financing is consistent with the strategic framework of
the Country Assistance Strategy for Mauritania (CAS FYO8-1 1), and will specifically contribute
to the strategic objective of fighting poverty and inequalities in rural areas. It is critical to keep
the PDIAIM II technical capacities and institutional structure, since the proposed Additional
Financing for emergency drought and food price response will serve as a bridge to pursue further
medium to long term irrigation development investments. Furthermore, the planned activities
will be coordinated closely with other emergency activities under consideration by donors, as
well as with activities currently under implementation financed by the Government of
Mauritania, the Bank and other donors in the rural development, agriculture/livestock, and food
security sectors in general.
III. PROPOSED CHANGES
19.    Project Development Objective: the PDO of this Additional Financing to PDIAIM II is
to improve availability of critical agricultural inputs and food staples for targeted beneficiaries.
10 The Government is well aware of these weaknesses and has taken appropriate measures to mitigate them through
a financial management action plan, including updating the Project Financial Manual for additional activities and
new executive partners, recruiting an internal auditor and upgrading the accounting software to "multi-project".
4


﻿20.    The Project will intervene in ten administrative regions affected by the drought
emergency situation, namely: Trarza, Brakna, Gorgol, Guidimaka, Hodh Chargi, Hodh Gharbi,
Assaba, Tagant, Adrar, Inchiri. PDIAIM II is currently operating in the first four regions only.
21.    Proposed modification to the components' structure and activities: for the purpose of
this proposed AF, a new Component E "Emergency and Food Price Response"1 that is directly
aimed at responding to the Government's request for emergency support will be added to the on-
going PDIAIM II Project, while some resources will also be allocated to overall Project
Administration and initiation of the preparation of future sector support under existing
Component D of PDIAIM II.
22.    This new Component E will have two sub-components, namely:
(i)    Sub-component E.1 Agricultural and Livestock Productivity Enhancement
(IDA Grant of US$2 million equivalent and US$3 million of GFRP Grant) for
the supply and distribution of subsidized urea for irrigated rice intensification, as
well as the supply of veterinary products and the sanitary treatment of livestock,
including vaccination; and
(ii)   Sub-component E.2 Support to Food Safety Net (IDA Grant of US$2 million
equivalent and US$2 million of GFRP Grant) for the consolidation of the
existing network of Stocks Alimentaires Villageois de Securite (SAVS), through
the initial distribution or replenishment of cereal stocks for a selected number of
SAVS serving vulnerable rural communities.
23.    The main activities that will be financed under this new Component E are all to be
undertaken in 2012:
(i)    Emergency supply and distribution of 4,400 MT of urea (GFRP Grant funding of
US$3 million) to an estimated 29,000 beneficiaries: this will cover about half of
the country's needs for a targeted 30,000 hectares irrigated rice cultivation area in
2012 within the Trarza, Brakna, Gorgol and Guidimakha regions. Fertilizer will
be procured, stored and sold at a 50 percent subsidy to targeted farmers, through
mechanisms already experienced in the country under the supervision of the
Agriculture Directorate of the Ministry for Rural Development (MDR-DA).
Targeted beneficiaries are small size rice growers identified through the Regional
Agriculture Committee (CRSCA), who are involved in farmers' organizations for
irrigated land development in the Senegal River basin. Sales proceeds will be
used for future fertilizer procurement by MDR. Rice crop intensification through
additional use of nitrogen fertilizer is particularly well suited to make irrigation
investments more profitable, as it is expected to boost rice yields in 2012. The
additional production is part of the supply side response to drought; it will help
maintain the rice retail price at reasonable level and mitigate the impact of the
drought on consumers.
(ii)   Emergency supply of veterinary products and subsequent treatment of 800,000
domestic animals (IDA Grant funding equivalent to US$0.9 million), and
emergency livestock vaccination of 680,000 large ruminants (camel, cattle and
" The structure and activities of the new component E are those that were endorsed by the GFRP Secretariat when
the funding request was approved in December 2011.
5


﻿donkeys) and 1.45 million small ruminants (goats and sheep) against drought
induced diseases (IDA Grant funding equivalent to US$1.1 million) for an
estimated 100,000 vulnerable beneficiary herders: selected animals/herds within
the ten targeted regions will receive adequate vitamins and mineral treatment,
and/or antibiotics, and/or anti-parasites treatment, depending on their sanitary
status. Activities will also include the procurement of vaccines (against Small
Ruminant's Plague, Botulism and Pasteurellosis) and livestock vaccinationl2 of
targeted herds. Veterinary products will be procured, stored and applied for free to
targeted animals, through the usual mechanisms already experienced in the
country in conducting country-wide vaccination campaigns against major
epizootics and involving public and private zoo-sanitary intervention teams under
the supervision of the Livestock Directorate of MDR (MDR-DE). Targeted
beneficiaries are vulnerable pastoralists in the Project intervention area, making
their living out of small size herds of domestic animals kept in village
surroundingsl3. Maintaining adequate sanitary status of small domestic herds
through vaccination and nutritional complementation is considered the most cost
effective approach to increase survival rates in drought affected areas.
(iii)  Emergency support to the network of SAVS14 (total funding of US$4 million,
including the equivalent of US$2 million IDA Grant and US$2 million GFRP
Grant) for an estimated 150,000 vulnerable rural beneficiaries: this will be done
under the supervision of the Mauritania Food Security Commission (CSA).
Activities will focus on the provision of initial cereal stocks or the replenishment
of depleted existing stocks for about 600 villages in the average monthly amount
of 3 MT of cereals for a duration of 4 months. To this end, a total of 7,200 MT of
wheat will be supplied by the Project. The selection of villages will be done by
the CSA and the WFP, with advice from existing Regional Development
Committees. The existence of revenue generating activities in communities
commonly having a very low purchasing power (such as performing labor
intensive works, for example, or cash transfer programs) will be among the SAVS
selection criteria. Village food security stocks are managed by designated Village
Management Committees (VMCs) and sold to beneficiaries with a subsidy rate of
50 to 80 percent depending on community vulnerability criteria. This revolving
cash recovery mechanism allows paying for future cereal needs to cover the
whole emergency period, including transportation fees. Criteria for the selection
of direct household beneficiaries at village level will be defined by each VMC.
24.    Project Management and Coordination (IDA support of US$1 million) will be under
existing Component D, for a total duration of 18 months. Activities will mainly be the
continuation of support to the existing Project Coordination Unit (PCU) with a focus on the
12 In-kind beneficiary contribution is estimated about 25 percent of intervention costs, mainly through animal
transportation to specific grouping areas and the construction of animal contention devices
" Large size herds are mainly belonging to urban dwellers and are transhumant animals currently kept outside the
Project intervention area
14 Stocks Alimentaires Villageois de Securite: the WFP set-up this Food Safety Net in 2004; the existing network is
comprised of about 3,700 villages, out of which approximately 2,300 villages are within the 10 administrative
regions of the Project intervention area. The WFP is currently assisting 1100 SAVS under the EMEL 2012 Plan
6


﻿administration of new activities under Component E15, but funds will also be available to
undertake studies aimed at assessing options to improve Mauritania's preparedness in dealing
with food insecurity. The PCU will notably help implement project preparation activities under
the oversight of MDR once an agreement will have been reached with the World Bank on the
scope of the future irrigation project.
25.    A  detailed description of the Project's activities is given in Annex 3. PDIAIM's
implementation manual (PIM) will be revised accordingly and agreed upon prior to
effectiveness. The PIM will give full details on operational procedures, including criteria for the
targeting of Project beneficiaries and specific M&E requirements for each main type of activity.
Targeted beneficiaries will essentially be small producers in village communities, with due
consideration to the female and young populations.
26.    Institutional set-up and implementation arrangements: the Additional Financing will
be implemented through the PCU of PDIAIM II, using the same institutional arrangements and
building on management capacity already in place with trained staff and established procurement
and financial management systems. In addition to the current institutions involved in the
implementation of PDIAIM II, the PCU will work closely with new institutions engaged in the
activities of Component E, such as the Agriculture Directorate and the Livestock Directorate of
the MDR and the Food Security Commission. The Project will remain under the current tutelage
of the Ministry of Rural Development (MDR). Whenever it is applicable the activities under the
new Component E will be coordinated with the activities of other Bank projects and other
donors.
27.    Safeguards: activities that triggered the environmental category A    (full assessment)
rating of PDIAIM   1l6 have either been dropped or completed and the activities identified under
the proposed Additional Financing are all category B (partial assessment) or C17 (not required).
Through the distribution of agricultural inputs (fertilizers and veterinary drugs) the Additional
Financing activities may induce indirect but manageable impacts due to inadequate handling and
use of the products or their residues. Also, the nature of the activities to be supported under this
proposed Additional Financing entails no land acquisition or restrictions of access to natural
resources and livelihoods. Therefore, the proposed AF will have a B rated environmental
category (partial assessment) and the two only safeguard policies triggered are Environmental
Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) and Pest Management (OP 4.09). The Environmental and Social
Management Framework (ESMF) and Pest and Pesticide Management Plan (PMP) of PDIAIM II
are being updated for the purpose of the AF. There will be no substantial responsibility change
for the implementation of the revised safeguards instruments.
15 This comprises financing adequate staffing of the PCU (including the recruitment of a Procurement Specialist and
of a Safeguards Specialist), regular operational expenses and institutional support to new technical partners for the
implementation and supervision of Component E (such as the MDR-DA, the MDR-DE and the CSA)
16 Safeguard policies triggered under PDIAIM II are: Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01), Pest
Management (OP 4.09), Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11), Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12), Safety
of Dams (OP/BP 4.37), Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)
17 This classification of the PDIAIM was justified by the need to provide potable drinking water to vulnerable
communities using irrigation canals, by the control of birds that devastate rice crops, and by the --then planned--
rehabilitation works on the Foum Gleita Dam, as well as large irrigation infrastructures works on the downstream
irrigation schemes. Measures for potable drinking water and bird control have been successfully completed.
Moreover, activities related to the Foum Gleita Dam and irrigation infrastructure works have since been dropped out
of the PDIAIM II due to lack of financing. The proposed AF will not support any activities related to irrigation
7


﻿28.    Closing date and updates to the results framework: a level 2 restructuring of PDIAIM
II was processed in December 2011, to extend the closing date until June 30, 2012 and to do a
reallocation of the credit proceeds. An additional extension of the closing date until September
30, 2012 has later been approved so as to finance the last activities to be carried out under the
original financing, maintain the coordination team and ensure continuity until such time the
additional financing is made effective.
29.    The closing date of this new Additional Financing account will be February 28, 2014,
which is well within three years of the current closing date of the original financing account.
30.    The results framework and indicators of PDIAIM II have been adjusted to reflect the new
activities under the AF. Furthermore, the newly introduced Bank core indicator on direct
beneficiaries has been added to the results framework (refer to Annex 1 for the detailed Results
Framework and Monitoring Indicators). Table 2 shows the PDO level indicator for the AF.
Table 2: Summary of Project outcome indicators
Indicator                     OriRinal tarRet*     hangev with AF         Revised tarRet
Number of direct Project         140,000             279,000                279,000
beneficiaries (including         (40%)         (113,700 females or 40%)  (113,700 females or 40%)
percentage of females)
*At the time of the design of PDIAIM II, such a core indicator was not included in the PAD; the data is therefore actual.
31.    Proposed budget allocation: Table 3 below summarizes the proposed allocation of the
Additional Financing by source of financing. As stated earlier, some resources of the AF have
been added to Component D of PDIAIM II for management and coordination of the AF activities
and initiation of the preparation of the future sector investment operation.
Table 3: Costs by component (US$ million)
Component                           Original cost     (hangev with AF        Revised cost
IDA         GFRP          TOTAL
Component D: Project Administration    7.34           1            -            8.34
Component E: Emergency and Food Price    -            4            5             9
Response
- Sub-component E-1: Agricultural and
Livestock Productivity Enhancement  -            2            3             5
- Sub-component E-2:Support to Food
Safety Net                                       2            2             4
Total                                  7.34           5            5           17.34*
*Out of which the Additional Financing is only US$10 million.
32.    In line with OP 13.20 and OP/BP 8.00, it is proposed that the Additional Financing
includes retroactive financing of up to 40 percent of both grants amounts for payments made by
the client after January 1, 2012 (i.e. not more than 12 months prior to the expected date of
signing the legal documents) to tackle emergency needs as soon as necessary.
IV. APPRAISAL SUMMARY
33.    The proposed structure of the AF is simple and focused, taking advantage of the existing
Component D of PDIAIM II for swift Project implementation and longer term planning, while
short-term assistance under the new Component E will target needy rural communities. The
activities will be carried out in partnership with other donors and the Government who are to
8


﻿provide complementary assistance (i.e. provide additional fertilizer supply, provide feed supply
for livestock and assist the remaining SAVS).
34.    Project implementation arrangements: the Project will continue to be implemented by
the PCU of PDIAIM II. On-the-ground, execution of Component E will be carried through by
new project partners, including the MDR-Directorate for Agriculture for fertilizer supply, the
Directorate for Livestock for livestock support activities, and the CSA for support to the rural
Food Safety Net (a service agreement will be signed with the CSA for this purpose). The two
PDIAIM II Project manuals, i.e. the Project Implementation Manual (PIM) and the
Administrative & Financial Procedure Manual will be updated prior to Project effectiveness to
include the new activities and operational procedures, including the detailed criteria for selection
of beneficiaries to be agreed upon.
35.   Financial management: the financial management (FM) assessment carried out during
project preparation determined that current arrangements satisfy the Bank's minimum
requirements under OP/BP 10.02. The auditors have issued an unqualified opinion on the 2010
financial statements of the Project and the interim un-audited financial reports for the ongoing
Project have also been submitted on time. FM capacity built under the ongoing PDIAIM II
Project will be consolidated and used to manage the additional activities; the Project's FM
arrangements will be strengthened through the implementation of a financial management action
plan (refer to Annex 5 for the details). In order to strengthen the internal control and to take into
account the specificities of additional activities and new partners, the FM manual will be
updated, an internal auditor will be recruited, and the accounting software will be upgraded from
''mono-project" to "multi-project".
36.   Procurement arrangements: the procurement arrangement for the additional financing
will be the same as for the initial financing. The procurement function of the Project has
continued to be moderately satisfactory, and PDIAIM II contracts are being implemented by the
PCU in accordance with the approved procurement plan. Procurement for the proposed project
will be carried out in accordance with the World Bank's procurement guidelines8; the World
Bank's guidelines on prevention and combating fraud and corruption19 will also apply to the
project. The procurement capacity assessment of the PCU has been based on the assessment
done during the preparation of the second phase of PDIAIM (Credit 4043-MAU) and the
successive updates of this initial assessment as part of the procurement supervision missions and
procurement post reviews of the original project. In addition, a post-procurement review was
conducted as part of the Bank's supervision mission of PDIAIM II in July 2011. During this
review it was noted that the Procurement Specialist of the PCU has recently been appointed to
another position and should be replaced. The selection process of his replacement is now well
advanced and should be effective before Project effectiveness. The conclusion of the assessment
is that procurement compliance is moderately satisfactory, the Project is complying with Bank's
procedures and the PCU has enough capacity to handle the procurement for the new activities
1 "Guidelines for Procurement of Good and Works and Non-Consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits & Grant World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011 and "Guidelines for Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits & Grants by World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011
19 "Guidelines on Prevention and Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and updated January 2011
9


﻿under Component E20 and a Procurement Implementation Support Plan has been developed. The
Project procurement plan will be updated at least annually (or as required to reflect actual project
implementation needs) and procurement supervision will also be done at least once a year.
37.    Environmental and Social safeguards: as earlier stated, PDIAIM   II environmental
category under the proposed AF is Category B (partial assessment). The ESMF and PMP for the
current Project are being updated to cover the environmental and social impacts that would result
from the implementation of the new component. The current Safeguards Specialist of the PCU
will be replaced before Project effectiveness. The communication strategy developed during
PDIAIM II to address environmental management issues will continue to be used. On the social
side, the proposed activities will have more positive impacts on vulnerable rural beneficiaries
than adverse ones, since they will improve the well being and social cohesion of targeted groups
and communities. Activities will not lead to any appropriation of land or loss of access to
resources or livelihoods for the population; as a consequence of this, the involuntary resettlement
policy OP/BP 4.12 is not triggered. Approved updated versions of the ESMF and of the PMP
will be a Project disbursement condition.
38.    Economic and Financial Analysis: because of the emergency nature of activities, no
financial or economic analysis was carried out for this Additional Financing. Urea application on
rice crops is usually considered a good investment to boost yields and make irrigation more
profitable; similarly, keeping domestic animals adequately fed (this is part of the Government
direct support to the EMEL Plan) and maintaining their sanitary status as they are faced with
drought induced diseases is key for survival rates and continued production. WFP's experience
with subsidized food for vulnerable households in rural villages has recently been assessed and is
globally considered satisfactory21
39.    Despite the general lack of detailed economic information in Mauritania, the Project will
collect data that will permit ex-post computation of financial and economic returns at the end of
the implementation period. This will help assess the returns associated with the broad categories
of benefits that are expected to accrue from the project (i.e., household level improvements in
food security or income, and public benefits from social protection offered through the safety net
activities). As such, under Component D, the Project will undertake an independent post-review
survey of the functioning of the village level cereal security stocks to learn lessons from Bank
support to the SAVS network. A feasibility study will also be carried out for the design of
possible future cash transfer/food voucher programs to provide options for efficient safety net
programs that could support the food insecure and the most vulnerable people in Mauritania.
40.    Risk assessment: the overall risk of the Additional Financing is rated "moderate" for
implementation, with the key identified risk being related to governance issues with political
interests possibly leading to poor targeting of beneficiaries (refer to Annex 2 for a detailed
presentation of the Operational Risk Assessment Framework - ORAF).
41.    Technical analysis: the technical design of the Project includes a new Component E for
short-term assistance to vulnerable rural communities. It is simple and focused on emergency
20 Faced with an emergency situation, the procurement process for fertilizers and veterinary medicines started in
early 2012 and concluded in May 2012
21 In 2011, the WFP undertook a general audit of the SAVS network, based on a 7 percent random sample of
villages; altogether and despite weaknesses, the SAVS network is considered to be an important tool to reduce food
insecurity and enhance children nutrition in rural areas
10


﻿relief. All new activities (such as the provision of agricultural fertilizer, the provision of
veterinary products, the undertaking of a livestock vaccination campaign and assistance to
SAVS) have already been experienced in the country and will therefore follow usual
implementation mechanisms. Annex 3 gives a detailed description of new Project activities. The
revised PDIAIM II Project manuals (the revised PIM and the revised Administrative and
Financial Management Procedures Manual) will be agreed upon prior to effectiveness to give
full details on operational procedures, including detailed criteria for adequate targeting of Project
beneficiaries. Other donors and the Government are to provide complementary emergency
assistance in support of the Government EMEL Plan. Project Component D will be available to
undertake studies aimed at assessing options to improve Mauritania's preparedness in dealing
with food insecurity beyond the current emergency assistance plan.
42.    Sustainability: being an emergency response to a specific crisis, the proposed operation
does not aim at establishing any sustainable outcome. The long term response to the current
drought situation lies in structural measures to cope with climate variability. Notably, the
PDIAIM II program is one of the main Governmental instruments to foster this long term
response, with a focus on irrigated rice and crop diversification in the Senegal River valley,
where a large part of the significant irrigation potential of the country remains undeveloped to
date. This priority is clearly reflected in the new National Food Security Strategy, with ambitious
yet achievable objectives to be reached by 2020. In addition, the National Strategy for Rural
Development is under preparation with PDIAIM II's assistance and should be validated in the
coming months. The Government and the World Bank agreed to take stock of these new
strategies and of the results of the PDIAIM II when engaging in the preparation of the next Bank
supported irrigation development investment operation in Mauritania.
43.    The critical aspects to be reviewed as part of the preparation of this forthcoming
operation will be: (i) the strengthening of the cooperatives in charge of small scale irrigated
schemes through the provision of necessary services and appropriate oversight, with a specific
focus on responsibilities for operation and maintenance; (ii) the dialogue with the private sector
to find more appropriate ways of supporting the development of environmentally sustainable,
agribusiness based private irrigation; and (iii) the reform of the public irrigation sector with a
view to improve its performance in terms of service and operation and maintenance cost
recovery. Aspects linked to land tenure, agricultural intensification and diversification will also
remain of prime importance as they are necessary for the sustainable success of the sector.
11


﻿ANNEX 1: RESULTS FRAMEWORK AND MONITORING
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA: Emergency and food price response
Component of the 2nd Phase of the Integrated Development Program for Irrigated
Agriculture
Agriculture Development and Food Price Response Project
Results Framework
Revisions to the Results Framework                             Comments/
Rationale for Change
PDO
Current (PAD)                Proposed
The development objectives of  The PDO of this Additional Financing to  The change is to reflect the
PDIAM II are to: (i)         PDIAIM 11 will be to improve availability  emergency activities under the new
consolidate key incentive    of critical agricultural inputs and food  Component E, including a larger
measures for irrigated       staples for targeted beneficiarieS2.   intervention area
agriculture; (ii) increase
sustainable irrigation schemes;
and (iii) intensify agricultural
diversification.
PDO indicators
Current (PAD)                Proposed change*
Direct Project beneficiaries (number), of  Targeted beneficiaries will mainly
which female (percentage)              be vulnerable small producers in
n/a23                                                   village communities, with due
Direct Project beneficiaries disaggregated  consideration to the female and
by type of benefit (fertilizer, livestock  young populations
etreatment, food staples) and by gender
Intermediate Results indicators
Current (PAD)         Proposed change
n/a              Additional volume of fertilizer distributed  New activity under new
to farmers                             Component 
Percentage of additional fertilizer    New activity under new
n/a              distributed in time for the cropping season  Component . Fertilizer
(delay of less than 10 days compared to  distribution to farmers is time
plan)                                  sensitive
n/a              Additional number of livestock vaccinated  New activity under new
(disaggregated by type of              Component B. Focus on number of
livestock/vaccines)                    vaccinated large ruminants
(camel/cattle/donkey) and small
ruminants (goats and sheep)
against drought induced epizootics
n/a              Additional number of livestock benefitting  New activity under new
from treatment with veterinary products  Component B. Veterinary products
2In ten administrative regions: Trarza, Brakna, Gorgol, Guidimaka, Hodh Chargui, Hodh Gharbi, Assaba, Tagant,
Adrar, Inchiri
23 At the time of the design of PDIAIM   s, such a core indicator was not included in the PAD
12


﻿Revisions to the Results Framework                             Comments/
Rationale for Change
are either Multi-vitamin nutrient
complements, and/or antibiotics
and/or anti-parasites
n/a              Additional number of SAVS (Stock       New activity under new
Alimentaires Villageois de S&urit)     Component . A SAVS stocked up
stocked up to meet the food demand of  to meet the food demand of
beneficiaries during the period of food  beneficiaries is defined as stocked
shortage                               up with cereals at 85% of its
capacity. The period of food
shortage is defined as 4 months in
year 2012 (June to September is
identified as the regular period of
food shortage)
13


﻿REVISED PROJECT RESULTS FRAMEWORK
Project Development Objective (PDO): to improve availability of critical agricultural inputs and food staples for targeted beneficiaries24
Baseline                 Cumulative Target Values
Original  Progress                                                Data Source!  Responsibility
PDO Level Results Indicators   Q   UOM25    Project   To Date                                      Frequency  DataoSoc       for Data          Comments
26Mehdlg
Start   (2011)                                                                  Collection
(2012)
Beneficiaries
Direct Project beneficiaries          Number      0         0       279,000    279,000     279,000                                 MDR          Activities under
Annual    Reports from      and        Component E of the
Of which female                         %         0         0         40          40         40                    MDR-DR        CSA/WFP      Additional Financing
are new to PDAIM II
Direct Project beneficiaries
(disaggregated by type of benefit:
fertilizer, livestock treatment, food
staples)                                                                                                          SONIMEX
record SOAverage of 0.5 ha rice
records
>   Urea                                      0         0       29,000      29,000      29,000     Seasonal  Reports from                 cultivation per farmer
MDR-DR        MDR-DA
Livestock treatment
Intervention                includes provision of
>   Livestock treatment      z    Number                                                                     teams records                 veterinary products
0         0       100,000     100,000    100,000     Seasonal  Reports from    MDR-DE        and/or vaccination.
MDR-DR                      Average 22 animal
Reports from                  heads/beneficiary
>   Cereals                                                                                                   SAVS-MC
0         0       150,000     150,000    150,000     Annual    Reports from      CSA            Aerage i0
CSA/WFP                    households per village
and 5 persons per HH
Of which female beneficiaries
(disaggregated by type of benefit:
fertilizer, livestock vaccination,                0         0        5,800      5,800       5,800      Seasonal
food staples)
24 In ten administrative regions: Trarza, Brakna, Gorgol, Guidimaka, Hodh Chargui, Hodh Gharbi, Assaba, Tagant, Adrar, Inchiri
25 UOM = Unit of Measurement
26 For new indicators introduced as part of the additional financing, the progress to date column is used to reflect the baseline value
14


﻿Reports from   MDR-DA
>   Urea                                      0         0       30,000      30,000      30,000     Annual      MDR-DR                         20% female
Number
>Livestock treatment Reports from
0         0       75,000      75,000      75,000     Annual      MDR-DR        MDR-DE           30% female
>   Cereals                                                                                                  Reports from
SAVS-MC          CSA
Reports from                     50% female
CSA/WFP
Intermediate Results and Indicators
Baseline                     Target Values27
Unit of  Original  Progress                                                Data Source!  Responsibility
Intermediate Results Indicators  Q  Measur   Project   To Date     2012        2013       2014      Frequency                  for Data          Comments
r 0  ement     Start    (2011)                                                                 Collection
(2012)
Intermediate Result : Critical activities for delivery of inputs implemented
Fertilizer is urea,
SONIMEX                    conditioned in bags of
1. Additional fertilizer distributed  E  MT       0        0        4,400       4,400       4,400     Seasonal     records       MDR-DA      50 kg. Three bags per
to farmers                                                                                                        Reports from               beneficiary, on
MDR-RD                    average (equivalent to
needs for 0.5 ha rice28)
Fertilizer distribution
to farmers is time
2. Percentage of additional                                                                                       SONIMEX                    s   ensi some
fertilizer distributed in time for the                                                                              records
of less than      % (MT)      0        0          80          -           -       Seasonal                  MDR-DA       are expected, however
cropping season (delay oflesthnReports fromalfetizrpoud
10 days compared to plan)                                                                                          MDR-RD                    all fertilizer procured
is to be distributed mn
2012
3. Additional number of livestock                                                                                                            Vaccines come into
vaccinated (disaggregated by type  E  Head of                                                                                                vials; each vial
of livestock/vaccines)                                                                                                                       contains several
>   Large ruminants (camel,                                    680,000     680,000     680,000                                           vaccine doses,
27 Calendar years; cumulative data
28 MDR-DA will also report on the additional rice acreage benefiting from urea
15


﻿Intermediate Results and Indicators
Baseline                    Target ValueS2
Unit of  Original  Progress                                              Data Source!  Responsibility
Intermediate Results Indicators  Q  Measur  Project  To Date     2012       2013        2014     Frequency                  for Data         Comments
o    ement    Start    (2011)                                                               Collection
(2012)
cattle & donkey)                         0        0                                          Annual                               depending on size of
>   Small ruminants (sheep                                                                                 Intervention  MDRDE       animal species.
& goats)                                                 1,450,000   1,450,000  1,450,000             teams records               Camels and donkeys
0        0                                                    Reports from               will be vaccinated
MDR-RD)                   against Pasteurellosis,
and cattle will be
vaccinated against
Botulism and/or
Pasteurellosis. Small
ruminants will be
vaccinated against
Small Ruminant's
Plague and/or
Pasteurellosis
Veterinary products
are multi-vitamin &
mineral nutrient
complements,
Intervention               antibiotics and anti-
4. Additional number of livestock    Head of     0        0       800,000     800,000    800,000     Annual   teams records   MDR-DE      parasites drugs.
benefitting from treatment with                                                                                Reports from               Animals will benefit
veterinary products                                                                                             MDR-RD                    either from one or
more or the procured
veterinary products,
depending on their
sanitary status
A SAVS stocked up to
meet the food demand
5. Additional number of SAVS                                                                                  Records from                of beneficiaries is
Adiina  ube  fNumber                                                                                SAVS-MC+
stocked up to meet the food     E    of          0        0         600        600         600       Annual    Reports f       CSA        defined as stocked up
of                                                                        Reports from
demand of beneficiaries during the   SAVS                                                                       CSA/WFP                   at 85% of its capacity.
period of food shortage                                                                                                                   The period of food
shortage is defined as
16


﻿Intermediate Results and Indicators
Baseline                      Target ValueS2
Unit of  Original  Progress                                                  Data Source!  Responsibility
Intermediate Results Indicators  Q   Measur   Project   To Date      2012        2013        2014     Frequency                   for Data          Comments
o    ement     Start    (2011)                                                                   Collection
(2012)
4 months in 2012
(June to September is
identified as the
regular period of food
shortage). Average
stock is 12 MT per
village
17


﻿ANNEX 2: OPERATIONAL RISK ASSESSMENT FRAMEWORK (ORAF)
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA: Emergency and food price response Component of the 2nd Phase of the Integrated
Development Program for Irrigated Agriculture
Project Stakeholder Risks                                 Rating                 Moderate
Description: The current number of women beneficiaries from  Risk Management: The project will set the requirement that 20 percent of fertilizer beneficiaries
the PDIAIM II project is low. Women access to the benefits of  at least have to be women and that small ruminants are included in vaccination campaigns
the project may be limited, since women may not have the                        Stage: Preparation /
initial resources to become beneficiaries of agricultural inputs.               Implementation
Implementing Agency Risks (including fiduciary)
Capacity                                                 Rating:                                            Low
Description: Implementation capacity in Mauritania is limited,  Risk Management: The project coordination unit is an experienced team composed of seasoned
with few public entities possessing capacity to manage World  staff with robust project management experience This PCU is able to fast track emergency
Bank resources. Public agencies managing implementation of  assistance. The project coordination unit will strengthen the capacity and support some of the
projects require significant levels of external technical  implementers. A service agreement will be signed with the CSA as a withdrawal condition for
assistance. The Additional Financing will require the existing  Project support to SAyS.
PDIAIM II PCU to establish operational contacts with new
partners such as the CSA. The Ministry for Rural Development  Resp: Recipient   Stage: Implementation  Due Date: n/a          Status: ongoing
has experience in PDIAIM II implementation through a
seasoned Project Coordination Unit (PCU).
Governance                                               Rating:                                            Moderate
Description: PDIAIM 1a has experienced weak financial    Risk Management: The Public Sector Capacity Building Project is addressing the issues arising
management control and delays due to poor contract       out of the CFAA action plan. Also, the Government has adopted a new procurement code, which
management.                                              encourages hiring independent staff for procurement commissions at central level, and puts in place
Finance risk: Risks remain in terms of effectiveness of internal  a new Procurement Regulation Authority.
controls, enforcement of procurement and payroll rules and
procedures, quality and timeliness of in-year budget reports and                Stage: Preparation     Due Date : n/a         Status: ongoing
annual financial statements and effectiveness of legislative  Rep  eiin/ak      Implementation
scrutiny.
Project Risks
Design                                                   Rating:                Moderate
Description: Agricultural inputs (including veterinary products  Risk Management: The procurement procedures for agricultural inputs (such as fertilizers,
and vaccines) do not reach farmers (herders) in time for the  veterinary products and vaccines) have already been launched by the Government to make sure
18


﻿cropping (rearing) season. Food stocks are not available during  products can be delivered in time, and the WFP monitors food availability in response to the Sahel
the food shortage period.                               drought situation. Project design includes up to 40 percent retroactive financing.
Agricultural inputs, as well as food stocks transferred to
beneficiaries are delayed due to slow procurement and approval  Resp: Recipient/Bank  Stage: Preparation /  Due Date : May 2012  Status: ongoing
proceures.Implementation
procedures.
Social & Environmental                                  Rating:                Moderate
Description: The PDIAIM II project encountered some     Risk Management: The project will update the PDIAIM 11 environmental safeguard instruments.
difficulties with regard to social and environmental safeguards  On the social side, activities undertaken through this Additional Financing entails no land
enforcement. However, the proposed Additional Financing  acquisition or restrictions of access to natural resources and livelihoods for the
only triggers two Safeguard policies, instead of six for the  populations (OP/BP 4.12: Involuntary Resettlement Policy is not triggered).
original PDIAIM II project. Indeed, all PDIAIM II activities
that triggered an A environmental category (full        The PCU will have staff dedicated to social and environmental safeguards (as a condition of
assessment) are either dropped or completed, and activities  effectiveness) to ensure the effective implementation of the prevention and mitigation measures
that have been identified for the proposed Additional   approved within the safeguards instruments. The Environmental and Social Management
Financing are all category B (partial assessment) and C (not  Framework (ESMF) as well as the Pest and Pesticide Management Plan (PPMP) of the PDIAIM 11
required). Therefore, the Additional Financing will be of  will be updated (as a disbursement condition) to integrate the risks which could arise from the
environmental category B (partial assessment).          Additional Financing activities. The communication strategy developed during the PDIAIM 11 to
address environmental management issues will continue to be used to raise awareness among
An inadequate handling/utilization of fertilizers and veterinary  famers, herders and other relevant stakeholders.
drugs/vaccines could result in the pollution of water resources
as direct impact, and threat to health as indirect impact. The  Resp: Recipient/Bank  Stage:epation  Date      l      nt
occurrence of other type of adverse impacts is likely to be low,                                      effectiveness
Program & Donor                                         Rating:                Low
Description: The overall drought emergency program impact  Risk Management: The ongoing drought in Mauritania is receiving strong Government attention
depends on combined Government and Donor                and media coverage. Donors are organized to provide a coordinated answer to the Government
financial/technical support. The Government emergency   emergency plan. The World Bank is part of this forum including all active Development Partners in
program has been discussed and agreed upon with Donors.  Mauritania, in order to harmonize approaches and cooperate better to provide timely and adequate
Donors other than the Bank might not deliver financial  answers to the consequences of the drought situation.
assistance and/or the Government might not have all the means  Resp:           Stage: Preparation /   Due Date: n/a         Status: ongoing
to support the emergency situation.                     Recipient/BankiDPs     Imnlementation
Delivery Monitoring & Sustainability                    Rating:                Moderate
Description: There can be a distortion of performance in  Risk Management: The project will work with experienced partners in supplying agricultural
agricultural and/or food inputs delivery depending on the  inputs and cereals, who are to apply high business standards. The project is also planning close
operator. The quality of agricultural inputs might differ  support and supervision from the coordination unit.
depending on the contractor undertaking the
supply/procurement. The same may also apply to the quality of  Resp: Recipient/Bank  Stage: Implementation  Due Date : n/a   Status: ongoing
cereals supplied to SAVS_through the Project. slikelytobelow
[OveraHl Risk Following Review
Implementationt Risk Ratiag:                            Moderate
19


﻿ANNEX 3: DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF NEW PROJECT ACTIVITIES
1.    The proposed Additional Financing (AF) is the Bank's response to the Government's
request for assistance of January 16, 2012 under the current drought situation in Mauritania. It
will be used to finance the activities of the new Component E (Emergency and Food Price
Response) that will be added to the existing PDIAIM II Project. In addition, some resources will
also be allocated to the current Component D of PDIAIM II for management and coordination of
these new activities and for the preparation of a forthcoming longer term investment operation in
the agriculture sector for Mauritania.
2.    Component D - Project Management and Coordination (IDA support of US$1 million)
will build on institutional arrangements and trained management capacity already in place
through the existing Project Coordination Unit of PDIAIM II. Activities will be the continuation
of support to the existing PCU, with a focus on the administration of new activities under
Component E. This will include financing adequate staffing of the PCU (including the
recruitment of a Procurement Specialist and of a Safeguards Specialist), regular operational
expenses and institutional support to new Project partners for the implementation and
supervision of Component E (MDR-DA, MDR-DE, CSA). Funds under this Component will
also be available to undertake studies aimed at assessing options to improve Mauritania's
preparedness in dealing with food insecurity; as such, the PCU will help implement activities for
future project preparation under the oversight of MDR once an agreement will have been reached
with the World Bank on the scope of forthcoming investments for irrigation development. The
Project will also undertake an independent post-review survey of the functioning of the village
level cereal security stocks to learn lessons from Bank support to the SAVS network and a
feasibility study will be carried out for the design of possible future cash transfer/food voucher
programs to provide alternatives for efficient safety net programs that could support the food
insecure and the most vulnerable people in Mauritania.
3.    This annex provides a detailed description of new Project activities which will all be
undertaken under Component E (Emergency and Food Price Response: US$9 million of which
US$4 million IDA funds and US$5 million GFRP funds). This new component will include two
sub-components.
4.    Sub-component E.1. Agricultural and Livestock Productivity Enhancement (US$5
million of which US$2 million IDA and US$3 million GFRP). The two main activities that
will be financed under this sub-component are:
(i) Emergency Supply and distribution of fertilizers (GFRP Grant of US$3 million)
5.    Besides the EMEL Plan, crop intensification on irrigated land is also considered by the
Government, particularly for rice29 imports substitution which has shown sharp price increase on
world markets. The PDIAIM and a few other projects have contributed to develop Mauritania's
irrigated acreage which has been equipped for about 40,000 hectares (ha) along the Senegal
River over the years. There is a much larger irrigation potential of approximately 85,000 ha in
the Senegal River valley according to the Senegal River basin organization (OMVS:
organisation pour la mise en valeur dufleuve Senega). The national target for rice cultivation in
2012 in the Trarza, Brakna, Gorgol and Guidimakha regions is set at 30,000 ha, and includes the
29 Wheat and rice are the most important food commodities for the majority of Mauritanians
20


﻿use of urea as a nitrogen fertilizer. These four regions are located along the Senegal River where
PDIAIM has been operational for long.
6.     Rice crop intensification through additional use of nitrogen fertilizer is particularly well
suited to make irrigation investments more profitable, as it is expected to boost rice yields in
2012. The additional production is part of the supply side response to drought; it will help
maintain the rice retail price at reasonable level and mitigate the impact of the drought on
consumers.
7.     On the basis of an average of 300 kg of Urea/ha, the total need for fertilizer for the
30,000 hectares is estimated at about 9,000 MT at an estimated cost of about MRO
1,764,954,000 (roughly US$6.2 million), including transportation to the site and distribution.
The Bank emergency allocation of US$3 million GFRP Grant will cover the procurement and
distribution of 4,400 MT Urea, or about 15,000 hectares which is half of the country's very
ambitious target within the Trarza, Brakna, Gorgol and Guidimaka regions. The Project will
target poor rural rice-farming households involved in irrigated farming cooperatives and/or other
forms of recognized organization, in the four selected regions.
8.     Procurement of the fertilizer (in bags of 50kg) will be done by the PCU30 on the basis of
the technical specifications provided by the Agriculture Directorate of MDR (MDR-DA) and
delivered at the regional warehouses of the Socidtd Nationale d'Importation et d'Exportation
(SONIMEX-National Import and Export Corporation) located in Rosso (to serve Trarza), in
Boghd (to serve Brakna) and in Kaedi (to serve Gorgol and Guidimaka).
9.     The Project will use the fertilizer distribution procedures already in place under the
overall responsibility of the MDR-DA, through the Regional Delegations of MDR (MDR-DR).
Rice farming households, acting through their farming cooperative or other farming
organizations, will submit requests for urea to the "Comiti Rdgional de Suivi de la Campagne
Agricole" (CRSCA). The latter will assess compliance against the eligibility criteria (the
eligibility criteria will be detailed in the PIM), and submit these requests to the MDR-DR.
10.   In this process the MDR-DR will then carry out two field visits to the farm of each
eligible beneficiary. The first visit is to assess the intended rice acreage and confirm that this
land is ploughed and offset and ready to be planted with rice. At the end of this first visit the
MDR-DR will issue to the beneficiary a Certificate of Intended Rice Acreage. The latter will
then present this certificate to the Head of the local Government representative (the "Hakem" or
the Governor) or its delegate who will sign a nominative voucher indicating the quantity of
fertilizer to be attributed. The beneficiary will take this voucher to SONIMEX to purchase half of
the authorized quantity of fertilizer. SONIMEX will sell the fertilizer at a 50% subsidized price.
Then MDR-DR will carry out a second visit to assess and confirm the area that is actually
planted with rice by the eligible beneficiary and will issue him a Certificate of Planted Rice
Acreage. The beneficiary will then receive a second voucher from the Head of the local
government representative to purchase the remaining half of the quantity of fertilizer from
SONIMEX.
30 The procurement process has already started at the beginning of 2012 so that the procured fertilizer can be
distributed before June 2012
21


﻿11.   The quantity of fertilizer delivered by SONIMEX to a beneficiary will be for an average
quantity of 3 bags per individual (i.e. 150 kg covering the needs of 0.5 ha rice cultivation). The
expected number of beneficiaries is 29,000, with a specific 20 percent female target at least. The
Project will directly monitor the additional quantities of urea distributed to rice farmers as an
intermediate result indicator, but it will also track the additional rice acreage benefitting from
urea through the Project for GFRP reporting purposes.
12.   There is an existing Memorandum of Understanding between MDR and SONIMEX upon
which SONIMEX will be directly in charge of storage, distribution and sales to beneficiaries. A
3 percent commission on sales proceeds will be retained by SONIMEX to cover fertilizer
management costs. The remaining of sales proceeds (i.e. 97 percent) will be transferred from
SONIMEX to Treasury and will thereafter be credited to MDR's budget for future fertilizer
procurement by MDR.
(ii) Emergency Livestock Sanitation Campaign (IDA Grant equivalent to US$2
million)
13.   The current drought, which started in 2011, is estimated to lead to heavy losses of up to
two-thirds of livestock in the most affected regions. It is for this reason that the Government, in
its EMEL 2012 Plan, has allocated about half of the total budget of US$157 million to the
livestock sector. Mauritania is a typical country of the Sahel zone, where livestock contributes up
to 44 percent to agricultural GDP and remains the main assurance of livelihood against economic
shocks for an important part of the population.
14.   The aim of Sub-component E.1 of the proposed AF that focuses on the livestock sector, is
to safeguard animal health and prevent the development of major livestock diseases during the
dry season. Maintaining adequate sanitary status of small domestic herds through vaccination
and nutritional complementation is considered the most cost effective approach to increase
survival rates and sustain production capacities in drought affected areas. Project support will
therefore be geared at improving animal health, reducing mortality and enhancing livestock
productivity. To this end the AF will finance: (i) the procurement and subsequent treatment of
livestock with critical veterinary products such as antibiotics, anti-parasites and nutritional
complements (vitamins and minerals) for an estimated amount of IDA Grant financing
equivalent to US$0.9 million, and (ii) the procurement of critical vaccines against major drought
induced epizootics and the undertaking of an emergency vaccination campaign for an estimated
amount of IDA Grant financing equivalent to US$1.1 million.
15.   The areas that will be covered under this sub-component are ten administrative regions
identified as vulnerable zones in the south and south-east of the country which are: Hodh
C/algi, Hodh Gharbi, Assaba, Guidimaka, Gorgol, Brakna, Trarza, Tagant, Adrar and Inchiri.
These targeted regions cover 95 percent of the country's pastoral area, which account for about
80 percent of the national livestock population. The project will target poor rural households and
livestock owners, livestock association groups and communities who face the biggest poverty
and food security challenges in the targeted regions. Beneficiaries will be vulnerable pastoralists
in the Project intervention area, making their living out of small size herds of domestic animals
kept in village surroundings31. The selection of beneficiaries will be based on criteria that will be
3 Large size herds are mainly belonging to urban dwellers and are transhumant animals currently kept outside the
Project intervention area
22


﻿elaborated in the PIM. Emergency livestock activities are expected to reach 100,000
beneficiaries, including 30 percent female at least.
16.    The livestock emergency activities are expected to be completed within the first few
months of Project implementation and before the beginning of the livestock migration due to the
start of the rainy season (around mid-August).
17.    The PCU will be responsible for all procurement activities under Sub-component E.1,
including the veterinary products, vaccines, small veterinary and protection equipment (such as
syringes, gloves, etc), cold chain equipment and transportation (rehabilitation and/or hiring of
vehicles), etc.32. All procurement will be done on the basis of the technical specifications
prepared by the MDR-DE. The procured vaccines will be stored in the regional warehouses of
the Centrale d'Achat des Intrants d'Elevage33 (CAIE-Livestock Inputs Central Procurement
Unit) located on MDR-DR premises; other procured veterinary products and items will be
stocked in the warehouses of MDR-DR.
18.    There are existing zoo-sanitary intervention procedures and mechanisms already in place
in the country and MDR-DE has experience in conducting country-wide prophylactic campaigns.
The Project will use these same procedures.
19.    The coordination of the activities under Sub-component E. 1 will be assured by the MDR
at the national level (with the overall supervision of the MDR-DE) and MDR-DR in partnership
with the Regional Development Committees (CDR), the Livestock Associations and Private
Veterinarians. MDR-DE will mobilize a total of 50 emergency zoo-sanitary intervention teams,
consisting of 33 public and 17 private. Private teams will act through sub-contracting with MDR-
DE who will also issue them a Mandat Sanitaire.
20.     The zoo-sanitary teams will be given specific intervention areas and they will be
allocated vaccines and other veterinary products according to an action plan validated by the
CDR. Veterinary treatments will be applied for free to targeted animals of the selected
34
beneficiary herders
21.    With respect to application of the veterinary products a total of 800,000 animal heads will
be selected within the ten targeted regions to receive adequate treatment including
vitamins/mineral nutritional complements, and/or antibiotics (Oxytetracyclin), and/or anti-
parasites (Albendazol, Ivermectin and Quinapyramin). Selected animals will benefit either from
one or more of these drugs, depending on their sanitary status.
22.    With regards to the emergency vaccination campaign, vaccination of the targeted animals
of the selected beneficiary herders will be administered for free by the zoo-sanitary teams. A
total of 680,000 large ruminants (camels, cattle and donkeys) will be vaccinated against
Pasteurellosis and/or Botulism, and 1,450,000 small ruminants (goats and sheep) will be
vaccinated against Small Ruminants Plague (PPR) and Pasteurellosis.
23.    The implementation arrangements will be detailed in the PIM. Under the overall
coordination of PDIAIM-PCU, the MDR-DE will be responsible for the implementation,
32 The relevant procurement processes started at the beginning of 2012 so that all necessary products will be
available by June 2012
" This is because warehouses of CAIE are equipped to provide adequate temperature control
34 In-kind beneficiary contribution is estimated about 25 percent of intervention costs, mainly through animal
transportation to specific grouping areas and the construction of animal contention devices
23


﻿monitoring and evaluation of all livestock operations. Quality control will be done by the MDR.
Livestock inspectors at the Regional Delegation of MDR will be responsible for the field
operations supervision within their region. Livestock associations and cooperatives will be
closely associated with awareness raising activities, in conjunction with the regional technical
services. The Government contribution will focus on (i) providing vehicles, (ii) ensuring the
availability of the cold chain and (iii) providing staff salaries.
24.    Sub-Component E.2. Support to food safety net (US$4 million of which US$2
million IDA and US$2 million GFRP)
25.    The Mauritania network of village level cereal security stocks, called SAVS, has been
set-up by the Government with WFP support in 2004, with an aim to mitigate the impact of food
crises in rural areas of the country. Since this date, SAVS have shown capacity to permit regular
access to food for vulnerable households and to preserve villages from food price speculation by
merchants, particularly within agricultural production areas. The last phase of WFP's IPSR
Project35 (2009-2010) confirmed the SAVS network as an efficient food security tool to
contribute to the attenuation of external shocks and to positively assure food security at village
level.
26.    There has been more than 3,700 SAVS operating in the country under the general
oversight of the CSA. In each village, a Management Committee (VMC) is designated by the
General Assembly of villagers. It is responsible for the management of the cereal stock, for its
sale to vulnerable households at a subsidized price and for the reinvestment of sales proceeds to
replenish the cereal stock.
27.    In 2011, the WFP undertook a general audit of the SAVS network, based on a 7 percent
random sample of villages. Generally, this survey concluded that 80 percent of households are
provided with cereals in vulnerable areas through SAVS and the frequency of sale is higher
during drought periods due to cereal price affordability within the SAVS network. This is shown
to have a positive impact against malnutrition in vulnerable areas, notably through the regularity
of meals offered to children. The study also shows that SAVS contribute to financing social
micro-projects in 30 percent of cases.
28.    However, the survey also identified weaknesses at VMCs level, which are often not
reporting adequately. Woman participation in Management Committees was also considered too
low. The survey indicated that a large number of SAVS have a substantial financial capacity (64
percent of SAVS carry liquidities of more than MRO500,000, or roughly US$2,000) which, in
most cases, is not reinvested to buy additional cereal and to replenish the stock, due to
procurement difficulties. Such liquid funds are usually managed by the Treasurer outside any
financial institution.
29.    Altogether and despite weaknesses, the SAVS network is considered to be an important
tool to reduce food insecurity and enhance children nutrition in rural areas. As such, SAVS
support is part of the Government Emergency Plan for 2012 (EMEL 2012).
30.    There are 2,300 SAVS network within the 10 regions of the proposed Project. The
Project support to food safety nets will consist of providing initial cereal stocks (and/or
replenishing depleted existing stocks) to a selected number of SAVS.
3 Intervention Prolongee pour le Secours et le Redressement
24


﻿31.    The main activity the AF will finance under Sub-component E.2. is the procurement and
distribution of 7,200 MT of cereal to about 600 SAVS (IDA Grant funding equivalent to US$2
million and GFRP Grant funding of US$2 million): the average allocation for each SAVS is 3
MT per month for a period of 4 months (i.e. the provision of an average 12 MT of cereal per
SAVS36). The Project will target about 600 SAVS, equivalent to 150,000 vulnerable rural
beneficiaries, half of which will be females.
32.   The selection of villages will be done by the CSA and the WFP37, with advice from
existing Regional Development Committees. The SAVS selection criteria will be detailed in the
PIM. For example, the existence of revenue generating activities in communities commonly
having a very low purchasing power (such as performing labor intensive works, for example),
will be among the SAVS selection criteria. Also, criteria for the selection of direct household
beneficiaries will be defined by each SAVS Management Committee. Marginal communities
benefitting from SAVS should be able to get cash to afford paying the subsidized cereal price.
33.   Coordination of the implementation of the Sub-component E.2. in all 10 administrative
regions targeted by the Project, will be carried through by the PCU, in partnership with the CSA.
A service agreement will be signed with the CSA as a withdrawal condition for Project support
to the SAVS network. The PCU will be responsible for the procurement of the cereals. The latter
will be handed over to the CSA on a basis of the service agreement signed with the CSA.
Pending cereal procurement and due to the emergency nature of the activity, the CSA has agreed
to service the required SAVS using its own readily available cereal stock to jumpstart the activity
in June 2012. The corresponding cereal quantities will then be given back to the CSA by the
PCU upon the completion of Project cereal procurement, which is expected in July 2012.
34.   The CSA will be responsible for the distribution of individual cereal stocks to end
villages. This will be done under the overall supervision of the PCU. The VMCs will be
responsible for warehousing and for the sale of cereals to vulnerable households in the village at
a subsidized price. Depending on villages and vulnerability, the sales price to individual
households will typically vary from 50 percent to 20 percent of the original price (i.e. 50 to 80
percent subsidy) according to VMCs decision. The revolving mechanism of cash recovery will
allow paying for future cereal needs to cover the whole emergency period, including
transportation fees.
35.   The whole distribution procedures, including the beneficiary selection criteria, will be
detailed in the PIM and appropriate Memoranda of Understanding or performance contracts will
be signed to focus on the responsibilities falling within each partner. Collaboration with active
NGOs in the field will be encouraged wherever appropriate and the Project will also seek close
coordination with other partners assisting the Government's EMEL 2012 plan.
36 SAVS will be stocked with an amount of cereals depending on the village population size
3 The WFP is currently assisting 1100 SAVS under the EMEL 2012 Plan
25


﻿ANNEX 4: REVISED ESTIMATE OF PROJECT COSTS
Islamic Republic of Mauritania: Additional Financing to the Second Phase of the
Integrated Development Program for Irrigated Agriculture
A) PROJECT COSTS SUMMARY
(US$ million)
Local   Foreign    Total    IDA    GFRP
COMPONENT D. Project
Administration
Project Management                      1.11     0.01     1.12     0.90
Institutional Support                   0.10     0.03     0.13     0.10
Subtotal                                1.21     0.04     1.25     1.00
COMPONENT E. Emergency and Food
Price Response
E.1. Agricultural and Livestock
Productivity Enhancement
Supply of fertilizers                    -       5.82     5.82             3.00
Supply of Veterinary Products and      0.93      1.61     2.54    2.00
Vaccination campaign
Subtotal                               0.93      7.43     8.36    2.00     3.00
E.2. Support to Food Safety Net
Network of Cereal Food Stocks at Village  0.59   4.05     4.64     2.00    2.00
Level
Subtotal                               0.59      4.05     4.64    2.00     2.00
Total BASELINE COSTS                   2.73     11.52     14.25    5.00    5.00
Physical Contingencies                  0.00     0.00     0.00
Price Contingencies                     0.37     0.34     0.71
Total PROJECT COSTS                    3.11     11.86     14.97
Note: This detailed costs structure shows contributions to the Project by the Government of
Mauritania and by the Project Beneficiaries. This reflects, for example, payments made by the
Recipient for its civil services involved in Project implementation or for the regular maintenance
of vehicles. Similarly, cash payments made by direct beneficiaries to purchase fertilizers (at 50%
discount) or in kind contributions to cover transportation costs for livestock to receive veterinary
treatment are included in the above table. However, since these are regular costs incurred by the
Mauritania administration and/or beneficiaries, such contributions were not secured as
"counterpart funds" to be paid into a project account on the basis of an agreed upon schedule of
disbursement. Therefore, the financial scope of the Project is considered US$10 million only
(equally shared between IDA and GFRP Grants).
26


﻿B) FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million)
Source                              Foreign    Local      Total    Percent
Borrower                              0.00      0.61      0.61       4.1
IDA                                  2.50       2.50      5.00       33.4
GFRP                                 5.00       0.00      5.00       33.4
Beneficiaries                        4.36       0.00      4.36       29.1
Total                                11.86      3.11      14.97      100
C) ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT
Estimated Disbursement (IDA funds in US$ million)
FY                       FY13                     FY14
Annual                     4.75                      0.25
Cumulative                   4.75                      5.00
Estimated Disbursement (GFRP funds in US$ million)
FY                       FY 13                     FY14
Annual                     5.00                      0.00
Cumulative                   5.00                      0.00
27


﻿ANNEX 5: REVISED IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS AND SUPPORT
1.    This annex details changes to fiduciary arrangements (procurement and financial
management) and to environmental and social safeguards management.
>  PROCUREMENT
1. GENERAL
2.    Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in accordance with the World
Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services Under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January
2011; and "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 2011, and the
provisions stipulated in the Legal Agreement38. The various items under different expenditure
categories are described in general below. For each contract to be financed by the Grant, the
different procurement methods or consultant selection methods, the need for pre-qualification,
estimated costs, prior review requirements, and time frame are agreed between the Borrower and
the Bank in the Procurement Plan. The Procurement Plan will be updated at least annually or as
required to reflect the actual project implementation needs and improvements in institutional
capacity. The Bank arranged the publication of the agreed initial procurement plan on the Bank's
external website after loan negotiations and shall arrange all subsequent updates once it has
provided a no objection.
3.    National procurement system and ongoing reforms: The procurement environment in
Mauritania has recently been improved (i) with a Public Procurement Code in July 2010,
effectiveness in February 2012 and (ii) with the establishment of (1) an independent procurement
regulatory body (Autorit de Rfgulation des Marchis Publics - ARMP) responsible for policy
and handling complaints from bidders, (2) a procurement control body (Commission Nationale
du Contr6le des Marchis Publics - CNCMP) responsible for the control of procurements
transactions, and (3) Procurement Sector Committees among which the Procurement Committee
for the Rural and Food Security Sector (Commission de Passation des Marchis du Secteur Rural
et de la Sicuriti Alimentaire). These three bodies are operational and in addition, the control
Body has been decentralized at regional level inside the country. Compared to the initial
PDIAIM-II project, the project under this Additional Financing will benefit from the existence of
these three bodies which are expected to improve the procurement function in the country.
Mauritania's procurement laws and regulations do not conflict with IDA guidelines. No special
exceptions, permits, or licenses need to be specified in the Grant related documents since IDA
procedures take precedence other those laws and regulations.
4.    For the purpose of a possible use of the Procurement Code for National Competitive
Bidding (NCB) method, the team has identified that the method described as "Appel d'Offres"
" Including the "Guidelines on Prevention and Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and updated January 2011
28


﻿(i.e. Competitive Bidding) in reference to the provision 27 of the procurement Code, can be
considered for NCB subject to the conditions described in the paragraph bellow.
5.    In order that the Competitive Bidding procedure becomes acceptable to IDA for its use
for NCB, the following special requirements will be taken into account : (1) the procedures will
require that for small contracts, a competitive method be used (e.g. shopping/price comparison) ;
(2) eligible firms, including foreign firms, will not be excluded from the competition in any case;
(3) no preference margin will be granted to domestic bidders; (4) four weeks will be provided for
preparation and submission of bids, after the issuance of the Invitation for Bids or the availability
of the bidding documents, whichever is later; (5) the evaluation and award process of alternative
bids will be revised to be concordant with the Bank's procurement Guidelines; (6) if the bid
which results in the lowest Evaluated Bid Price is seriously unbalanced or front loaded in the
opinion of the Employer, the evaluation process should be concordant as spelled out in the
relevant Standard Bidding Documents published by the Bank; (7) for all procurement of goods
and works, the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) or National SDB if acceptable to the
Bank, will be used and modified in order to meet the exceptions authorized under NCB.
6.    Procurement will be carried using the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) for all
ICB if any, and National (SBD) for any NCB contracts deemed satisfactory to the Bank.
Contracts estimated at less than US$3,000,000 for works and contracts for goods available
locally, or non-consulting services with a cost estimate less than US$250,000, may be awarded
through NCB procedures.
7.    Contracts for small works if any, small goods such as office supplies, minor equipment
and furniture available locally, or non-consulting services, with a cost estimate equal or bellow
US$50,000, may be procured under the shopping procedure in accordance with the provisions
3.5 of the Guidelines, and in accordance with the Memorandum "Guidance on Shopping" issued
by the Bank, date June 9, 2000 provided this memorandum is not contradictory with the
Procurement Guidelines.
8.    Procurement of Works: No works contracts are foreseen under this additional financing.
However, if any, they would be small contracts to be procured under shopping procedures as
described in the paragraph 3.5 of the procurement Guidelines, based on requests for quotations
obtained from several qualified contractors.
9.    Procurement of Goods: The procurement of goods will be done using the Bank's standard
bidding documents (SBD) for all international competitive bidding (ICB) and national SBD
agreed with or satisfactory to the Bank. Contracts estimated to cost less than US$250,000
equivalent for goods available locally would be procured under national competitive bidding
(NCB) procedures. Small contracts for articles and office supplies as well as small equipment
and furniture available locally and for which the cost estimate is equal or less than US$50,000,
may be awarded through shopping procedures as described in the paragraph 3.5 of the
procurement Guidelines, based on requests for quotations obtained from several qualified
suppliers.
29


﻿10.   Procurement of non-consulting services: No non-consulting services contracts are
foreseen under this additional financing. However, if any, they would be small contracts to be
procured under shopping procedures as described in the paragraph 3.5 of the procurement
Guidelines, based on request for quotations obtained from several qualified service providers. In
the event the cost estimate is higher than US$50,000, NCB procedure as described above will be
used.
11.   Selection of Consultants: Consultants will be selected using the Quality and Cost-Based
Selection (QCBS) method in most cases. In special cases specified in the Procurement Plan (PP)
the following methods will be used: (1) Selection under a Fixed Budget (FBS); (2) Least Cost
Selection (LCS); (3) Selection Based on the Consultants' Qualifications (CQS); (4) Single
Source Selection (SSS) and (5) Individual Consultants (IC) Selection (either through competitive
selection or single source). For competitive selection methods, the selection will be done (i)
through requests for expressions of interest (REls) except for the selection of individual
consultants for which REls are not mandatory, and (ii) using the Bank's Standard Request for
Proposals where required.
12.   Short lists of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per
contract may be composed entirely of national consultants in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
13.   Advertisement: the Borrower submitted to the Bank a General Procurement Notice
(GPN), which is additional to the General Procurement Notice of the ongoing PDIAIM II. On
May 29, 2012, the Borrower published this additional GPN in UNDB online with the Bank
support, and in local newspapers of wide national circulation. The Bank arranged for its
publication on the Bank's external website. Specific Procurement Notices for contracts for goods
and for works (if any) to be procured under International Competitive Bidding (ICB) and
Requests for Expressions of Interest for contracts for consulting services costing the equivalent
of US$100,000 and above will be published in UNDB and in the national press with wide
circulation, in addition to other media with wide circulation. All other specific procurement
notices and other requests for expressions of interest shall be published at least in the national
press with wide circulation.
2. ASSESSMENT OF THE AGENCY'S CAPACITY TO IMPLEMENT PROCUREMENT
14.   The proposed AF will build on the experience accumulated with the implementation of
the parent project. A participatory procurement capacity assessment of the existing implementing
agency was conducted during program preparation of the second phase of the Integrated
Development Program for Irrigated Agriculture (PDIAIM II / Credit 4043-MAU) in February
2005 and reassessed annually as part of the procurement supervision missions and procurement
post reviews of this project. The agency has an acceptable capacity despite the absence of the
procurement specialist who has recently been appointed for another position; the staff in the
technical departments showed their commitment in their part of responsibility in the procurement
process, but the need of a dedicated procurement for advice and internal control exists. In order
to fill this gap, the PCU is on its way to select another procurement specialist with the relevant
qualifications.
30


﻿15.    Therefore, the risks are the absence of a procurement specialist in the project
implementing agency (PCU). The mitigation measures are the selection, by the PCU, of a
qualified Procurement Specialist prior to Project effectiveness.
16.    The overall project risk for procurement under this additional financing is substantial; it
may be moderate once the mitigation measures are in place.
3. PROCUREMENT PLAN
17.    The Borrower has drafted a procurement plan for the project implementation, which will
provide the basis for the procurement methods. This plan has been sent by the PCU to the Bank
for review. After approval by the Bank, it will be available at the respective offices of the PCU,
the ARMP and the CNCMP. It will also be available in the project's database and in the Bank's
external website. The Procurement Plan will be updated in agreement with the Project Team at
least annually or as required, to reflect the actual project implementation needs and
improvements in institutional capacity. All subsequent updates will be disclosed in the same way
as mentioned above, once they are approved by the Bank.
4. FREQUENCY OF PROCUREMENT SUPERVISION
18.   In addition to the prior review supervision to be carried out from Bank offices, the
capacity assessment of the Project Implementation Unit (PCU) has recommended supervision
missions every six months to visit the field and to carry out during one of these missions, post
review of procurement actions.
5. THRESHOLDS FOR PROCUREMENT METHODS AND PRIOR REVIEW
Expenditure       Contract Value          Procurement             Contract Subject to
Category          (Threshold)             Method                   Prior Review
Amounts in US$                                         US$
1. Works           > 3,000,000         ICB                       All
< 3,000,000        NCB                        On a case by case basis
<50,000            Shopping/price Comparison  On a case by case basis
No threshold       Direct contracting         All
2. Goods             500,000          ICB                        All
< 500,000          NCB                        On a case by case basis
< 50,000           Shopping                   On a case by case basis
No threshold       Single Source Selection    All
3. Consultants
- All contracts with a cost
3.1 Firms   No threshold       QCBS; LCS; FBS;esiaequloabv
estimate equal or above
US$100,000; and
- all contracts for financial audit
and for procurement audit
<100,000           CQS                        All short-lists under CQ
31


﻿3.2         No threshold       Selection of Individual   - All contract with a cost
Individuals                    Consultants (Comparison of at  estimate equal or above
least 3 CVs)              US$50,000;
- all contracts for financial
assistance and for procurement
assistance, and
- all short-lists for individual
Consultants Selection
No threshold       Single Source Selection   All
(Firms & Individuals)
All TORs regardless of the value of the contract and the selection method, are subject to prior review
6. PROCUREMENT IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT PLAN
19.    In addition to the day-to-day review of procurement documents under prior review by the
Bank, procurement supervision will be done at least once a year. This supervision will include (i)
the review of the procurement plan to be updated from time to time by the PCU ensuring the
necessary linkages with the procurement transactions under the existing financing; (ii) advice to
the PCU on procurement documents under preparation; (iii) the procurement post-review of
procurement transactions which have not been prior reviewed by the Bank; (iv) the review of the
organization and the performance of the procurement function within the PCU (capacity of both
procurement staff and other technical staff, including archiving); and (v) any other procurement-
related matters.
> FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
1. INSTITUTIONAL AND IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
20.    The PCU will be responsible for the overall coordination of the FM  and accounting
activities. Contract management for the implementation of some components may be delegated
to executive partners (such as MDR-DA, MDR-DE, SONIMEX or CSA) but these agencies will
not have FM responsibility.
21.    Under the supervision of the coordinator, the FM  team  will oversee the financial
management aspects of the Project, including the preparation of the financial statements,
providing quarterly Interim Financial Reports, monitoring financial transactions on the Project's
accounts and making the necessary arrangements for the annual financial audit.
2. FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT ARRANGEMENT
22.    Budgeting: the PCU will continue to prepare an annual budget based on agreed annual
work programs and annual procurement plans. The budget should be approved before the
beginning of the year and monitored through the accounting software. The Project consolidated
budget will be submitted to IDA's non-objection.
23.    Accounting policies and procedures: the current accounting standards in use in
Mauritania for on-going Bank-financed projects will be applied. The PCU will use the existing
32


﻿computerized and integrated financial management system, but it will update the existing
software from mono-project to multi-project to allow a segregate book-keeping for the additional
financing. Project accounts will be on accrual basis, supported with appropriate records and
procedures to track commitments. Annual financial statements will be prepared by the PCU.
24.    Internal Control and Internal Auditing: the project Administrative and Financial
Management procedures manual will be updated before project effectiveness and will provide a
clear description of the approval and authorization processes in respect to the rule of separation
of duties. Fiduciary agreement with new institutions which will be involved (such as MDR-DE,
MDR-DA, and the CSA) will be taken into account in the updated manual. The project will
support the recruitment of an internal auditor under terms of reference (ToR) satisfactory to the
Bank. The internal auditor will be recruited no later than three months after project effectiveness.
The internal auditor will carry out internal audits of the project and will issue quarterly reports.
25.    Reporting: the PCU will prepare quarterly un-audited Interim Financial Report (IFRs) in
a format and content satisfactory to the Bank; these will be submitted to the Bank within 45 days
after the end of the quarter to which they relate. The PCU agreed with the Bank on the format of
the IFRs before negotiations.
26.    External Audit arrangements: the Financial Agreement will require the submission of
Audited Financial Statements for the additional financing. The audit report will reflect all the
activities of the Project and be submitted to IDA within six months after the end of each fiscal
year. The selection of an external auditor of project financial statements will be presented to IDA
for non-objection. Appropriate terms of reference (ToR) for the external auditor will be provided
to the project team and the hiring process will be completed by the PCU no later than four
months after project effectiveness. The external auditor will prepare a Management Letter giving
observations and comments, and providing recommendations for improvements in accounting
records, systems, controls and compliance with financial covenants in the Financial Agreement.
Audit Report                                           Due Date
Annual audited financial statements (including Statements of Sources and Uses  End of June
of Funds with appropriate notes and disclosures) and Management Letter
27.    Disbursement Arrangements and Funds of Flow: the transaction based method for
disbursement will continue to be used. Given that the AF will be funded with an IDA allocation
complemented by an FPCR-MDTF Grant, two separated Designated Accounts (DA) will be
opened at a commercial bank to facilitate payment for eligible expenditures under each fund.
DAs will be managed on joint signature of both the project coordinator and the FM expert,
according to the disbursement procedures described in the Administrative, Financial
Management Manual and Disbursement Letters. Allocations of the Designated Accounts will
cover approximately four months of expenditures and the flexibility allowed for rapid response
operations will be applicable. DAs will be replenished through the submission of Withdrawal
Applications on a monthly basis by the accounts unit and will include reconciled bank statements
and other documents as may be required.
33


﻿Funds Flow Chart:
IDA
Designated           Government       PDIAM
Account                              PCU
DDI
Suppliers
---------------------------p
1.          1 Transfer of funds
2.             Direct payment
3. - -------- P  Transmission of documents
FM Implementation Support Plan:
Frequency
Based on the outcome of the FM risk assessment, the following
implementation support plan is proposed. The objective of the
implementation support plan is to ensure the project maintains a
satisfactory financial management system throughout the project's
life.FM Activity
Desk reviews
Interim financial reports review                            Quarterly
Audit report review of the program                          Annually
Review of other relevant information such as interim internal control  Continuous as they become available
systems reports.
On site visits
Review of overall operation of the FM system                Annual for additional financing
(Implementation Support Mission)
Monitoring of actions taken on issues highlighted in audit reports,  As needed
auditors' management letters, internal audit and other reports
Transaction reviews (if needed)                             As needed
Capacity building support
FM training sessions                                        During implementation and as and when
needed.
28.     Financial Covenants: the Borrower shall establish and maintain a financial management
system including records, accounts and preparation of related financial statements in accordance
with accounting standards acceptable to the Bank. The Borrower will be compliant with all the
rules and procedures required for withdrawals from the Designated Accounts of the project.
29.     Financial Management Action Plan: the Financial Management assessment carried out
during project preparation determined that the financial management arrangements satisfy the
Bank's minimum requirements under OP/BP 10.02. With the implementation of following the
34


﻿financial management action plan, the financial management arrangements for the project will be
further strengthened. The residual risk rating for PDIAIM's PCU will be Medium Low.
Action                                    Date due by             Responsible Unit
Update the existing FM manual to take into  Prior to effectiveness  PDIAIM-PCU
account the financial management arrangements of
this additional financing
Upgrade the accounting software for the project.  Not later than 1 month  PDIAIM-PCU
after effectiveness
Selection of the project external auditor  Not later than 4 months  PDIAIM-PCU
after effectiveness
Appointment of an internal auditor        Not later than 3 months  PDIAIM-PCU
after effectiveness
> ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL SAFEGUARDS
30.    The proposed operation is an Additional Financing to a category A (full assessment)
project (PDIAIM II) which is being restructured and reclassified category B (partial assessment).
In fact, this original classification of the PDIAIM II was justified by the need to provide potable
drinking water to vulnerable communities using irrigation canals, by the control of birds that
devastate rice crops, and by the --then planned-- rehabilitation works on the Foum Gleita Dam,
as well as large irrigation infrastructures works on the downstream irrigation schemes. Measures
for potable drinking water and bird control have been successfully completed. Moreover,
activities related to the Foum Gleita Dam and irrigation infrastructure works have since been
dropped out of the PDIAIM II due to lack of financing. Furthermore, it is worth noting that not
only PDIAIM II is ending its activities (current closing date is September 30, 2012), but also the
proposed AF will not support any activities related to irrigation. As a result, both the parent
project and the additional financing are classified as category B (partial assessment). The two
policies triggered by the proposed AF are OP/BP 4.01 on Environmental Assessment and OP
4.09 on Pest and Pesticides Management.
31.    The proposed AF aims at improving the availability of critical agricultural inputs and
food staples for targeted beneficiaries. It will intervene in ten administrative regions affected by
the drought emergency situation. The activities to be supported and which may induce
safeguards concerns will consist of: (i) the supply and distribution of fertilizers in the rice
cultivation areas (Trarza, Brakna, Gorgol and Guidimaka regions), (ii) the supply of veterinary
products including treatments (vitamin and mineral nutritional complements, and/or antibiotics,
and/or anti-parasites) and livestock vaccinations against drought induced diseases (Small
Ruminants' Plague, Botulism and Pasteurellosis), and (iii) the provision of initial cereal stocks
(or the replenishment of depleted existing cereal stocks) to targeted village food security stocks
(Stocks Alimentaires Villageois de Securite).
32.    The project's activities will be undertaken in ten administrative regions of Mauritania
(Trarza, Brakna, Gorgol, Guidimaka, Hodh Chargui, Hodh Gharbi, Assaba, Tagant, Adrar,
Inchiri) affected by the current drought situation. Some of the project sites are located in the
35


﻿Mauritania side of the Senegal River basin but the size and scale of the activities are not
suspicious to generate a disturbance in water flow or any other dynamics in natural environment.
The remaining sites stretch over typical Sahelian rangelands that are adapted to activities to be
supported under the project. Thus, no salient physical characteristic is found critical to safeguard
analysis. Through the distribution of agricultural inputs (fertilizers and veterinary drugs) the
Additional Financing activities may induce indirect but manageable impacts due to inadequate
handling and use of the products or their residues.
33.    On the social side, the additional proposed activities will have more positive impacts on
vulnerable rural beneficiaries than adverse ones. The agricultural and livestock activities
envisaged will improve the well being and cohesion of social groups and communities,
particularly through the SAVS networks. The activities linked to the AF will not lead to any land
acquisition or restriction of access to natural resources and livelihoods for the populations; as a
consequence of this, the Involuntary Resettlement Policy (OP/BP 4.12) will not be triggered.
34.    The Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF) as well as the Pest and
Pesticide Management Plan (PMP) of PDIAIM II will be updated as a Project disbursement
condition to integrate the risks which could arise from the Additional Financing activities. The
communication strategy developed during the PDIAIM II to address environmental management
issues will continue to be used to raise the awareness of farmers, herders and other relevant
stakeholders about Project activities. The renewed Safeguard Specialist of the PCU (recruitment
will take place before effectiveness) will ensure the effective implementation of the prevention
and mitigation measures approved under the safeguards instruments.
35.    There are no substantial changes in the responsibilities for the implementation of the
safeguards instruments. The PCU will continue to play a key role: (i) by updating the ESMF and
the PMP; and ii) in ensuring that all environmental and social mitigation measures are duly
executed by the three new key technical partners (MDR-DA, MDR-DE and CSA).
36.    The ESMF will give guidance, tools and recommendations for adequate compliance to
safeguards requirements and proper implementation of mitigation measures (screening prior to
implementation, integration of concrete measures in the project global planning and costing).
37.   Screening process. At the earliest stage of their implementation (site identification)
activities under component E will systematically be processed through the environmental and
social screening procedure detailed in the ESMP. The screening is executed by the PCU
safeguard specialist. The screening process will result in the environmental classification of the
subprojects in category B (partial assessment) or C (not required). No category A (full
assessment) subproject will be funded. The screening results are shared with the National
Directorate of Environmental Control and the PCU. For any category B activity/subproject, an
Environmental and Social Impact Assessment (ESIA), including a concise and accurate
Environmental and Social Management Plan (ESMP) will be prepared, processed according to
the national EA procedure, submitted to the Bank's comment and then disclosed in-country and
at the Bank's Infoshop; the ESMP's pertinent activities are integrated in the subproject planning,
costing (bidding documents) and implementation (contracts, annual work plan and budget
36


﻿structure, report). For category C that could raise minor concerns on environmental or social
aspects, a simple ESMP will be prepared and integrated to the implementation activities.
38.   Follow up and reporting of the mitigation measures. The environmental and social
mitigations measures summarized in the ESMF and the PMP as well as the specific mitigation
measures approved for the subprojects will be executed, monitored and reported in: (i) a specific
Safeguard Monitoring Report; and (ii) the Environmental and Social Safeguards section of the
overall project periodic report. The responsibility of the follow up is with the PCU, while the
Ministry of Environment will be copied to all related reports.
39.   A review of the institutional capacities of the implementing institutions revealed that
there are some concerns about the regulatory framework for environmental and social
management at national and local levels. The capacities of the national institution responsible for
the enforcement of the safeguard procedures remain very weak for the implementation and
supervision of current PDIAIM II mitigation measures. However, the proposed activities under
new Component E are of an emergency nature, short term and do not lead to any significant
environmental and social impact.
40.   Summary of the critical safeguard implementation measures:
Actions                   Timeline            Responsible
Replacement of the Safeguards    Before effectiveness       PCU
Specialist
Dissemination of the safeguard      Before first            PCU
documentation (ESMF, PMP)           disbursement
Safeguard processing of any sub-  Far ahead to the          PCU
project prior to its implementation  starting of the activity
Implementation and follow up of  Implementation period      PCU
the environment and social
mitigation measures approved
following the screening results
Mid-term and final audits of the  Mid-term and last      Ministry of
implementation of environment   quarter of the calendar  environment
and social recommendations and
measures
41.   The Environmental Screening is category B (partial assessment). The policies triggered
are as follows:
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project           Yes           No
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01)                 [x]           [ ]
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                         []            [x]
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                             [x]          []
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11)             [1]            [x]
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                 [ ]           [x]
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10)                      [1]            [x]
Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                  []            [x]
37


﻿Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                       [xI
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60)           [ ]          [x]
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP 7.50)  []           [x]
38


