 IEG
                                                                                                    Report Number: ICRR14700

                   ICR Review
                   Independent Evaluation Group




        1. Project Data:                                         Date Posted: 06/08/2015

               Country: Mauritania
             Project ID: P088828                                                        Appraisal                Actual
         Project Name: Mr:integrated                   Project Costs (US$M):                        46.6                  49.36
                         Development
                         Program For Irrigated
                         Agric. Apl #
  L/C Number:                                            Loan/Credit (US$M):                        39.0                  46.29
      Sector Board:      Agriculture and Rural           Cofinancing (US$M):                         0.0                    0.0
                         Development
            Cofinanciers:                               Board Approval Date :                                 03/17/2005
                                                                Closing Date:             12/31/2010          05/31/2014
           Sector(s):       Irrigation and drainage (25%); Agro-industry; marketing; and trade (20%); Agricultural
                            extension and research (20%); Crops (20%); General public administration sector (15%)
          Theme(s):         Export development and competitiveness (23%); Water resource management (22%); Rural
                            markets (22%); Infrastructure services for private sector development (22%); Land
                            administration and management (11%)

Prepared by:                Reviewed by:             ICR Review                   Group:
                                                     Coordinator:
Hassan Wally                April Connelly           Christopher David           IEGPS1
                                                     Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

 a. Objectives:
 The project was the second phase of an Adaptable Program Loan (APL) for the Integrated Development Program
for Irrigated Agriculture in Mauritania .

According to the Project Appraisal Document (p. 4) the project development objectives were to: "(i) consolidate key
incentive measures, (ii) increase sustainable irrigation schemes, and (iii) intensify agricultural diversification for
targeted actors engaged in irrigated agriculture."

According to the Development Credit Agreement (DCA, p. 29) the project development objectives were to:
"(i) consolidate key incentive measures for irrigated agriculture, (ii) increase sustainable irrigation schemes, and (iii)
intensify agricultural diversification."

The Financial Agreement (p. 5) for additional project financing indicated a new PDO for the operation without revising
the original PDO: “the objective of the project is to improve availability of critical agricultural inputs and food staples for
targeted beneficiaries."

This review will evaluate the project against the objectives as stated in the DCA and the objectives mentioned in the
Additional Financing Agreement.

Although the project objectives were revised in conjunction with the provision of additional financing, a split rating
methodology is not being applied because the additional financing added a fourth objective to respond to the global
food price crisis but did not revise the original three objectives or alter the original targets or design.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
Yes
 Date of Board Approval: 07/06/2012

 c. Components:
  1. Rural Incentives and Capacity Building (Appraisal Cost: US$3.50 million, Actual Cost: US$3.78 million). This
component supports the consolidation of the policy measures and incentives initiated during Phase I of the APL and
improves the capacity of national and regional rural institutions to implement the Program. It targets: (a) public
providers of services to policy makers and agricultural producers, such as the Ministry of Rural Development and
Environment’s units of policy analysis and monitoring, land registration agency, rural infrastructure, seed quality
control agencies, regional rural delegations; (b) the project’s autonomous implementing agencies ; (c) producers’
organizations at the national and regional levels, such as the Unions of Agricultural Cooperatives, Mauritanian
Federation of Crop and Livestock Producers, and the Economic Interest Groups engaged in rice marketing and
vegetables export; and (d) private engineering bureaus engaged in irrigation development. It would focus primarily on:
(1) collection and analysis of annual agricultural statistics; (2) registration of land for candidates to irrigation
development; (3) capacity building activities (training, workshops, etc); and (4) analytical works related to a rural
finance expansion strategy in the Senegal River Valley. The component would finance expenses related to: consultant
services; training programs; equipment and office supplies, and operating costs. Through a results-based mechanism,
the project would support collaboration between the two government agencies involved with land registration to
ensure timely land registration for beneficiaries.
2. Infrastructure for Irrigated Agriculture (Appraisal Cost: US$24.88 million, Actual Cost: US$20.52 million). This
component aims at providing technical services and investment funds to land owners to expand irrigation schemes,
along with secure land tenure and capacity building provided in other components. It also aims to build the basic
public infrastructure to support private investment. This component targets small-medium cooperatives and individual
farmers engaged in rice production and agricultural diversification. It focuses on: (1) the technical, economic, and
environmental aspects of rehabilitation, extension and creation of private irrigation schemes initiated during Phase 1;
(2) priority public infrastructure identified during Phase 2 to improve the flow and drainage of water and the access to
rural roads, electricity and basic market infrastructure; (3) R&D in water pumping; and (4) feasibility studies of
investments to be implemented during Phase 3. With respect to public infrastructure, the project would collaborate
with the Transport Sector Project planned for mid-2006 (FY07). This component would finance: private and public
infrastructure investments; supervisory services provided by National Development Corporation through a
performance-based mechanism; and R&D experimentations and studies requiring consultant services and operating
costs. The investment cost for the rehabilitation or creation of irrigation schemes includes beneficiary’s contribution,
credit (through National Union of Agricultural and Savings and Credit Cooperatives), and a one-time matching-grant,
whose levels are detailed in the project’s implementation manuals (PIM).
3. Support to Agricultural Supply Chains (Appraisal Cost: US$10.94 million, Actual Cost: US$9.85 million). This
component provides the necessary assistance to develop a competitive rice subsector and a diversified agricultural
base, by targeting rice and horticultural supply chain participants engaged in domestic and export markets. It includes
three sub-components:
      3.1. Support in Basic Farm Management . This sub-component addresses farm-level demands for agricultural
      extension and managerial services of target beneficiaries, such as: (a) farm cooperatives and individual farmers
      that have invested in irrigation development with project’s support; (b) large scale public schemes’ cooperatives
      to whom the Government is set to transfer the management of those schemes; (c) small women cooperatives
      engaged in crop diversification alongside male cooperatives; and (d) other farm cooperatives and individual
      farmers with identified potential for growth. This sub-component would implement activities related to the: (1)
      proper O&M of the newly rehabilitated and created irrigation schemes; (2) good agricultural practices in rice
      production; (3) good agricultural practices in crop diversification; (4) organization and management of farm
      enterprises; (5) support to women’s income-generating activities; and (6) transfer of large-scale public schemes
      to producers’ organizations. I t will finance: training/extension services, through a performance-based mechanism
      with National Development Corporation, NGOs and private service providers, and limited matching grants to
      women cooperatives engaged in crop diversification.
      3.2. Support to the Rice Subsector. This sub-component supports the improvement of the domestic rice sector
      by meeting the credit needs of the sector’s participants, such as seed farmers, producers, processors, and
      providers of agricultural custom services. It would finance the incremental source of funds needed by the National
      Union of Agricultural and Savings and Credit Cooperatives to provide short-, medium- and long-term credit to the
      sector’s participants to finance seasonal inputs, paddy for processing, agricultural equipment, processing
      machines, and storage facilities.
      3.3. Promotion of Agricultural Diversification . This sub-component supports the increasing the participation of
      actors in commercial horticultural production for domestic and export markets, by taking advantage of the
      achievements of Phase 1. It targets primarily commercial farmers and entrepreneurs engaged in horticulture,
      animal feed, and agro-forestry production for the domestic and export markets. It emphasizes the (1) efficient
      management of project-built infrastructure; (2) introduction of new products and processing
     techniques; (3) quality control system of fruit and vegetables at the farm, packaging and port of entry/exit levels;
     (4) market information; and (5) baseline studies and experimentations in irrigation systems. It supports civil works
     to rehabilitate regional centers’ offices, consultant services for market studies and technical assistance, matching
     grants in pilot introduction programs, credit through the National Union of Agricultural and Savings and Credit
     Cooperatives to finance production and market operations and R&D experimentations, through performance
     based mechanism with the National Agricultural Research and Development Center (CNRADA) and National
     Development Corporation. A Nouakchott based diversification specialist will supervise the regional centers at
     Rosso and Kaedi and coordinate the implementation of this sub-component at the national and regional levels.
4. Project Administration . (Appraisal Cost: US$7.34 million, Actual Cost: US$6.93). This component supports the
proper coordination, monitoring and evaluation of project activities as well as the implementation of the social and
environmental safeguards. It includes three sub-components:
     4.1. Project Management and Coordination . This sub-component supports activities related to the project’s
     administration and coordination, including its communication policy. It would finance: training programs for
     capacity building, equipment, office supplies, and computerized financial management system, and operating
     costs of the project implementation unit.
     4.2. Monitoring and Evaluation . This sub-component supports strengthening of the project management,
     reporting and monitoring of project’s outcomes, triggers, safeguards and results.
     4.3. Environmental and Social Safeguard Measures . This sub-component supports mitigation of the negative
     project impacts, and enhancing the positive environmental impacts of the project. It targets all populations that
     might be negatively impacted by the project. It would finance civil works, consultant services, equipment, material
     and offices supplies, operating costs, and eventually compensation payments according to safeguard policies.

A new component was added upon the approval of US$10.0 million of additional financing:

5. Emergency and Food Price Response (Appraisal Cost US$13.0 million, Actual Cost: US$6.31 million). This
component included two sub-components:
    5.1. Agricultural and Livestock Productivity Enhancement . This sub-component supports the supply and
    distribution of subsidized urea for irrigated rice intensification, as well as the supply of veterinary products and the
    sanitary treatment of livestock, including vaccination.
    5.2. Support to Food Safety Net . This sub-component supports the consolidation of the existing network of
    village food security stocks, through the initial distribution or replenishment of cereal stocks for a selected number
    of village food security stocks serving vulnerable rural communities.

 d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
   Project Cost. At appraisal the total project cost was estimated to be US$46.6 million (PAD, p. 3). Additional
financing was estimated at US$14.96 million, resulting in a combined project cost estimate of US$61.56 million.

At project completion the ICR (Annex 1) reports that the actual cost of the original project was US$41.91 million and
the actual cost of additional financing was US$7.45 million, a combined total project cost of US$49.36 million (20
percent below the combined appraisal estimate). The ICR does not explain why the actual project costs were below
appraisal estimates.
Financing. At appraisal the project was expected to be financed through an IDA credit of US$39 million equivalent.
The ICR (Annex 1) reports that at project closure US$41.08 million equivalent had disbursed and an equivalent of
US$0.68 million was cancelled from the original IDA allocation. The ICR did not provide a reason for the cancellation.

In 2012 the project received an additional financing of US$10 million, of which US$5 million equivalent was an IDA
credit and US$5 million was a Grant from the Global Food Price Crisis Response Program (GFCRP). At project
completion the actual amount of additional financing disbursed was US$2.54 million equivalent of the IDA credit and
US$4.91 million of the GFCRP Grant. The ICR (p. 31) noted that an equivalent of US$2.53 million was cancelled from
the IDA allocation. The planned project activities for fertilizer distribution and livestock vaccination were not financed
by IDA and GFRP funds because the Government decided to use its own fertilizer stock and undertook vaccination
activities with its own funds. The ICR (p.11) pointed out that "the Government requested the Bank (in its letter of May
9, 2013) to partially cancel and re-direct the un-used IDA resources for a future agricultural operation."

Borrower Contribution . At appraisal the Borrower was expected to contribute a total of US$7.6 million of counterpart
funds of which US$4.8 million from the Government and US$2.8 million from project beneficiaries. According to the
ICR (Annex 1) the actual Borrower contribution was US$2.6 million and US$0.3 million by the Government and
beneficiaries, respectively. The ICR does not explain the reason for the shortfalls in government and beneficiary
contributions. For additional financing, the Borrower and local communities were expected to contribute US$0.61 and
US$4.36 million, respectively, however, the ICR (Annex 1) reported that no contributions were received from either.
The ICR does not provide an explanation for this.
Dates and restructuring . The project closed 41 months later than the expected closing date set at appraisal. It was
restructured six times. Despite the considerable changes that took place throughout the life of the project, IEG has
chosen not to do a Split Evaluation as the changes did not make a 'material difference' (as defined in the harmonized
guidelines) to the achievement against the PDO. The first restructure was a Level 2 restructuring on November 11,
2010, extending the closing date by 12 months to December, 31, 2011 to accommodate 16 months of project
suspension following political turmoil in 2008. The second was a Level 2 restructuring on December 22, 2011,
extending the closing date by 6 months to June 30, 2012, to enable the completion of the remaining project activities.
The third was a Level 2 restructuring on June 12, 2012, extending the closing date by 3 months to September 30,
2012, to enable Board approval for additional financing. The fourth was a Level 1 restructuring on July 6, 2012, in
order to finance the activities under the newly added Emergency and Food Price Response component. It set a new
closing date of February 28, 2014; and provided additional financing of US$10 million of which US$9 million was to be
allocated to two new sub-components and the remaining US$1.0 million was to be allocated to project administration.
The fifth was a Level 2 restructuring on August 13, 2013, to allocate the expected undisbursed balance of the IDA
Credit of US$2.5 million equivalent to the new Integrated Development Program Project (under preparation) combined
with a partial cancellation of US$2.5 million equivalent of IDA funds and reallocation of Grant proceeds. The sixth was
a Level 2 restructuring on February 7, 2014, extending the closing date by 3 months to allow necessary time for the
project to purchase 4,500 Tons of wheat. The Project Midterm Review was carried out on April 30, 2008, as planned.

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

 a. Relevance of Objectives:
High.
At project appraisal, Mauritania’s priorities with respect to irrigated agriculture included the rehabilitation of degraded
irrigation schemes still under production and the extension of collective schemes in which family plots were too small
to adequately cover the family’s subsistence needs. The project was aligned with the country’s sector strategies
including the Rural Development Strategy (2001), Letter of Development Policy for Irrigated Agriculture (1999), and
Agro-Food Strategy (2001) and overall Poverty Reduction Strategic Framework. The aforementioned strategies were
also the cornerstone of the to the PRSP’s second pillar-to reflect a long-term shared vision of turning the Senegal
River Valley into one of the main sources of development and economic growth. The project objectives were
consistent with three out of four strategic axes identified in the 2001 Poverty Reduction Paper and highlighted by the
FY03-05 World Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Mauritania including: "(i) accelerating private sector-led
growth; (ii) anchoring growth in the economic environment of the poor; and (iv) institutional development and
governance (CAS, p. i).” The objectives for AF were also highly relevant since the AF sought to respond to an
emergency situation that impacted the country as a result of the global food price crisis. The objectives aimed to
respond to the immediate needs of impacted targeted beneficiaries through improving the availability of critical
agricultural input and food staples and were consistent with the Global Food Crisis Response Program which had
three objectives: (i) reducing the negative impact of high and volatile food prices on the lives of the poor in a timely
manner; (ii) supporting broad-based growth in productivity and market participation in agriculture to ensure an
adequate and sustainable food supply; and (iii) support governments in the design of sustainable policies that mitigate
the adverse impacts of high and more volatile food prices on poverty, while minimizing the creation of long-term
market distortions.
At project completion, the project objectives remain highly relevant in light of the importance of the irrigation
sub-sector. The objectives in line with the Bank's Sahel Initiative as outlined in the FY14-16 CAS which calls among
other things to "substantially expand irrigation coverage by developing the potential of the Niger and Senegal River
Basins (CAS, p. 9)." It is plausible to assume that the additional financing objectives would also continue to be
relevant under similar emergency situations in the future.

 b. Relevance of Design:
Modest.
The original design included a clear statement that listed three objectives. Design identified the importance of cost
sharing by beneficiaries, and combined investment in irrigation infrastructure with capacity improvement and an
incentive mechanism. However, the results framework did not provide clear links between project inputs, outputs and
expected outcomes. Nevertheless, the PAD (Annex 4) included a detailed description of project activities. To achieve
the stated objectives, design featured four components. The first would contribute to the achievement of the first
objective through consolidating key incentive measures for irrigated agriculture initiated under Phase 1 and improving
the capacity of national and regional rural institutions to implement the Program. This would be achieved through the
provision of capacity building activities to various stakeholders including public providers of services to policy makers
and agricultural producers’ organizations at the national and regional levels and private engineering bureaus engaged
in irrigation development. The component would also improve tenure security through facilitating timely registration of
land for candidates of irrigation development. The second component would contribute to the achievement of the
second objective by providing technical services and investment funds to land owners to expand irrigation schemes as
well as priority public infrastructure identified during Phase 2 to improve the flow and drainage of water and the access
to rural roads, electricity and basic market infrastructure. The third component would contribute to the achievement of
the third objective through targeting of rice and horticultural supply chain participants engaged in domestic and export
markets to promote a competitive rice subsector and a more diversified agricultural base. This would be achieved
through promoting better farm management for rice farmers, providing credit to farmers through financing the National
Union of Agricultural and Savings and Credit Cooperatives to finance inputs and promoting growing new horticultural
crops and processing techniques to improve quality for domestic and export markets.

Design suffered from a number of shortcomings. First, it promoted a holistic complex approach to address irrigation
related issues which required skillful collaboration and coordination across multiple agencies that the implementing
agencies lacked the capacity to provide. Second, design attempted to promote the rehabilitation of perimeters as a
means for boosting rice yield despite that perimeters were rehabilitated and abandoned before and it was not clear
whether this was the top priority of communities. Third, the project aimed to address rural credit constraints through
support an agricultural credit institution that lacked a solid credit repayment history among its clients and the
dominance of subsistence agriculture.

The provision of additional financing added an additional objective statement that was clear and focused. To achieve
this additional objective, design featured a single component with two main activities, the first aimed to enhance
agricultural and livestock productivity through the provision of fertilizers to rice farmers as well as the supply of
veterinary services. The second activity supported the food safety net through distribution or replenishment of cereal
stocks for a selected number of village food security stocks serving vulnerable rural communities. The project's active
presence in drought impacted areas combined with its institutional and fiduciary capacity made it a tool of choice to
handle additional financing resources and fast-track the Bank’s emergency response in drought affected areas.
However, the design of the additional financing activities suffered from setting ambitious quantitative targets under a
limited time frame and overestimated the absorptive capacity of the intended project beneficiaries. The amount of
fertilizer to be distributed and animals to be vaccinated were both beyond the capacity of the existing system.

4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
  Original objectives

(i) Consolidate key incentive measures for irrigated agriculture. Negligible.

Outputs
  It was expected that the Office of Land Affairs and Cartography /Bureau of Land Affairs would process at least
    75% of land registration requests within one month.” This target was not achieved. The ICR records progress
    against this indicator as 0%. The Government suspended the land registration process as of February 2011 (ICR,
    p. 32). At the time of ICR preparation, only one branch of the Office of Land Affairs and Cartography /Bureau of
    Land Affairs was still functioning.
  By December 2011 a strategy for rural finance expansion was completed by an international consulting firm.
    However, the strategy became irrelevant due to the deteriorating financial situation of the National Union of
    Agricultural Cooperatives for Savings and Credit, which prompted the Government to replace it with the Savings
    and Development Bank.
  The project fully achieved its target for producing annual agricultural statistics on time. For the whole
    implementation period, the project supported the Ministry of Rural Development and Environment unit of policy
    analysis and monitoring, which regularly produced the annual production of agricultural statistics. However, the
    quality of the statistics concerning the volume of production of diversified crops were unreliable.
  The project fell short of its target for the collection of operations and maintenance charges. An Independent
    assessment found that only 54% of the producer organizations of large-scale public irrigation schemes collected
    adequate water and operations and maintenance charges (target: 75%). The assessment found that the results
    varied by region: producer organizations effectively collected all the charges (usage fee and maintenance of
    common infrastructures) in the Trarza region, while in the other administrative regions (Brakna, Gorgol and
    Guidimagha) the producer organizations collection was limited to operational costs (usage fee and salaries).

Outcome
This objective was stated as an output and little information is reported on the resulting outcomes. The project fell
short on achieving its target on land titling. Under the project, only 200 additional titles could be regularized bringing
the total number to about 1,000. By project completion only one land registry was operational and land titling was
seeing increasing delays with a total suspension of land registration by the Government imposed in February 2011.
Land registration was also impacted by the limited capacity at the Office of Land Affairs and Cartography. The dual
management of land tenure issues between the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Rural Development (hosting the
Office of Land Affairs and Cartography) contributed to the delays as well. The project also fell short on maintaining
financial self-sufficiency of the National Union of Agricultural Cooperatives for Savings and Credit. At Project closing
the National Union of Agricultural Cooperatives for Savings and Credit was no longer operational since the
Government in 2013 replaced it with a new public institution known as the Savings and Development Bank. Annual
statistics were produced on time but the quality of some was unreliable and collection of operations and maintenance
charges varied by region.

(ii) Increase sustainable irrigation schemes. Negligible.

Outputs
  It was expected that 5 priority feasibility studies for phase 3 were to be completed under the project, however,
    none were carried out due to the cancellation of phase 3.
  By project completion, only 1,700 ha were rehabilitated (covering 21 perimeters) compared to a target of 6,000
    ha and a baseline of 1,000 ha. Also, none of the individual private irrigation farmers (with less than 40 ha)
    rehabilitated irrigation areas with support from the project compared to a target of 1,500 ha

Outcome
The project fell short of achieving its appraisal target on rehabilitation of irrigation schemes. It only achieved 34% of
the targeted area and this included only the perimeters managed by producer organizations (no individual farmer
benefitted). The ICR (p. 19) attributes this under achievement to several factors including: flooding, high rehabilitation
costs- well beyond appraisal estimates, delays in land titling, unattractive financing and implementation mechanism
for the private producers, and a complex project implementation arrangement combined with low capacity of the
implementation institutions. The ICR (p. 19) notes that rehabilitation costs were three times higher than anticipated
due to several factors including price inflation, changing rehabilitation plans to include land leveling and tertiary
canals, funding protective dams, and the difficulty in reaching some rehabilitation sites combined with the geographic
dispersion and difficult morphology of such sites. Moreover, the ICR (p. 23) notes that the operations and
maintenance costs of the rehabilitated schemes were not adequately covered or collected. Thus the irrigation
schemes that were rehabilitated cannot be considered sustainable.

(iii) Intensify agricultural diversification. Negligible.

Outputs
    By project completion improved rice seed was used in 90% (target: 100%) of the rice rehabilitated areas.
      However, the quality of such seeds were in doubt and farmers had difficulties in securing credit. According to the
      ICR (p. 34), field reports indicated that "farmers are obliged to obtain rice seed from across the border in
      Senegal”, raising questions of the extent to which the use of rice seed can be attributed to the project.
    By project completion it was expected that three project-built storage and packaging centers would be functional,
      but this was not achieved. The ICR reports progress towards this target at (0%). Only one cold storage and
      packing infrastructure was built under the project which according to the ICR (p. 35) was "empty and not being
      used for lack of a private or private entrepreneurs interested in engaging in the export of horticultural products."
    By project completion the number of fruits and vegetable producers linked to export markets were expected to
      double (target: 100 ha), however, this target was not achieved. This activity was abandoned by December 2011
      and focus was shifted to local markets. By project completion there were no fruit or vegetable exporters linked to
      the project.
    One value chain study was carried out for onions, but with no follow up.
Outcome
The project achieved very limited results to promote diversification, mainly by demonstrating the potential of some
agriculture practices or export opportunities. However, it failed to achieve most of its targets as noted above and
according to the ICR (p. 40) crop diversification happened only on 1% of the rehabilitated areas. By completion, drip
irrigation technology promoted by the project was abandoned due to unavailability of parts combined with lack of
capacity and technical assistance. Also, the insufficient organization of the operators led to inability to use the
cold-storage facilities (ICR, p. 19). Diversification activities were also constrained due to the unavailability of
agricultural credit combined with lack of project support (support was only focused on farmers already engaged in
diversification).

Additional Financing Objectives

(iv) Improve availability of critical agricultural inputs and food staples for targeted beneficiaries. Modest.

Outputs
By project completion the following outputs were delivered:
  1,400 metric tons of urea were distributed to 10,000 farmers (of which 2,795 were women) compared to a target
    of 4,400 metric tons to be distributed to 29,000 farmer (of which 5,800 were to be women). The ICR (p. 36) noted
    that initial targets were overestimated and that the Government decided to fully subsidize the fertilizer instead of
    an agreed upon subsidy of 50%. 90% of the distributed fertilizer was in time for the cropping season compared to
    a target of 80%.
  577,000 Large ruminants and 1,816 million small ruminants were vaccinated, compared to a target of 680,000
     large ruminants and 1,450 million small ruminants. Animal vaccination delivered by the project was 85%
     achieved for large ruminants (camels and cattle) and 125% for small ruminants (sheep and goats).
    The project distributed 11,700 tons of wheat to 1,520 Village Food Security Stock representing 305,000
     beneficiaries (of which 122,200 were women) compared to a target of 250,000 beneficiaries (of which 75,000
     were to be women). The ICR (pg. v) notes that “overachievement is due to decision by the Government to
     change the food distribution system (decrease the average amount of cereals per Village Food Security Stock
     (SAVS) from 12 tons to 7 tons) to reach an increased number of SAVS (thus maximize the number of
     beneficiaries). It should be noted here that despite an increased number of beneficiaries, this is at a significantly
     smaller quantum of cereals per SAVS (about 65% of the original expected 12 tons).” The ICR also notes (pg. 20)
     that the government’s decision to increase the number of SAVS resulted in not fully respecting the projects
     targeting criteria.

Outcome
The project successfully distributed wheat amounts to designated beneficiaries. However, wheat distribution was
delayed due to lengthy implementation procedures. The ICR (p. 20) reports that wheat distribution began only in July
2013, "while it was in May-June-July-August 2012 that people were in the most critical situation." The late distribution
casts doubt about the ability of the operation to meet immediate needs of beneficiaries. The project also fell short on
meeting its target for fertilizer distribution where only 32% of the target was achieved. Animal vaccination delivered by
the project was 85% achieved for large ruminants (camels and cattle) and 125% for small ruminants (sheep and
goats).

 5. Efficiency:
   The PAD (Annex 9) includes an illustrative Cost Benefit Analysis (CBA) of irrigation development in rehabilitation,
extension and new creation undertaken by cooperatives and private individual producers. A CBA for the whole project
was not possible because benefits of capacity building activities were difficult to quantify, and benefits from
investments in safeguard measures could not be easily quantified in monetary terms. The analysis considers three
illustrative investment models (rice sole cropping, rice and diversified crops, and diversification in vegetables, fruits
and forage production) undertaken by cooperative and private individual farmers operating in the Trarza and
Haut-Fleuve. For rice only the ERR was estimated to range from 14 to 17% and IRR between 17 to 74%. For rice plus
diversification the ERR was 22% while IRR ranged from 101% to 122%. For diversification only the ERR ranged from
22 to 62% while the IRR ranged between 21 and 88%.

The ICR did not include a CBA due to lack of data. The ICR (p. 38) points out that project costs significantly increased
compared to phase 1, for example, the average unit costs of rehabilitation under phase 1 was 525,000 UM/ha while
under phase 2 the average unit costs of rehabilitation increased to over 1.4 million UM/ha or even going as high as 2
million UM/ha for some of the regions. Higher rehabilitation costs according to the ICR (p. 19) were due to several
factors including price inflation, changing rehabilitation plans to include land leveling and tertiary canals, funding
protective dams, and difficulty in reaching some rehabilitation sites combined with the geographic dispersion and
difficult morphology of such sites. At such higher rice farmers would struggle to pay their loan and barely be profitable.
In some areas, the rehabilitation cost was 2.9 million UM/ha. Under such high rehabilitation cost, farmers would need
to produce a minimum of 5.5 tons/ha to repay the loan and maintain a positive cash flow. However, such high
productivity is not possible under the prevailing conditions. Finally, the project financed one cold storage and packing
infrastructure facility, which was not used, an inefficient use of project resources.

Administrative and Institutional Efficiency
The original project suffered from delays due to political turmoil and suspension of activities. Additional financing also
experienced delays during implementation due "to non-performance by selected contractor and procedural complaints
related to the purchase of fertilizers and veterinary products (ICR, p. 11)." Financial management suffered from some
weaknesses and there was misuse of project resources where one case of alleged fraud was referred to INT.
Procurement operations were problematic for both the original project and additional financing and contributed to
implementation delays and some contracts being dropped (see section 11b for more details).

Overall, efficiency is rated negligible.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                  Rate Available?                            Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

     Appraisal                         No
     ICR estimate                      No
                                           * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.
 6. Outcome:
   As explained earlier in section 2, IEG has not done a split rating for this project as the various restructuring did not
make a 'material difference' to the achievement against the PDO. Relevance of objectives was rated high and
relevance of design was rated modest as it was out of step with country conditions. Efficacy of the first, second and
third objectives were all rated negligible due to the failure of the project to achieve its targets on land titling, and limited
achievements on the rehabilitation of irrigation schemes and agricultural diversification. Efficacy of the fourth objective
was modest due to delays in responding to the critical needs of the targeted beneficiaries. Efficiency was rated
negligible due to the absence of relevant economic and financial analysis of project activities, project management
inefficiencies, and resources spent on infrastructure that was built, but not utilized. Overall, outcome suffered from
major shortcomings.
  a. Outcome Rating: Highly Unsatisfactory


 7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
    The original project activities faced significant implementation challenges including high rehabilitation costs, delays
in land title regularization and low capacity of the implementation agencies, hence, the project ended with achieving
very limited results. During implementation it became evident that the project investments in the rehabilitation of
existing and development of new irrigation perimeters will not be economically profitable. Thus, such perimeters are
likely to deteriorate again and will need rehabilitation in the future. Sustainability of project funded works is also
undermined by the lack of adequate arrangements to collect O&M expenditures from beneficiaries. The additional
financing was intended to address an emergency and was not expected to continue beyond its completion.

      a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : High

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:

      The project was prepared in response to the Government priorities and the Bank's strategy for Mauritania. It
       was the second phase of an Adaptable Program Loan (APL) for the Integrated Development Program for
       Irrigated Agriculture in Mauritania. It was prepared after all triggers to move from phase 1 to phase 2 were
       deemed satisfactory.
      The ICR (p. 6) reported that project design benefitted from the implementation experience under phase 1 and
       efforts were made to address some of the issues that hampered the earlier operation including "bringing
       together engineering firms and contractors to determine better ways to complete irrigation infrastructures on
       time and at a reasonable cost, arrangements to ensure better accountability and coordination of core
       agencies involved in irrigation development, and administrative improvements for ensuring timely availability
       of investment matching grants and timely land registration for beneficiaries." However, other implementation
       issues identified under phase 1 were not sufficiently addressed and continued to affect phase 2, including:
       completing irrigation infrastructures on time and at a reasonable cost, ensuring better accountability and
       coordination of core agencies involved in irrigation development, timely availability of investment matching
       grants and timely land registration for beneficiaries (ICR, p. 6).
      Design featured a comprehensive yet complex approach to tackle a set of problems in the irrigation
       subsector. However, the basic assumptions that support the overall program should have been questioned,
       as the ICR (p. 7) correctly highlighted. For example, design attempted to promote rehabilitation of perimeters
       as a means for boosting rice yield despite the fact that the perimeters had been rehabilitated and abandoned
       before. The project aimed to support an agricultural credit institution despite the lack of solid credit repayment
       history among clients and dominance of subsistence agriculture. Due to the lack of an ex/post cost benefit
       analysis for phase 1, design relied on an illustrative model that led to the faulty assumption that rice farmers
       would be able to pay back their loans. The limited capacity of the irrigation agency and the fact that project
       beneficiaries’ lacked technical and management capacity to handle the procurement process were also
       underestimated.
      Several risks were identified at the preparation stage, and appropriate mitigation measures were identified.
       However, the risk mitigation measures for enforcing performance based contracts did not work out as planned
       due to weak technical capacity and limited number of staff at the project coordination unit. In addition political
       unrest was not identified as a risk, although the country experienced unrest shortly after appraisal in August
       2005.
      There were also weaknesses in M&E design, detailed in section 10 below.
      Design of the additional financing was simple and followed the basis of the drought recovery plan developed
      by Disaster Risk Management and the Government’s EMEL plan. The project's active presence in drought
      impacted areas combined with its institutional and fiduciary capacities made it a tool of choice to handle
      additional financing resources and fast-track the Bank’s emergency response in drought affected areas.
     Design of the additional financing suffered from the limited time of the operation and ambitious targets to be
      achieved, and the limited absorptive capacity of intended project beneficiaries.

     Quality-at-Entry Rating:                      Unsatisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
     The project was implemented under a challenging natural (floods, drought) and political environment. At the
initial implementation stage the Bank team was aware of delays in implementation and IP and DO ratings were
both downgraded. However, candor was lost as implementation progressed. The ISRs continually showed a
moderately satisfactory rating for both DO and IP despite poor implementation performance. This only changed in
the last ISR where ratings were revised lower to moderately unsatisfactory which according to the ICR (p. 25)
might have only happened after it was evident that the third phase of the program was cancelled. Implementation
also suffered from the loss of dialogue with the Government due to project suspension under OP/BP 7.30 (political
unrest). Following reengagement with the new Government, constructive efforts to translate recommendations into
actions were compromised when the country office based TTL of the project was transferred from Nouakchott to
Kinshasa (DRC). The ICR (p. 25) highlights that the MTR should have included a clear timeline for application of
its recommendations to get the project back on track. However, MTR recommendations "were not acted upon
neither by the project coordination unit nor followed up by subsequent supervision missions (ICR, p. 11)."
Supervision also suffered from a number of shortcomings including "lack of follow up of the missions’
recommendations, failing to propose a substantial restructuring, inability to take a stronger stance towards the
inappropriate measures taken by the new Government" all of which negatively impacted the project
implementation (ICR, p. 26). Also, M&E did not receive enough attention from support missions and proposed
revisions to the Results Framework were never carried out as they were not included in any of the restructurings.
There were also weaknesses on safeguard compliance. The Bank was proactive in addressing implementation
problems under the additional financing; and corrections were carried out swiftly through restructuring. The Bank
team provided M&E training and provided necessary studies requested by the Government. However,
weaknesses on financial management persisted and an alleged case of fraud was referred to INT (see section
11b).


     Quality of Supervision Rating :               Unsatisfactory

     Overall Bank Performance Rating :             Unsatisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
     At the initial stages of the project, Government was supportive and committed to reforms needed in the
irrigation subsector. The country experienced unrest shortly after appraisal in August 2005. This was followed by a
transition period for 19 months with reduced project activities. Then in 2008 the project was suspended for more
than a year due to another round of political unrest after which a new Government was formed. The new
Government came with changes in policy and different priorities both of which negatively impacted the project
implementation. The new Government also reduced its support to land titling and started a policy of 100%
subsidies. The Government failed to fully implement its commitments detailed in the Policy Letter. It even allowed
some donors to provide financing to farmers who were project beneficiaries "on terms and conditions that
undermined the orientation of the project (ICR, p. 26)." The Government and the Central Bank failed to provide the
necessary regulatory/supervisory role over the National Union of Agricultural Cooperatives for Savings and Credit
which saw no on sight inspection since 2007. It did little to address implementation problems and its actions might
even have undermined dialogue with the Bank as well as with other donors (ICR, p. 27). The Government was
supportive and acted decisively to implement emergency related activities under the additional financing, however,
Government position kept shifting at the design stage resulting in startup delays that led to late delivery of inputs to
designated beneficiaries. The Government's decision to increase the number of Village Food Security Stocks to
1,075 resulted in a reduction of the quantity of wheat made available from 12 tons to 7 tons per Village Food
Security Stock. Finally, the ICR note (pg. 13) that the Government had trouble in differentiating various sources of
funding for the same activity.

     Government Performance Rating                              Unsatisfactory
 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
     The project was implemented under the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. The project had a
coordination unit and two executing agencies, the National Rural Development Corporation and the National
Union of Agricultural Cooperatives for Savings and Credit. The project coordination unit (PCU) was the
coordinator and administrator of project activities and according to the ICR (p. 27) it initially fulfilled "its fiduciary
role concerning procurement and financial management reasonably well," but there were some weaknesses
overtime including a case of alleged fraud that was referred to INT. The PCU lacked technical capacity to monitor
the performance of the two executing agencies. The National Rural Development Corporation suffered from
declining capacity overtime due to the departure of experienced staff and lack of Government support. It failed to
fulfill its expected role in supervising irrigation rehabilitation and O&M activities as well as the provision of
agriculture extension advice at the quality and quantity expected at appraisal. The National Union of Agricultural
Cooperatives for Savings and Credit suffered from Government interference in its lending policies rendering the
institution as a Government fund rather than an independent Bank. This became evident after the 2008 floods
where pressure from the Government led to the distribution of subsidized funds for rice growers. Eventually the
National Union of Agricultural Cooperatives for Savings and Credit loan portfolio deteriorated to the extent that it
became insolvent. There were weaknesses on safeguard compliance. For the additional financing, the project
implementation unit executed the project as planned. The Department of Agriculture distributed fertilizer on time,
but to fewer cooperative rice farmers than had been expected and at a 100% subsidy rate rather than 50% as
agreed. The Department of Livestock with project support delivered a vaccination program, but due to the limited
operational capacity failed to reach its targets in terms of additional animals vaccinated each year.

   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                       Unsatisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                          Unsatisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
   The PAD (Annex 3) includes a detailed Results Framework and Monitoring. The Results Framework featured four
outcome indicators to gauge the achievement of the PDO and ten intermediate outcomes/output indicators geared
towards measuring the achievement of different project activities. Design also called for carrying out impact analysis
studies on the implementation of land tenure, social assessment and rural public expenditures. Overall, M&E design
suffered from the presence of broad indicators that could not be measured or verified. For example, the outcome
indicator to gauge the transparency of access to irrigated land was to be measured through a simple yes/no question
on the ability of regional land registries to verify land awards on request. The Results Framework also lacked relevant
indicators, for example, it lacked indicators on unit costs of rehabilitation, the expected quality and performance of
rehabilitated perimeters, the number of private farmers engaging in rehabilitation and the area rehabilitated, the
volume and value of fruits and vegetables produced for the local and export markets, and performance indicators to
assess the financial soundness of National Union of Agricultural Cooperatives for Savings and Credit (ICR, p. 12).
After MTR, there were proposed revisions to the Results Framework by adding several relevant indicators including
percentage of operation and maintenance recovery in the big irrigation perimeters, yield increases and cropping
intensity, quantities processed and percentage of utilization of infrastructure. However, such indicators were never
reported on as they were never part of any formal restructuring. For the additional financing, design was simple and
included relevant indicators to measure the achievement of the PDO. However, target values were ambitious and
were not critically examined to show to what extent they were realistic.

 b. M&E Implementation:
      M&E implementation was difficult due to weak capacity on the ground. The M&E setup for the original project
was designed to cover four administrative regions while the additional financing activities were dispersed over ten
administrative regions. This casts doubt on the ability of the M&E setup for the original project to effectively collect
data from the whole area covered under the additional financing. Weakness in M&E implementation persisted under
the additional financing. Weaknesses included deficient data storage and management, failure to establish baseline
and target data, and difficulty by the Livestock Department to provide data disaggregated by gender on the number of
beneficiaries. The monitoring set up for animal vaccinations was weak and according to the ICR (p. 37) "did not allow
the disaggregation of data by gender and category of herder."

c. M&E Utilization:
  M&E hard copies were not systematically stored, and M&E utilization was undermined by the disappearance of
electronic records following the departure of the M&E specialist in 2013. The ICR did not elaborate further on the
extent of M&E utilization or how M&E informed project management on critical decisions. Weakness in M&E utilization
persisted under the additional financing.

M&E Quality Rating: Negligible




11. Other Issues

 a. Safeguards:
According to the PAD (Annex 10) the project was a Category A and it triggered seven safeguard policies:
environmental assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.0 1), natural habitats (OP/BP 4.04), pest management (OP 4.09), cultural
property (OPN 11.03, being revised as OP 4.11), involuntary resettlement (OP/BP 4.12), safety of dams (OPBP 4.37),
and projects on international water ways (OP/BP/GP 7.50). Compliance with these policies included preparing an
environmental and social action plan, a resettlement plan, a plan for the safety of the Foum Gleita Dam, a pest
management plan, and notifying the Organization for the Development of the Senegal River about the project.
Additional measures also included a study concerning the management of the lake Gouere, the strengthening of
mechanical bird control measures instead of chemical ones, the improvement of the sanitary conditions for the
population along the river by digging of wells for potable water, and inclusion of environmental and social aspects in
the feasibility studies for rehabilitation of irrigation perimeters. According to the ICR (p. 14) no resettlement took place.


Despite the aforementioned actions, there were weaknesses on safeguard compliance. The ICR (p. 14) reported that
the Ministry of Environment was not sufficiently involved and the National Rural Development Corporation did not
have the institutional capacity to deal with safeguard compliance issues. A Bank's safeguard mission in November
2011 also reported that supervision on safeguards conformity of the civil works was not carried out on regular basis
and the safeguard specialist at the project coordination unit was assigned to other non-safeguard related duties.

By the time additional financing operation became effective all activities under the original project were completed.
The additional financing was a category B project. It triggered two safeguard policies, Environmental Assessment
(OP/BP 4.01) and Pest Management (OP 4.09). As a condition for effectiveness, a new safeguard specialist was hired
by the project coordination unit. Also, the environmental and social action plan and pest management plan were both
updated to cover potential environmental and social impacts that might result from the new project activities.
According to the ICR (p. 14) the implementation support missions did not report any problems with safeguard
compliance.

 b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Financial Management . Financial statements of the project were audited and certified without qualification. Financial
management was rated satisfactory up to early 2008 then it was downgraded to moderately satisfactory until the end
of the additional financing. The downgrade was due to weaknesses in budget control and unauthorized rent payments
for project offices (ICR, p. 14). In October 2012, there was an INT investigation involving fraud allegations against
various project officials during the implementation of six IDA-financed projects in Mauritania, including this project.
Allegations against this project were for overpayment of per diems and mishandling of management trainings. The
outcome of the INT investigation was to refer the investigative findings to the Government to investigate whether any
domestic law were violated and take necessary measures accordingly.

Procurement. Procurement plans were regularly updated. However, for the original project components the execution
of the rehabilitation contracts for irrigation works were problematic due to disagreements between the beneficiaries
and construction companies on the quality of works and whether construction companies should get their final
payment. Activities under additional financing also suffered from procurement problems due to the emergency nature
of the operation. Procurement procedures of food and fertilizers/vaccines in an emergency situation were not
compatible with IDA procurement rules and regulations. A fertilizer contract was cancelled due to the selection of a
deficient fertilizer supplier. Also, veterinary products were eventually self-financed by the Government after dropping
the contract due to lengthy procedures.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
None.

d. Other:
None.
12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                    Reason for
                                                                                        Disagreement/Comments
                      Outcome: Unsatisfactory               Highly Unsatisfactory Relevance of objectives was high but
                                                                                  relevance of design was modest.
                                                                                  Efficacy of three objectives was rated
                                                                                  negligible, and modest for the fourth.
                                                                                  Efficiency was also negligible. The
                                                                                  negligible ratings on two of the three
                                                                                  dimensions of project outcome indicate
                                                                                  significant shortcomings are consistent
                                                                                  with a highly unsatisfactory outcome
                                                                                  rating.
          Risk to Development High                          High
                     Outcome:

            Bank Performance: Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory

       Borrower Performance : Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory

                 Quality of ICR:                            Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:
 The ICR includes five lessons and the following four are emphasized with some modified wording:

    There is no substitute to a timely project restructuring even within APL scenarios . Although the longer
     implementation period of an APL might suggest that there is ample time to resolve project design and
     implementation issues, teams should not shy away from project restructuring and should be encouraged by
     management to do so when needed.
    Cost overruns can distort interpretation of disbursement figures . Satisfactory disbursement figures can be
     misleading as they may hide significant cost overruns, as was the case for irrigation rehabilitation under this
     project. In addition, APLs, by their very nature, have disbursement categories that are broad and not easy to
     match disbursements with quantitative achievement of physical outputs.
    High cost investments on equipment and facilities should only be undertaken once ownership , operations and
     management have been well settled . Otherwise there is the real possibility, as was the case under phase 1
     and 2 where the equipment and facilities are not used or are used for a completely different purpose than
     intended.
    An assessment of the appropriateness of agricultural credit versus grants for irrigation rehabilitation should
     be carried out as part of project preparation . For many farmers credit, especially long-term credit to finance
     part of irrigation rehabilitation, is not an appropriate instrument. As the first order of business, an irrigation
     project has to demonstrate to farmers that the volume and quality of their products (and thus income) will be
     enhanced through a given operation before farmers commit to the objective of the project. It is only after
     farmers bought into the idea and their activities started to generate sufficient cash revenue that credit,
     financing O&M and other services should be considered. In this case, a grant is a more appropriate instrument.
     If the objective is to make beneficiaries participate in the costs of rehabilitation, appropriate low-cost technical
     designs should be used and farmers should contribute with increased labor.

14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No
15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR provided an accurate account of the project. It reported candidly on various shortcomings that impacted the
final outcome of the project. It also included five lessons that reflect the project experience and four of these could
apply to other operations of similar nature. Discussion of project outcomes was logical and based on what the project
actually achieved on the ground. However, weakness in M&E limited the information available at the time of ICR
preparation and undermined the ex post economic analysis which did not include a cost benefit analysis due to the
lack of data. Finally, the ICR assessed and rated the original and additional financing parts of the project separately,
whereas it should have assessed this as a single operation.
 a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
