Documintof       -      
Thie World Bank
FOR OFFICki VSE ONLY
-~                                            RqponNo.8937
1~~~~~~~~~~. j
PROJECT COMPLFTION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
SECOND PROVINCIAL CITIES WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(LOAN 1710-PH AND CRT  920-PH)
. -       JULY 27-i199O
.~~~~~~~~~                      1
In~frastruicture Division
Country Departmnenti 1-                                                         :
Asia Regional Office
M&doesuen ha a resbieted sWBdnand ,pay be used by P ''I      no
#koffiefa duhtes I~s conteaft iuay Mt ohwvue be,ddscosed  botWa
-    I 



Currency Unit - I0sos (P)
US $ 1                     -  P 21.40 (on completion)
US $ 1                     -  P  7.40 (at appraisal)
WEIGMD OmEAES
1 meter (m)                   -  39.37 inches (in)
1 square meter (m2)           -  10.8 square feet (sq ft)
1 cubic meter (m3)            -  35.3 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 kilometer (km)              -  0.62 square mile (sq mi)
1 square kilometer (sq 1km)      0.386 square mile. (sq mi)
1 hectare (ha)                -  10000 sq m or 2.47 acres (ac)
AMBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB      - Asian Development Bank
COA      - Commission on Audit
DANIDA   - Danish International Development Agency
DBN      - Department of Budget and Management
DO?      - Department of Finance
LWUA     - Local Water Utilities-;Administration
MLGCD    - Ministry of Local Government and Community Development
MIPWTC    - Ministry of Public Works, Transportation and Communications
NEDA   -  National Economic and Development Authority
NWC    - National Water Resources CouncilI
ONAP     - Operations and Maintenance Assistance Program
RWDC     - Rural Waterworks Development Corporation
USAID    - United States Agency for International Development
WD       - Water District
EISALY I
January 1 to December 31



MR OmCiAL USE ONLY
T#U WOUlD BANK
__ T~~~~S A^
luly 27,- 1990
MEMOEANDUN TO THE EXECyUMLE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDEWT
SUBJECT:     Project-Completion Report on Philippines
Second Provincial Cities gater Supply Project
(1&"~ 1710-??i and            !HdiI20P
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report' entitled "Project
Completion Report on Philippines .- Second ProvWncial Cities Water Supply Project
(Loan 1710-PR and Credit 920-PH)" prepared by the Asia Regional Office with Part
1I of the report contributed by the Borrower.  No audit of this project has been
made by the Operations EvaThition Departmant at this time.
Attachment
1                                                                       I~~~~~~~~~~
-Tb dogum  ha ot uumd 1 bwt9    mao op be and by twp   os  iin.  Ie   m
of tAim ocial duias m  gt oatme way as odtuwis be dastud withou Wes t ank au**IxW=lo.



OR OFFma  USE ONLY
SECOND PROVINCIAL CITIES WAlER SUPPLY PROJECT
LOAN 171QICEDT 22L-M~
Table of Contents
preface .................. (i)
Evaluation summiry . . . . . . . . . . .
I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity . . . . . . . . . . . e . . . . . . . . . .1
Projject Backgronnd . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . ...1
Project Objectives and Description . . . . .       . . . ..   2
Project Design and Organization. . 2 . . . . . . . . . . . .2
Project Implementation .................. .                      4
Project Results.                                                 5
Project Costs.                                                   8
Project Sustainability           .. .                            8
Bank Performance .8
Borrover's Perforsance . . . . . . . . . . . . .   ....          9 
Lessons Emerging from the Experience . . . . . . . . . . . .11
Project Relationships. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .11
Consulting Services, Suppliers and Contractors . . . . . . . 12
Project Documentation and Data . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .12
-I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PWISPECTIVE
Background . ............ ....                    .....         13
Project Implementation .    .     ....... ...... .              13
Sub-Project Design and Implementation. . . . . . . . . . . .14
Mini-Loans . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           .  .  .      15
Training.                    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    15
Vehicles and Equipment ........ .....   16
Operation and Maintenance Assistance Prograz  .....             16
LWUA's Performance . . . . . .       ..                         17
Formation of Water Districts .          .. .17
Viability of Water Districts . . . .  . . . . . . . . .         17
Feasibility Studies/Design and Implementation. . . . . . . .18
Economic Conditions. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    18
Internal Cash aeneration and
Billing and Collection Efficiency..         .    .  . . .    19
Organizational Stability ......... .         ....   19
Internal Program and Project Management .   . . . . .   .20
Lessons Leatned    ...... .                                     20
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authodation.



V.,
III.  8TATISTIL IWORW  ,IO
b1l.ed 5ankLoans and/or Credits. ...                   . . .  23
Project Timtable and IssuesRaised. . . . .  . . . . . . .   23
lon/Cro.-t Dis           .me.O.    .  ......            . . . .   26
Project Iuple tu .ntion .     ..................   28
Project Costs an F nng . ... . .                 ... . ..  30
Status of Major Cavw na                tsts . ........ ..... .  .  31
Use of Bank Resources.                                         34
A Description of the Project .36
B*  Operation and Haintenance Assistane Program .-  . . .  37
C   Summary of Supervision Reports Conclusios . . . . .        39



-I-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
SEGOND PROVINCIAL CITIES WATER SUIsAY PROJECT
Loan l7lO/Credit~ 920
PROJCT COMPLETIN REpORT
This Project Completion Report (PCR) summrizes the experience of the
Second Provincial Cities Water Supply Project for which Loan 1710-PH for
US$ 16 million equivalent and Credit 920-PH for US$ 22 million equivalent were
approved on Nay 29, 1979.  The Loan and Credit were made to the Government of
the Republic of the Philippines and became effective on November 30, 1979. The
bulk of the project was to be carried out by the Local Water Utilities
Administration (LWUA) with the assistance of the Government. As part of that
assistance, the Government would te-lend the proceeds of the Loan and part of
the proceeds of the Credit, expected to total about US$ 30 million, -.o LWUA,
with  the balance being  implemented by  the Government.    To the extent
practicable, the proceeds of the Credit were to be disbursed before any
disbursements from the Loan.
The original closing date for both the Loan and Credit was December 31,
1985.  This was extended once to December 31, 1986 for both the Loan and
Credit, and the Loan further extended to December 31, 1987.   The final
disbursement from the Credit was made on July 15, 1987 when US$ 2.78 million
was cancelled. A total of US$ 10.25 million of the Loan could not be utilized
and was cancelled; US$ -9.0 on December 19, 1986 and US$ 1.25 million on
October 20, 1988. The final disbursement from the Loan was made on October 19,
1988. Of the total amount of US$ 38 million of the Loan and Credit, US$ 24.97
million (66%) was actually utilized.
Bank supervision of the project has been, successively, by: the Energy
and Water Supply Division, East Asia and Pacific Regional Office (EAP); the
Urban and Water Supply Division of EAP; and, since July 1987, by th-,
Infrastructure Operations Division, Country Department II, Asia Regional Office
(AS2IN).
Parts I and III of the PCR have been prepared by AS2IN. Part II is based
on a report prepared by consultants for LWUA and comprises an abridged analysis
of key issues and a retrospective assessment of project implementation from the
Borrower's perspective.



l   s      t)                   - -   ii  
, \. PH~~ZILUIPPNE
SECOND PRONtIhL CITIER WATER SINPPY PRCJECT
Loan 1710/Credit 92Q-P1
2gQECT ICPRlN =RPE
1.         The objective of the Second Prqvincial Cities Water. Spply Project
was primarily to support physical'and institutional water, supply development in-
provincial cities and towns and provide a start to rural water supply and
sanltation.  The major components of the project were:
i.   Water supply- development in one large and about 50 small Water
Districts (MD) with-served populations between 10,000 ant 30,000;
ii.   Technical assistance, training, equipment -and vehicles.
1it. - Provision - of wells  and  related  works  to  some  1,000 3N--ral
commuities; and
i'vt- Pilot sanitation study for about eight rural communities.
2.       The Second Provincial Cities Water -Supply Project was appraised in
November 1978 and the credit and loan became effective in-November 1979. The
IDA Credit was for US$ 22.00 million and the Loan for US$ 16.00 pillion,
totalling US,$ A8.00. An amount of US$ 9.00 million of the loan was cancelled in
-1987 (para. 1.18). The aluoupta of US$ 2.78 million-pnd US$ 1.25 million of the
Credit and Loan, respectively, were undisbursed at closing and cancelled
an'cordingly. The net amounts utilized were US$ 19.22 mllion and US$ 5.75
million for the Credit and Loan, respectively, or a total of US$ 24.97 million
equivalent.
3.          The start of the project implementation was s$f,iificantly- delayed
as the Local Water Utilities Administration (LWUA) experienced problems with
the utilization of a previously raised USAID loan.   After usual start-up
problems,, feasibility studies and designs progressed reasonably well, and
following the initial delays, contracting for the larger cities and towns
progressed well. However, it was found that the smaller cities and towns could
generally- not, meet LWUA'Is full cost recovery criteria.   Grants for these
ins.ller cities and towns, estimated at appraisal to atmt to Up to twenty
percent of construction cost, were not provided by-the goverAmeat due to the
1'.                                                                   c



- iii -.                .. -    ..
severe economic depresslon which started to affect the Philippines in the early
1980s (para. 1.17).
4.          LWJA,  like other newly established organizations,  focused on
achievement of physical objectives, that is, water supply system development
and immediate improvements.   Some years through the project implementation
period it started to pay more attention to the institutional development of WDs
and, when financial conditions became difficult, LWUA finally attempted to come
to grips with its role as an intermediate development bank (para. 1.26). When
it pin-pointed some of the major problems at the WDs as inadequate operations
and maintenance, it embarked, with the Bank's concurrence, on an ambitious and
successful Operations and Maintenance Assistance Program (OMAP).
5.         All during this period, economic conditions further deteriovated,
with  the Government unable or unwilling to provide LVUA with  adequate
counterpart funds necessary for timely utilization of, firstly, the proceeds of
the Credit and then those of the Loan.  The revolution in the Philippines
culminated, as far as LWUA is concerned, in the removal of generally dedicated
and, by  then,  well-experienced management  (para.  1.17).    Despite  Bank
cautioning, when it became apparent that counterpart funding was- not available,
it took the government a long time to instruct LWUA to scale down its
opetations and cancel part of the Credit and Loan.
6.          The new management, did not always relate well to the old staff and
serious management/staff problems arose.  LWUA's problems were added to when
the government deeded in 1986 to assign it the role of the, by then, defunct
Rural Waterworks Development Corporation (RWDC). LWUA was operating at a slow
pace for several years and occasionally stopped altogether.   Supervision'
Aissions found it next to impossible to perform their tasks fully; record
keeping by LWUA was poor and could often not be found (para 1.19). During this
troublesome period the Bank-assisted project was eventually completed, but the
programs of other financing and aid donor-agencies did not proceed as planned.
All in all, the period during which implementation took place proved to be more
than usually difficult and turbulent, and the actual results achieved, albeit
short of the targets,   therefore reflects LWUA's technical- strengths and
commitment (para 1.25).
Resultsi
7.          It stands to the credit of the dedication of LWUA staff that the
Bank-assisted project was eventually completed, meeting an estimated 60% of the
original objectives (para 1.20) , utilizing about 67% of the combined Credit
and Loan, 87.4% of the Credit and 36.0% of the Loan. Works have generally
been of an acceptable standard; the physical improvements will serve present
and future generations.   The training component of the project was small and
with the deterioration in the economy and thc standard of LWUA's training
center, only limited formal training was undertaken (para 1.23). However, and
possibly  more  importantly,  project  planning,  design,  construction  and
supervision skills were developed and a Bank mission in early 1989 determined



that thoee skills were still available within LJUA at the middle management
level.
§U-tainabilIty
8.          Sustaining the project bonefits requires that operational and
financial efficiency of the IDs and the rural water supply agencies must be
improved substantially, and the Government's commitment to provide necessary
equity contributions should be adhered to (para. 1.28).
EidLMa  and lesson
9.          The Bank should be cautious about adopting timetables based on
needs- and desires, rather than on historical implementation records
(para. 1.39), and lending should not be too early in the implementation cycle
(para. 1.40). To. be effective, partkvularly in rural water supply projects,
LVUA should decentralize (pars. 1.43) and due consideration given to the time
requirements for local participation (para. 1.44).
10.         The Bank should make adequate budgetary provision for project
supervision (para. 1.45).



t  *                          Ae                                             C'U   
Swa  ZL  =  k -Ct M WAT
-; ,                   _        C   *                   I
I      -"1
Loan lOInQ   dit  l2_-P
PART I! PROJECT    iEI  AO msN PERSPQRI
^to1ect Identity.
Project Name         : Second Provincial Cities WVter Supply Project
Loan/Credit Number   : 1710/920-PH'
RVP Unit             : Asia
Country              : Philippines
Sector'              : Water Supply
1.01     The Second Provincial Cities Water Supply Project, for which Loan
1710-PH and Credit 920-PH were approved in May 1979, was a continuation and
extension of development of the water supply sector in the Philippines, outside
of Metropolitan Manila, on which participation by the BaiA begasn in 1977 withl
a loan for the First Provincial Cities'Water S6pply Project (LoBa 1415-PH).  In
addiuion, the project was the Bank Group's first involvement with 1aprovement
of saFitation in the provinces.
1.02    When the First Provincial Cities Wator Supply ProjecCwas prepared,
the  Government had  completed  a  major -sector  reorganization,  including
establishment of the Local Water Utilities Administration (IUUA) in 1973. LWUA
had by then benefitted from ttechnical assistanoe hnd development project
financing by USAID and other external agencies. ,The Government bad adopted an
ambitious program to improve living conditions acid health standardt throughout
the Philippines, largely by Improving cxumnity water suppliei and sanitary
waste disposal facilities, particularly those in the previously neglected
provincial centers.  An imediate goa--'was that by *982. safe water supplies
wouid be available to about 620 of the total population (up from about 40%),
e and sanitary improvements to a highly unrealistic 404  (up from only 5%).  The
objectives included putting the sector agencies on a sound public-utility
basis.
l(i3    tmp1uamentation of the program was hampred by -a limited spply. of
properly prepared projects.   Therefore, the First Provincial Cities Water
Supply Project provided for water supply improvements in only six cities. T The
first project laid the ground work for the follow-on Second Provinisal Cities
.Water Supply Project, hovewr, by including preparation of feasibility studies
6fr 10 (later expanded to 12) additional cities. Also, the Second Naiiila Water
,Supply Project (Loan 1615-PH, approved in July 1978) included compotents for
preparation of detailed design of projects in the 12 provincial cities for
which feasibility studies were being carried oui under Loan 1415-PH sad for
preparaison of fesibility studies for watet supplies In 16 more cites. -
.!   .   ,  ,           -   '                                                        _



.2
1.04     When the Second Provincitl Citie  Vater Supply project was planned,
the outlook for the national economy was optimistic; the consequences of the
second oil price increase had not yet been felt and the potential effects were
not yet being taken into account at the project level in planning development
activities.   LWUA. although relatively new and lacking in experience, was
talented and vital, and had.gotten off to a fast start on a popular mission.
UYUA and the Governmeat were eager for any additional external financial
support that could be arranged.
rpi9ec 0bletive and Descritio
1.05     The objectives of the Second Provincial Cities Wator Supply Project
were to expand community water supply through rehabilitation, development and
extension activities to many more smaller provincial cities and several hundred
rural commuities, to initiate rural sanitation programs, to continue
development of sector institutions, to expand community participation in
project planning and to prepare future construction projects. The construction
components of the project was expected to benefit about one million urban and
580,000 rural dwellers. The provincial cities component was intended to serve
urban commun7 les with populations over 10,000, the largest being Iloilo Ctty
with a populateon of more than 200,000.  The rural water supply component was
expected to serve communities ranging from 50 to 600 households.
1.06     The project description in the L&an, Credit and Project Agreements is
copied In Annex A.  It comprised: establishment of Water Districts (UDs) and
construction of new and rebabilitation of existing water supply systems in
about 50 provincial cities; reconnaissance surveys for about 150 communities
and detailed design of water supply and sanitation projects for the iDs;
construction of water supply facilities in about 1,000 rural centers; a pilot
sanitation study for about 8 rural communities; provision of vehicles and
equipment; provision of technical assistance for design and construction
supervision; and training for LWUA and VD staff. Accordingly, the project was
divided into four parts (see Annex A):  (a) expanding and improving water
supply in about 50 smller iDs and the city of Iloilo; (b) reconnaissance
surveys and detailed design for water supply and sanitation in about 150
communities; (c) provision of new, basic water stpply system to about 1,000
rural communities; and (d) completion of a pilot sanitation &tudy for about
eight rural communities. LYUA was respons:ble for the bulk of t.e work, namely
all activities relating to the provincial zities and lDs.
Project Design and Organiztion
1.07     The project was planned by government agencies, principally UUA.
Feasibility studies and detailed designs for the first 28 provincial city water
supply sub-projects (para. 1.03) were prepared by two foreign consulting
engineering firms engaged by LWUA. Additional feasibility studies, to bring
the total to about 60, and detailed design of those sub-projects selected to go



-3-
ahead were to be prepares by local consulting firms'. Technical designs were
to be for the lowest possible cost facilities consistent with sound practice in
developing countries. Construction supervision of all sub-projects would be by
LWUA with minimal assistance by the local consulting firms. Internationally
recruited consultants would be used, however, to super lse drilling of high-
yield wells.
1.08     LWUA was required to appoint a high level, full time Project Manager.
His duties included appointment of an "expert team' or Review Panel, including
external representation, to review feasibility studies and check each sub-
project for conformity with established design standards.
1.09     The National Water Resources Council Task Force (Task Force), under
the Ministry of iublic Works, Transportation and Communications (MPWTC), now
the Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH), was to be the executing
agency for the rural water supply component of the project until a permanent
government agency was established for the: rural water supply subsector.
Establishment of that agency was a condition of disbursements for the rural
water supply component. At the time of appraisal, about 875 rural water sub-
projects had been prepared by the Bureau of Community Development, and were
believed to be in sufficient detail for immediate review by the Task Force.
1.10      The Task Force would be responsible also for the rural sanitation
component, except that pilot sanitation studies in rural areas bordering on
three typical WDs would be carried out by LWUA. The Task Force was to attempt,
with educational programri and little investment, to improve sanitationiin five
rural communities with completed water supply projects.
1.11     Substantially all criteria for the sub-projects were discussed with
the Bank in advance and recorded in Agreed Nir4tes. These included criteria
for eligibility of individual WDs to participate in the project, water tariffs,
equity contributions,- design, review, appraisal, procurement, construction
supervision and training. All sub-projects, including rural, were subject to
review, approval and supervision by the Bank. Because of the large number of
sub-projects  and  their  wide  geographic  distribution,  most  review  and
supervision was to be carried out by the Review Panel and LWUA staff. Most of
the Bank's review would be done in the field during supervision missions; it
was understood that the Bank would makie detailed reviews of only about the
first 10 rural sub-projects. In spite of the degree of delegation to LWUA and
the Review -?anel, Bank field supervision of the project was expected to be
substantial, with three two-week visits to the Philippines per year for at
least the first few years.
1 Preparation was planned for 60 feasibility studies in four packages,
while funds were included for codstruction of 50 cities only.



-4-
1.12     most procurement of equipment and civil works was to be packaged by
LWUA into single contracts (average value below US$ 1.0 million) and awarded
through competitive bidding advertised locally, and most of these contracts
were expected to be won by local firms. Contracts for Iloilo, however, were to
be larger and awarded through international competitive bidding. Equipment for
the rural water supply sub-projects was to be procured in bulk using ICB.
Local procurement procedures were to apply for rural sanitation, and local
shopping was to be the basis for procurement of miscellaneous off-the-shelf
items required for activities like public education and training.
1.13     The concept of the project, with the possible exception of the
implementation timetable, appears to have been clear to and shared by all
relevant parties. The scope, scale and timing were appropriate in relation to
the national objectives for the sector at the time the project was appraised.
For the most part, the roles and responsibilities of the various agencies were
fairly clearly defined. Features that were innovative for the Philippines,
such as the effort to obtain substantial involvement by the provincial city
communities in all stages of planning and implementation of sub-projects and
the adoption of the shortest possible design periods as a means of reducing the
financial load on the beneficiaries, appeared practicable.
1.14     Nevertheless, there were uncertainties about the ability to maintain
the implementation timetable, the effectiveness of the yet untried Task Force
anv LWUA's Review Panel and of the yet-to-be established rural water supply
agency, the quality of work by local consultants, the availability of essential
equity contributions from the Government and the IWDs, and whether the Bank
could supervise properly a project with components scattered all over the
Philippines and involving so many small contracts. (See Part ITT, section 2b.)
1.15     Although it fit th4, Government's  sector objectives,  the project
timetable was, extremely ambitious and questions were raised about this by
review staff within the Bank. The timetable required the formation of new WDs
at the steady rate of at least two per month for the purpose of this project
alone, regardless of the needs for other ongoing externally financed projects.
Questions were raised also about the timing of the loan/credit; completion of
the first group of 12 feasibility studies (para. 1.03) was not expected until
about June 1979 when the project was scheduled for Board consideration.
Feasibility studies for the three other groups of sub-projects which made up
the provincial cities component, azn detailed design, procurement and
construction of all project components would have to proceed much faster than
in the past to maintain the timetable.   The appraisal team believed that
achievement of the schedule was possible, and should be attempted.
Project Imglementation
1.16     Tne project did in fact get a slnw start and continuously fell further
behind schedule until it was impossible to make up for lost time. There were
start-up problems with feasibility studies and detailed designs. There were
procurement problems, and while these were not unusual - there were no cases of



misprocurement  - they did contribute to delays not provided for tn the
timetables. There were many cases where small contractors were delayed by late
deliveries of materials and other supplies. WDs were slow in getting permits.
Establishment of new WDs bogged down from time to time; particularly community
participation, while highly desirable, delayed the sub-project preparation
process.
1.17      Whether, with these experiences, the project eventually could have
been completed with only a nominal delay, is a moot question. The controlling
factor actually proved to be the severe national economic and financial crisis
which developed during the first part of the implementation period.   The
necessary equity contributions from the Government were delayed and reduced
drastically.    Equity contributions and repayment of debts by WDs were not
forthcoming at the level projected, further undermining LWUA's inherently weak
cash flow position and effectively eliminating local funds available for
development. During most of 1983 and 1984, because of uncertainty about funds,
there was no now procurement for the project, and construction activity almost
halted.   The intervening period also saw the politic&l revolution which
resulted in substantial changes at Board and the senior management levels. The
Rural Waterworks Development Corporation (RWDC), established in 1980 (para.
1.09), was ineffective.   Following recommendations of the National Sector
Review in 1985, RWDC was consolidated with LWUA in 1987.   Then, LWUA was
practically shut down for a lengthy period by an internal staff/management
dispute, possibly fueled partly by frustration over the financial situation and
the virtual halt of productive activity.
1.18     The closing dates for the loan and credit were extended one year to
December 31, 1986.   Toward the end of 1986, the scope of the project was
reduced by scaling down the sizes of ths provincial city sub-projects, US$ 9.0
million of the loan was cancelled and the loan closing date was extended again
to December 31, 1987. The closing date for the credit was not extended again
and US$ 2.78 million was cancelled. The loan was finally closed in October
1988 when an additional US$ 1.25 million was cancelled. Altogether, about one-
third (nearly US$ 13 million) of the loan and credit were not utilized. Except
for the reduction in sizes of the sub-projects, there were no major changes in
project objectives.
Project Results
1.19     Quantitative information available in the Bank about the physical
components of the reduced project as finally implemented is limited because of
the situation which developed in LWUA toward the end of the construction
period. Supervision missions in 1987 and 1988 reported that little attention
was being given to sub-projects that had been started. Records were out of
date or inaccessible. The most recent LWUA progress report in the Bank files
is for the period ending September 1987 and that is not informative.
1.20     Data that is available shows that construction took place on 48 (of a
target of 50) provincial city water supply sub-projects financed from this



-6-
loan/credit. Of these only 29 are reported to have been completed, however,
while the other 19 are in various stages of construction, including four sub-
projects for larger cities which were about 20% complete as of December 1988.
On the basis of the number of provincial cities assisted by water supply
construction, the project could be rated as having accomplished about 60% of
the original objectives. On the same basis, about 25% of the objectives had
been realized by the original completion date of June 30, 1985. Unfortunately,
these accomplishments do not reflect actual benefits because much of the
benefit from increases in water supplied is being lost through defects in
distribution networks (para. 1.40). On the other hand the project contributed
to institutional development of LWUA and the WDs, and the development of the
construction industry.
1.21     Instead of the 150 planned reconnaissance surveys for new water supply
projects, 73 feasibility studies, equivalent to 49%, were carried out,
including 10 for which no further work was done due to non-feasibility of the
proposals. Detailed design was completed for 54 new projects equivalent to 59%
of the 92 anticipated at time of appraisal.   Although LWUA undertook some
studies of sanitation, none were funded under the study nor were any completed
by LWUA.
1.22    Procurement by the Task Force of material for water supply schemes for
rural communities commenced in 1984 and material worth US$1.49 million
equivalent (or P 27.03 million) were procured when in 1985 it was decided to
amalgamate RWDC with LWUA and the latter was requested to administer this
component of Loan 1710-PH/Credit 920-PH under the same administrative
arrangements as for the water supply component for Level II schemes in the
Bank-financed Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project (Loan 2206-PH). LWUA
implemented 55 RWDC-identified schemes uitilizing US$0.97 million equivalent (or
P 14.77 million), or 65% of what had been procured, with the balance worth
P 12.25 million remaining in stock at the closure of the loan/credit. After
taking over the responsibility for the component, LWUA implemented another 14
schemes utilizing US$2.63 million worth of materials. The Bank disbursed 100%
of the cost of material and equipment totalling US$4.11 million equivalent (or
P  77.36 million).    No detailed  record of RWDC's  and the  Government's
contribution to this component was available.
1.23     The training objectives of the project were not defined in detail, and
there is no measure of the benefits resulting from the overseas training
provided through the project. Training was provided for 10 WDs and 74 LWUA
staff and only 43% of the loan/credit funds allocated for this category were
disbursed. There is no question that the training activities of LWUA, once
rated as among the best in Asia, declined in effectiveness during the latter
part of the project period.   Beginning in 1983, LWUA's failing financial
condition caused cancellation of large parts of LWUA's planned training
programs, partly because the WDs and the six regional training centers
established by LWUA were unwilling to meet their shares of rising costs. The
smaller WDs in particular, could not afford to release staff or funds for
training purposes, and no W) was ready to train in-house.   In 1984, the



-7-
training program was further constrained by partial closure of LWUA' s central
training facility, less than five years old, but requiring repairs caused by
faulty constrn ctlon.
1.24     As a proxy for estimating the economic return from the project, the
appraisal used an estimated internal financial rate of return (IFR) for three
sample cities, using future tariffs (in constant prices) as a minimal measure
of economic benefits, assuming a willingness by the beneficiaries to pay.
These returns ranged from 6.6% to 9.8%. Actual results from the provincial
cities served by the projects cannot be calculated from data available in the
Bank. It can be assumed, however, that the average IFR is much lower than the
appraisal figures because of the operational inefficiency of most WDs.
1.25     In spite of the shortfall in reaching physical objectives, the lack of
reliable measures of other accomplishments and the general deterioration of
productivity of the LVUA organization during the last part of the
implementation period, the project did produce substantial benefits, and others
can be realized by careful application of the lessons learned during the
project period. Most important, perhaps, is that project planning, design,
construction and supervision skills were developed, both within LWUA and by the
local consulting and construction industries.   Bank mission visits to the
Philippines early in 1989 have determined that even with the period of
political, economic and administrative change which is still underway in LVUA,
these skills are still available within LWUA at the technical and middle
management levels.
1.26     Another of the beneficial effects on LWUA was that it came to realize
and began to do something about its shortcomings as an advisory and financing
agency which must take an active role in improving performance of the WDs, both
by improving their operational efficiency and by planning projects more
appropriate for the local circumstances. LWUA's aengagement of consultants to
assist with carrying out, as part of this project, an Operations and
Maintenance Assistance Program (OKAP) is an example of LWUA's changing focus.
Pilot studies and surveys carried out under OMAP produced results (Annex B),
particularly with respect to non-revenue water, which should have a very strong
beneficial influence on LWUA's ongoing and future activities.
1.27     As a whole, the project is rated as having made a significant, though
less than planned, impact on development of the sector in terms of additional
provincial population provided with safe water supplies and, to a much less
extent, with improved sanitation. Human resources were developed. Although
not measurable, the physical environment was improved in sub-project areas.
Many local institutions were established, but the training effort at the local
level was inadequate, and the quality of many of the institutions is not yet
satisfactory.



-8-
1.28     Complete information on total project cost has not been available and
it is unlikely that all goods and services can be accounted for. Materials for
wells and distribution systms and pumps equivalent to US$ 1.486 million were
procured by RVDC, which was merged with LWUA later in the project. No figures
are available on the in-house cost of LWUA's work on the project. Based on the
Btnk's records and information available from LtA, the total Cost of the
reduced project was P 629.2 million (equivalent to US$ 35.35 million at P 17.8
- US$ 1), including a foreign exchange component estimated at P 314 million, or
60%. The appraisal estimate of the cost of the original project was P 473.7
million (equivalent to US$ 64.0 million at P 7.4 - US$ 1), including a foreign
exchange component of 508.
1.29    The cost of all goods and services financed from the loan/credit,
using the exchange rates prevailing at te1e time of each disbursement, totalled
P 421 million (equivalent to US$ 25.0 million), including a foreign exchange
component estimated at US$ 21.1 million equivalent, or 84%.
Project SustainabLity
1.30     Sustaining and enhancing the potential project benefits requires that
the operational efficiency and financial performance of the WDs and the rural
water supply agencies must be improved substantially if the facilities are to
be maintained and extended and if LWUA is to be able to provide the support
services required while also continuing toward fulfillment of it!- mandate. In
particular, training for the local agencies responsible for water supply and
sanltation needs to be intensified. The OMAP (para. 1.26) should be expanded,
and the recommendations resulting from ONAP findings must be taken seriously
and acted upon.   Government commitments to provide any necessary equity
contributions should be adhered to, but planning of any future development
programs for the sector, must be flexible enough to allow the implementing
agency to react quickly if Government commitments cannot be met.
Bank Perfo|nume -
1.31    The project was prepared and appraised and the loan/credit was
presented for approval by the Board in record time for this sector in the
Philippines. Yet there appe*rs to have been no valid project reason to have a
lending operation of this size so early in the project cycle (para. 1.15). In
fact, there is evidence in the. files that tWA management itself was hesitant
about pushing forward so quickly.   There was no possibility that a firm
commitment as to the availability of significant amounts of external funds for
procurement of equipment and civil works would be required for about a year
even if the original implementation timetable were adhered to. There was a
need for initial funds for consulting services for feasibility studies and
design - perhaps up to US$ 1.5 million - but this could possibly have been
covered by an engineering loan or credit. As it was, the first disbu...ement



-9-
was made 13 months after the loan/credit was approved, and consulting services
was the only category utilized until September 1981, 27 months after approval.
1.32    This project was better suited for a series of overlapping lending
operations than for the large loan/credit that was made. Loan 1415-PH for the
First Provincial Cities Project had been made only two years earlier and that
project was still underway. This indicated a willingness by the Bank to have
a considerable overlap by a follow-on project.  Additional lending operations
could have been scheduled for every two or three years, and each would have
benefited from tetter planning based on experience. As it was, with a loan and
credit combination, and the loan not disbursing until the credit was exhausted,
no loan disbursements were expected until four years after loan approval.
Because of slow implementation, the actual first disbursement from the loan was
not until July 1987, 8 years after the loan was approved, during which time the
borrower had to pay unnecessary commitment charges totaling nearly US$ 1.0
million.
1.33    When the proposed lending for this project was being reviewed within
the Bank after appraisal, Bank management was concerned that local currency
financing from the loan and credit should not total more than about US$ 6.0
million. This limitation was not reflected in any way in the Allocation of
Proceeds in the loan and credit documents, however, and the actual amount of
local currency financing from the loan and credit eventually totaled US$ 11.6
million, or 46% of total disbursements.
1.34     Financial and perhaps other commitments to the Bank with respect to
LWUA operations could have benefited IWUA's planning and increased the Bank's
influence on LWUA activities and Government decisions with respect to LWUA.
The lending documents included financial performance covenants for the WDs but
none, except debt service coverage, for LWUA.
1.35     The records show that the Bank was prompt in responding appropriately
to project developments and the problems anc. needs of the implementing
agencies. Continuity of Bank staff working on the project was surprisingly
good, considering that three different Bank divisions were responsible during
the implementation period. The project could have benefited from additional
field supervision up to the amount specified in the Staff Appraisal Report
(para. 1.11). During two critical periods (1981/82 and 1984/85), comprehensive
supervision missions were spaced more than 12 months apart, and most missions
dealt with two to six other projects administered by two to four different
agencies.
Borrower's Performance
1.36    The Borrower did not live up to its commitments to provide equity
contributions necessary to support the agreed project during the last three
years of the original implementation period, largely because of circumstances
beyond its immediate control. This proved to be the major obstacle to fully
meeting the project. objectives. The Borrower also was slow in establishing the



* 10-
Rural Waterworks Development Corporation (RWDC), the agency to be responsible
for rural water supply (para. 1.09), and RWDC did not receive good mnnagement
in adequate numbers.   The merging of RWDC with LWUA in 1987 (para. 1.17)
further interrupted progress on the project's rural water supply component.
The Borrower's Task Force (paras, 1.09-1.10) accomplished little under this
project, particularly on rural sanitation.
1.37     The accelerated growth of LWUA's responsibilities severely strained
its resources and sometimes exceeded its capabilities.  Plans for and by LWUA
for  development  programs  were  generally  over  ambitious.        With  Bank
encouragement, a corporate planning exercise was started by LWUA during the
course of this project.   As it was updated periodically, it began to add
realism and perspective to planning, and helped - along with severe financial
problems - to focus LWUA's attention on its proper role in the sector, namely
as a financing and technical assistance agency, rather than an engineering
agency.
1.38     LWUA became increasingly self-reliant in project management as the
project progressed.   The sub-project review function with the Review Panel
(para. 1.08) had start-up problems but gradually became efficient.   Later,
however, when project activity accelerated after the long period of inactivity
caused by funding problems, the Review Panel had a limited role and design
safeguards tended to be slackened.
1.39     The management/staff dispute (para. 1.17) was a crippling blow to
LWUA's performance during the last phases of the project. LWUA's fundamental
problem all along, however, has been financial.   Its development activities
require equity contributions from the Government, and these dried up during a
critical period for this project. For IUA to sustain financial viability,
however, the WDs must make their initial equity contributions and meet their
commitments to service debts to LWUA for investments already made, and
generally this has not occurred at the level expected.   LWUA's collection
efficiency has seldom exceeded 50%. LWUA's financial condition deteriorated
steadily through the project period, and by 1983 internal cash generation was
inadequate to meet debt service charges to the Government. The two principal
underlying causes of this situation, which have yet to be resolved, are that
LWUA has not been geared for adequate enforcement of performance by WDs and
that the WDs have internal financial problems which makes them unable or adds
to their resistance to pay LWUA.
1.40     The rate of improvement of the WD institutions and of their ability
and willingness to pay has been very much slower than the high initial
expectations. As an example, only about 12% of the WDs which are operational
produce acceptable and timely financial reports. Non-revenue water (NEW) has
universally exceeded 50% of production.   The project was three years along
before LWUA began to pay attention to this problem, and not until 1984 did LWUA
seek outside technical assistance. The resulting OMAP (para. 1.26), which LWUA
is continuing with its own staff, exposed the seriousness of the problem and



- 11 -
the magnitude of the effort required to correct it; however, once started the
OMAP proved to be very efficient.
Lessons Emerging froA the KneMrience
1.41     The Bank should be cautious about adopting project timetables based
primarily on what is needed and what is theoretically possible, rather than on
historical implementation records and realistic allowances for time required to
gear up to higher levels of performance.   The need for time contingency
allowances is compounded when progress is highly dependent on factors like the
establishment of new UDs which have unpredictable local political, cultural and
social aspects.
1.42     Lending should not be too early in the project cycle, either as to
timing or amounts. For time slice financing, the Bank should be more willing
to grant smaller loans if necessary to suit the needs of the particular project
and beneficiary.
1.43     Local currency financing, when allowed, is difficult to limit unless
the monetary limit is specified in the loan/credit documents. If not, more
thought must be given to the formula in the *withdrawal of proceeds" schedule
in the loan/credit agreements.
1.44     Dependency for project implementation should not be placed on a yet-
to-be established agency. Establishment should be a condition for appraisal.
1.45     To be effective in the provinces, particularly on rural water supply,
it appears that LWUA must be decentralized, and establish a local presence like
the Department of Public Works and Highways and the Department of Health.
1.46     local  participation  in  decision  miking  is  important,  but  the
experience gained about local attitudes and time requirements should be taken
into account in planning future development programs.
1.47     The Bank resources required for adequate project supervision should be
carefully considered and agreed within the Bank during loan processing and
operating budgets should be provided accordingly, unless project circumstances
during implementation require or permit a change.
ProJect Relationshins
1.48     The relationship between the Bank and LWUA and the Goverzment agencies
was, from the outset, good and was instrumental in the Bank appraising the
proposal early in the project preparation cycle. Despite the increasing delays
in the project, the political changes in the country, and finally the
management crises in LWUA compelling Bank staff to be increasingly critical,
the relationship between the Banks staff and the Government officers remained
good which resulted in the project achieving nost of its physical goals. It--



1,~ ~ ~ ~~~~~1
- 12 -
was also the precondition for continuation of the cooperation with LVUA as it
emerged from the management crisis during 1989.
1.49    LWUA had a good relationship with other Government agencies,  but the
general national financial crisis during the later part of the project period
placed the organization at a disadvantage as it had a fast expanding program
and depended upon Government transfer of funds. The Government defaulted on
its commitment, and in the circumstances neither LWUA nor the Bank staff had
much influence.
Consulting Services. Sunpliers and Contractors
1.50    Throughout the implementation period the overall performance of
consultants was rated as problem free or with only minor problems.   The
productivity and quality of work by some lccal consultants was marginal at
first but improved with experience. This was an important development for the
local consulting industry, although achieved at some cost to the project.
1.51    Substantially all of the construction activity was carried out by
local contractors. Many were small and relatively inexperienced and worked
under the general supervision of LWUA staff who also had limited experience.
A very common problem was in mobilizing materials, equipment and staff.
Shortages caused mainly by inefficient procurement planning by contractors,
resulted in delays or work stoppages. The economic problems in the country
also contributed to contractor's difficulties.
Prolect Documentation and Data
1.52     The covenauts contained in the Loan, Credit and Project Agreements
were generally reasonable. But both the Government and LWUA performed below
expectations in fulfilling the covenants, also on issues not related to the
national financial crisis.-
1.53    The Staff Appraisal Report provlded a useful reference material
although the degree of 'detail was limited by the project having been appraised
before much detailed investigation had been done on sub-projects.
1.54     Information for preparation of the PCRM  Wa  not readily available
neither in the Bank nor LWUA and has been contributory to both the delays and
some weaknesses in the PCR.



--13 -
PAT  X REVE   10  ORWE' PRSKTV
2.1       Part II is a summary of a report which was prepared by consultants
in collaboration with the Government, with a view to:
(a)   review the implementation of activities financed under Loan 1710-
PR/Credit 920-PH;
(b)   compare such activities with those proposed at the time of
loan/credit approval;
(c)   assess whether the overall objectives of the loan/credit were
achieved; and
(d)   identify areas where, through lessons learned, improvements could
be made to enable effective execution of further loans in the
sector.
Project IJmplemeato
2.2       For various reasons, which will be outlined below, the actual
activities implemented under the loan/credit have differed somewhat from
those originally proposed. Differences have been both in terms of the actual
towns for which water supplies were provided and the actual amount of funds
borrowed.
2.3   -   The proposed project was to be completed between November 1979 and
June 1985, i.e., in 67 months. It was proposed that the project financing
be assisted by a Bank loan of US$16.0 million and an IDA credit of US$22.0
million. This was expected to moet all foreign exchange costs plus US$5.95
million equivalent of local costs. The estimated foreign exchange components
of Parts C and D (see Annex A) were US$2.0 million.
2.4       However, the period for7 'loan/credit drawdown-was extended to
December 1987 to e6able completion. The total amount of foreign loan and
credit actuallv expended -for PaXts A and B (s"- Annex A) -as recorded by LWUA
was US$4.14 million from the loan and US$16.72 million from the credit
leaving an undrawn amount of US$10.25 million from the loan and an unutilized
component-of the credit of US$2.78 million.
2.5       Only 34.1% of the estimated expenditure_for construction of water
supplies was used.   H#wever,  expenditure on technical. assistance and
materials and equipment were in excess of the initial estimate. One of the
main -reasons for the increase in technical assistance expenditure, which
includes design and training, was the funding of foreign consultants in the
amount of US$1.43 mIllion. This was not includedss.-a specific item in the
original proposal, which did not include the Operation and Maintenance
Assistane Program (OMAP).
2.6       Examination of the scheduled items of expenditure on materials and
equipment indicates that a number of expenditures, totalling US$2.86 million,
should have been listed under sub-project costs. The remaining items listed



-14-
under plant and equipment are for computers and vehicles at US$0.08 million
and US$0.74 million, respectively.
Sub-Pioject Design and Impl=eentation
2.7       The objective of the original project was to undertake feasibility
studies, design and implement water supply for 50 towns during the project
period  (Part A).   In addition,  under Part X,  it was  intended  that
reconnaissance surveys be undertaken for an additional 150 towns and detailed
designs for schemes in a further 32 Water Districts (WDs). It is difficult
to specify exactly how many individual feasibility studies, designs and
reconnaissance surveys were to be undertaken in total to achieve these
objectives, as some provision should have been "nde for schemes to be dropped
(e.g., those found non-viable after feasibility study).
2.8       Although the objective was to provide water supply to 50 towns, the
program would have achieved 60 sub-projects if fully implemented. Actual
achievements under the loan/credit are shown in Table 1 and can only be
compared with the objectives in general terms as there was no drawing against
the loan s2egificagXl for reconnaissance surveys. Bank funding, however, waS
directed to some areas not originally provided for, such as mini-loans to WDs
for meter supply and service connections.   Such mini-loans resulted from
field reconnaissance surveys to determine the specific needs of each sub-
project town.
2.9       Observations made by comparing planned and actual performance are:
(a)   The objective to implement 50 sub-projects under the loan has been
achieved if the overall data is taken into consideration, i.e. 55
towns will have new or supplementary water supplies by the time
on-going projects are completed. Supplementary funding will be
required to achieve this objective because the closing date for
Loan 1710-PH could not be extended. The achievement, however,
cannot be regarded as satisfactory as a substantial increase in
time will be required to achieve this objective.
(b)   The program for undertaking feasibility studies and designs did not
meet project objectives, neither in time nor in number. This is
not a true reflection of LWUA's overall program for such activities
as there were other significant on-going activities of this nature
funded from other sources.
LWUA recognizes that maintaining an - on-going forward program of
reconnaissance surveys, feasibility studies and detailed designs is critical
to achieving LWUA's overall objectives to provide and improve Level III water
supplies throughout the Philippines.



,,                                       n 
z  .   !.                 , ~~~~~~- 15 - 
.~~~~~~~~~~~~*UJl ...                               . .
eSTUDIS',} DESIGN Ahb'IMPKPLRRNT.AI .N PROGRAM
Foasibility                                          Reconnais-
<       ~~So,d              Degign _       gosrcin           sneSre
Year      lan  Actual      Plan Actual       Plan Actual       Plan  Acbal
1979      12      2
1980      16      4         12
1981      38,   i7          48      4
182      id    22          16      7   -    12       3        100
1983      10    14''        16    18          16      5         5C
1984       8    '10                 3         16      3
1985           "  4                 9.        16      3
1986                                7                10
1981                                6                 4
1988                                                 27 / -
Total      94     23 i/            92    54          60     55         150
NOTE:  Actuals exclude basic investigations undertaken in association with
+the award of mini-loans to WD8.
A/ Of these, 20 are being finalized and subject to a request for additiondl
funds through an &ngineering Mbridging loan,.
hi Includes 10 for which projects did not proceed due to non-riability of
supply or institutional problems within the Water District.
_ MiiN-LoasL
2.10      As an initial activity following th-w -formation of a WD, LWUA has
focussed on the iniediate assistance which could help the WD increase its
revenue generating capability.
2.11      Through the granting of mini-loans for the-installation of water
meterd and service connections, it was anticipated that the WDs would be able
to achieve greater utilization of its existing facilities priot to any
major rehabil-itation or expansion. Fundimg for these mini-loans was not
anti9ipated at the time of appraisal; however, the idea gained support from
the Bank during the course of the project. Under the mini-loan program,
assistance was given to 80 towns. The maximum mini-loan approved under this
program was US$41,000 equivalent with the majodlty being less than US$10,000
equivalent.                       ,
2L.niIu i                      '                   .                     a.
2.12-     Training implemented under the proJeet Included: 



16 -
(a) Overseas training of LWUA and lWD staff at an expenditure of
US$0.28 million.
(b)  Technical assistance by foreign consultants.
(c)  The OMAP activities which provided assistance mainly to WDs.
Seven towns were involved at a total expenditure of US$1.43
million.
2.13      As part of LWUA's on-going services,  training was given to
personnel in-house and from a number of the WDs with sub-projects under the
loan/credit. The LWUA training center kept detailed records on NID personnel
attending specific courses for only a short time. Those records indicate
that in recent years a total of 88 persons from sub-project IDs attended
courses at the center in a range of management and technical subjects. This
training was funded from LWUA's internal resources. Also project officers
have attended meetings for the formation of WDs to Inform the public of its
activities and procedures. In addition, technical personnel conducting the
ONAP have regularly conducted on-site technical seminars.
Vehicles an   a    _inment
2.14      The project provided for the purchase of vehicles to assist with
LWUA's public education program and items of equipment both for LWUA and
ID use.    Items  purchased  under  the  loan/credit  included  vehicles,
microcomputers, library reference books, well drilling equipment, and service
installation equipment.  An additional number of vehicles were purchased
under the loan for many new WDs which did not have their own vehicle(s).
LWUA intended to provide these vehicles to WDs under their normal financing
arrangements.
Oneration-and Maintenance Assistance ProgM  (ONAP)
2.15      ONAP is another activity not anticipated under the original
loan/credit, although it could be regarded as part of technical assistance.
Essentially the program involves the provision of assistance to individual
WDs (seven projects were given support under the loan/credit) to optimize
system performance (i.e., reduction of unaccounted-for-water, improvement in
operation efficiency, increased consumer connections, etc.) and to undertake
minor repairs and adjustments.
2.16      The amounts disbursed to each WD through ONAP are as follows:
Bacolod                                   $ 35,700
Batangas                                  $185,400
Metro Cebu                                $699,000
Baguio                                    $313,800
Ligao-oas                                 $313,800
Sorsogon                                  $156,900
La Union                                  A 28.600
Total           $1,733,200



- 17 ^
LVUA' 8 PerfoFmanca
2.17      The project objective to provide or Improve the water supply for
50 sub-project towns was generally achieved, however, LWUA's performance in
achieving this objective did not meet the Bank's expectations outlined in the
project preparation and appraisal documentation. LWUA, in performing its
role as an "intermediate development bank' over the period of the project,
faced a number of problems. A combination of limited government funding plus
declining collection effieiency from WD8, among other factors, placed LWUA
under financial strain.
Formtion gf Water Dis5ricts
2.18      The formation of WDs is the basis of LWUA's activities.  Under
Presidential Decree 198 of 1973, vhich provided for the establishment of
LWUA, authority was given for the formation of lopal lDs to administer water
supplies in provincial cities, and for LWUA to make loans and provide
technical assistance and training to the WDs. The first years of LWUA's
operation saw steady growth in the formation of WDs with a period of rapid
growth for three years to the end of 1982, which corresponded to the initial
three years of the project.
2.19      During 1982-85 virtually no new WDs were formed.  Since 1985, the
rate of formation has-returned to that of the late 1970s/early 1980s, i.e.,
approximately 40 to 50 new WDs being formed each year. A requirement for
the project was the formation of sufficient IWDs to provide sub-project
opportunities. Project documents outlined a need to form at least 60 WDs in
the period 1978 to mid-1980, to ensure that planning/design and
implementation could proceed during the project period. The actual number
of WDs formed in this period was approximately 115.
ViabilLty of Water Districts
2.20      When Loan 1710-PH/Credit 920-PH was obtained, LWUA's principal
objective was to provide Level III supplies.   The rationale behind the
threshold population of 20,000 for Level III supplies was related to being
able to serve communities where, because of size, cost recovery was possible;.
2.21      A number of the sub-projects which received funding through this
project were, however, smaller than the nominated guidelines for Level III
systems, although in almost all cases, the municiLal oIgulation exceeded
20,000.
2.22      LWUA's charter was broadened in 1985 as a result of Executive Order
124, which gave it the responsibility for the implementation of Level II
systems (Communal Faucet Systems and Standposts) in addition to Level 1II
systems (Individual House Connections) as a result of the abolition of the
Rural Waterworks and Development Corporation (RWDC) and the transfer of its
functions to LWUA.
2.23      Procedures  adopted  by  LWUA  in  the  investigation  phate  z_'
establishing a WD provided for the assessment of viabitity and the ability



- 18 -
of the consumer to pay for the service. However, other factors, including
political pressures, influenced the decision to proceed with projects which
may not achieve viability until some time in the future.
bggQs,ili&X EStudL2&Zkes,,U ^n  Implemenation
2.24      Rapid growth in the development of LWUA and its activities can be
noted by the number of feasibility studies and detailed design undertaker.
since 1980 (see Table 1).
2.25      The slow down in WD formation from 1982-85 outlined above, whil.
not affecting the rate at which feasibility studies were carried out, did
significantly affect the rate at which projects were designed and
implemented. The average rate of projects designed and implemented dropped
from about 30 projects per year to about 10 per year in the late 1980s. The
reduction in tWUA staff in the period 1983-85 corresponds with the stow down
in design and construction activity during the same period. These reductions
can almost be totaliy accounted for in reduced numbers of professional
engineers.
2.26      Activities picked up after 1986 and LWUA's operating costs nearly
doubled in 1987-88 compared with the period 1982-86. Operating costs for
1988 reached US$4.05 million equivalent.
Economic Conditions
2.27      There is no doubt that one of the reasons for the decline in LWUA's
development activities was the generally depressed state of the economy of
the country during that period. In 1984 and 1985, the Gross National Product
(GNP) dropped 6.8% and 3.6%, respectively. Inflation, as measured by the
Consumer Price Index (CPI) was 50.3% and 22.7%, respectively. The situation
improved considerably from 1986 with the comparative indicators for 1986 and
1987 being an increase in GNP of 2.0% and 5.7% and CPI of 0.03% and 3.8%,
respectively.
2.28      Another factor which must be considered when examining LWUA'S
performance with respect to the project is that at the time the loan/credit
was negotiated in 1979, the Peso was valued at P7.40 to US$1. By late 1985,
the rate had declined to P18.75 to US$1. This meant that IWUA's repayment
obligatioxis on foreign loans had increased 250% in this period. As LWUA
lends all funds to the WDs in Pesos, it was not able to cover the major
increases in foreign exchange requirements from Peso repayments of the WDs.
In late 1985, the Ministry of Finance and the Prime Minister agreed that the
government would take the majority (98%) of the risk of exchange rate
fluctuation.
2.29      Economic conditions have also influenced LWUA's overall performance
in two other respects. Even though funding for sub-projects under Loan 1710-
PH/Credit 920-PH was to be in the proportion 59% foreign funds and 41% local
funds (with the 41% local funding being made up from 32% government
contribution and 9% internally generated funds) implementatton was



- 19 -
significantly affected by LWUA' a inability to obtain adequate Government
funding.
2.30      Disbursements followed a regular trend in the period 1980-83,
although not at a rate anticipated at the time of appraisal. During 1984 and
1985 there was a considerable decline in disbursement, corresponding to the
period of low economic performance, followed by an acceleration durlng the
latter part of the project.
Internal Cash Generation and Billing and CAoglection Effictencv
2.31      WUUA's charter requires it to operate as a corporation and as such,
it must operate along commercial lines. These objectives can only be met
when income is generated through regular payment of loans pravided to WDs for
their capital works expansion programs and other services provided dLrectly
by LWUA.
2.32      Realistically, repayment by the WDa must reflect their ability to
collect an affordable tariff for a service provided. If the tariff charged
is too high or the service inadequate, either through not enough connections
or operating deficiencies, the iDs may not be able to collect sufficient
revenue to meet their commitments.
2.33      It has also been recognized that in many instances the tariff
levels necessary for the WDs to earn sufficient income to cover costs and
repay their loan commitments, would be unaffordable unless a component of the
capital costs for new works is subsidized by the Government, thus reducing
the amount the UDs have to borrow. Initially, this grant was 10% of the cost
for projects in the smaller towns, however, it was later revised to 20%.
2.34      LWUA is responsible for its own financial management. To provide
the services required to implement and operate water supply systems $n the
lDs, LWUA must therefore be able to bor-ow funds, re-lend those funds to lWDs,
and provide the necessary backup support and technical services to administer
the development programs. The Government has a responsibility to contribute
operating capltal for LWUA until it becomes totally self-sufficient and
(equity) capital to be passed on to the WDs as part finance for their
schemes.   The effectiveness of the overall financial mechanism may be
assessed by reviewing LWUA s internal cash generation.
2.35      Cash generation in later years has begun to decline rapidly.  The
main area which impacts on this internal cash position is LWUA's ability to
collect the WDs' debts.   There was an overall decline in collection
efficiency from 77% in 1983 to 46% in 1988; that is, lDs, particularly some
of the older ones, were not able to meet repayment commitments they undertook
in taking out the loans. There may be a number of explanations for this
situation, however, it is clear that LWUA will need to address this problem
if the overall self-financing objective is to be realized.



- 20 -
QXgaLI1tiWJ StablkXt
2.36      Implementation of the part of this project corresponded with a
period of lses than stable activity within LUUA. Major changes occurred ln
the executive structure during 1986. Several changes in the appointment of
a chief executive (Administrator) were made in the period 1986-89.  Such
instability impacted on the operation of the organization as a whole and may
have affected LWUA's ability to accelerate the rate of project implementation
in the period following the 1984-85 downturn in the economy.
Internal Program and pro3ect Manageme2t
2.37      The organizational structure adopted by LWUA for the planning and
implnemntation of projects involves separate functional units for planning,
investigation, design and implementation.   In the management of their
programs the practice has been to pass projects or groups of projects from
one functional area to another as work is completed at various stages in the
implementation pipeline.
2.38      For various reasons under the current system, projects can become
abandoned or stalled as there is no continual monitoring or responsibility
to track project activities and ensure development targets are maintained.
There is scope to re-structure the current organization and provide a more
efficient approach to project planning and monitoring.
Lessons Learned
2.39      LWUA recognizes that the problems and issues outlined in this
report will need to be addressed to enable it to efficiently manage and
expand development programs for the establishment of UDs and the provision
of Level I1  supplies throughout the country.   Simpllstically, two core
actions will need attention, namely, securing a sound financial footlng and
optimizing  internal  efficiency.    The various  speciflc  activities  and
prerequisites vhich will address these actions are suggested below, and some
of them are already receiving attention.
Securing a Sound Financial Footing
2.40      Sectoral Regsonsibility.   One prerequisite to securing a sound
financial footing is a clear description and understanding of LWUA's role in
the water and sanitation sector. Many agencies are currently involved and
there are overlapping roles. It will not be possible for LUUA to propare a
Corporate Plan, program its activities, undertake annual planning and
budgeting and address its manpower requirements unless its mission is clearly
defined.   Various initiatives have been undertaken to establish these
sectoral responsibilities, however, there has been no final resolution to
date.
2.41      Definition of CoLmeicIal and Social ResnonsibiLities.  LUA has
been and will be required to provide 'social' and support services to
communities which cannot, at least immediately, afford loan repayments. LIIUA
supports a policy of cost recovery for Levels II and III water supply



- 21 -
systems, however, there must be provision for separate accounting for
services and facilities provided to communities where full cost recovery in
the short term is not possible.
2.42      Provision of Technical Assistance to Client Water Districts to
Imnrove Their ViablUiy. It is LWUA's policy (and a Government directive)
to recommend tariff structures for new WDs which are relevant to the
communities' ability to pay for the service. One of the objectives to be
addressed therefore in improving the viability of WDs is, first, to assist
by minimizing the investment they are required to make to provide the supply,
and, second, ko assist in improving their oporating efficiency. A number of
scenarios have been proposed to restructure interest rates and repayment
conditions to ease the financial burden on new UDs. It has been regularly
shown that if the consumer is provided a service, i.e., regularly and good
quality water supply then willingness to pay is generally not a problem.
The benefits of restructuring loan repayments must therefore be essential ona
potential revenue generated from an efficiently operating system. When new
capital works are lnstalled, the opportunity exists for WDs to expand their
consumer base with increased connections.  Experience with the ONAP has
shown, that there is also a signifliant increase in revenue to be gained by
providing tecbnical assistance to optimize their operating procedures, reduce
umaccounted-for-water and assist MD staff i.- gaining a closer understanding
of their system. It has been the practice of LWUA to charge WDs for any
services provided, however, there may be grounds to offer such services as
a grant technical assistance component of a deferred loan, to be repaid from
the proceeds of resulting increased revenue.
2.43      Successful ONAP pilot programs are already securing commitments
from lWDs to borrow capital to fund more comprehensive programs. A successful
example may be quoted for the Victorias VD in Negros Occidental - over 10-
1/2 months in 1988 involving a team of three OMAP engineers using WD staff
and a relatively small budget.   The program resulted in an increase in
monthly production of 6%, an increase in monthly billings of 22%, and a
reduction in unaccounted-for-water of 13%. This project is continuing and
further improvements are expected. OHAP can also be regarded as the on-the-
job component of training for VD personnel to improve skills. Benefits from
LWUA' s formal training programs are less measurable than for the OMAP
operations, but are essential and an important contribution to improving
operational performance and hence viability. VD training needs should be
assessed at the time feasibility studies are conducted.
2.44      Develon a Sound Base for Project Selectivity.  As referred to
earlier, the basis of selecting projects must be clearly established. If
there is a separation between commercial and social projects, the basis of
this separation must be defined.
2.45      Obtaining Regular and Adecuate Local Funding.  Sufficient funding
will not be available from LUA' a internal sources under an expanding program
to fund the local costs associated with foreign loans, or the grant component
of VD system development.   It is essential therefore that regular and
adequate funding, based on defined needs, be provided by the Government.



- 22 -
LWUA's viability objectives cannot be met unless such funding is made
available.
ODt xlzg Ip hAl EfficieOnc
2.46      Institutional Strengthening.   LWUh is essentially a service
organization providing finance and technical assistance.   To manage an
expanded program of Level III supplies plus the additional function of Level
II supplies and sanitation, some strengthening and possible external support
will be required. These requirements will need to be carefully assessed to
meet specific program targets and manpower needs developed together with
recruitment/engagement programs.
2.47      Regionaliz      .   The increased number of WDs will make the
centralized approach of LWUA's operations less efficient and costly as the
need to provide to WDs increases.   Certain functions, such as financial
management, planning and engineering design which do not require frequent
client contact, may not need to be regionalized, however, there is a need to
provide regional representatives to give client WDs better aecess to IMMU's
orgatization. The role, responsibilities and specific activities of regional
representative offices should be studied and planned before implementation.
2.48      Proiect and Proram Manaaement.   A possible re-adjustment of
responsibilities within the Technical Services Department is suggested to
provide better control and continuity between the various activities
associated with development.



-23-
1.    Related Bank Loans and/or Credt;A
LoAn/Credit                                 Year of
Title                 Purpose           Approval    Status          Comments
Loan.1415-PR         Improve water supply      05/03/77   Complete   Studies were
Provnial Cities    in six provincial                      06/83       input for Second
Watar Supply         cities and prepare                              Provincial
Project              studies for water                               Cities Water
supply systems in t1                            supply Project.
additional cities.
Loan 1615-PH         Water supply for          07/25/78   Complete   Studies and
Second Manila        Metropolitan Manila,                 12/86 1   detailed designs
Water Supply         but included twelve                             were input for
Project              detailed designs                                2nd Provincial
for which studies                               Cities Water
under TFoan 1415,                               Supply Project.
plus preparation
of studies for 16
more UDs.
Loan 2206-PH         Improvement of rural      10/18/82   Complete
Rural Water          water supply and rural               12/86
Supply and           sanitation throughout
Sanitation           the Philippines, partly'
Project              Implemented by UWUA
as successor of the
Rural Waterworks
Development Corporation.



-24-
2.    Project Timetalble and Issues Raised
A. TiLetable
Activity/                Date           Date                   Date
-   Event -          Planned        Revised                Actual
Project Identification
Proparation -                                                       05/06/78
Appraisal Mission               10/78                               11/12/78
Negotiations                                                        04/25/79
Board Approval                                                      05/29/79
Loan/Credit Signature                                               06/27/79
Loan/Credit Effectiveness      09/28/79                             11/30/79
Loan/Cre4it Closing Date       12/31/85       12/31/86             -07/15/87 (Credit)
12/31/87 (Loan)
Project Completion             06/30/85                            Not completed
I           -  .   I 



-25-
B..  I4sues Raised (rEtapnrais  thrUh Board PesenEtatlonl
Pre.aOpfIAIdfl StA&R:   - delay in engineering for subprojects;
LVUA's implementation capacity; and
- setting of appropriate water tariffs.
Appraisal Stag,e:     - inclusion of sub-project for Iloilo;
- relending terms;
- amount of-government contribution;
- amount of contributitns by VD's to capital costs;
- sub-project selection criteria; and
LWUA implementation capacity, considering experience
with ongoing First Provincial Cities Water Stupply Project.
Post-afixaisal:       - scope.of project; expectied four-fold increase in work  o4d
for UWUA; reservations about IWUA capacity to deal with
such a large program for new WDs;
potential priority conflicts re. ongoing.projects financed
by others, particularly by USAID, and possible resulting
delay in utilization of other loans;
means of obtaining adequate community commitments to pay
for improved services;
stage of project preparation at time of Board-Presentation;
design/procurement status could be inadequate to justify -
loan during FY79;
criteria for sub-project selection: lack of incentive or
requirement to include'public standpipe service; gnd first
come, first served process does not assure economically
optimal package of subprojects;
- tariffs; need for cr"ss-sbbsidization and marginal cost
basis for top tariff block; -
t design periods for individual sUb-projects; two short ones
of three to four years each vs one of 10 to 12 years; -
adequacy of cost estimates which are no more than budget
estimates;
indefiniteness of any individual sub-pioject going.ahead
and, therefore, of scale of whole package;
realism of proposed supervision role by Bank and potential
for causing delays - a planned, intensive effort required
and must be followed;
- justificattvn for IDA credit considering Government's-
concern about reserving credits for projects with high
poverty orientation;
- amount of local cost financing by loan/credit;
relending terms - Government to LUUA and LWUA to WD's;
degree of Government's commitment1to providing 20% subsidy
for capiial costs;
reservations about effect on LWUA institutional development



- 26 -
if qpecial project iuplenentation unit oestablished for this
projeci:
- adequacy of arrangements for implomentlg Part , of
project; realism of coping with 1,500 rural communities by
agency not yet In existence;
- necessity for continued use of foreign consultants to
supervise desin by local consultants and iWUA; and
- Board Presentatiow4hile Government in default on water
tariff covenant under loan for-flist Provincial Cities
Water Supply Project.
- Mapggttu MjiEL:   '-  financing of interest during construction disapproved;
.- amount of loancredit at 60% of project cost accepted;
- level of local currency flnancing (s 6.0 million accepted);
- need for Ioreign consultants;'
- action on default on tariff covenant in loan for First
Provincial Cities Water Supply.;Project, and -- -
- amount of Bank review of rural subprojects required to_=-
assure preparation to appropriate standards.
5e-goti elos:         - criteria for selection of subprojects;
- financing of interest during_construction;
- appointment of'project manager;-
- implementation of tariff increases required to satisfy
covenant in loan agreement for first Provincial Cities
Water Supply Project;
- training program for MD staff;
.  establishment of new agency for rural water supply;
- Improvement of LUA systems for inter-departme-ntal
- -oordination-wid financial planning and control; and
~~-     ~- .suditing, of _-h  accounts by COA.!
Board Presentation:   - concern about IDA lending to Philippines;
- degree of controL-possible for tIe many small contracts
awarded under-local procurement procedures; and
---      - concern ibout amount of Bank supervision with so many
sub-projects with wlde geographic distribution.   --
..
-4-~~~~ ~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ -- --                                  ..    -;    .



- 27 -
3.       Luaz   r.ad.LkflLab3xfa9nU 
-        A. Ch?mulatia Esimatd and Actual Dtsbusramena
IMIDIIA FT                                                                           Total      *w
saA Semster    ILon                                 CrO it                                    ACtUal 8 X
-udaa                              ual       ApWprasal Aatual          Apaisa   Aotual    of A,Vaisal
12131179         0.00        -0.00                                  0.00 
061tSOl          0.00        -            1.21          0.21        1.21        0.21            171
121118     S0.0         -           3.9"           -           3.96        0.39             92
06130t8l         @.e@        -            8.19          1.28        8.19        1.28            16S
1231A16          0.00        -          --a.41         2.05        12.41        2.05            172
06130182         0.00        -           5.64           3.29       15.64        3.29            21X
121)1182-        0MO0        -           20.90          5.36       20.90        5.36            261
06130183         4.96        -           22.00          6.62       26.96        6.62            251
12131163         9.15        -                          9.19       31.15        9.19            30X
06130164        12.46        -                         10.79       34.46       10.79            9sa
12139184        16.00        -                         11.30       38.00       11.30            30X
06130185                                              12.07                    12.0?            32X
12131185                     ---                       13.38                   139              352
06130186                                              14.43                    14.43            3S2
"/3188   -    -          15.91                   15.91            421
18.51                   16.51            491
12121187                    1.45                      19.22                   -20.67            541
06130188                    3.87                                               23.09       bl X
12131188                    5.75                                               24.97            66X
Lstr ZUUUX}E       Credlt920-PE               cbraCrdtLo
Orisua 1 C1o"a1  Oate             12131185                    12131185                    1213118S-
Actual Closln  Dats               12131187                     W7-11587                   12131187
i>nal Diabursemant             _ 10/19/88                     07115187                    10119188
Canaellaties.t                    1211916 (4 9.00 Go          07115187  (S 2.78 a)
1012068S  (0 1.25. )
Total cancelled                $10.25 a                    $ 2.78 .    -13.03                      -
%st mount LoaniCredLt               3 5.75 a                  $19.22.                     $24.97 a



-28-
S.  Gilinl and Fina  Allocaign of PrEmsedi (us$'0O0)
(US$ 1 OOO)
_obednia 1 ciLosI9reitaDi 
A.mm*o~~~  Ned                                     o*R"IhlAlbLo"urr=
Categor       B           Alloeg$      to be PlnaFied Alloca4t            Total Aoemt -Iof Tota
(1) civil Walks              278 0         t0ol of £ared        31,150        8,533        7,401 _1a
a    U of      -- lolal
(2) f~pe1  i
(a) undor Part C  1,500 -~~~~ -              2,000        4.111          "a70       172
(b) Otbor.                 300                              2A.00        1'209           7-.        6I
tl) direcly                               f . 4 ,i
Iq"orted
) Xlocal           '        '          of ' L'ca
muaour                           Ce*-'faoS0    - to200 gr)                         78i
U   proaud          ,51
locally
(3) Canhulting se8vta         *,000        1003                 11,00        10,30         3,206 
(4) Overseas TrainI850                  _100X                    - 650          280           83        30X
(3) Unallocated               4,000                                700            -
Total                   38,000-                           38,000        24.ff7      11,471         46X
Canellatio                                                              13,030
,Tota,                                                                  38,000
3! September 16, 1986.
I 
I' ~ ~ ~  



- 29 -
4. Project .mnlZalema.U.n 1
Appraisal
Implementation Indicators                  Estimate           Actuals k/
brt A: Water Supply Sub2rolects
ax=W I t in
Feasibility studies started           12/77              1977
Fessibility studies completed        06/79               1981
Detailed design started           12/78               1981
Detailed design completed            06/80               1981
Construction started                 01/81               1982
construction completed               06/82               1987
rXup 2 (16S
Feasibility studies started          02/79               1979
Feasibility studies completed        06/80               1982
Detailed design started               01/80              1982
Detailed design completed             06/81              1983
Construction started                 01/82               1984
Construction completed               06/83               1987
Feasibility studies started          09/79               1980
Feasibility studies completed        03/81               1983
Detailed design started              06/80               1981
Detailed design completed             12/81              1987
Construction started                 06/82               1982
Construction completed               12/83               1988
Gr     L 4 til
Feasibility studies started          06/80               1980
Feasibility studies completed        12/81               1983
Detailed design started              06/81               1981
Detailed design completed            01/83               1986
Construction started                 06/83               1983
Construction completed               12/84               1988



* - 30-
Appraisal
Implementation Indicators                  Estimate           Actuals  i
Part B: Water Suiplv Desien3 for
Other Urban Communities
Communities identified
Recon. surveys started for 150        01/82              1983
Surveys completed for 150            06/83               W
Detailed design started for 32       01/82
Detailed design completed for 32     01/84
Part C: Water Suinlies for 1.000
Rural QGormunties 
Construction started                 09/79               1983
Construction completed                12/84              1988
Part D: Pilot Sanitation Studies
Studies started for 8                09/79
Studies completed for,8              01/82
a/ Further progress on projects were discontinued if not feasible and
were substituted with porjects from a stand-by package of 17 projects.
hi As each project in each group has own tiemetable, the times given for
a group indicates start and completion for the bulk.
S/  LWUA continuously identified schemes funded from other sources while
the TA under this project used for training and reductions in losses in
old parts of systems extended under this project.



31.
5.    *- ieet Cisa and *    nang
A. Procist C08tn-
_Appraisal Rst1iate                  Actuals
(US$ million)                (US$ Million)
Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total
Part A:     28.30      285S0   . 56.80    14.05     14.06    28.01
Part B:       1.65     1.55      3.20      0.31 A/   2.92      3.22
Part C:       1.80     1.80      3.60         0 A/  4.12       4.12
PartD:       0.20      0.20      0.40         0         0         0
TOTALS       31.95    32.05    64.00    14.36    21.09        35.35'
A/ No information aVailable on RDC' aand WUMA a in-house expenses in
connection' ith these schemes.
B. Proleat Financljng
Appraisal Estimate                  Actuals
(US$ Million)                             (US$ Million)
Sources    Amount   Percent              Sources    Amount-  Percent
IDA           22.0       34%             IDA          19.22       54.4
1B3D         16.0        25%             IBRD          5.75       16.3
Govt.         20.3       32%4            Govt.         9.14   '  25.9
lD9s         AJ         921             lWDs          ...LZ4
64.0      100%                          35.35       1008
Note: Weighted average exchange rate based on disbursement records:
P 16.86 - US$ 1.00 -
,                                     . 2                       .
f      . 



- 32 -
6.     Status at najor Covenants
Covenant       '            Subject                           Compliance
(C-Credit)
(L-Ioan)
(P-Project)
C 3.01 (a)     Borrower to cause LWUA to perform   Borrower generally did not
L 3.01 (a)     in accordance with Project and      monitor LWUA satisfactorily.
Subsidiary Loan Agreements.         GCMCC established late in project
to monitor government agencies.
C 3.01 (b)    Borrower to onlend credit and        Satisfactory.
L 3.01 (b)     loan proceeds to LWUA in pesos
for Parts A & B of project.
C Whereas      Parts A & B of project to be        Parts A & B completed by LWUA,
L Whereas      carried out by LWUA.                but at a reduced scope.
P 2.01 (a)
C 3.02         Borrower to carry out Parts         Parts C & D partially implemented
C & D of project.                   by DPWH and LWUA, and some com-
ponents handed over to the newly
formed RUDC.
C 3.04         Borrower to provide 20% of          Borrower seldom complied with
total costs of sub-projects        LWUA requests on behalf of
in certain small WDs as             eligible VDs.
equity contributions.
C 3.05         Borrower to take measures           Initially complied with but
necessary to increase LWUA s        aborted during economic
paid in capital to meet             recession.
annual requirements estim.
at US$ 18 million/yr for
six years.
P 2.05 (b)     LWUA to furnish periodic            Generally satisfactory until
progress reports on                 late in project.
Parts A & B.
P 2.05 (c)    LWUA to prepare PCR on               LWUA prepared a draft.
Parts A & B and furnish to
Bank 6 months after
closing date of loan.
C 3.07 (b)     Borrower to furnish periodic        Unsatisfactory
L 3.04 (b),    progress reports on Parts C & D.



- 33 -
Covenant                    Subject                            Compliance
C 3.07 (c).    Borrower to prepare PCR              Included in draft PCR prepared
on Parts C & D and furnish          by LVUA.
to Bank within 6 months
of closing date.
P 2.01 (b)     LWUA to relend to WDs on             Generally satisfactory.
terms approved by Bank.
P 2.01 (c)     LWUA sub-projects to comply          Performance uneven; criteria not
with criteria acceptable             always adhered to.
to Bank.
P 3.01         LWUA to cause WDs to be              Institutional development of many
operated according to              IWD  generally sntisfactory but
appropriate standards under         financial performance short of
competent management.               expectations.
P 3.02 (i)    LUUA to give Bank opportunity         Not complied with.
to comment on General Manager
appointees.
P 3.02 (ii)    LVUA to consult with Bank            Not complied with.
prior to making major
organizational changes.
P 3.03 (a)     LWUA to furnish to Bank              Satisfactory
policies/procedures for
billing and collection
by January 1, 1980.
P 3.03 (b)     LWUA to establish procedures         Procedures inadequate.
acceptable to Bank for
providing for bad debt.
P 3.04         LWUA to cause UDs to                 WD performance often not
*operate/maintait plant              satisfactory.
according to sound practices
P 3.06         LWUA to cause each VD to             Management of several lDs had
maintain legal existence.            to be taken over (compulsory) by
LWUA to ensure continued
performance..
P 3.07         By June 30, 1980, LWUA to complete  Satisfactory, although not all
formation of 50 UDs to carry out   sa4b-projects implemented.
sub-projec,ts under this project.



-34-
Covenant                    Subject                            Compliance
P 4.01         LWUA to maintain adequate            LUUA records satisfactory, but
records and cause iDs to            many of small UDs proved to be
maintain adequate records.           incapable of compliance.
P 4.02 (a)     LVUA to furnish to the Bank          Satisfactory, but always at least
annual financial statements         few months late.
and audit reports within six
months after year end.
P 4.02 (b)     LVUA, to cause WDs to furnish        Not complied with by several
to LWUA audited annual              larger lDs and most smaller ones
financial statements.               not capable of compliance.
P 4.03         LDUA to cause WDs to produce         Rate of return covenant amended
specified rates of return.          to cash generation covenant in
June 1984, but revised covenant
uniformly not complied with by
all WDs.
P 4.04         LWUA to cause WDs to annually        Not fully complied with.
review tariffs and implement
findings of such reviews,
taking Bank comments into
account.
P 4.05 (b)     L1UA not to incur any debt if        Satisfactory.
it would raise long term debt
equity ratio above 3:1.
P 4.06         LWUA to consult Bank prior to        Satisfactory.
modification of its financial
policies.
P 4.07         LWUA to cause WDs to value           Satisfactory for most larger WDs,
assets realistically and to         but few of smaller lis have
maintain asset records.              satisfactory records.



35 
7.    Use gt ANk Resour
A. Am* SMU&wmttL tsa_
Stag. of
Proj ect Cycle              Plamned        Revised        PFimal          Comnents
Through Appraisal                                            4.4           (Planrned and
revised
Appraisal Through                                                         inputs
Board Approval                                              38.9          not
available.)
Board Approval
Thro,ugh
Effectiveness                                                6.5
Supervision                                                116.7
Total                                                      166.5
/  ,1*~~~~~~~~~~~~
I.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .



-36-
.~~~~3  EISQ
St&" Of               zA?bW   NO. of   D" La spe.atim               Pa      a. Ran  Al               of
Project Crol,         Voat    Pewson   71iI  aI Uepr.saa.d             t S stau    S_ 8         Pr.b1   Li
Though Appraisal     06178       4        22    a (), so
40175         
Aprial Through
1ard Approval
Bard Approval
honug                07179       2         7    3. A
sEfteptmeness         16179      1         7    VA
sup.uvislo           05180       2        10     53, WA             I            2
02181      2        10     83, V              2             2
07181      2         5      a71 A             2             2
06182      1         2      a. I                           2
0s36       S         7    on, Pa 2                                        I
11163      3        1o      , VA, L           S             1             7, x
03/84      S               A, PA, Rd          3             3             *. 
0614       1               S                  S             1
09184      2         7    ss, PA                            2             1, 
'1185      s        11    E, A, F             2             2
06166      3         7    X (2) ,PA           a             2
11/66      2        10    31  2A                            2
07167      2         6 I  B, 7A
11ia?      2        12,  3, 1A                2             2
05188      2         7    E, A                s             1 I
10' t                4 9% 52), VA             3             2
Usually Includes supeWLaSa of am or  o dditional pojeats.
A 'EnAnstmiwA?m                         -f.ipuocial Adiseks
3.mIcoaut                             L. =La Offier
Bdaucatioaal Spealist          '       S_altaw bgiae
1 Statust 1-Probleofr.. or minor probl!.. 24.6eraft probims SinMjor problom
Trend:  l1'Zprovings 2-statlonary: 3IW44riortim
giF-PIUFinanc. iWAnagari. 
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i



i _37_
SACMN  PROVNCIA  CITES xulRSUPL  PROJ=~
Desertiton of the Project
The project was designed to improve water supplies through
rehabilitation and construction of water supply facilities in the provincial
cities and rural communities, and consists of the following:
Part A:
(i) Source development, mostly springs and wells, rehabilitation and
construction of trandmission and distribution systems, installation
of new service connections, public faucets, metering, leak
detection and repair, and improvement of existing facilities in
about 50 small Water Districts, primarily with populations varying
between 10,000 and 30,000, and the city of Iloilo; and
(ii) Utilization of technical assistance for project preparation,
detailed design and supervision of construction.
Part B:
(i) Utilization of technical assistance for reconnaissance surveys for
about 150 communities and detailed design for water supply and
sanitation projects for Water Districts; and'
(ii) Training of staff for LVUA and Water Districts including provision
of vehicles and equipment for Water Districts.
Part C:
Construction of wells, development of springs, pumping stations,
pipelines, public faucets and house connections for about l,OOf
rural communities.
Completion of a pilot sanitation study for about eight rural
communities.



- 38 -
-J
Page 1 of 2
zliIUwIDa
SECOND PROVINCIAL CITMES WATM SUPPLY PROUECT
Operation snd Maintenace Assistance PrograM  ONAP)
Summary of consultant's aindings
1.    In 1983 it was found that newly improved water supply systems were not
providing the expected improved service in terms of increased pressures and
quantities. It appeared that high levels of unaccounted-for water was the
principal cause. A survey by the Local Vater Utilities Administration's (LVUA)
Regulatory Services Unit resulted in recommendations that LWUA should re-
evaluate its strategy in developing water systems and that existing systems
should be rehabilitated prior to planning and extending service areas.  A
consultant was engaged in June 1984 to assist with reduction of unaccounted-for
water by leak detection and repair, and to train LUUA and Water District (VD)
staff.
2.   Pilot studies in four cities disclosed that high unaccounted-for water
resulted not only from leaks but also from illegal connections and inaccurate
metering. Other operational defects were found in other components of the
systems, including mechanical and electrical equipment, and operators were
found to be poorly trained.
3.   The concluding report by the consultant at the and of 1987 included the
following observations and recommendations:
(a)   a major cause of the inability of lDs to service their debts is their
high lavels of unaccounted-for water which is due mostly to leaks in
service connections;
(b) inaccessible or defective meters also lead to estimating or averaging
consumption and large volumes of unbilled use;
(c) losses due to illegal connections could cause up to 50% of unbilled
water;
(d) about 90% of actual leaks are in service connections;
(e)   a remedial measure recommended for ailing WDs is rehabilitation of
service connections, which includes replacement of old connections and
installation  of  distribution  laterals  to  eliminate  spaghetti
connections;
(f) service connection rehabilitation requires a large investment which is
necessary if many of the lDs are to survive and LVUA is to be viable;
(g)  within a distribution zone, leak detection and repair is successful
for only a limited time because of reoccurrence of leaks in other weak
points in the zone;



- 39 -
Page 2 of 2
oh) ordinary patching methods for leaks ln old service connections are
not productlve because new leaks soon occur at other weak points in
the connections;
(L)  estimates for 25 WDs nseding remedial measures showed an average
total cost per WD of nearly P 20 million;
(j) significant improvement ln Unaccounted-for water is not expected
until more than half of the old connections are replaced;
(k)  planning of a rehabilitation program requires preparation of
drawings showing locations of mains, valves and connections;
(1)   a rehabilitation program may restore efficiency in three to five
years, but if operating personnel do not change attitudes and ways,
the system can be expected to deteriorate to the original condition
long before its economic life. Therefore, protracted training is
required; and
(m)  experience  has  shown  that  LWA  advisors  are  required  for
supervision and training substantially full time during a
rehabilitation progrea.



- - 40-
Page 1 of 12
SECOND:PROVINCIAL CITIES gAMER SMMPLY PROJECT
PROJECT gOMPETON RPl 
Summar of Sunervision Report Conclusions
MISAION       DATES                             DESCRIPTION
SPN # 1    05/06/80    First supervision mission.   Report dated 08/04/80.
Summary of project status and mission recommendations
in Form 590 are unreadable. Performance ratings all
show problem free except disbursements, which rate as
having moderate problems.
SPN # 2     02/03/81    First comprehensive report; dated 04/08/81.  Overall
rating has  fallen  to  *moderate problems",   with
disbursements  and  srocurement  status  being  the
problems.  Slow disbursements because of delays in
preparation of first 12 feasbility studies by LWUA and
these not always satisfactory.  But LVUA gaining skill,
and next batch of :16 subprojects expected to be
quicker. Pace of Part A expected to pick up. For B,
50 communities identified for surveys on availability
of adequate water supplies. For C, RVDC established
and preparing list of materials to be procured for
rural water supplies.  For, , pilot sanitation studies
proposed for fringe urban areas and LWUA preparing list
of candidate commuities. Detailed design for 12 of 50
cities nealring completion and bids on 11 of these could
be called by end 1981. The rest expected to be bid in
1982 and 1983 so nroject ciuld be comoleted by closing
*ate  12/31/85.   FIEANCIAL  section of full report
discusses UDs' problem making 10% equity contributions
and LWUA's idea to reduce to 5S, with which Bank does
not agree.   Also, LUUA not doing enough regarding
collection of interest on loans. Report prodiets that
LUA,'s iantsenal cash generatign Xhill not be adequ,at to
meet financial obligations.
Recommended'interval between mission: 4 months.
SPN # 3        07/8i   Report dated 09/15/81.   Oveiall rating declined to
moderate problems and stationary.   Downward changes
were in anticipated completion date and procuremnt
progress.



*                      -41-
Page 2 of-12
Initial delays In preparation of /first 12 feassiblity
studies by 2MUA and presentation to Bank of sowe
subprojects not in acrt with requ lred crteria,
but LVUA gaining skill and next 16 subprojects expected
quicker  (this :a  repet  of  previous  report).
FeasibilIty sWftu  for 11db  gujarolect slow, Design
reporta,  satisfactorily   completed   for   5   WD8.
Consultancy agreements for 50 subprojects signed and
awaiting notices to-proceed.  Total of 66 WDs formed,
of which about 50 expected suitable for project.
RVDC reaited and Is grenaring materials- list for
procurement under Part aC
Regarding financial perfirmance, colectioneMg1&=
a RrJblem; receivables increased 1.7 times in 1981.
VUA preparing corporate plan including strategies for
improvement. Because of slow project implementation,
interest earned on loans to WDs behind appraisal
forecasts.  Admnstratiye ggstg much-abov  forecasts
because of large increases in. wages and benefits
resulting from government policy decisions. Provisions
for doubtful debts probably too low.
ext jmission  scheduled  for 11/81  and; re6qmendd
interval is 4 mgoths.
SPN # 4     06/07/82   ,Report dated 08/05/82 indioates that do
only one staff member spent 2 days on this uolect with
the balance of the time going toward other 5 projects
covered by  4asit.   Performance ratings the sime -
moderate problems and stationary.  New procedures for
review of subprojects by LWUA recently introduced and
expected to accelerate subprojects. With size of lDs
getting smaller, LWUA increased expected number of
cities in project to 70.
LWUA prepared,draft corporate plan (Corplan) restating
objectives aind goals.   Proic       cash fZo   fos
*.  b .    .  .   z(desnitp .aszum 8aw5% eol1gction egffieieu     1&IYA cash 
b4aiices deereasina rm    27 a in 1_82 t    i
WU.A has taken tough cash management action including
12%  cutback  in  operating  expenses, and  imprving-
coilection  efficiency.      Situation  may  require
government k tion, however, such as increasing equity
contribution which should be taken up by Bank when
final Corplan received.                         /
.1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
*~~~ 
I                        I



-42
Page 3 of 12
*          ~~~Most grassing urobleM in high  ao-eeu woater in Mot
Di; reduction should be neasure of performance of LVUA
staff, consultants and VD managers.
RscondPton  for  next  mission  is  01/83  and
_ecoe d intrva in 6 montl
SPN  5    03/83        Report dated 05/09/83 rates project as still having
moderate problems but with deteriorating trend. The
major problem that bas developed Is project finances.
Procurement problems have decreased, while reporting
and expected benefits have gone down.
Formation of new water districts is adequate; 64
established in 1982, bringing total to 175.  Prsjeut
lag ging 12 months bhind schedule.  This expected to
increase to 18 months.  Main groblem is government
eguity contribution whbich vere reduiced in 1982 to
abgt 50% (P 80 ml of nrevious year's. and to P 40 m
*for Bank _ onect) In 1983.  LUA's limited  sorptive
SaaCIt.y to  bAndle  additional  grolects  and  it8
matf sent' a decigi9n  to nroceed  More  sl0wly at
Annex a to report. gives excellent list of subproject
status.    Constraints  resulted  in  limitin    new
construction in 1983 to 15 Bank-assisted projects, and
to defer start of 16 other schemes to 1984, and to
complete 20 ongoing Bank and USAID financed projects.
LWUA consultants' review of ongping USA1D orolect shows
defieiencieg which Alo affect Bank's.  These include
bad -construction drawings, VD delays in obtaining
permits,,and change orders which increase costs over
what they should have been with adequate design. -Also
inexperience and overstretthing of contractors who
place tardy supply orders. LWA consultants atte_pting
to s4dress problems through prequalification, etc.
Obleetivas set in Coolaun xrenared in 12al8  now gut of
. ecI 2Amd needs un ati   .  IMUA expected formation of
665 VWs by l990, but 1982 performance vel bolow pace;
completion of feasibility studies wsm 508, designs 608
-nd construction 55%.  LQUA already drafted interim
two-year plan which  cvrrectly  described  financial
problems (liquidity ant collection efficiency) but
failed  to account for toehnical problems.   Bank
requested new plan by 09/83, to 6e re'lewed by next
mission before budget! bid to Gove2nment.



43
Pap 4 fof 12
L:A  liquidity  needs  improvemnt  through  better
collection of loan mad equity contributions from Us.
High ltvl water losses again stressed as problem as
v-ll as oxc"s staffing per VD.
'eoMaende  &ission inteval i  6 mha  with noit
mission La 09/83.
SPN # 6        11/83   Report dated 02/03/84 rates project as having "In
nroblem- particularly an digursents and finances.
Performande of consultants and institution building are
only areas rated as problem free.   Completion date
forecast as 12/85.   hZiT  MISSUIO  DEVOTED        ST
EXCLUSIVELY TO THIS PROECT.  Prt A  only 10 of 15
schemes  iemented or started by end-1983. Previously
delayed by other financing packages, now delayed by
insufficient government equity release and inadequate
UMA internal cash generation. ( LWUA entire investment
program for 1984-85 only implementation of 45 smaller
schemes with reduced standards (all under this
project),  and  with  smaller,  weaker  WDs,   LUA
experiencing more problems recovering loan payments
from  UDs.    LVA  needs  to  strengthen  internal
operations; substantial 'reforms of LWUA structire
probably required.  gardina Part B! sufficient studies
ready for implementation of schemes. Regardinu Parts
-nLd D: under RVDC and now linked to project being
financed by Ln. 2206 and proceeding ok.   U91Q
xecommend  4isbursement rates to 750 for combined
wupply and civil works, instead of 65* for civil and
1001 for supply. Also suggests cash generation typb of
financial covenant instead of ROR, and that 1 8.5
million of loan should be cancelled.
As of end 1983, 4 years afterfefectiveness, only 8
schemes implemented.  During 1983, tWUA did not obtain
any bids because of uncertainty about government equity
contributions  and  because  of  its  poor  financial
position (lack of liquidity).  However, design of 30
schemes cowplete4 and half of these have tender
documentsa .-
Deteriotation of LWUA financial position wa,
substantial during 1983 due to- sharp cutback in
government equity contributions (P 13 m in 1983 vs.
P 145 m in 1981.   Also,  internal casi generation
inadequate to meet debt servicing costs. VD audits
unsatisfactory.  LUUA  udit ok (4lthough late).
j~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~              4



- 44 -
Page 5 of 12
Re yasn Mual NAter ayni_    . initily to be carried
out by WIGC, now under RWDC: some material procured by
RDC  and  gor           dhoU                  to  have
_ bidized loaM agregnt with RUC, for the $ 2 a
mount which  RlC  should  account  for  a   equity
contribution.
,~~~~~~~~~~~~- 06 84
£gn~e i     i; io   ntrali      mnhswthn
SPN # 7a   03/84        Report dated 04/10/84 (or 04/20/84?) rates projject as
having  major  problem   and  deteriorating.    Val"
problems are disbreets  niInJAted cogpletion and
p~oectfinneqs.    nl minor nr9blem   gn estimated
cost. -xrocuremnt progress. consultants 2erformaree and
institution  building.    Previous  mission  reached
tentative agreement on LUA !Uplementation program for
1984 - based on P 150 a budget, 43 schemes would be
started. LUUA budget for 1984 appears now P 114 a and
priority given to other projects, so LWUA would bave
only P 40 m for this project, enough for only 5 new
schemes.  This reduced program could result in $ 16 a
undisbursed  from  loan, and  $ 4  a, from  credit.
-PRINCIPA  CAUSES OF SEVMER PROB        RE I     MAD MOUATK
joov          FMNDS AND OTHER PRIOITIES.   Government
sensitive about cancellations.
Biak seeking government comitment on budgetaTy suppo;t
for LUUA and proportion of funds allocated to this
project and preparation of appropriate correspondat.
implementation program.
Arrangements for Iselecting consultant for Corporate
Planning Study discussed.
Recoxmended missonM interval is 6i moAtbs with next
-              -~~~~ison  in  6/54
SPN # 7b      03/84    Report dated 05/21/84. M1ission by specialist (Barker)
4 devo   tp trMainn   programs at MMSS and UWO, but
mainly to training related to First Rural Water Supply
and Sanitation Project (ru. 2206-PH). Review of WOUA
in depth not possible because of absence of traig
mDager and  failure  to  appoint acting  head with
knowledge of ovrall training program.
LIWAs ,deteriorating financial positlon in 1983 a
!mcertaintOs  rsegr,ina worsening  economic       lk
A     .aderselz afected tam   training  rogrms . 30% of
1983 programs cmcelled, partly bease  IDs  nIlllng
to meet rising costs. No VD yet rady to train i-
!~~~~~~~~~~~tI



I." ~ ~  ~  
-45
-Page,6 of 12
house. Training for which LWUA responsible is in state
of decline and this aled affected the 6 regioml
training,centers (RTC), which are reluctint to accept
tO*I 40S share of overall LWA program or otherise do
their part.   One VD RTC, Bagiuo, relinquished its
regional rol.   Another difficulty  i  that LUIA's
program now reaching sMaller VDs which can leas afford
releasing stiff, or budget from revenue, for training.
LWUA offered loan component for training as suppament
to mini-loan available to new lDs, but few takers.
The '1984 program, replict of 1963, constrained by
gartial closure'of central tan!n tfhacility,      than
eer2sold, but reuitring substa'ia.  structural.
repairs caused by laulty cons trution.  scarce training
resources in poor and negl-ected condition.
,Nal~or fault is failurm  bv trainina manaqr to train't
ensure 4uccession.
SPN 0 8        06/84   Brief (1) or (2) day visit by Engineer for which thete
is no report in files.
SPN # 9     09/10/84   Report -dated 11/08/84 a d memo dated 11/09/84 rate
project as having major problems, but Improving. Major
problems same aS l.ast mission.  Estimated cost and
institdtion builin  degenerated to moderate problem
status. For first time mission aitually forecast delay
in project completion (by 2 years to 0'6/87).  MIUH
PROBAILY BEST       TO DA
liarding Parts A & C: acc6unt for $2 a And limited to
procurement for subprojects now supervised unler Loan
2206-PH.   Contracts for supply- and installation bif
equpent for first batch of 170 Level  I  systems
finally approvedt late 1984 after rebidding,  and this
will nearly exhaust the $ 2 million allocated.
Regarding Par$d A  & RL Only 11 sebomes iplmented, of
rhich  only  7  coampleted.   'Most  feasibility  work
completed and shelved.  IMA prepared 'new program for
about 28 iDs, including 2 large ones, which wouldt
extend through 1987.  Program realistic in terms WUft._
capacity, but depends on gowernient budget allocationt.s
If followed,' about $ 8 a would still remain
unalldcated. LUUA refrained from 'receiving bids in
1984, as,in 1983, largely because of uncertainty about
government allocation.   Contribution for 1984 not
received'until 10/30/84.           A
.   .~~~~~~~~~~



- 46 -
PAge 7 of 12
Earlier  idea  to  increase  disbursement percentages
proved to be based on error and has been dropped.
Plan i8 to obtain bids for 13 schemes by early 1985,
including Iloilo and Davao. Plan eliminates all VDs
requiring more than,15% grant money.  This approach
recommended by 10/83 mission, but then discarded on
grounds that LWUA had social role.
Outstanding high-priority problems mentioned are start-
up of new schmes and leak d4tection for which LWA
only now seeking consulting assistance through Hotor
Columbis. Also, delays in procuring meters - partly
because of supplier delays; many WDs lack meters and/or
adequate replacement.
LUA  now  comitted  to  closer  onitoring  of  and
assistance to lDs but still unable to clear backlog of
rate reviews and /audits which it had agreed to take
care,of in 1984. This will hinder LWUA's own financial
recovery,  particularly  because  of  current  high
inflation rates.
;WUA financial position precarious; revenues inadequate
to service its own debts to government, and thls due
almost entirely to low efficiency ,of collection (50*'to
60%) in recovering debt service from WDs.  pad this
apparently due to unrewalistin high initial expectations
to rate of financial development of iDs and ability mad
willingness to meet financial commitments. Verv Rgad
,, tateent of past financial niWr|9r9M e in BAUendix,l.
Also. good table shoving financial  ergformance 1984-87
based on certain assumutions is attached.
Recommended mission interval' is 6 months with neat
mission for 04/85.
Desk Update             No mission, but form 590 dated 09/04/L   prepared as
update for purpose of country implementation review.
Most recent mssion was in SeRt./Oct. 1984. Project
further  delayed! by  lack  of  adequate, .and  tim7ly
o0vernment equity releases to LWUA.  Thus increase in
pace delayed until end-1985. Corporate Planning Study
underway' and first results expected 10/85. Govermnent
advised that proposed 2-year clopsing date extension
would be considered only if Credit fully committed by
12/85.  1985-86 Program agree4 with LWUA which extends,
O&K c4nsultancy, construction of 8 larger schemes, and
procurement of meters.
/ 



-47-
Page 8 of 12
sP # 10    11/12/85   /Form 590 dated 01/16/86  (new gad legs informstive
style)i gives improved ratings sine last mission;
rating is 2 across the board, whereas last report gave
3 ratings to availability of funds, development impact
and overall status.   12 of 50 programed schemes
completed. LWUA updated and began implementing 1986-88
investment program giving priority to use of available
loan funds, and assuming total of 3 years extension of
closing date. LVUW has adequate cash and equity funds
for stepped-up program of 16 new schemes in 1986 and 10
larger ones in 1987.
Timing of missio and nature of findings critical
because of %eOd to decide on eteWding closing date.
During past months, LWA geared to larger investment
program by preparing and awarding number of contracts.
In  1986  LUUA  should:  assure  timely  progress  on
contracts already awarded for 10 VD&; award supply/and
civil works contracts for 5 WDs for start by 04/86; of
groups of other contracts (listed) by various dates in
1986;  complete  adequate  technical  and  financial
feasibility and design work for 4 specific larger 'Ds:
and implement an additional mini loan program of P 20
Three year program agreed with AEDA, Budget a Finance
officials; the required P 65 m equity contribution for
1986 was granted, and P 102 m budgetted for 1987.
Closing date was extended to 12/31/86.
LWUA management appears ready to implement short-term
conclusions of Corplan study to: reorganize Internally
toward product oriented entity; emphasize collecetions
from  larger  WDs;  identify  extent  of  possible
reorganization of debt portfolio; and address its own
future.                             -
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Seemintly conetary to above. P 65 m equity allocation
for 1986 considered by mission unrealistically low.
leaving no room for contingencies and very low working
capital, and puts the well-prepared program at risk.
Hopefully, good performance in first six months will
prompt additional contribution by 07/86.
- Aide.'Memoire implios inadecuate monitoring by nroiect
manager to avoid delaxy&s/misdertandings by Bfntk on
urocuremint and nayment matter.
About 260 WDs established, but 60 not yet operational
and 20 others have only small loans and do not have to
I'
I   .      /                      $.~~~~~~~-



-48-
/.1                                    A        C
Page 9 of 12
submit financial reports to LWUA. Only 20 of remaining
180 submitted reports for 1984 in 1985.
Lack of attention to sanitation grograms. LVUA gives
some attention to sewerage, but nothing else.   Yet
charter gives responsibility to LWUA.
Neot iission r&ccmmended for 05/8i5
Desk Update             No Mission.  Form 590 dated 03/19/86 is desk update. It
rates progress as stable Q2). Expected completion date
is now 09/88. Closing date extended to 12/86.   12
schemes now completed (of 50 originally planned). LWUA
now has adequate cash reserves and equity funds to
roceed with stepped-up program of 16 new schemes in
1986 and 10 more larger ones in 1987. This would fully
disburse credit by 06/87 and most of loan by 12/88.
Threa-year  plan  agreed  with  LWUA.       Government
contribution of P 65 m was allocated for 1986 and P 102
m budgeted for 1987. Closing date extended to 12/86.
Recently completed Corporate Planning Study recoumends:
LWUA concentrate initially -on 40 largest  iDs which
comprise 80% of portfolio to Improve loan, repayments;
regionalize operations; consider capital restructuring
of LWUA and WDs. Be,ause of. recent change in
(kovrnient ano Board and Sen6or Managen nt folW-u
on Corolan suyIis held in abevane.
No recoimendation on timing next mission.
SPN # 11   06/86        Form 590 dated 07/16/86 and supplement dated 07/21/86
indicate improved performance.   (Supplement covers
mainly training review for Ln. 2206.)  Progress on
action plan agreed 11/85 -s good, and if contimued,
--closing date extension to 12/87 would be reasonable.
Still $ 12 m would remain uncommitted. A total of 45
schemes would have received financing from loan/credit.
New   LWUA   Administrator   wants   to   emphasize
implementation of schemes, probably by relaxing on
institutional  issues  which  usually  delay.    LU
undergoing internal stff reshuffle.   Next mission
scheduled Oct./Nov. 1986. Corplan Study confirmed that
organization is not geared for adequate monitoring of
-and assistance tb WDs and that LWUA cannot be effective
and financially viable institution without change in
charter and improvement of collection efficiency. No
action yet Initiated by LWUA.



49
Page 10 of 12
Desk Updates            No mtsslon.   Form 590 dated 09/04/86 prepared for
annual -review.   Substance  about same as previous
report. Next mlssion Vr=nosed for Oct./Nov. 1986.
SPN # 12    11/86       For=   590   dated   12/10/86   indicates   continued
satisfactory performance; all ratings are 2.  LWUA
attempting tQ, complete as many schemes as possible; 10
completed, 7'almost, procurement or construction on 26,
plus 4 large ones for which loan financing to be
limited because of continuing well beyond closing date.
If progress goes as scheduled, loan would be under-
utilized by $ 9  -to $ 12 n even if closing extended to
12/87.   Government assured ,LUUA- it would receive
adequate equity contributions (P 138 a) for 1987.
National  sector  review  resulted  in  ,pogal  t°
consolidate  LIUA  and  RVWDC  L&g  single  agency
responsible for all water s'pply and sewerage (urban
sanitation) outside Manila;  no date set.
LWUA informed that all investments after mid-1998 could
be part of another Bank operation to include also
sector restructuring.
Next mission - OS/87 recommended.
Govirnment has earmarked P 133 i, including P 38 m in
grant, for 1987, with possibility of P 65 a more to
partially offset debt repayment obligations.
Debt col--ction efficien    W4not  xmr         gm  19854
still  less than  50%.   LWUA plans provisions  for
doubtful debts with collection efficiency ultimately
94%, JS WMUA has no realistic plan for achieving this.
SPN # 13    07/87       Report dated 07/29/87 and updating Form 590 -dated
09/0i/87  indicate  further  improvement  in  project-
implementation by UWA under its new manager. Project
completion is,expected by 11/30/87. Completed schemes
total 29, with 16 more underway, excluding 3 larger
ones only partly, funded from loan.  'Fund availability
apparently a problem no longer.   WJUA received full
1987 government contribution of P 138 m, but not until
1988.  $ 9.0 m of -loan cancelled 12/86 and $2.8 m of-
t   ,               credit ihich now closed.' An executive order, 01/30/87.
merged RVDC's activities with LU. s - and needs follow
through with revision ot charter and LLWUA organization
.stWc    .  LWA to start review of sector financial
policie4,.



//-5s-
Page 11 of 12
SPN # 14    11/87       Report dated  01/13/88  and separate Aide  Memoiro.
Project ratings /unchanged; availability of funds at (1)
while  project  management,  development  impact  and
overall status are (2). All outstanding contracts and
other commitments awarded before loan closed on
12/31/87. Full Jmount of remaining loan should be
utilized; LWUA over-committed to try to assure this.
Total of 29 acege  completed and 19 otIers Underway.
most of which will reuirdp 0=unplemontal funds from
other sources to _Comglete'
LVUA.   increa,inaly   self-reliant    in   nroiect
Ln   but room for further improvement.
LUUA has not attadned fiaial viability. and requires
further financial assistance for provincial'and rural
water and sanitation programs.
Bank agreed to continue disbursements through 06/30/88
against claims for services and works committed by
closing date.
Mission discussed with LWUA possible Bank participation
in time-sllce of 3-year program that would include
complgtion of projects, started under this project.
LVUA longer term investment program has substantial
fiftan6ing gap. In general, analysis shows contlnuing
bad financlal position for IWIUA until remedial action
taken.   LWM   suffers from  a negative and further
deterioratine internal cash generation problem: there
WiLl be an increasinj inability to meet debt service
regsirements.  due  primarily  to  low  collection
efficiency of LWUA.                                I
MUA anpointed new Project Manager an part of internal
reassignments.      Hopefully,   communications   and
processing of loan-financed subprojects will improve;
-in past year there have been number of failures
regarding rior  approval  of  contract  awards  and
gre=aratiWn of adeauate disburssment auplications.
Reew panel installed as delegtion of Bank's
function has had limited role as -LWUA acelerated
prolect  xrenaration  ele: sfeguards and controls
greviouslY in ulace have been slackened.
SPN # 15    05/88       Form 590 dated 08/30/88 witli Aide Memoire 05/15/88.
Loan dlosed 12/31/87 with unutilized balance.  Some
subprojects already started inay not receive adequate
funds after disburseaents end 09/88. LVUA in



-51 -
Page 12 of 12
disorganized state due to lengthy  anageent/staff
dispute, and no attention being paid to ongoing sub-
projects. Administrator rocently relieved of duties.
SPN # 16   1d/88       Report and Form 590 dated 11/10/P8. This basically PCR
and project preparation sission." Progress on remaining
'part of project fell further behind since last mission
as result of anagimsnt/taff disputeJ  Only 20% ofi 4
larger schebes completed, compared to 80% expected.
With loss of loan funds, LWUA reallocated funds from
other sources to complete some components of these
schemes.   LVUA fuctionlng poorly at present being
virtually on strike.   So useful purpose served by
mission as key staff and information are not available.
a                                                 I                 .



