Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FILE COPY
Report No. P-2551-PH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
AND DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A
SECOND PROVINCIAL CITIES WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
May 16, 1979
l This document has i restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclos  witbout World Bsnk authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of May 1, 1979)
Currency Unit            -           Pesos (P)
P 1.00                   =           US$0.135
P 1 million              =           US$135,000
US$1.00                              P 7.40
US$1 million              =          P 7,400,000
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
mm     =     millimeter                 =              0.04 inches
cm     =     centimeter                               0.39 inches
m      =     meter                                     3.28 feet
km     =     kilometer                                0.62 miles
ha     =     hectare                                   10,000 square meters
or 2.47 acres
cum    =     cubic meter                              264 US gallons
cumd   =     cubic meters per day       =             264 US gallons per
day
1      =     liter                                    0.26 US gallons
lped   =     liters per capita per day                0.26 US gallons per
capita per day
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
MMA    =       Metropolitan Manila Area
MWSS   =       Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage System
IMPWTC  =      Ministry of Public Works, Transportation and Communications
LWUA   =       Local Water Utilities Administration
MLGCD  =       Ministry of Local Government and Community Development
NWRC   =       National Water Resources Council
WD     =       Water District
WHO    =       World Health Organization
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



PHILIPPINES            FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SECOND PROVINCIAL CITIES WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Loan/Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:              Republic of the Philippines
Beneficiaries:         The Local Water Utilities Administration (LWUA), about
50 Water Districts in provincial cities and about 1,000
Rural Water Associati6ns in the rural areas.
Amount:                 $16.0 million IBRD
$22.0 million IDA
Terms:                 The Bank loan would have a repayment term of 20
years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at
7.9% per annum. The credit would be made on
standard IDA terms.
Relending Terms:       The Government would relend $30 million of the proceeds
to LWUA at 7.9%, repayable over 20 years with 5 years
of grace. The foreign exchange risk would be borne by
the Government.
Project Description:  The project is designed to provide improved water
supplies in about 50 Water Districts in the provincial
cities, and about 1,000 rural communities, by rehabili-
tation and construction works. The project provides
for (a) water supply construction in provincial
cities; technical assistance for project preparation,
detailed designs, supervision of construction and
preparation of next stage project; training of LWUA and
Water District staff, together with related equipment;
and vehicles and equipment for Water Districts; (b)
water supply construction in rural communities, and a
pilot sanitation study for about eight rural communities.
Project benefits include a reduction in the incidence of
waterborne diseases and the possibility of epidemics.
Between 40% and 60% of the population served would be
the urban poor. The main risk in the proposed project
concerns the implementation performance of LWUA in the
timely formation of the Water Districts, preparation of
detailed designs and completion of subprojects. The
project makes provision for organizational and financial
changes, technical assistance and training, which would
help to minimize these risks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 2 -
Estimated Cost:Il                      Local        Foreign          Total
-----------$ million------------
Part A: Water supply construction
in provincial cities         18.6          19.2           37.8
Contingencies               5.9           5.9           11.8
Engineering                 3.8           3.4            7.2
Total Part A              28.3          28.5           56.8
Part B: Technical assistance,
vehicles and equipment
and training                  1.6           1.6            3.2
Part C:  Rural communities water         1.8           1.8            3.6
supply
Part D:  Rural sanitation                0.2           0.2            0.4
Total financing required             31.9          32.1           64.0
Financing Plan:
IBRD/IDA       WDs    Government    Total
*--------------- $ million -------------
38.0          5.7        20.3       64.0
Estimated Disbursements
IBRD/IDA FY         1980    1981    1982       1983    1984    1985
-------------------$ million-----------------
Annual            1.21    6.98    7.65       11.12   7.50    3.54
Cumulative        1.21    8.19   15.84       26.96  34.46   38.00
Rate of Return:      For the three sample cities of Guagua, Orani and San Jose,
the internal rates of return are 7.4%, 6.6% and 9.8%
respectively.
Staff Appraisal Report:   No. 2398-PH dated May 11, 1979.
/1   Excludes duties and taxes as these are reimbursable.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANIK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN AND DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A SECOND PROVINCIAL CITIES WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of the Philippines for the equivalent of $16 million and a
proposed development credit for an equivalent of $22 million to help finance
a second provincial cities water supply project. The loan would be for a per-
iod of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at 7.9% per annum.
The development credit would be on standard IDA terms. The Government would
relend $30 million of the proceeds of the loan/credit to the Local Water
Utilities Administration (LWUA) at 7.9%, repayable to the Government over
20 years with 5 years of grace. The Government would provide $6.0 million
to the Water Districts as a contribution to their equity. The balance of $2.0
million would be used by the Ministry of Public Works, Transportation and
Communications (MbPWTC) for rural water supply construction, and to develop
rural sanitation. The Government would bear the foreign exchange risk
on the Bank loan and the IDA credit.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic mission visited the Philippines in July/August 1977
and its report, "The Philippines: Country Economic Memorandum" (No. 1765-PH
of October 26, 1977), was distributed to the Executive Directors under
PHL-77-2, dated October 27, 1977. An updating economic mission is currently
in the field. A basic economic report, entitled The Philippines: Priorities
and Prospects for Development (SecM-76/366), was previously distributed to
the Executive Directors on May 18, 1976.
Macroeconomic Performance
3.        During the 1960s, the Philippine economy grew in real terms at
an annual rate of about 5-1/2%, but with more effective economic management
the rate of growth could have been higher. The pattern of growth was also
structurally unsatisfactory in a number of respects. The benefits of develop-
ment were distributed relatively unevenly, with respect to both regions and
income classes. While overall agricultural growth was reasonably satisfactory,
repeated foodgrain deficits were experienced. The growth of productive
employment opportunities failed to keep pace with the expansion of the labor
force.  Low levels of taxation resulted in inadequate public expenditure for
necessary infrastructure and social services. Finally, poor export performance
combined with heavy import dependence of domestic industry led to chronic
weakness in the balance of payments.
4.        During the 1970s there have been significant improvements in
economic management. Public revenues have been increased substantially,
public sector implementation capacity has been strengthened, and the ratio of
public investment to GNP raised from 2% in the early 1970s to 5% in 1976-78.
Private investment also increased, and the ratio of total fixed investment to
GNP rose from 16% in the early 1970s to 25% in 1976-78. As a consequence of



higher levels of investment the construction industry boomed. Agriculture has
performed well in response to the spread of irrigation and higher yielding
rice varieties, more favorable price policies, and some improvements in
supporting services. Selective steps were taken to promote nontraditional
manufactured exports, which have grown rapidly. On the other hand, the
performance of that part of the manufacturing sector oriented to the domestic
market has remained only "fair" in a comparative sense and has been inadequate
in relation to the Philippines' need to generate productive employment
opportunities. The net effect of the above developments has been acceleration
in the trend GNP growth rate by one percentage point to 6-1/2%.
5.        An important constraint has been placed on Philippine development
options by the sharp deterioration of its terms of trade since 1975, stemming
from the increase in oil prices and depressed prices for major Philippine
commodity exports such as sugar and copper. As a result, real national income
has been growing more slowly than real national product, and with the higher
level of investment the dependence of the economy on foreign savings has
increased. Although the terms of trade have recently stabilized, the current
account deficit is still about 4% of GNP.
Development Strategy
6.        The Government's development objectives and policies, which were
set out in a Five-Year Development Plan for the period 1978-82, call for
further acceleration of economic growth, first to 7% and then to 8%. The
development strategy focuses on an expansion of productive employment oppor-
tunities at a rate of 3.6% per annum, reduction of income disparities, greater
self-sufficiency in food and energy, a strengthening of the balance of payments,
and increased development of rural areas. In addition, the Plan includes
growth strategies for each of the country's thirteen regions. In general, the
Plan is an elaboration of the policy directions pursued by the Government in
recent years. It is also broadly consistent with the Bank's assessment of
priorities, although Plan projections for investment, manufacturing output and
exports are somewhat higher than Bank staff estimates. It should, however, be
feasible to accelerate the overall growth rate to 7%, but more rapid expansion
of manufacturing is necessary to do so, and the efficiency of investment also
needs to be improved.
Agriculture and Rural Development
7.        In recent years the trend growth rate of the agricultural sector
has been slightly over 4%, which by international standards is quite good.
However, variations among subsectors have been considerable. Due to the
spread of irrigation and high yielding varieties, irrigated rice production
has increased rapidly. The Philippines, once a chronic importer of rice,
actually exported 100,000 tons of rice in 1977/78. With completion of large
irrigation projects now under implementation, continued rice self-sufficiency
appears assured for the 1980s. On the other hand, locally adapted technologies
for improving yields of rainfed grains, particularly corn, are still under
development, and rainfed agricultural areas have a high incidence of poverty.
Productivity in the coconut sector is relatively low because of a large number
of overaged trees, but a major replanting program is scheduled for the early
1980s when a sufficient number of HYV seedlings becomes available. Increasing



-3-
pressure of population on the land and inadequately controlled commercial
logging have led to soil erosion and deterioration of some forest areas. The
Plan calls for a major reforestation effort, but this will require substantial
upgrading of Government administrative capabilities in this area, develop-
ment of new hill cropping technologies, and resolution of difficult land
tenure problems.
8.        As well as providing greater support for agricultural production,
the Government has substantially expanded programs such as water supply,
electrification, rural roads, and health to improve living conditions
in rural areas. An agrarian reform was also instituted in 1972 which provides
for transfer of tenanted holdings of rice and corn land in excess of seven
hectares and enforcement of leasehold instead of sharecropping on remaining
tenanted holdings. As of March 1978, only about 10% of the estimated number
of land transfer beneficiaries had completed all formalities, but about 60%
had received Certificates of Land Transfer (the initial step in the process
establishing their claim to the land).
Industry
9.        Manufacturing has grown at an average rate of about 6-1/2%
during the 1970s. The greater part of the sector, oriented to the domestic
market, has been promoted by high tariff protection and an incentive system
which has favored the use of relatively capital-intensive production techniques.
Relatively little employment has been generated in relation to Philippine
factor endowments. Macro statistics such as the incremental capital-output
ratio suggest that the efficiency of investment has been low, and most
manufacturing plants have located in the greater Manila area. Reform of
tariffs and other industrial incentives to bring these into line with develop-
ment objectives are presently being considered by the Government.
10.       Beginning in 1970, selective measures have been introduced to
promote nontraditional manufactured exports, including permitting firms in
selected export industries to import needed goods free of duty and establishing
export processing zones. Entrepreneurs have responded to these opportunities,
and receipts from nontraditional manufactured exports increased from $116
million in 1972 to more than $1.0 billion in 1978.
Population Growth, Employment and Income Distribution
11.       The 1978 population is estimated at 45.5 million.  The popula-
tion growth rate fell from 3.0% in the intercensal period 1960-70 to 2.8% in
the intercensal period 1970-75. The Philippines has an active family planning
program registering approximately 650,000 new acceptors per year. Although
the number of new acceptors has reached a plateau as the program faces the
increasingly difficult problem of reaching rural areas, the estimated propor-
tion of married women of reproductive age practicing family planning increased
from 15% in 1973 to 27% in 1978. However, by East Asian standards, this index
is still relatively low.
12.       Employment increased by about 4.6% annually during 1973-77, a
considerable improvement over the historical growth rate of 2.4%, and was
able to keep pace with the rapid growth of the labor force. With the exhaustion



-4-
of most new land resources suitable for cultivation and the exploitation of the
most easily irrigable areas, industry will have to provide employment for about
one half of the new entrants to the labor force in the next decade. Employment
in manufacturing essentially stagnated during 1970-74, but grew by 7% annually
during 1975/77, resulting in part from the growth of labor-intensive production
for export. However, because manufacturing's share of total employment is
small, agriculture and services still continue to function as residual sources
of employment and accounted for most of the increase in total employment.
13.       For historical reasons, income distribution has been highly skewed
in the Philippines, and there is a small elite which is conspicuously wealthy.
Recent trends in income distribution are mixed but, on balance, positive.
Because of the improvement in agriculture's terms of trade, the growth of
agricultural production, the decline in urban real wages following the
devaluation in 1970, and the stagnation of industrial employment until 1975,
the ratio of the average rural income to the average urban income rose from
0.48 in 1971 to 0.57 in 1975. Real per capita consumption has increased by
about 2% annually. Hence, real incomes in rural areas, where most of the
poor live, have probably increased somewhat, while real urban incomes have
not improved substantially. As a result, although accurate statistics are
not available, the share of family income received by the poorest 40% of
families appears to have increased somewhat, the income share of the top 20%
has remained about the same, and that of the middle-income families has
declined correspondingly. Nevertheless, the incidence of poverty remains
high, at 40-45%, in both rural and urban areas, and malnutrition is wide-
spread.
Public Finance
14.       The public sector has historically claimed a much smaller share of
national resources in the Philippines than in many other developing countries.
In the early 1970s, general government expenditure averaged only 12% of GNP,
public investment was strikingly low at about 2% of GNP, and tax revenues
stood at 11% of GNP. Government expenditures were dominated by general
administration and social services, particularly education.  This situation
had resulted from a variety of factors including difficulties in raising tax
revenue and weak implementation capacity in the public sector. Since the
early 1970s, the Government has taken steps to correct the situation and has
raised both the overall level of expenditures and the shares going to economic
services and public investment. By 1978 government expenditures reached an
estimated 16% of GNP, and public investment, which has risen rapidly in the
last three years, equaled about 5% of GNP. This expansion in the public
investment program has brought about badly needed improvement in basic infra-
structure particularly in transportation, power and irrigation, as well as the
development of more effective programs in the fields of urban development,
health and family planning.
15.       Recognizing that a large increase in tax revenues would be required
to finance expansion of the public investment program, the Government has
undertaken a comprehensive program of tax reform to raise the needed revenues
equitably and efficiently. Despite a sharp cyclical decline in the yield of
export taxes and import duties, the overall tax ratio was raised by more than
two percentage points through a series of new, mainly indirect, tax measures
and vigorous efforts to improve taxpayer compliance and collection performance.



Moreover, import tariff exemptions were reduced and the financial position of
certain public enterprises was improved through selective price increases.
However, further reform measures will be needed to improve the equity of the
tax system and to strengthen its responsiveness to the growth in GNP, mainly
by increasing the proportion of revenues coming from direct taxes. In
addition, fiscal and tariff incentives will need to be rationalized further
to eliminate remaining biases favoring import substitution and capital
intensity. Continued effort will be needed to ensure that Government
corporations finance an appropriate share of their investments from their own
savings.
Private Savings and the Financial Sector
16.      Aggregate savings performance has improved during the last decade
and is comparable to that of other countries at a similar stage of economic
development. Gross domestic savings now finance about 85% of total investment,
with the balance coming from foreign savings. In order to increase the
efficiency of financial markets in intermediating between savers and investors,
the Government has made significant improvements in financial policy. Organized
banking institutions have been strengthened. Interest rates were realigned in
1976 and, again, in 1977 to encourage a greater flow of financial savings into
time and savings deposits relative to short-term deposit substitutes and to
reduce the spread between borrowing and lending rates. Further reforms are
required to increase the availability of long-term domestic currency resources.
Special credit programs have been adopted to expand lending to the credit-short
agricultural sector and rural areas and to serve the needs of medium- and
small-scale industries. A deterioration of loan recovery rates was experienced
by all government financial institutions and credit programs. The Government
has already taken a number of steps to improve collections; further efforts in
this direction are necessary to improve financial discipline and ensure an
adequate flow of credit to the productive sectors without burdening the public
finances.
External Trade and Capital Flows
17.       To meet the acute balance of payments problem in 1975, which
largely resulted from the decline in terms of trade, the Government drew down
its international reserves, drew upon various IMF facilities, and expanded
its borrowing program to finance necessary imports. For the longer
term, the Government adopted a strategy of accelerating export growth both
to hold the current account deficit about constant in absolute terms, while
letting it decline gradually relative to GNP, and to meet the debt service
payments on the higher level of external borrowing.
18.       In spite of a further deterioration in the terms of trade since
1975, the current account deficit has behaved as anticipated over the last
three years - averaging $1.0 billion per year but declining from 6% of GNP in
1976 to an estimated 4% in 1978. Export volume, although constrained in 1978
by the depressed sugar market, increased substantially over the three-year
period as a whole. Import payments, after growing slowly in 1976 and 1977,
accelerated with the recovery of private investments in 1978. To finance the
current account deficits, net capital inflows were nearly doubled from the
1975 level of $580 million to an average of $1.1 billion per year in 1976-78.
Most of the inflow came from medium- and long-term loans. About two thirds



-6-
of this was from public loans, a reflection in part of increased disbursements
from official sources. As a result of increased borrowing, the debt service
ratio has risen from 16% in 1975 to 20% in 1978.
19.       To achieve a 7% growth rate in real GNP, as projected for the
initial years of the Plan period (1978-82), import volume will have to grow
at a similar rate, and a net capital inflow of at least $1 billion per year
will be required. However, the commencement of oil production, which now
accounts for 15% of domestic consumption, early this year promises some longer
term relief on the import side. Assuming a continued effort to promote
exports and sound debt management, the overall external debt of the Philippines
is expected to remain within reasonable limits. The ratio of debt service
payments to exports of goods and nonfactor services is expected to average
around 21%, of which half would be public debt service, during the Plan
period and to decline thereafter.
20.       In order to ensure that the long-term capital transfer is commensu-
rate with the level of development expenditures required during 1978-82 and
that debt service obligations remain within reasonable limits, the Government
sought commitments of official assistance of $850-900 million in 1979 at the
last meeting of the Consultative Group for the Philippines, held in Paris in
November/December of 1978. This amount is likely to be made available.
However, since many of the projects planned for financing from external
sources have a low foreign exchange component, some local cost financing is
necessary, in appropriate cases, to meet the Philippines' external financing
requirements.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS /1
21.       As of-March 31, 1979, the Philippines had received 61 Bank loans /2
(of which two were on Third Window terms) amounting to $1,929.9 million and
four IDA credits amounting to $60.2 million. At that date, IFC investments
totalled $88.4 million. The share of the Bank Group in total debt disbursed
and outstanding is about 11% and its share in total debt service is about 5%.
These ratios are expected to be about 12% and 5%, respectively, by the end of
the present decade. Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans
and IFC investments as of Mlarch 31, 1979, as well as notes on the execution
of ongoing projects.
22.       The Bank Group has financed projects in virtually all sectors of
the economy with particular emphasis on agriculture and basic infrastructure,
which have each accounted for about one third of total Bank Group lending.
In agriculture, emphasis has been given to expanding the irrigation system to
/1 This section is substantially the same as that contained in the President's
Report for the Fourth Highway Project (R79-30) which was approved by the
Executive Directors on March 6, 1979.
/2 Includes Loan 1661-PH, Fourth Highway Project, $100 million, which was
signed on March 9, 1979, and is not yet effective.



- 7 -
increase food production and to credit programs to support foodgrain produc-
tion and processing and livestock, fisheries and tree farming production.
Support has also been provided for integrated rural development projects in
low income areas. The Bank Group has also provided large amounts of assistance
in developing power and transportation to provide the basis for future growth
of the productive sectors. Substantial improvement in basic infrastructure
has been needed to compensate for many years of past neglect due to low
levels of public expenditure. In the industrial sector, the Bank's main
thrust has been on strengthening the capacity of public and private development
finance institutions with increasing attention given to meeting the needs of
small and medium industries. In the social sectors, the Bank Group has
provided support for education programs designed to improve the quality of
primary and secondary education and to meet trained manpower requirements in
agriculture and industry. In urban areas, assistance has been provided for
water supply projects and for programs to upgrade slum living conditions and
to develop low-cost sites and services. Support has also been provided to
the Philippines population program through assistance for the construction of
multipurpose rural health units and for training of family planning staff.
23.       There has been a marked improvement in the execution of Bank-
financed projects in the last five years compared with the experience in the
late 1960s, when there were serious problems caused by a shortage of peso
counterpart funds and weak administration. Almost all ongoing projects are
now being implemented reasonably well and the supervision and project comple-
tion reports indicate that the economic benefits for most projects are likely
to be in line with appraisal estimates. However, the overall rate of disburse-
ment is marginally below what would be expected given the generally good
project implementation, and the Government is currently reviewing disburse-
ment performance on an agency-by-agency basis to identify possible reasons
for disbursement lags and to find appropriate solutions.
24.       As noted in Part I of this report, the Government's Five-Year
Development Plan highlights a strategy which focuses on the expansion of
production and employment in agriculture and industry, reduction in income
disparities, greater self-sufficiency in food and energy, and increased
development in rural areas. The Bank's future lending program has been
designed to assist the Government in achieving these objectives. Agricul-
tural and rural development will account for the largest part of future
lending with continued emphasis on food production and programs to increase
the productivity and incomes of small farmers. However, the program pro-
vides for several needed new initiatives, including support for strength-
ening the national agricultural extension service through the recently
approved loan and a first loan for developing multiple cropping systems in
rainfed areas, where there is substantial rural poverty. Increased assistance
will also be provided for integrated rural development projects which will
support the Government's objectives of redressing regional imbalances in
income. Substantial assistance will also continue to be given to industry
with considerable attention given to expanding the development of labor-inten-
sive, small and medium industries outside of the Metropolitan Manila area.
The share of lending for social sector projects is expected to continue to



- 8 -
increase primarily as a result of greater emphasis on construction of urban
water supply and sewerage systems and further assistance for slum upgrading
and low-cost sites and services projects. The Bank Group will continue to
provide support for improving the quality of education and for expanding the
Government's population program in rural areas. While the Bank Group will
continue to provide support for transportation and power infrastructure
needed to support the Philippine development effort, the share of Bank
lending for these sectors will decline somewhat in the years ahead primarily
because alternative sources of financing are available to finance a large part
of the power generation program.
25.       As noted in Part I, the Philippines has experienced a serious
deterioration in its international terms of trade in the last several years
which has necessitated substantial foreign borrowing. While the overall
level of debt remains manageable, the Philippines will need to obtain some
foreign assistance on concessional terms in the near term to support its
expanding development program. In view of this consideration, the per
capita income of the country and the generally good management of the economy,
a limited amount of IDA financing has been included in the Bank Group's
overall lending to the Philippines.
26.       This is the seventh loan to be presented to the Executive Directors
this fiscal year. Loans for small and medium industries development and
population projects are expected to be ready for presentation soon. Loans
for rural development and education projects are in advanced stages of
preparation, and may be ready for presentation in the first half of the next
fiscal year.
PART III - THE WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Background
27.       The Philippines is endowed with abundant water resources.  Not only
does the country have an average annual rainfall of about 300 cm, but it also
has nine major river basins, many lakes and streams and extensive groundwater
resources sufficient to cover foreseeable needs in most areas of the country.
However, public investment in the water supply and sanitation sector has
traditionally been very low, with the result that the infrastructure for
water supply, sewerage, and drainage is currently inadequate throughout the
country. Only about 39% of the population have access to safe water. About
5% of the population are served by public sewerage systems; some 37% depend
on individual septic tanks or pit latrines and the rest are without any
facilities. The Government's objective is that by the end of the current
five-year plan in 1982, safe water supply should be available to about 62% of
the population and sewerage facilities to about 46% of the population.
28.       The sector can be divided into three parts:  Metropolitan Manila;
other urban centers; and rural areas. In Metropolitan Manila about 82% of
the population have access to piped water, but in other urban areas and in
the rural communities only about 51% and 33%, respectively, obtain a safe
supply through piped systems, artesian wells, and springs. In communities



- 9 -
with piped water systems, the growth in demand, the advanced age of the
systems and the high leakage rates arising from inadequate maintenance have
all gradually reduced water main pressures. Many water systems are operated
to supply water for only a few hours a day to avoid loss of water during the
off-peak hours. About 61% of the population manage with water which is often
of doubtful quality from sources such as open wells, handpumps, rain water
cisterns, lakes, rivers, and streams.
Metropolitan Manila
29.       Water supply and sewerage are the responsibility of Metropolitan
Waterworks and Sewerage System (MWSS) in MMA. Of MMA's 1977 population of
for 1977, about 3.1 million of the 5.8 million residents of Metropolitan
Manila obtained water from MWSS. The ongoing Second Manila Water Supply
Project is expected to almost double the water supply, provide safe drinking
water to about 4 million additional residents as well as improve the present
unsatisfactory service to about 3 million residents. However, by the end of
1982 only about 78% of MWSS' service area population of 7.6 million will have
access to safe public water supplies. The Government is therefore preparing
a Third Water Supply Project for Manila.
30.       A sewerage and sanitation project for Metropolitan Manila has been
prepared and is expected to be appraised shortly. The Government is also
preparing a Solid Wastes Management Project. This project would, through
improved collection, recycling and disposal of the solid wastes generated in
Manila, further help improve the sanitation of the city.
The Provincial Cities Subsector
31.       The Local Water Utilities Administration (LWUA) is responsible
for developing water utilities in some 628 provincial cities with urban
populations exceeding 20,000. LWUA assists with the formation of Water
Districts (WDs) in these cities and provides them with technical, managerial
and financial assistance.   Water Districts are locally controlled public
utility organizations created under Presidential Decree No. 198. As of the
end of March 1979, 82 cities had formed Water Districts and some 60 others
had expressed interest in doing so. Water supply in the cities which have
not yet formed WDs continues to remain the responsibility of the local
authorities until such time as LWUA and the local authorities reach agreement
on forming WDs.
32.       Out of the total urban population of 8.4 million living outside
Metropolitan Manila only about 50% have access to safe water. Several external
agencies (United States Agency for International Development, Danish Interna-
tional Development Agency, Asian Development Bank and the Bank) have made
loans through LWUA to WDs, for the construction, expansion and rehabilitation
of these water supply facilities. However, important issues have arisen in
the last year or two concerning the design of subprojects in small communities,
financing of such small projects, affordable tariff levels and LWUAs' own
institutional capability for handling a large program spread throughout the
country. In keeping with the Government's ambitious objectives in the
sector, the Government and LWUA have taken important actions to deal with
these issues.



- 10 -
33.       Low Cost Design.  The Government has become increasingly aware
that the cost of water supply systems has to be kept low to ensure that the
charges do not exceed the willingness and ability of consumers to pay for
better services. In the design of subprojects greater care is now being taken
to ensure that all feasible low cost technical alternatives are studied for
the major components such as sources of supply, optimization of storage and
selection of pipe materials. Standard and modular design drawings are being
developed by LWUA to reduce design costs and United Nations Development
Program is providing technical assistance in the design of low cost distribution
systems. Most of the systems would be based on groundwater and capital costs
kept low at about $60 per person. The existing dilapidated systems would be
rehabilitated through the repair of leaking pipelines and reservoirs, replace-
ment of inefficient pumps and the redevelopment of wells. A public education
program followed by public hearings would give each community opportunities
to participate in deciding the scope of the project, service levels such as
the provision of public faucets in the poverty pockets and the extension of
the piped supply to areas of greatest need. By providing relatively low cost
services, the Government expects to demonstrate to these largely poor commu-
nities the advantages of a safe and affordable water supply. In this way the
project will serve as a catalyst for future improvements and extensions by
these communities.
34.       Lower Debt Service.  In order to help further reduce the debt
service of the Water Districts, the Government will provide a 20% equity con-
tribution to be matched by a 10% contribution to construction costs by the
community from internally generated funds. The Government contribution would
be an incentive for the communities to raise water tariffs to the levels
necessary to generate the 10% construction cost. Also, because of the
reduced debt service requirement, tariffs would be lower and more affordable.
35.       Lower Tariffs.  The small and carefully designed low cost water
supply systems would result in affordable water tariffs and would be consist-
ent with the Government's recent directive that tariff increases should not
exceed 60% at a time and that public hearings should be held before any
tariff increase is put into effect.  The tariff structure is so designed that
the lower income residents who consume less than 10 cu m per month would
spend no more than 4% of family income for water. They would be subsidized
through higher charges to larger domestic consumers and commercial and
industrial users.
36.       Institutional Capacity.  Since LWUA became active in the subsector
in early 1975, it has started 24 water supply projects in large provincial
cities and is undertaking immediate improvement works in 39 smaller cities.
Despite this big work program LWUA's management systems are generally working
well and its organizational structure continues to be satisfactory. Staff
has been more than doubled in the last three years and a group of qualified
and enthusiastic professionals is quickly developing the expertise to make an
effective contribution to the sector. Turnover is fairly high because of
better compensation offered by a growing local consulting engineering indus-
try which is also helping LWUA with project implementation. LWUA has a good
training program and is planning to further increase and train staff to



- 11 -
implement the larger program. The proposed project provides for about 150 man-
months of overseas training of LWUA and Water District staff. However, until
then LWUA will need to continue to employ consultants to assist with the
implementation of the proposed project.
The Rural Water Supply Subsector
37.       An IBRD/WHO Sector Study, made in 1976, recommended the creation
of a specialized institution for rural water supply. Presidential Letter of
Instruction 683, of March 30, 1978, established policies for providing
water supplies in communities with less than 20,000 inhabitants and created a
Task Force on Rural Water Supply in the National Water Resources Council
(NWRC/TF) under the Ministry of Public Works Transportation and Communications
(MPWTC). The National Water Resources Council is a government organization
charged with the responsibility of formulating policies on development and use
of water resources. It is chaired by the Minister of Public Works, Transpor-
tation and Communications.
38.       Rural water supply subprojects will be of least-cost design to
provide three levels of service: (i) a point source, which could be a well
or a spring to serve about 50 households; (ii) a communal faucet system,
serving about 100 households, with one faucet for a group of about four to
six households, and delivery of between 40 and 80 litres per capita per day;
and (iii) a mixed system of communal faucets and house connections, but with
less than 10% of households with house connections. By this means the
project would ensure that safe water is supplied to a cross-section of the
rural poor.
Investment Program
39.       LWUA's program for assisting WDs in provincial cities in the five
years 1980-84 would amount to about $218 million, an average of about $44 mil-
lion per annum, compared to $16 million in 1977. For the rural areas, the
Five-Year Plan envisages an investment of $210 million, an average of about
$42 million per annum, compared with about $2 million per annum in 1973-76.
While these targets are ambitious, the Government has taken important
steps to establish the organizational arrangements necessary to implement the
program. A Bank loan of $23 million (Loan 1415-PH) was made to the Government
in 1977 for the first Provincial Cities Water Supply Project. There has been
some delay in the preparation of detailed designs and bid documents, but
the project is likely to be completed on schedule. A Bank loan of $88
million (Loan 1615-PH) was made last year to help improve and expand the
Metropolitan Manila water supply system, finance detailed design and feasi-
bility studies for water supply in provincial cities and prepare a rural
water supply program. Initial progress is satisfactory. To complement the
water supply and sewerage program, the Government has recently adopted large
urban programs to expand basic services in low-income urban areas in integrated
packages of water supply, sewerage, roads and other infrastructure. These
programs are being carried out by the National Housing Authority and municipal
governments, with Bank assistance. Implementation of the first urban project
(Loan 1272T/1282-PH) is somewhat behind schedule due to difficulties in
reblocking of densely populated communities but performance is improving.



- 12 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Objectives
40.       The primary objective of the project is to provide improved water
supplies by carrying out rehabilitation and construction works in about
50 WDs in the provincial cities and about 1,000 rural communities. The
project would support LWUA's long-range program to provide water supplies to
the provincial cities and would initiate much needed programs in rural water
supply and sanitation. The project would assist in the further institutional
development of LWUA; and the communities benefitting from subprojects would
have greater involvement in the development of their respective WDs by
participating in the decision-making process starting from the feasibility
studies through tariff setting and construction completion. This component
of the project has been prepared by LWUA with the assistance of consultants.
The rural water supply and sanitation component was prepared by the Rural
Development Division of the Bureau of Community Development. The project was
appraised in October 1978. Negotiations were held in April 1979. The
Government negotiating team, chaired by His Excellency Eduardo Z. Romualdez,
Philippine Ambassador to the United States, was led by the Honorable Alfredo
L. Juinio, Minister of Public Works, Transportation and Communications.
A Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Philippines-Provincial Cities Water Supply
Project II" (No. 2398-PH dated May 11, 1979) is being distributed separately.
Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III.
Description
41.       The principal features of the project are summarized below:
(a) Water Supplies in Provincial Cities
(i)  water supply construction in about 50 provincial cities;
(ii) technical assistance for project preparation, detailed
designs and supervision of construction;
(iii) technical assistance for preparation of next stage project;
(iv) training of LWUA and WD staff including needed equipment; and
(v)  vehicles and equipment for WDs.
(b) Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
(i) water supply construction in some 1,000 rural communities; and
(ii) pilot sanitation study and subprojects for about eight rural
communities.



- 13 -
Concept and Composition
42.        Water Districts in Provincial Cities.  To meet the Government's
objectives of speedily providing safe water supplies to WDs in a larger
number of the provincial cities, four modifications have been made to the
approach adopted under the ongoing first project (Loan 1415-PH):
(a)  Unlike the first project, in which the feasibility studies on the
six WDs were completed at the time the loan was made, in the
proposed second project there are about 50 WDs and for these only
about 12 feasibility studies would be completed at the time of loan
effectiveness; 16 more feasibility studies would be completed in
each year thereafter for three years. As this project would aim at
reaching about 10 times as many communities in comparison with the
first project, LWUA would undertake an annual review of project
implementation.
(b)  Secondly, in the first project the designs were made to meet
demand for five to eight years after project completion. This
has caused hardship to some communities because of the larger debt
service needed to complete projects with these specifications.
Therefore, this project is designed to meet water supply needs for
about six years after project completion. If the WD so desires
construction would be in two phases. Each one of these phases
would be technically sound and compatible with the total design and
would meet needs for about three years after construction comple-
tion. LWUA has agreed that the criteria to be used for subproject
design and implementation will be such as are acceptable to the
Bank (Section 2.01(c) of the draft Project Agreement). The cri-
teria have been discussed in detail and provide requirements for a
water district's eligibility under the project and standards for
preparation, review, appraisal and design of subprojects in the
water districts. These include low cost designs of subprojects,
progressive water tariffs, Government equity contribution to needy
water districts, procurement procedures, supervision of construc-
tion and training of LWUA and WD staff. The details have been
recorded in the Agreed Minutes of Understanding.
(c) Each WD in the first project is providing 10% equity contribution
from internal cash generation. Even so, debt service is a burden
for these large and comparatively wealthy communities. To help
reduce this burden for the smaller and poorer communities in this
project the Government will match a 10% construction contribution
by WDs with a 20% equity contribution for each subproject (Section
3.04 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
43.       Rural Water Supplies.  The National Water Resources Council Task
Force under the Ministry of Public Works, Transportation and Communications
(MPWTC) would be the executing agency for the rural water supply component of
the project, until a permanent institution is set up by the Government for
the rural water supply subsector. It has been agreed that, as a condition of



- 14 -
disbursements for the rural component of the credit/loan, MPWTC would establish
an organization within its structure to be responsible for the rural water
supply component (Schedule 1, Section 4(a)(ii) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
44.       Rural Sanitation Studies.  These studies, designed to develop low
cost appropriate technologies for excreta disposal, would include pilot
projects to be carried out by LWUA and the Task Force. LWUA would con-
centrate on the rural areas bordering three typical WDs but, before actual
construction, would make economic, technical and cultural studies in order
to develop acceptable and feasible solutions. The Task Force would attempt,
through an educational program and with minimum investment, to improve
environmental sanitation in five communities with completed rural water
supply subprojects.
Project Area and Served Population
45.       The subprojects are scattered throughout the Philippines and are
shown in the attached map. The urban population served in the project WDs
will be approximately one million. The largest city included in urban
component is Iloilo with a total population of about 200,000. The total
rural population served under the project would be about 580,000. This
served population would generally not include the wealthier rural households,
most of which already have simple piped supplies.
Local Water Utilities Administration
46.       LWUA was established in September 1973, primarily to function as a
specialized institution for the promotion, development and financing of local
water districts. Its main objectives are: (a) to assist in the formation
and development of technically sound and financially viable locally controlled
WDs; (b) to provide loans to WDs for the improvement and expansion of water
supply and waste water disposal systems; (c) to provide technical assistance
and personnel training for WDs; and (d) to establish and enforce standards of
water quality and service. LWUA's Board appoints a General Manager, who
is also an ex-officio member of the Board and is responsible for all aspects
of LWUA's management subject to the policies established by the Board.
Because of the importance of the General Manager's position, agreement has
been reached that LWUA will afford the Bank an opportunity to comment on the
qualifications of any new appointee to this position (Section 3.02 of the
draft Project Agreement). LWUA's organizational structure is satisfactory
and assurances have been obtained that without prior consultation with the
Bank, no major changes would be made in LWUA's organization and charter
(Section 3.02 of Project Agreement).
47.       LWUA's operations are audited by the Commission on Audit.  Audited
reports have been presented for 1976 and 1977 and are satisfactory. LWUA's
lending program is growing very fast. To make sure that the institution
will be able to handle the resulting large volume of operations, it has to
define responsibilities, policies, procedures and control sytems for billing
and collection of principal and interest of loans to WDs. It has been agreed
that LWUA will present for the Bank's comments, not later than January 31,



- 15 -
1980, proposed policies and procedures for the collection of principal and
interest on loans to WDs (Section 3.03 of the draft Project Agreement).
Project Implementation
48.       LWUA needs to improve overall coordination of the implementa-
tion of subprojects. Therefore, following consultation with the Bank, LWUA
has recently appointed a senior person as Project Manager at a high level
with full-time responsibility for implementing the project.
49.       The first package of 12 WDs for this project was put together in
December 1977 and the consultants appointed for preparing feasibility studies,
C. Lotti Associati, expect to complete work by June 1979. Consultants for
the second package of 16 subprojects, Motor Columbus (Switzerland), have
started work in collaboration with LWUA staff and should complete the feas-
ibility studies by end 1980. Feasibility studies and detailed designs for
the third and fourth packages (bringing the total to about 60 subprojects),
should be ready by end 1981 and 1982. LWUA would, in consultation with the
Bank, appoint consultants to assist in carrying out feasibility studies,
detailed designs, supervision of construction and review of subprojects
(Section 2.02 of the draft Project Agreement).
50.       LWUA's Project Manager would appoint an expert team, with one
member external to LWUA, to review the draft final feasibility study reports
and check that each subproject would meet the agreed criteria (see para. 42
(b)). LWUA would then hold a public hearing and obtain the WD's agreement
to the subproject and timing of tariff increases when necessary. If a
subproject did not meet the agreed criteria, it would not be financed under
the proposed project, but would be replaced by another subproject so that
about 50 subprojects would be completed with the available financing.
51.       The Ministry of Public Works Transportation and Communications
would be the implementing agency for the rural water supply and sanitation
components of the project. The proceeds of the credit would be channeled
through the Ministry to the Task Force for the rural water supply project and
to both the Task Force and LWUA for the pilot sanitation studies. Although
the Bank would have the right to comment on all rural water supply subprojects,
in practice, this would be limited to the first ten subprojects in order to
establish acceptable standards. The Task Force would prepare rural water
supply and rural sanitation subprojects to criteria acceptable to the Bank
(Section 3.03(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The criteria
were discussed and agreed to during negotiations. Rural water supply sub-
projects would be prepared and implemented by Government agencies to least
cost designs and serve communities ranging from 50 to 600 households.
The communities would make a small contribution to construction and will also
operate and maintain the systems.
Project Cost and Financing
52.       The total cost of the project is estimated at $64 million, with a
foreign exchange component of $32.1 million. Physical contingencies of 10% of
the baseline cost of the water supply component have been provided. Price



- 16 -
contingencies assume foreign and domestic price increases of 7.5% per annum on
both equipment and civil works. The proposed IDA credit of $22 million and
Bank loan of $16 million would finance the foreign exchange cost of the
project and $6.0 million of local currency costs. The justification for local
cost financing is set out in para. 20 of this report.
53.       Construction supervision of the subprojects would be mostly by LWUA
with minimal assistance from local consultants. The project provides for a
total of 126 man-months of internationally recruited consultants at an
estimated average man-month cost of $6,500, excluding transportation, housing
and local costs which are variable and depend on home station and family
circumstances of individual consultants. As these consultants would be all
experienced senior staff, this is a reasonable cost.
54.       The Government would relend $30.0 million of the proceeds of
the credit/loan to LWUA with a term of 20 years, including a 5 year grace
period, and with the same interest as the Bank loan. The terms and condi-
tions of the Government loan to LWUA would be set out in a subsidiary loan
agreement, which would be signed before the credit/loan is declared effective
(Section 5.01(a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). LWUA would
retain $1.5 million of the proceeds of the subsidiary loan to finance prepar-
ation of future projects. LWUA would relend the balance of $28.5 million
together with $13.1 million of its own resources to the WDs for development
of their water supply systems. The loans to the WDs would have a term of
30 years including a grace period equal to the construction period at an
interest rate of 9% per annum. These lending rates are below the general
level of interest rates in the Philippines, although they are likely to be
marginally positive given the average inflation of 7-8% over the past three
years, and projections for the next three years. Such concessionality is
justified in view of the social character of this project and the limited
capacity of the provincial cities to service loans on harder terms. WDs
would finance $5.7 million (10% of project costs) from internal cash
generation. The Government would provide, out of the remainder of the
proceeds of the credit/loan, a sum of $6.0 million plus $3.5 million from its
own resources, as its equity contribution to the small WDs, representing 20%
of project costs of the water supply program. The terms and conditions of
the subsidiary loan agreement between LWUA and the WDs will be presented to
the Bank for its approval.
55.       The Government would use the remainder of the proceeds of the
credit/loan of $2.0 million to finance the foreign exchange costs of the
rural water supply component ($1.8 million) and rural sanitation studies
($0.2 million). Ministry of Public Works, Transportation and Communications
would be responsible for implementing these components and would finance the
local costs of $2.0 million through Government budgetary allocations.
Procurement and Disbursement
56.       Except for the largest subproject in the city of Iloilo, procurement
of all equipment and civil works required for each water supply subproject,
which on an average are estimated to cost below $1.0 million equivalent for
each WD, would be packaged by LWUA into single contracts, satisfactory to the
ink, and would be awarded after competitive bidding advertised locally in



- 17 -
accordance with Government procedures which are acceptable to the Bank.
These works would account for 75% of the total project cost. LWUA's local
competitive bidding procurement procedures are satisfactory and appropriate
for these works. The Philippines has a growing construction industry and
almost all contracts are expected to be won by local contractors. The
subprojects (except for Iloilo) are not only small in value but are also
scattered throughout the country and are therefore likely to evoke little
interest from international contractors. Foreign firms would, however, be
eligible to participate. Equipment and civil works for the Iloilo subproject,
estimated to cost $9.0 million (14% of the total project cost), would also be
packaged into a single contract, but would be awarded on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. For
the rural water supply subprojects (6% of the total project cost) all equipment
would be obtained by the Ministry of Public Works, Transportation and Commu-
nication (MPWTC) through bulk procurement on the basis of international
competitive bidding. Procurement of vehicles, tools and equipment (less than
1% of the total project cost) would also be through international competitive
bidding. A preference limited to 15% of the c.i.f. price of imported goods
or the prevailing customs duty, whichever is lower, would be extended to
local manufacturers for procurement through international competitive bidding.
Except in cases where voluntary labor is offered, MPWTC would follow local
procurement procedures, which are satisfactory and appropriate, for minor
civil works in laying pipes, constructing intakes and small reservoirs,
installing public faucets and related items for rural water supply projects.
Both LWUA and MPWTC (Ministry of Public Works, Transportation and Communi-
cations) would also follow local procurement procedures for the pilot rural
sanitation projects. Goods costing less than $15,000 equivalent needed for
the public education program, for carrying out public hearings, for training,
and for urgently required off-the-shelf items for project completion would be
procured through local shopping procedures satisfactory to the Bank, provided
the total cost of such items does not exceed $100,000 equivalent for the LWUA
component of the project, and $20,000 for the rural water supply and sanitation
components, respectively.
57.       Disbursements for civil works would be: (a) 100% of foreign expendi-
tures for mobilization, and (b) 65% of other civil works expenditures. For
equipment and materials, disbursements would be at 100% of the foreign exchange
cost of directly imported equipment, 100% of the ex-factory price of locally
manufactured equipment and 65% of goods procured locally. For costs of
consultants and overseas training, disbursements would be 100% of expenditures.
Financial Aspects
58.       LWUA's history is too short to discern any well-defined trends.
Nevertheless, it is clear that it is growing fast and is so far doing well.
Gross spread is large because a high percentage of the borrowings committed
so far comes from soft loans. The ratio of long-term debt to equity at the
end of 1978 was 0.65:1, well below the limit of 3.0:1 established in Loan
1415-PH. In June 1978, LWUA's authorized capital was increased from
f 0.5 to P 2.5 billion ($338 million). This is a good indication of the
intention of the Government to continue supporting LWUA. Paid-in capital as
of September 30, 1978, was eP 239.2 million ($32.3 million).



- 18 -
59.       LWUA's total lending program for 1980-84 is $218 million.  LWUA
would receive $30.0 million from the IDA/IBRD funds to be lent to the Govern-
ment. In addition, LWUA's program includes borrowed funds totalling $68.3 mil-
lion, of which $33.1 million would come from loans already contracted with
USAID, ADB, IBRD and DANIDA, and the balance of $35.2 million from sources not
yet fully identified. The Government is expected to contribute to LWUA the
equivalent of $100.3 million, of which $9.5 million would go to the WDs as an
equity contribution equivalent to about 20% of their investment program. The
balance of $90.8 million would be the Government's capital subscription to
LWUA. Since this represents an increase of about 80% over the average
capital payments received by LWUA from the Government over the past three
years, assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Government would
increase LWUA's paid-in capital to meet LWUA's requirements, estimated to
average $18.0 million equivalent per year (Section 3.05 of the draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement). The financing plan is reasonable and reflects the
level of operations that LWUA has to undertake to help in the reduction of
deficiencies in the sector.
60.       Based on the underlying assumptions, LWUA's outlook is satisfactory.
After corporate taxes of 35%, net income as a percentage of average equity is
expected to increase from 1.1% in 1978 to 4.5% in 1986. Nevertheless, as
loans with higher interest rates become a larger percentage of the total
borrowings, the gross spread is cut in half from 4.6% in 1978 to 2.3% in 1986.
During the period under consideration, 1978-86, LWUA's capital structure is
expected to remain sound, with a long-term debt-to-equity ratio under 0.8:1,
well below the maximum of 3.0:1 covenanted in Loan 1415-PH. Debt service
coverage, although decreasing through the years, remains satisfactory, above
1.8. It has been agreed that LWUA's long-term debt, as in the ongoing loan,
would not at any time exceed its equity by more than three times (Section
4.05(b) of the draft Project Agreement).
61.       Tariffs.  The Presidential Decree establishing LWUA stipulated that
the WDs shall fix rates and charges for water adequate to cover operating
expenses and debt service, as well as to provide a reasonable surplus for
investment in the improvement and expansion of the system. Presidential
Letters of Instruction 700 and 744, issued in June and September 1978,
further directed that any single tariff increase should not exceed 60%, and
that public hearings should be held before any proposed tariff increase is
put into effect. LWUA's guidelines on tariffs now include the following
criteria: (a) tariffs shall be progressively stepped upwards with any one
increase not to exceed 60% at a time for domestic service; (b) the tariff
structure will achieve both financial and equity goals; and (c) those families
who consume less than 10 cu m per month will spend no more than 4% of family
income for water. These guidelines are reasonable and consistent with the
objectives of providing an affordable level of service. It has been agreed
that the WDs would review the water charges annually to determine, in con-
sultation with LWUA, what changes are needed, and would submit for the Bank's
comments a statement of the results of the review proposed for implementation
at the beginning of the following year (Section 4.04 of the draft Project
Agreement).



- 19 -
62.       During the project construction period, water tariffs of the WDs
would be set to generate internal cash of at least 10% of the project expendi-
tures. By a gradual increase in water rates, WDs would earn rates of return on
average net revalued fixed assets of 3% in the third year following the start
of project construction, increasing to 4%, 5%, 6% and 7% respectively in each
succeeding year, and 8% thereafter. LWUA has agreed on the rate of return as
above (Section 4.03 of the Draft Project Agreement).
63.       Under the first loan (1415-PH) tariff increases were scheduled to
be implemented in the cities of Baguio, Tarlac, La Union, Lipa, Lupata and
Cabanatuan by January 1, 1979. However, due to delays caused by a Presiden-
tial review of the tariff provisions, only one increase was put into effect
by that date, in La Union. It was determined that Baguio's cash flow is
comfortable, and an increase is therefore not necessary at this stage. The
increase in Tarlac is due to be implemented in June, and those in Lipa
and Cabanatuan in July. A review is still under way for Lupata; a decision
to increase the tariff, and implementation of the increase, are expected in
the summer. Implementation of increases in all six cities is a condition
of effectiveness of the proposed loan/credit (Section 5.01(b) of the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement).
Service to the Poor /1
64.       There are no reliable estimates on the number of poor in these
provincial cities and rural areas. According to Bank Group estimates, 39% of
the estimated urban population of 13 million, and 44% of the rural population
of 32 million of the Philippines were below the Bank-defined absolute poverty
line in 1977. In the three sample WDs the percentage of people below the
absolute poverty line with house connections and public faucets, after
project completion would be about 42% in Guagua, 70% in Orani and 64% in
San Jose. Assuming that the subproject WDs are similar to the sample WDs, it
is reasonable to conclude that between 40% and 60% of the population served
would be considered among the absolute poor. In the same three cities about
16%, 33% and 26% of the consumption would be by the absolute poor. On the
basis of consumption, about 25% of the total cost of the three subprojects of
$2 million for these cities would be for the absolute poor. The tariffs for
these lower income families,   who consume about 10 cu m per family per
month, would be subsidized through higher charges to larger domestic consumers
and commercial and industrial users. The low-income families would pay about
4% of family income for water. Taking only the incremental number of persons
served in the three sample cities, the capital cost of providing the incre-
mental service is about P 441 ($60) per person. This is a low cost because
the first stage project aims at making immediate improvements and some
extensions to demonstrate to the communities the advantage of a safe and
affordable public water supply.
/1 For 1977, the Bank Group has defined the absolute urban and rural poverty
lines in the Philipines as $250 and $190 per capita per annum respectively
(P 1,877 and P 1,410).



- 20 -
Economic Benefits
65.       Because the subprojects for this loan are in various stages of
preparation and identification, it is impossible to calculate an overall
internal rate of return for the project. However, for the three sample
cities of Guagua, Orani and San Jose, using 1982 tariffs (in constant prices)
as a minimal measure of economic benefits, and assuming a foreign exchange
conversion factor of 0.9, the internal rates of return are 7.4%, 6.6% and
9.8%, respectively. A more direct measure of the internal economic rate of
return is not possible due to the difficulty of quantifying health benefits.
Project Risks
66.       This is a large project in the context of LWUA's management capa-
bility, staff availability and the capacity of the limited local consulting
services. On the other hand, there is great pressure from the Government and
the people for an affordable water supply program on a scale much larger than
has ever been attempted before. Therefore, in order to ensure that the pro-
ject generates the expected benefits, it is important that (a) the 60 Water
Districts are formed to schedule; (b) feasibility studies and detailed designs
are completed on time; and (c) subprojects are implemented efficiently within
the time and cost allowed in the implementation schedule. The Bank is pro-
viding technical assistance for training LWUA staff to prepare financial
projections for the large number of subprojects. The recent appointment of a
Project Manager would improve project coordination and help ensure the timely
execution of the feasibility studies, detailed design and supervision of
construction. The Government contribution of 20% of subproject costs should
greatly assist in the formation of water districts and it has been agreed
that LWUA would complete the formation of 50 subproject WDs by June 30, 1980
(Section 3.07 of the draft Project Agreement). There is also a provision for
consultant services in the project which would reduce the risk of delays in
project implementation.
Environmental Impact
67.       As this is a project essentially for providing domestic water
supply, some pollution of surface waters can be expected from the used water.
Most of these cities and villages cannot afford conventional sewerage or
sanitation systems. However, research and development of low-cost alterna-
tives by the Bank, UNDP, LWUA and MWSS is expected to provide affordable
and practical systems soon which could be included in the next stage project.
Meanwhile, because of the high rainfall and the general nature of the terrain
in the several islands which constitute the project area, the natural
drainage and dilution are adequate to ensure that there is no significant
increase in the pollution to the environment because of the project.



- 21 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
68.       The draft Development Credit and Loan Agreements between Republic
of the Philippines, and the Association and the Bank, respectively, the draft
Project Agreement between the Association, the Bank and LWUA, the Recommen-
dation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and the Report of the Committee
provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of
the Bank are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
69.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. The execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between Republic of
the Philippines and LWUA, and action to increase water tariffs in six water
districts have been made additional conditions of effectiveness of the Credit
and the Loan (Section 5.01(a) and (b) of the draft Development Credit Agree-
ment).
70.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan and credit would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
71.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan/credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments                                         by I. P. M. Cargill
Washington, D.C.
May 16, 1979



-  22  -                                               ANNtX I
TABLE 3A
PHILIPPTNES - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHECT
REFERENCE CROUPs (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
PHLIPPINES                                             /8
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                - MOST RECENT ZSTIMATE)
TOTAL            300.0                                                 SAME         SANE     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL      85.6                               MOST RECENT      CEOGRAPHIC   INCOME       INCOME
1960  /     1970 a  ESTIMATE /b      REGION  c  GROUP Ld    GROUP l
CNP PER CAPITA (USS)                 140.0       230.0    450.0            616.0      432.3       867.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     147.0       301.0     326.0            522.0      251.7       578.3
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION. KID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                       27.4        36.9      44.5
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 25.3        27.6      29.8            30.1       24.2        46.2
POPULATION DENSITT
PER SQ. EM.                       91.0       123.0    148.0            156.8       42.7        50.8
PER SQ. EK. AGRICULTUBAL LAND    360.0       472.0    520.0            794.8       95.0        93.3
POPULATION AGE SrIUCTUR (PrCENT)
0-14 nRS.                         45.7        45.6      42.9            40.8       44.9        42.9
15-64 YRS.                        51.6        51.6       54.2            55.4       52.8        53.5
65 YnS. AND ABOVE                   2.7         2.8       2.9             3.2        3.0         3.5
POPULATION GROVTE RATE (PERCENT)
MTAL                               3.0         3.0       2.8             2.3        2.7         2.5
URBAN                              4.0         4.0       3.9             5.1        8.8         4.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    45.0         43.0      35.0            34.6       42.2        37.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     15.0        11.0       9.0             8.7       12.4        10.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.5 f       3.3       2.4             2.6        3.2         2.5
FAMILY PLANNlNG
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (TBHUSANDS)      ..        191.7     750.8
USERS (PERCENT OP MARRIED WOEN)    ..          2.0      25.0            22.1       14.2        20.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF POOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)             99.1       100.0     110.8           106.8      104.3       107.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OP
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
RUQUIRIXENTS)                   83.0        86.0      87.0           108.7       99.5       105.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          44.0        45.0      50.0            57.7       56.8        63.0
OF 8ICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        19.0        22.0      19.2            17.0       17.5        21.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      9.0         6.6       7.5             4.0        7.5         8.0
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   49.4        57.0       60.0            59.0       53.3        57.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           84.6        81.0      80.0            44.0       82.5        53.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         ..       39.0            21.9       31.1        56.8
URBAN                               ..         ..      Sl.0             58.3       68.5        79.0
RURAL                               ..         ..      3).0              9.8       18.2        31.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OP POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         ..       56.0            28.6       37.5        30.9
URBAN                               *-         *-       76.0            66.6       69.5        45.4
RURAL                               ..        40.0      44.0            14.8       25.4        16.1
POPUIATION PER PHYSICIAN              ..                3150.0          4103.1     9359.2      2706.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         ..      3840.0    4990.0          1520.2    2762.5       1462.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           1180.0       850.0    880.0            657.1      786.5       493.9
URBAN                               ..         ..         .            145.5      278.4       229.6
RURAL                               ..         ..         ..          1011.8     1358.4      2947.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..        ..            19.0       19.2        22.1
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.8         5.9        ..             5.2         ..         5.2
URBAN                               ..         6.2        ..             5.2         ..         5.0
RURAL                               ..         5.8        ..             5.4         ..         5.4
AVERArE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER  Ot
TOTAL                               ..         2.3        ..              ..         ..         2.0
URBAN                               ..         2.1        ..              ..        2.3         1.5
iURAL                               ..         2.4        ..              ..         ..         2.7
ACCESS TO fLECTEICIrY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                             17.0        23.0      31.0            39.1       28.3        64.1
URBAN                               ..        60.4        ..              ..         ..        67.8
RURAL                               *-         7.0      10.0              ..       10.3        34.1



-23-                                                e,NEX I
PAr. l Or 5 P-. 60
TABLE 3A
PntLIPPINfS - SOCIAL INDICATnRS DATA SHFET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERACES
PUILIPPINES                   -MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) In
SAME        SAYF     NEXT HICHER
MOST RECENT     CEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOYE
1960 lb     1970 Lb ESTIMATE /b      REGION 1c  GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENfOLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                 95.0       114.0     105.0             95.6       75.8        99.8
FEMALE               93.0       113.0     103.0            93.7        67.9        93.3
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 26.0        50.0      56.0             43.3       17.7        33.8
FEMALE               25.0        50.0      57.0             38.6       12.9        29.8
WCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 14.0           ..        ..             11.3        7.4        12.8
PUPIL-TEACQER RATIO
PRIMARY                           36.0        29.0      29.0             30.0       34.3        34.9
SECONDARY                         27.0        33.0      31.0             25.4       23.5        22.2
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       7L.9        82.6      87.0             84.0       63.7        71.8
CONSUKPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER TDUSAND
POPULATION                         3.0         8.0       8.0             9.3         7.2        12.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        22.0        72.0        ..            97.6        71.1       104.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAN0
POPULATION                         1.4        10.0      17.0             21.8       14.1        28.1
NEWSPAPER ('DAILY GENERAL
niTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 17.0        14.0       18.0            25.9       16.3        45.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.6          ..        7.6             4.6        1.6         4.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    10100.0     12400.0   16230.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  34.4        33.1      95.3             33.2       28.0        25.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             61.0        55.0       50.0            48.4       54.1        46.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                15.2        15.8      14.0
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               39.8        36.6      35.3             38.9       37.8        33.8
MALE                                52.1        48.6       47.1            48.6       50.3        48.1
FEMAJLE                             27.4        24.4      23.3             28.4       20.9        17.3
ECONOKIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.3         1.5       1.3              1.2        1.3         1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   28.8          ..        ..             17.3       19.5        23.6
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  56.2        54.0      53.3             45.6       48.9        52.3
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.2         3.6       5.5              6.5        5.9         4.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   11.9        11.7      14.7             17.3       15.7        13.1
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTLIATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..      250.0           140.8      155.9       191.9
RURAL                               *-           -      190.0           112.8       97.9       193.1
ESTIMATED REILATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..      132.0              ..      143.7       319.8
RURAL                               ..          ..         ..            76.8       87.3       197.7
ESTDIATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
UKBAN                               ..          ..       39.0            27.7       22.9        19.8
BIRAL                                                    44 *-  .0      40.4       36.7        35.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/    The adjusted group averages for e&ch indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not unifora.
Unless otherwis  noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estitate, between 1973 end 1977.
Ea sat Asia 4 Pacific;   /d  Lover Middle Income ($281-550 per capita, 1976);  /e  Intermediate Middle Income
(S551-1135 per capita. 1976);  Jj  1950-55;   L& Av. 1960-62.



- 24 -
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INiDICATORS                                                      Fage 3
&li:  The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, exciuding the extreme values of the indicator and the moot
populated country in each group.  Cove-age of cos.tries ana.g the indicators depends on availability of data asd is not uniform.  Due to lack of data,
group averages for Capital Surplus Oil Exporters and indicators of access to water and eucreta disposal, housing, income distribution and poverty are
sieple population-weighted geometric means without the seclusion of extre=e values.
LANDi AREA (thousand sq  kr)                                                               P.pulation per hospital had - total, urban, and rural - Population (total,
Total - Total surface area coeprising land area and inland waters.                          urban, and rural) divided by their raspective saber of hospital b.de
Agricultural - Most recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily                   available in public end private general end specialioed hospital and re-
or permanently for crops, pastures, narket and kitchen gardens or to                      habilitation centers.  Hospitals are establishrments permanently staffed by
lis fallow.                                                                               at least one physician.  Establishl ents providing principally custodial
cers arm not included. Rural hospitals, however, include health and medi-
GNP PER CAPITA (US$) - GNP per capita swti=ates at current market prices,                    cal centers not permanently staffed by a physician (but by a medical as-
calculated by sa=e conversion method as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);                 sistant, nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient accommodation and
1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                                provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admissions Per hospital bed - Total number of admissions to or discharges
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of co.-ercial energy                      from hospitals divided by the somber of beds.
(coal and ligdite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nucletr and geo-
thermal electricity) in kilograma of coal equivalent per capita.                     HOUSING
Average si, e of household (Sermons per household) - total, urban, and rural-
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICi                                                              A household consists of a group of individuals who share living quarters
Total population, mid-pear (millions) - As of July 1; if not aailable.,                     and their mati  meals.  A boarder or lodger may or may nor be included in
average of two end-year eutimatec; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                             the household for statistical purposes.  Statistical definitions of house-
Urban poPulacion (Percent of total) - cati  of urban to total popula-                      h. ld vary.
cion; different definitions of urban areas may affect  conpercbility                   Average number of persona per room - total, urban  and roral - Average nun-
of data among countries.                                                                 ber of parsons per roos  in all, urban., and rural occupied conventional
Population density                                                                          dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclude non-permanent structures and
Per  sq. km. - Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hectaren)                     unoccupied ports.
Of total area.                                                                         Access to electrIcity (percent of dwnlltns) - total, urban, and rural -
Per on. km. agriculture laud - Co=patrd 00 above for agricultural land                     Convectional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percentage
only.                                                                                     of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Population agescructure (percect) - Children (0-14 years), wouking-age
(15-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-                EDUCATION
yeor population.                                                                      Adjusted enrollment ratios
Population growth rate (percent) -  otoal, and urban - Co=pou=d annual                    Primary school - total, and female - Total and femile enrollment of all ages
growth rtats o  total and arhan mid-your populations for 1950-60,                         at the primary level us percentages of re.pecticely primary sehol-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                     populations; normally includes children aged 6-Ll years but adjasted for
crude birth race (per thousani) - An=ual live births per thousand of                        different lengths of primary education; for c-untries with universal edu-
mid-year popalotio.; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                      cation enrollment say exceed 100 percent since some pupils are below or
1970 and  five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                     above the official school age.
Crude death rate (ear thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                      Cecopdany school - total, and female - Computed as above; secondary educa-
year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                     tics requires at least four years of approved primary instruction; pro-
and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate,.                            ides general vocational, or teacher training instructions for pupils
Gross reproduction rota - Average number of daughters a woman will bear                     usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondenc- courses are generally
in her ..r=al reproductive period if she esperie=ces present age-                        escluded.
sypcific fertility rates; usually five-year averages endig in 1960,                   Vocational oeroll=ent (percent of secondary) - Vocational institutions in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                           lude technical., industrial, or other pr-grams uhich operate indepe=dently
family plusnino - acceeccen. annual (theusaods) - Annual numsber of                         or as departments of secondary institutions.
acceptors cf birth-control lesioes under auspices of national tamily                  Tapi-leacher ratio - primary, and secondary - local students enrolled 10
planning program.                                                                         primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers is the corre-
Family planning - users (percent of married woman) - Percecrage cf                          aponding lassie.
marrier.d come  of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control              Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as
devices to all married women in some age group.                                           a       percentage of total adult population aged 11 yeaes and over.
FOOD AND NLIRITION                                                                       CONSUMPTION
Indes of foond prduction per capita (1970-100) - lnden nupber of per                    Passenger cars (per thousand populati.n) - Passenger cars comprise motor cars
capita annual production of all food co  oditi,s.                                      seating less than eight perso=s; excluds ambulances, hearses  and military
Per capita supply of calories (percent of requireiaets) - Computed from                  vehicles.
energy eqoivalent of net food supplies available in coantry per capita                iadio receivers (Per thousand copulation) - All types of receivers for radio
per day.  Available supplies comprise domestic production, imports less                broadcasts to general pablic per thousand of population; secludes unlicensed
exports., and changes in stock.  Net supplies  exclude animal feed, seeds,             receivers in countries and in years when registration of radio sets was in
quantities used in food processing, and losses in distribution.  Re-                   effert; data for recent years nay not be comparable since moat countries
quirenents were estimatad by FAO based on physiological needs for non-                 abolished licensing.
mal activity and health considering environmental temperature, body                   rv receivers (per thousand populatiVn)  - TV receivers for broadcast to generd
weights, age and .s.  distributions of population, and allowing 10 pee-                   public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV re--isers inoos-
coot fur waste at household level.                                                        tries and in years when registrativ=  of TV sets was in effect.
Per capita supply of protein (grams per day) - Protein content of per                   Newspaper circulation  (per thousand population) - Shows the average cir-cla-
capita net supply of food per day.  Net supply of food is defined                                                          t newspar"  defined us a periodical publi-
above.  Rquirenents for all countries established by USDA provide for                    cation devoted primarily to recording general news.  It is considered to
a minimum  allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20 grass                   be "doily" if it appears at least four times a week.
of ani=al and pus1e protein, of which 10 grams should be animal protein.              Cinema annual attendance per capita Per year - Based on the nusber of ticiest
These standards are lower than those of 75 gra=s of total protein and                     sold during the year, including adnissions to drive-ic cinenas cnd mobili
23 grams of atiral p-otein as as average for the world, pruposed by                      units.
FAO in 0r Third World rood Suroey.
Per capita protein supply froms animal and pulse - Protein supply of food              EMlPLOYMENI
derised from animals and pulses is grams per day.                                     Total labor force (thousands) - Eronomically active persons, including armed
Child (ages 1-I) mortality rate  (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thots-                  forces and unemployed bht excluding housewives, stodests, ctc.  Defini-
and in age group 1-4 ye,as, to children in this age group.                                rics in saris  countries are sot comparable.
Pemale (percent) - Female labor force us percentuge of totul lbor force.
HEALTH                                                                                    Agriculture  (percent) - Labor force in farming, foreutry, hbuting und fishing
Lifc expectacy at birch (years) - Average number of years of life                           as percentage of totai labor force.
runainino ra birch; usually fiue-ye-r avarages ending in 1960, 1970,                  Industry (Pcrcsnt) - Lbhr force in minin8, conutructi., manufacturing and
ncd 1975.                                                                                 electricity, water and gas as percentage of tortal lboc force.
Isfunt mortaity-rare (pe r t ..nd) - Annual deaths of infants under                     Participation rate (percent) - total, male, and fe_ale - Totai, male, and
ore year of age per thousacd live birhts.                                                 cemale labor force as percentages of their respective populaction.
Accuss to safe water (percent of popuiation) - total. urban, and  rural -                   These ore ILO's adiusted partciipation rates reflecti-g oge-sec
Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable access to                      struoture of the population, ond long tise treed.
safe water supply (includes treated surface watecs or untreated bht                   Economic dependency ratci  - Ratio of population order 15 and 65 and  yse  t,c
ucconta=inated water such as that from protected boreholes, springs,                      the labor force in age group of 15-64 years.
end sanitary wells) as percentages of their respective populations.
IT  an urban area a public fountain cc standpoit located not sore                    INCOME DISTRIBUTION
than 200 =eters from a house may be considered as being within rea-                   Percentage of private income  (both it cash and kirtd) received by richest 5
sonable access of that house.  In rural areas reasonable access would                     percent, richest 20 percent. poorest 20 percent, and poorest 40 percent
imply that the housewife or members of the household do not have to                       of ho usholds
spend a disproportionute parr of the day in fetching the family's
water needs.                                                                          POVERTY TARGET GROIPS
Access to esurata disposal (Eecuent of copulation) - tols, urban, and                   Estinated abeelurepoverlv iooe level (USS pee capita) - urban and rural -
rural - Number of people (coral, urban, and rural) served by ecrets                         Absolute p-verty income level is that income l-vel below which a atntma
disposal as peroetrages  of their respec-ive pcpulusios.n    E-crat                       nutritionally adequate diet plus essential non-food requirements is not
disposal may include the collection and disposal, with or without                         affordable.
cectmno t, of humus excreta and waste-water by water-borne systems                    islisated relative poverty incone level (IS) per capita) - arban and rural -
or the use of pit privies and similar Installations.                                      Relative poverty income level is that income level less than one-third
PoPulttion ner physician - Populati-o divided by =amber of practicing                       per copita per-snal income of the country.
physicians qualified from a medical school at university level.                      EItimated population below poverty income level (perce=t) - urban and rural -
- Population disided by number of                          Percent of population (urban and rural) who are either "absolute poor" or
procticing male and female groduate nurses, practical nurses, and                         "relative poor" whichever is greater.
asuistant narses.
Econo=ic and Social Data Divisioc
iconmoic Analysis and Projections Deparr=ent



ANNEX 1
- 25 -                                        Page 4 of 5 pages
SELECTED ECONOMIC DATA
Actual                         Prelim.     Projected        Growth Rates (2)
1972    1973    1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    1980    1985    1972-78    1978-85
National Accounts (billions of pesos at 1972 prices)
GDP                            56.3    61.2    63.8    68.8    74.2    78.5    81.9    93.8   136.6                6.5        7.4
Terms of trade adjustment    0.0         1.5      1.3    -0.1    -1.8    -3.0    -2.5    -1.6           0.0         -          -
GDY                            56.3    62.7    65.1    68.7    72.4    75.5    79.4    92.2   136.6                5.9        8.0
Imports - volume               10.3    10.8    12.9    13.5    13.7    14.6    15.6    16.6    24.3                7.1        6.5
Exports - volume                9.9    11.3    10.0    10.0    11.8    14.9    14.3    15.7    23.4                6.3        7.3
Exports - adjusted for
terms of trade                9.9    12.8    11.3        9.9    10.0    11.9    11.8    14.1    23.3             3.0       10.2
Resource gap                    0.4    -2.0       1.6      3.6      3.7      2.7      3.8      2.5      1.0         -          -
Consumption                    45.2    48.1    51.1    53.5    55.4    57.8    61.0    70.6   100.9                5.1        7.5
Investment                     11.6    12.5    15.7    19.0    20.6    20.4    22.1    24.1    36.6               11.3        7.5
National savings               10.7    14.4    14.7    15.2    16.8    17.5    18.2    21.1    35.0                9.2        8.5
Domestic savings               11.2    14.5    14.1       15.4    17.0      17.7    18.4    21.6    35.6           8.6        9.9
Sector Output (billions of pesos at 1972 prices)
Agriculture                    16.0    17.0    17.5       18.2    19.7    20.5    21.4    23.7    30.2             4.2        5.0
Industry /a                    17.4    19.6    20.7    22.7    24.9    26.8    28.5    33.9    55.6                8.6       10.0
Services                       22.6    24.3    25.9    27.5    29.0    30.6    32.0    36.2    50.8                6.0        6.8
Prices (1972 = 100)
Export price index              100      141      223      214      197      196      214      249      353
Import price index              100      124      197      215      233      245      260      278      354
Terms of trade index            100      114      132      100       85       80       82       89       95
Selected Indicators
ICOR                            4.5      2.4      4.8      3.1      3.5      4.8      6.0      3.7      3.2
Import elasticity               0.93    0.55    4.61    0.59    0.19         1.13     1.58    0.98    1.03
Average savings rate           19.5    23.0    21.4    21.9    22.3    21.8    21.4    22.5    25.6
Imports/GDP                    18.3    17.6    20.2       19.6    18.5    18.6    19.0    17.7    17.7
Investment/GDP                 20.6    20.4    24.6    27.8    27.8    26.0    22.0    26.1    26.8
Resource gap/GOP                0.1    -3.2       2.5      5.2      5.0      3.4      4.6      2.7      0.7
Value added              Labor force             V. A. per worker
Output, Labor Force & Productivity in 1976                     Peso million       %      Million            %      Pesos               %
Agriculture                                                38,440        29.0         8.1          50.0      4,746            58.0
Industry                                                   44,934        33.9         2.3          14.0    19,537            238.8
Services                                                   49,148        37.1         5.0          31.0      9,830           120.2
Unemployed                                                    .            .          0.8           5.0
Total/Average                                           132,522       100.0        16.2         100.0      8,180           100.0
Public Finance                        1972        1975         1976          1977         1978
(National Government)          ------------ (% of GDP in current prices) -         ----=
Current revenue                12.2        15.0          13.9         13.2          14.2
Tax revenue                     9.7        12.0          11.6         11.2          12.1
Current expenditure            13.0        13.2          12.3         11.6          11.4
Current surplus                 0.8         1.8           1.6          1.6           2.8
Capital expenditures            1.9         3.0           3.5          3.4           3.7
/a Includes mining, manufacturing4, construction, and utilities.
East Asia and Pacific Region
May 1979



- 26 -                                                                ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5 pages
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
(US$ illion)
Actual                            Prelis.                 Pro 1ected /e
1972      1973      1974      1975      1976      1977               T 1980     1981      1992      1985
Suary of Balance of Payents
Exports (GNFgS)                               1432      2445      3357      3076      3330      4021      4155      5793      7028      8238    12197
Imports (GNPS)                                1484      2057      3784      4116      4383      4788      5251      6821      7713      8712    12715
Resource balance                               -52       388      -427    -1040    -1053        -767    -1095    -1027        -685      -475      -519
Net factor service income /a                  -125      -114       -54      -201      -323      -320      -352      -508      -595      -673      -810
interest (net)                             -93       -59        15       -53      -185      -240      -257      -393      -470      -535      -626
Direct investment incoae (net)             -32       -55       -69      -148      -138       -80       -95      -115      -126      -139      -184
Balasce no goods & services                   -177       274      -481    -1241    -1376    -1087    -1447    -1534    -1281    -1147    -1329
Transfero (Cot)                                188       246       276       318       269       260        315      347        382      420        560
Currant Account Salcnce                       11       521      -205      -923    -1107       -827    -1132    -1187        -899      -727      -769
Private direct investoent (net)                -22        64        28        125       144     216         160       193       212       234       310
Public MLT loan diaburoe.ents                  235       184        180      349       869       903      1049       1142      1241      1321      1521
Repayments                                 -78      -108       -68      -118      -165      -163      -419      -481      -499      -520      -738
Net disburoeceta                           157        76       112       231       704       740       630       662       742       801       783
Other MLT loan disbar.ceneot                    137       196      276       331         538      326       726      845        508       359       262
Repaycent                                 -154      -201      -244      -205       -202    -381       -522      -437      -549      -584      -506
Net disbursece-ts                          -17        -5        32       126        336      -55       204       408       -41      -226      -244
Total MLT lean disburnenente                   372       380       456       680        1407    1229      1775       1987      1749      1680      1783
Repaycents                                -232      -309      -312      -323       -369    -544       -941      -918    -1048    -1104    -1244
Net disborseeneto                          140        71       144       357       1040      685       834       770       701       576       539
Net drawiegs on IMF                               7      -21       -11        110        214       79      -20       -70         13      -85        -80
Short-toer  capital (net)                       56        74       231        102       -96      311        147       195       222       253       375
Capital traenaotiuee,u.o.i.                    -98       -45       -77        292        -35    -300        116         0         0         e 
Chaeo in net reserves (- = iecreaoe)          -94      -664      -110        521        160    -164         55     -200      -255      -2sf       -376
Internattonal resrves (cnd-your) /b            551      1038      1504      1358        1640    1524      1883      19OO      1900      2000      289n
Groto acd Loan Coeuitments
Official grants                                 2.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      -0.        0.0
Total public leans                           422.0    232.4    840.1    753.7   1994.0   1294.7
IBRD                                        29.5      85.7    217.5    114.0    226.0    317.5
IDA                                         10.0      12,7       9.5       0.0       0.0       0.0
Other -ultilateral                          43.3      53.6      83.1    106.0       64.2    207.3
Gevernments                                275.5      63.4    199.5    182.3    391.6    294.3
Of which CPE                               0.0       0.0       0.0      13.2       5.9       0.0
Suppl-ers                                    2.0       1.9      69.0      37.3      68.1      73.7
Financial Institutinon                      61.7      15.1    244.5    314.2    776.9    272.3
Bonds                                        0.0       0.0      17.1       0.0    367.2    129.7
Other MLT leans                              130.0    128.0    306.0    283.0    472.0    495.5
Meo.rendu- Itecs
Groat elecenit  f ecemcitoents                28.0      28.4      22.3       16.4       8.8      14.7
Average interest (X)                            5.4       4.1       6.5      7.4        9.3       7.9
Average maturity (years)                      17.3      24.2       18.2      16.7      13.1      15.3
oedium cnd Long-Tore Debt (disbursed only)                                                                                               Outstanding
Total debt outstaoding (eed nf periud)  1828.7   1910.2   2070.7   2362.0   4063.0   5149.9                                         December 31, 1977
Including undishbrsed                       2584.5   2625.9   3506.3   3755.6   6496.0   8109.0    External Debt                     Acount   Percent
Publc debt nervIer                          -149.6   -214.5   -187.7   -230.2   -222.7   -441.9   (disbursed only)
Of which:  tnterent                        -51.6    -31.3    -43.1    -73.4    -87.1   -215.2    IBRD                                403.7      13.5
Other SILT debt servtce                     -167.6   -185.8   -247.5   -239.2   -300.0   -357.1    Rank Greep /d                       432.6       14.5
Total debt service                          -317.2   -400.3   -435.2   -469.4   -522.7   -799.0    Other mtulttitert l                  155.4       5.2
Govermnents                   473.1      29.2
Debt Burden                                                                                                Of which ceetrully
Debt servic- ratio                            22.L       16.4     13.11      15.6      16.0      19.9       planned ecenenies             0.0       0.0
Debt service ratit  Ic                        24.5       18.8     15.3       18.1      18.1      21.4    Suppliorn                      86.5        2.9
Debt service/GDP                               3.8       3.8       3.0       3.0       2.9       4.0    Fincncial institutions         914.9       30.6
Public debt nervi-e/government revenue        17.0      13.9        7.6      8.1       7.9      15.7    Bonds                          523.1       17.5
Tutr1 public MLT debt    2,985.1    100.0
Term                                                                                                        Other MIT debt             2,164.8       72.5
Inte-ret on total DOD/total DOD                6.1       3.6       4.0       5.4       4.1       6.4    Other SLT debt (iel.
Total debt nervice/total DOD                  17.7      24.7      17.3      16.9      10.5      15.8        undisburoed)             2,489.7       83.4
Tetsd Public debt (imd.
Dependency Rutioe                                                                                            otdisburoed)              5,619.3   18.2
Grosu  dinburse=ents/inports (GNFS)           25.1      18.5      12.1      16.5      32.1      25.6      Total SLT debt (incl.
Net traeufer/importo (GNFS)                    3.7      -1.0       0.6       5.1      20.2       10.5       undisbursed)             8,109.0    217.7
Net transfer/gross disburn-rento              14.9      -5.3       4.6      30.8      62.9      41.0
Efposuro
IBRD disb./grosi totel disb.                   4.7       4.6       5.8      12.6        6.5      9.5
Dauk G-rop disb./gr.os  tetal disb.            4.8       4.8       7.5      13.9        7.3      9.6
IBRD DOD/total DOD                             7.8       7.8       7.9      10.1       7.8       9.3
Bank Group DOD/total DOD                       7.8       7.8       8.3       9.6        8.4     10.0
IBRD debt service/total debt sve.              4.4       5.1       5.4       5.5       6.6       5.6
Bank Greep debt service/total debt  VSe.    4.4          5.1        5.4       5.6       6.7       5.6
Ia Rcmitteneos of Filipinos omployed abroad arc iecludod in "Transfere."
7   Gr.o  reserves of the Central 8lnk ("International reserves", TiF).
7Z  Including net direct 1nvestcent income.
7T  Includes IFC.
7E These projuetions were prepared in May 1978. Revised projections will be prepared fellewing the reture of en
economic misoion in Juno 1979,
Elot Asia cnd Pacific Regi-nal Office
May 1979



H                        00 IZ00H
0]  '0  00   '0  C'.0  '.0'.0'.0'0       --  1000
::t'.                                             '0  '0'000'00'0   '0  '0              '0  '0  '0  '0    -  '0          'liii                                                                             00
*                                     -           '.'.'.'.'.0'.'.'.0    0'  .  '.0    '.'.'.  -  '0  '0    00-".'   '.0 0'. '.0 '.'.'. a                                                         '.0  Oso
'0010]  '0                                                    I  I   0       I   I       I   I   I   I    I   I     I    '0'.0'.0''0'.0  '.0'.o030]'.003'.o  '.0   '.0  0  '.00  '.00  '0'.0'.0'0  '.0'   '.0    '.0]]  000
0'0'00                                0       '.0     0              '.0 '.0 '.0  '0    '.0' -      0    '.0      '.0   '0'0'0'0   '0'0i'0'0I'0  '0  '0'0'0'0'0'0'0 '0  '0'0'0'0  '0  '0  '00                 0
oo'00-                                '0    '0    '0    '0    '0    '0    '0    =  '0    '0    =  '0  '0                                '0   '.0
000]                                 *  *   0  *                                                                                       0    '0
'.0000     '-0  '.0     '0'.-]  '.0    *   *
30HZ       0    0       00      0     *                                                                                                                                                                0
0H00       0  .00'.  '.-00]-]-00                                                                                                                                                                       0'
0<'.]  0000'. 0'.000'0'.'.'.00'.0'0'.0'0 '0'0'.0'0'0'0'0 '.0 '.0 '.0 '.0 Co '.0 '.00 '.0'.0'.0'0 '.0   0'
'.0000       0-OH    '00s-'.  0'.    -    '0   '.0       '0   '.0       '.0  0          '.0   '0   '0    '0  '.0   '.0  '.0                                                                      '0    '0
-    '.0     -H      HO]'.'.  00          '0'0'0'0'0'0'.-Ooo'0'0'0                      '0'0'0'0'0'0'0'.'.'.4'.'.'0  '0  '0'0'0'0'.0'.0'.0'.  '00]'0'00]0]0]0]'0   0]too,000  '.000-
'00'.H0-    000 00'00'00]                 '0  '.0 '.0 '.0    0]  '0  00  00  '0  '0     0]  '0  '0'0'.o'0'.0                                                                                           0'
?2ii   2i2    ooooo                                                                                                                                                                                                     30
0]                                    0   '.0   '0  '0              '0  '0    0                  0'.
'00'       0   '.]'0  0  '0     '0  '0  '0  '0  '0  '0  '0  '0  '.0'  '0  '0  '0  '0  '.0  '0  0]             '0    0                                     0   0'.   0   0               0   0     0            (0    03
000100'    OOOH   00   HO 0           0  0   0  0  0   0  0  0   0]  0  0  0             0  H   0'  0               0  HO                                     '.o'.0z'0  '.0'.0000         '0'0'00         '0        03   '0
* 0'.O'.'.0'.'.I0 00-0-0000           '0'00]'.0'0'0'0'.00o'0'0'0'0'0ooo0'.0'.0'0'0'0    '.0'.OZH'.O'.0000        'HO  0]'.'                                   H0'0H   0]00H                '0000'.    0  0           0'.  '0
0'-'.0   0    HH         '00'00''00'0o '00000] 00]000'.-HOHo'0o            '00'0'.'00]00H              '00   00                                    '00.00-  '0000               .0000       0  0          03
0   '00   00   000]    ]'.]O0'0'.HO'.'.0'HO'H'0H0]H0"H'0H0]r0".'..'0       H'0]]0'0H0 0               HZ    0'.      '.'.'.'.'.'.'.              H'0H'.OH'0'.00               HH'.00'    0  '.1        00   '0
H'00    0'.  0-0  '. 000-00'.0'.H,-'.HHH'0H  ]-HHHHHHH'0 HHHHH'.-H0'H'0'0'0'.00                                HH  '.0'-'] 0'.'.'.    '.'.'.'.O'.0    ]  H0".0'.O  ]'0'000  0:   000'0000   0'  0                 '0   '.0
0'     0  0'         ]HO-'.--HHO,.'.HoHHO'.H]- O'.OHO'.'.'--O'0HO-00  0    0    0-0  '0                                                      '000']'.  '.OOOH              '000HZ    0
'0.0    0   H'.00    '0000'.00'.00'.00'00'00'0000-'.Oo'.oO'.oO         '.000'.-'.O00].'.          '.00  -''0                                  '.0  000'  '.0  0'.          '.0  0       H  0'
'.0'.0'.".   00'.        00      '.0 '0  '.0 '0  '0  '0  '0 '0  000]  '0  '0    '0  000   0                     '0    HO                                    HOHO   HO]O'0                '0000       0  0                '0
.0]          00000              0O0'O'000-O0-O'0O]'.-O]'-Oo'. 00'.O0-O'0O          ]'.-O'.-'.OHOH '0          '00  '.'.*0'                               ''0       0']0H0              0'HHO
0'.      oH      0     00      0'.00'0 000000] 000'00'0          0''00''.O       0'0    0'00.0              OH  '00'.                                   0   '0   0'  00              0'  00       H
0      '0    00]     0  0   0  0  0  0  0  0  '0  0  0  0              0   '0  0'  00              0    '0                                     000       0000               0000        0             '0
'0   000  0  0 OOoOHOOOH000000000ooHOO0HO000 0                                                              00 HO                                         '00'  '0 0                    '0 0  -              0    00'
'0       00    '0    OH         '0'00]0]'00]'0'0O                  '000]           '00    '0  o               0]  o-                                      00]       0                   0         0'         '000    '0
0-   0-   '-'.0-     000000000]                         0  0  0        0'0     0                  0  0                                                                                '.0                '0
0]0]'.-'.'-0'0]OOHO'0  '0  '0  '0  030  '00]  '.0' '0  '0 '0'.0'0'0  '0   '01  '0                        '0
0                    0  '0  '0  '0           '0                                                                                    0-'.                            0
'0   '00]    0       '00    '00]      0]  '0    0    000000   0    HH0- 00'.'.   000]  HO   0  0]   000-0-   0                    '.'.0  0

0    0]   00.    0         00]    0       1'.  0    00  H0O]-'00'.00000-<OH0'000' 0 ZOHOr]  0.0]  0  0'.'.-'.Ooooo   0   000]  0                    '00    '0
'.OH'0O0'0- '00''00000'.-'.O'.'.-'.0          0  H'00'0 O'0HOOO000000HOOOIOOOHO0O0'    '.00   0   '000000    0  000
0'           0]000'0000H0,'.-oOO'.   I  H 00   HOO'.00 0    Or-0   000000H'0   00000-000H0-000  0000-o-0H0 0    '0H   00000000    0   0-
0'           000 OHHOOOHHOOH   '0  OHO   0'.'.'0000'.".0H000000'00O    0-000   0-00-00   0000]  0   0  HO                                    HO        '0HO0-  00            '00'  0'
'.           000-0-  H   000000           -  000000-0-0]   OHO   0-0000000   '.'..                        0       '.-'.0-'00O    000'  '0    OH        '000      HH       '000
-  -0            '.0-    0'0000o   0'OH0]OH'000'00 '0  '0  HO0]    -  000   0  H '0HH'.'.'0000'0'000 0  0  000   00    '0'.-                                0'0'0   00       000-
000'00'0'.-'0'.  '00-H   '0  HO-C   000000.0000'    '000   00'00'.    0 0-0'0H00000  HO-'-'.  00-0]   0                          0       HO0H   00           00                      '0
'0000000-   '00000             000   0.00000-0  '00-0]  000'000'0                000H0'0o0] 0]'.'.    000]   0  H               0'        -00]             00              '.00    '0
'-'.0000000   0H0-               00     000   0-H        '.00   0000  H0OH        00I--00]00-000HH    0  OZO   0                          000]    '0        00
'.0100H0''000 '000                0  000  or    oO  000 '0OHo'.00000'0OOO0HHOOOO0                                                          000  '0  '00
00   00       '000               0        0   00          0  HO'.'.'000 00         0000           0   '0        0.0                        00              OH
H      0       H                 -        H    0        030   Oo   HHO0'           0HOH           0-            H                          00]               0
00       H   H             I              0       0    0 I  '00   00         0-   0         0             0                          0-0              '0
--             _    -              5         ]  0'                           -       '.3    0      0'   0       00   0         0'            0                           0                                H    03
II                                           -   '0                                 '.0    0       0     I        0
'00]     -    '00'  '.0    H0''."0'0'  '0  '0 '.0  .0  '0              '0     '.0      '.  -       '.'.'.  0'.0'H'00'.0r]H'.0000''0H'.'.'.0'H0'0000   '0'.0'0'000    000   10]
II       '0   '.'.00  '0   '00]  '0  -  o'  o'. '0  c       '0  '0     '0      '0  '0  '0 '.'.    -        0]'.0'0.00'-00'0'0H'0'.00'  '0  0]  '0  '0  '00]  '0  '0'0  000]    00000
*.           .             .            .             .            .             .            .            '.0 '00'0'0'.] '0'0H'.]0'0'0 '0 '0 0] '0 '00 '0 '000 '0'.-'0  .0
'0 '00] '0 '00] '0 0 '0 '0 '0 '0 '0 '0 '0 '0 H '0 '0 0] 0 0..'0 H

I    1001  0'.                                           '0                                                                                                           '0          0,   K                    ON
00                     H
00                '0                                 .0'.'-  '0'.-'.]O'0'0'.-00]  0]  '0  '0  -   000]  '0  '00'  '.0'0'00]'0'.O  H
'0000000 '.0 0000                                                                   '0.                                                                              V   '0
'0000'00]0''.'.0']00]0]000]000'.0'000C0]000'.00000]000]                             00                   '0



- 28 -                     ANNEX II
Page 2 of 14 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
As of March 31, 1979
Fiscal                                                      Amounts ($ million)
Year                     Company                           Loan   Equity   Total
1963 & 1973  Private Development Corporation of the
Philippines                                15.0     4.4      19.4
1967         Manila Electric Company                        8.0       -       8.0
1967         Meralco Securities Corporation                   -     4.0       4.0
1970         Philippine Long Distance
Telephone Company                           4.5       -       4.5
1970 & 1972  Mariwasa Manufacturing, Inc.                   0.8     0.4       1.2
1970         Paper Industries Corporation of the
Philippines                                   -     2.2       2.2
1971 & 1977  Philippine Petroleum Corporation               6.2     2.1       8.3
1972         Marinduque Mining and Industrial
Corporation                                15.0       -      15.0
1973         Victorias Chemical Corporation                 1.9     0.3       2.2
1974         Filipinas Synthetic Fiber Corporation          1.5       -       1.5
1974         M4aria Christina Chemical Industries, Inc.  1.5        0.5       2.0
1974         Republic Flour Mills Corporation               1.2       -       1.2
1975         Philippine Polyamide Industrial
Corporation                                 7.0       -       7.0
1976         Philagro Edible Oils, Inc.                    2.6      0.2       2.8
1977         Acoje Mining Company, Inc.                    2.3      1.2       3.5
1977         Sarmiento Industries, Inc.                    3.5       -        3.5
1978         Cebu Shipyard and Engineering Works, Inc.  2.1          -        2.1
Total gross commitments                      73.1    15.3      88.4
Less sold, acquired by others,
repaid or cancelled                        29.7    12.0      41.7
Total commitments now held by IFC            43.4     3.3      46.7
Undisbursed                                   5.1        -      5.1



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 14 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION/i
Agricultural Sector
Loan No. 720    Rice Processing and Storage; $14.3 Million Loan of
February 4, 1971; Date of Effectiveness: May 10, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
This project is providing long-term credit through the Development
Bank of the Philippines to finance a program for the development and modern-
ization of the rice and corn processing industry. Originally the project
was restricted to rice and to the private sector, and the emphasis was on
the construction of new integrated large capacity rice mills. Due in part
to poor harvests and in part to large cost increases for rice mills, the
demand for subloans for new integrated rice mills turned out to be small
and, as explained in the President's Memorandum, dated June 8, 1972 (R72-40),
the Loan Agreement was amended to shift the project emphasis to rehabilita-
tion of existing rice milling facilities. The Loan Agreement was further
amended in April 1974 to: (a) expand the scope of the project to include corn
in addition to rice, (b) enable local governments and the National Grains
Authority to borrow funds under the project, and (c) streamline procurement
procedures (President's M4emorandum SecM74-244 of April 15, 1974). As a
result of these amendments, the project is now generally progressing satis-
factorily, although mounting arrears are a source of concern and DBP is now
stepping up its supervision and collection efforts to deal with this. Bank
loans for subloans have been fully committed; however, because of the long
construction period of the large subprojects, full disbursement will be
delayed until mid-1979 and the Closing Date has been postponed to
June 30, 1979.
Credit No. 472 Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation; $9.5 Million Credit and
Loan No. 984    $9.5 Million Loan of May 14, 1974; Date of Effectiveness:
August 22, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project is financing the construction of two dams and trans-
basin diversion channels to divert water from the Aurora basin to the Panta-
bangan reservoir to provide year-round irrigation for about 26,000 ha of rice
lands in the Penaranda area of Central Luzon, which is also to be improved
and extended under the project. The work on the dams and transbasin diver-
sion channels has been completed. Diversion from one of the two dams started
in July 1975, about one year ahead of schedule. There were initial delays
in the award of contracts for the service area improvement works and following
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evalua-
tion of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 30 -                    ANNEX II
Page 4 of 14 pages
award some additional delays were experienced due to an extended period for
irrigation water delivery in 1977. These setbacks have caused a two-year
delay in project completion which is now scheduled for June 30, 1980.
Loan No. 891    Fisheries; $11.6 Million Loan of M4ay 21, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness: December 5, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1979
The loan is fully committed; only about US$0.1 million remains
to be disbursed before the Closing Date (June 30, 1979). Nearly 15,000 ha
of brackish water fishponds are being developed or rehabilitated with the
help of subloans. Loan approvals also include 35 fishing vessels with
tonnage varying between 70 and 130 tons, one ice-plant and one slipway. DBP
has initiated the preparation of the Completion Report. Loan collections
have deteriorated during the last few months, and in spite of intensive
collection efforts mounted by DBP in the recent months, the desired result
has not so far been achieved. DBP is now being asked to study in depth the
position of all borrowers whose accounts are overdue for more than six
months, and to take suitable measures in each case to rectify the position.
Loan No. 1080   Tarlac Irrigation; $17.0 Million Loan of January 27,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: April 27, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980
The project is assisting the Government to improve 21,000 ha of
land under three existing national irrigation systems and to extend irrigation
to 13,000 ha of additional land in Central Luzon. Upgrading of project roads
and construction of new roads also are included. In addition, the project
provides for a groundwater irrigation pilot project, a National Irrigation
Systems Improvement Study (NISIS), and a water management training program.
All major civil works contracts are in progress and the remaining work is
under way. General progress, although slower than originally estimated, is
improving. Progress on the groundwater, water management training and NISIS
components of the project is satisfactory. Due to the necessity of adding
drainage systems not included originally, completion of the project is now
expected to be delayed until the end of 1980.
Loan No. 1102   Rural Development; $25.0 Million Loan of April 16,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: July 28, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
The project is assisting the Government to carry out rural develop-
ment on the island of 2Iindoro. Progress in the implementation of irrigation
systems and on the improvement of the port of Calapan is now accelerating.
Progress has also been made on the Mangyan (Minority) Assistance Program,
reforestation of watersheds and drainage of schistosomiasis affected areas.
The rate of progress for road construction has now improved considerably
after delays caused by the unsatisfactory performance of a number of contractors.
Disbursements, which currently stand at 39% of projections, are lagging



-31 -                   ANNEX II
Page 5 of 14 pages
behind physical accomplishment due to difficulties encountered in prompt
processing of force account work and in coordinating disbursement requests
between agencies. Steps are now being taken to streamline disbursement
procedures.
Loan No. 1154   Magat Multipurpose Project; $42.0 Million Loan of
August 7, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: November 4, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project is assisting the Government to improve and expand
irrigation on 35,000 ha of land in the Cagayan Valley of Northern Luzon.
Consultant's work on engineering and economic evaluation studies of the
proposed Magat dam and reservoir has been completed. Civil works by local
contract and force account for rehabilitation and new construction of canals,
drains and access roads are progressing well. The water management training is
continuing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1225   Second Livestock; $20.5 Million Loan of April 8, 1976; Date
of Effectiveness: September 13, 1976: Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
Investments in pig and poultry subloans continue to dominate the
Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP) project lending activities, with sub-
loans for beef production development lagging well behind appraisal estimates.
As a consequence the project's list of goods was recently amended to allow for
this fact. Disbursements are in line with appraisal projections but subloan
commitments are running ahead of schedule. Project funds will probably be
fully committed in early 1980 but a recent resurgence of demand for loans may
shorten the period. Repayments of principal of the majority of DBP's borrowers
under the project are still under grace but a build-up of interest arrears is
beginning to emerge. Principal and interest arrears under the first phase
project have reached about 18% of the portfolio and we are assisting DBP with
the development of an intensive action-oriented collection program to be
implemented during the next three months. Thanks to government approval of
increased salary scales, DBP has significantly improved its staffing position.
Various improvements to DBP's organizational structure have been instituted
and other organizational developments are under consideration. The Bank is
involved in a continuing dialogue with DBP on various institutional issues.
Loan No. 1227   Chico River Irrigation Project: $50.0 Million Loan
of April 8, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 19, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The Erosion Control Study and input-output monitoring program are
progressing satisfactorily. NIA's force account operations on canals and
access roads has improved following delivery of construction equipment. All
of the major contracts have been awarded, and it is expected that construc-
tion of irrigation works will proceed smoothly. Road construction is now
proceeding satisfactorily, although it began substantially behind schedule.



- 32 -                    ANNEX II
Page 6 of 14 pages
Loan No. 1269   Second Grain Processing Project; $11.5 Million Loan of
July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 12, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project is providing long-term credit through the Development
Bank of the Philippines to assist in modernizing and expanding the Philippine
grain processing industry. Initial progress under the project is satisfactory.
Subloan commitments are expected to begin shortly, now that Loan No. 720 is
fully committed.
Loan No. 1270   Second Fisheries Project; $12.0 Million Loan of
July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 12, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Due to problems related to procurement procedures for fishing
vessels and increased deployment of staff on loan recovery work, the Develop-
ment Bank of the Philippines slowed down the processing of subloan approvals
in the second half of 1977. However, loan approvals had picked up considerably
in the first half of 1978. As of June 30, 1978, 398 fishpond farmers had
been assisted with construction of new fishponds or rehabilitation of their
existing ponds. Eight 9OGT fishing vessels, six 45GT fishing vessels and two
ice-plants with cold storages have been financed. It is expected that the
project will be completed on schedule.
Loan No. 1367   Jalaur Irrigation Project; $15.0 Million Loan of
February 14, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: May 12, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
NIA's force account operations on access roads and drains has
improved following delivery of construction equipment in December 1978. The
detail design for a major part of the works has been completed and many
contracts have been awarded. The overall progress of the project is satis-
factory.
Loan No. 1399   Fourth Rural Credit Project; $36.5 Million Loan of
April 11, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 2, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The slow commitment rate continued to inprove to 50% of appraisal
estimates, but recovery of the shortfall to date is no longer considered
possible within the original three-year implementation period. The shortfall
is due in large part to the sharp decline of demand for four-wheel tractors
and the absence of compensating growth in demand in other subloan categories.
Heavy damages inflicted by recent typhoons may further delay commitment. The
Central Bank is now conducting a reassessment of the lending program, and is
expected to submit to the Bank a proposal recommending necessary changes in
project design which would expedite the commitment but, at the same time,
would ensure the effective use of project funds.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 14 pages
Loan No. 1414   National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project; $50 Million
Loan of May 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: August 9, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Initial. delays in assembling design staff have now been overcome.
With the delivery of equipment in September 1978, the pace of construction
has accelerated. Overall progress of work is about 10% of total project
works.
Loan No. 1421   Second Rural Development (Land Settlement) Project;
$15.0 Million Loan of June 10, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
October 27, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The previously reported budget release and staff recruitment
problems are being steadily resolved. With staff now taking up field positions,
progress is accelerating, and although the project is currently 14 months
behind anticipated schedule, physical matters should be completed within the
project period. Institutional progress continues to be satisfactory, noting,
however, that the innovative nature of the project will continue to illustrate
problem areas and issues. Project impact will become more apparent during
the next year, but there is already an increase in confidence at the settlement
level illustrated by a significant increase in participatory actions by
farmers.
Loan No. 1506 Smallholder Tree Farming and Forestry Project; $8.0 Million Loan
of January 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: May 11, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Eight months after effectiveness, operations had started in all
project components except research, but progress has been lagging behind
schedule; the DBP smallholder tree farming component has met with a slow rate
of farmer enrollment due to problems with legal requirements, land availability
and farmers' reluctant attitude arising from lack of previous experience.
However, DBP remains committed to the project and is working on ways in which
to stimulate progress. In the Abra pine plantation component insufficiency
of Government funds has caused the program of vehicle acquisition and building
construction to fall a year behind schedule, but it is expected that the
delay will be made up to a large extent during 1979. Disbursements have not
yet begun, due to the early stage of the project and the initial delays.
Loan No. 1526 Second National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project: $65 Million
Loan of March 15, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: June 20, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Topographic surveys and mapping have been completed for about
60% of the project area and design of project works is underway. The
construction work started recently is primarily devoted to service
roads and structures along main and secondary canals. Overall progress
of the project is satisfactory.



- 34 -                  ANNEX II
Page 8 of 14 pages
Credit No. 790      Rural Infrastructure; $28 Million Credit of April 21,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: Date of Effectiveness:
July 21, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Construction work on communal irrigation systems, village water
supply and health stations has started. Consultants have been engaged to
undertake the design of village roads for four of the six project provinces.
Contracts for the improvement of one port will be awarded soon. Overall
progress of the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1567-PH   The Magat River Multipurpose Project-Stage II; $150 Mil-
lion Loan of May 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness'
August 24, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project will assist the Government through completion of Stage
II of this project, to provide water to irrigation systems and improve
systems operation on 102,000 ha. Preconstruction works have been completed
and works on dam foundation grouting, drainage gallery tunneling and river
diversion tunnels are under way and expected to be completed this year. The
civil works contract for the main dam has been awarded and the contractor is
completing the advanced stage process of mobilizing staff and equipment.
Loan No. 1626-PH   National Extension Project; $32.0 Million Loan of
December 21, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
March 27, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project will assist the Government to strengthen effectiveness
and expand coverage of the national extension service through the provision
of facilities and equipment, and institutional changes. The loan was signed
on December 21, 1978, and was declared effective on March 26, 1979.
Loan No. 1639-PH   Magat River Multipurpose Project; Stage II Irrigation;
$21.0 Million Loan of January 26, 1979; Date of
Effectiveness: April 25, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
The project will assist the Government to increase agricultural
production and consequent employment opportunities though irrigation and
power development in the Cagayan Valley. The loan was signed on January 26,
1979, and was declared effective on April 25, 1979.
Loan No. 1646-PH   Small Farmer Development Project through the Land Bank of
the Philippines; $16.5 Million Loan of January 26, 1979;
Date of Effectiveness: April 25, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Proceeds of the loan will be relent to the Land Bank of the
Philippines to provide small farmers with credit to increase productivity and
to generate off-farm employment. The loan was signed on January 26, 1979 and
was declared effective on April 25, 1979.



-35 -                     ANNEX II
Page 9 of 14 pages
Transportation Sector
Loan No. 939    Second Ports Project; $6.1 Million Loan of October 24, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness: December 19, 1973; Closing
Date: July 15, 1979
The project is being carried out under two civil works contracts,
one each for General Santos and Cagayan de Oro. The work at General Santos
was completed in December 1978. At Cagayan do Oro, 75% is completed and the
remainder is expected to finish in May 1979. Traffic operations at the
project ports continue satisfactorily. The Government is considering the
establishment of a National Port Advisory Council to assist PPA in formulating
policies. Tariff adjustment proposals have been drafted based upon a study
of port services costs. Good progress is being made on feasibility studies
at five provincial ports in preparation for a proposed third ports loan in
early FY81.
Loan No. 950    Second Highway; $68.0 MIillion Loan of December 12,
1973; Date of Effectiveness: February 27, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
While over 98% of the construction program has been successfully
completed, one of nine national roads is far behind schedule due to difficulties
experienced by the contractors in prosecuting the work. For this reason,
project completion is expected to be delayed 24 months beyond the appraisal
schedule. UNDP-financed road feasibility studies were completed in June 1975,
detailed engineering for the Third Hlighway Project (Loan 1353-PH) in August
1976, and detailed engineering for the proposed Fourth Highway Project in
October 1977. Weighbridges for axle load control have been procured, civil
works for permanent weigh stations are virtually completed, and the axle load
control program is being implemented. The total cost of the project has
increased substantially (about 32% above the appraisal estimate) due to the
oil price increases in late 1973, delays in project execution, and continuing
inflation. Disbursements have reached 90% of the loan amount but the present
Closing Date of June 30, 1979 will require extension to allow time for final
disbursements after project completion, expected in mid-1979.
Loan No. 1048   Inter-island Shipping; $20 Million Loan of October 29,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: January 15, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Progress under the US$20.0 million loan for the acquisition of
used interisland ships, repair of existing ships and technical assistance has
been slow. As at December 31, 1978 only about half of the available funds had
been committed by the Development Bank of the Philippines and only US$7.0 mil-
lion had been disbursed from the loan. Uncertainties about the type of
foreign exchange risk to be borne by subborrowers and offers of cheaper
finance by new government financing institutions have delayed implementation.
Changes in administrative procedures are under discussion and may require
Board consideration in due course to resolve these matters.



-36 -                   ANNEX II
Page 10 of 14 pages
Loan No. 1353   Third Highwav Proiect; $95.0 Million Loan of
January 12, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Contracts have been awarded for all national roads and work has
begun. Consultants for supervision of construction have been appointed and
have established themselves in the field. The technical assistance advisors
for maintenance improvement and road restoration took up their duties in
September 1977. The training advisors began work in July 1977. The consul-
tants for the road and ferry feasibility studies began work in November 1977
and completed the studies in December 1978. Consultants for workshop design
and construction supervision began work in May 1977. Designs are completed
and bids for all contracts have been received and are being evaluated with
contracts for 8 out of 28 workshops awarded. After a delay of about 12
months, the road maintenance and restoration program is now beginning to be
implemented with planning and execution of road restoration projects under
way, procurement contracts for maintenance equipment, parts, tools and
machinery being awarded and normal maintenance activities being organized.
Overall, project costs are expected to remain close to appraisal estimates
but indications are that project execution will be delayed by about 18 months
due to the late start of some critical activities.
Loan No. 1661   Fourth Highway Project; $100 Million Loan of March 9, 1979;
Expected Date of Effectiveness: June 12, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
This loan was signed on March 9, 1978, and is expected to be
declared effective on June 12, 1979.
Education Sector
Loan No. 1224   Third Education Project; $25 Million Loan of April 8,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 29, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
Since loan signature, the project unit has made commendable progress
in implementing the textbook development program. Editorial and production
preparations have been completed for 31 titles (out of 71 to be completed by
June 1981). Some 17 titles have been printed for a total of 9.5 million
copies (out of 27 million by 1981), of which 8.2 million copies have been
distributed to schools. Project costs are close to appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1374   Fourth Education Project; $25.0 Million Loan of
March 25, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 9, 1977;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1981
Implementation of the project is generally on schedule, with the
exception of civil works contract awards which have been delayed by about
eight months because of delayed government clearances. Project costs are
within appraisal estimates.



- 37 -                   ANNEX II
Page 11 of 14 pages
Loan No. S-8-PH Educational Radio Technical Assistance; $2 Million loan of
April 21, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: August 22, 1978;
The project is being implemented by an Educational Communications
Office (ECO), established for this purpose within EDPITAF. ECO is functioning
smoothly and is successfully preparing and distributing radio programs and
printed materials for the two major project subcomponents - Radio Assisted
Teaching in Elementary Schools (RATES), and Continuing Education for Teachers
(CET). These programs have reached Pargasinan Province, and will reach Leyte
on schedule in mid-1979. CET will most likely begin unscheduled utilization
in Mindanao during 1979. In order to provide information on the desirability
of nationwide project implementation, the pilot project includes a substantial
evaluation component which is proceeding smoothly.
Urban Sector
Loan No. 1272T Manila Urban Development Project; $10.0 Million and
Loan No. 1282   $22.0 Million Loans of June 9, 1976; Date of Effectiveness:
December 9, 1976; Closing Date: September 30, 1981
Construction has been completed on the high school, health clinic,
and the "reblocking" of twenty-five blocks in the upgrading area. Fifteen
hundred new serviced sites in Dagat-Dagatan and 350 in Tondo are now being
occupied by families who are building very satisfactory dwellings by means of
self-help. The project is generally progressing satisfactorily with many of
the initial difficulties overcome and valuable lessons learned which should
hasten implementation of the remainder of the project.
Loan No. 1415   Provincial Cities Water Supply Project; $23 Million Loan of
May 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:  September 9, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
Work on well construction has started in two cities, and bid
documents for pipe supply and installation are 95% complete. Civil works
contractors are currently being prequalified and major construction should
start within the next few months. Overall project implementation is several
months behind schedule because of administrative delays and difficulties in
land acquisition for well sites following hydrogeological studies by consult-
ants. The preparation of feasibility studies for water supplied to 12 cities
is on schedule as is also the Manila Sewerage Design Study. The Government
is about to start training of staff in the design of community water supplies.
Loan No. 1615   Second Manila Water Supply Project; $88 Million Loan of
July 26, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: December 21, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
This loan is assisting the Government to provide safe water for an
additional four million people in Metropolitan Manila, as well as improve the
service to some 3 million who are inadequately served at present. The preparation
of design drawings, bid documents and appointment of consultants is well in hand.
Loan 1647-PH    Second Urban Development Project; $32.0 Million Loan of
January 26, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: April 26, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
This loan was signed on January 26, 1979, and was declared effective
on April 26, 1979.



- 38 -                   ANNEX II
Page 12 of 14 pages
Power Sector
Loan No. 809    Fifth Power; $22.0 Million Loan and $10.0 Million Credit
Credit No. 296  of April 3, 1972; Date of Effectiveness:  July 1, 1972;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project is helping the National Power Corporation to finance
the second unit of 150 MW at the Bataan thermal power plant, expansion
of the transmission system in Luzon and consultants' services. The project
was completed in mid-1977, two years behind schedule. Due to cost overruns,
a part of the transmission project was transferred to the Sixth Power Project.
The actual project cost as finally constructed is about US$59.3 million - an
increase of about US$11.0 million over the original estimates. The closing
date of the loan has been postponed from December 31, 1978 to December 31,
1979 to allow full disbursement of committed funds. Credit 296-PH was fully
disbursed in April 1975.
Loan No. 1034    Sixth Power;  $61.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974:
Date of Effectiveness: November 15, 1974; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
The project consists of a 100 MW hydropower plant at Pantabangan,
Luzon, transmission lines for the expansion of the Luzon grid and consultants'
services. The generating plant was commissioned in April 1977. The trans-
mission facilities will now be completed late in 1980, more than two years
behind schedule. The revised cost of the project is estimated at US$114.1
million, an increase of about 24% over the original estimate (US$92.0 million).
The cost overrun for the foreign exchange component is US$5.2 million (9%).
The closing date of the loan has been postponed from December 31, 1978 to
June 30, 1981 to allow additional time for completion of the transmission
systems and payment of the retention money.
Loan No. 1460   Seventh Power Project; $58.0 Million Loan of August 9, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: January 6, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Progress on works is slightly behind schedule. The Government
requested the Bank to waive the covenanted rate of return of 8% for 1978.
The 7.3% rate of return achieved by NPC in 1978 was a substantial improvement
compared to 1977. Tariffs in Luzon were increased by 10.5% last November
and another increase of 10% will become effective on May 1, 1979.
Loan No. 1547   Rural Electrification; $60.0 Million Loan of April 4, 1978;
Date of Effectiveness: August 17, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The project is behind schedule due to the initial slow pace of
preparation of tender documents and delays in procurement. Progress on
procurement has been stepped up in the first quarter of 1979 and about
48% of the contracts for materials will have been awarded during April
1979.



- 39 -                 ANNEX II
Page 13 of 14 pages
Industrial Sector
Loan No. 998    Industrial Investment and Smallholder Tree-Farming;
$50.0 Million Loan of June 12, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness: September 9, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The proceeds of the loan were relent to the Development Bank of
the Philippines (DBP). The industrial portion of the Loan ($48 million)
has been used by DBP to finance direct imports for medium and relatively
large industrial projects. DBP is using the balance ($2 million) to finance
about 1,300 smallholders in a pilot tree-farming project in Mindanao.
Loan No. 1052   Private Development Corporation of the Philippines;
$30 Million Loan of November 12, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness: February 7, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
The proceeds of the loan are on-lent by PDCP to financially and
economically viable industrial subprojects. After some slowdown in commit-
ments and disbursements experienced in 1976 and 1977 the loan has now been
fully committed.   Overall progress is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1120   Small and Medium Industries Development; $30.0 Million
Loan of June 5, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: August 20,
1975; Closing Date: August 31, 1979
The DBP portion ($15 million) and IGLF ($12 million) portions of
the loan have been fully disbursed. After a slow start, commitment and
disbursements of funds under the Industrial Guarantee and Loan Fund
accelerated in late 1977. However, the Rural Industrial Cooperative Program
($2.3 million) which is being implemented by the National Electrification
Administration is facing management and staffing problems because of its
experimental nature. Therefore, disbursements on this component have been
slow. The Small Business Advisory Centers program ($0.7 million) of the
Ministry of Industry has been implemented and is working satisfactorily.
Overall progress of the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1190   Industrial Investment; $75.0 Million Loan of
January 28, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: April 6, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The proceeds of the loan are relent by the Development Bank of the
Philippines for subloans to finance the foreign exchange components of medium
and relatively large industrial projects. The Executive Directors approved
a proposal to reallocate $25 million of the funds for small and medium in-
dustries on February 25, 1977, and an amendment to the Loan Agreement to this
effect was signed on March 16, 1977. Commitments of funds, which were ini-
tially much slower than expected due to a slowdown of investment in the in-
dustrial sector as a whole, improved in 1978. As of February 28, 1979, the
allocation of $50 million for medium- and large-scale industry had been fully



- 40 -                   ANNEX II
Page 14 of 14 pages
committed. In addition, $17.7 million had been disbursed against the allocation
for small- and medium-scale industries.
Loan No. 1514   Private Development Corporation of the Philippines (PDCP);
$30 Million Loan of February 9, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
June 23, 1978; Closing Date: March 31, 1982
This loan is being relent by PDCP for financing the direct and
indirect foreign exchange component of capital goods and services for
productive enterprises. As of February 28, 1979 commitments under the
loan amounted to $6.5 million. The project progress is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1555   Philippine Investments Systems Organization (PISO); $15 Million
Loan of May 8, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: May 12, 1978
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Proceeds of the loan are relent by PISO for financing the foreign
exchange component of capital goods and services for eligible productive
enterprises in the Philippine private sector. As of February 28, 1979,
commitments for subloans totalling US$13.5 million had been made. Since the
pace of commitment is much faster than anticipated during loan appraisal, the
loan is expected to be fully committed by early 1979. Overall progress of
the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1572   Third Industrial Investment Credit Project through the
Development Bank of the Philippines; $80 Million Loan of
June 6, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: September 15, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The proceeds of the loan are relent by DBP for financing the direct
and indirect foreign exchange component of imported as well as locally procured
capital goods and services for eligible productive industrial enterprises in
the Philippines. Of the total loan, $50 million is allocated for large scale
industries, $29.7 million for small and medium-scale industries and $0.3 mil-
lion for establishment of an institute for training executives and staff of
smaller development financing institutions. Commitments for subprojects under
the large industry component amounted to $9.4 million as of February 28, 1979.
In addition, as of the same date the small and medium industry component had
been disbursed to the extent of $1.6 million. The overall progress of the
project is satisfactory.
Population
Loan No. 1035   Population; $25.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: November 13, 1974; Closin&
Date: December 31, 1979
Implementation of the project continues satisfactorily. As of
January, 1979, 15 of the 219 project facilities had yet to be started, partly
due to political problems in two regions. Contractors had completed 80% of
all construction work. Hfanagement problems within the Commission on Popula-
tion (POPCOM) still persist, and are being addressed through agreements to be
reached with regard to organizational reform under a second population
project scheduled for Board presentation this fiscal year.



- 41 -                           ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2 pages
PHILIPPINES
SECOND PROVINCIAL CITIES WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Supplemental Data Sheet
Section I:  Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project: 12 months
(b) The project was prepared by LWUA and Government with the assistance
of consultants
(c) First presentation to the Bank: April 1978
First mission to consider the project: June 1978
(d) Departure of appraisal mission: October 1978
(e) Completion of negotiations: April 1979
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
First Bank mission for reviewing feasibility studies on subprojects
scheduled for July 1979.
Section III: Special Conditions
The following special conditions will be incorporated in the
Loan, Development Credit, and Project Agreements:
(a) Government will match a 10% construction contribution by WDs with a
20% equity contribution (para. 42(c)):
(b) Goverment will establish, as a condition of disbursement of the
rural water supply component, an organization for rural water supply
(para. 43);
(c)  LWUA will afford the Bank an opportunity to comment on the qualifi-
cations of any new appointees to the post of General Manager
(para. 46):
(d)  LWUA will present for the Bank's comments no later than
January 31, 1980, policies and procedures for the collection
of principal and interest on loans to WDs (para. 47);
(e) The Government will increase LWUA's paid-in capital to meet LWUA's
requirements (para. 59):



- 42 -                            ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2 pages
(f)  LWUA and the WDs will review water charges annually (para. 61); and
(g) Each WD will generate, in the third year following the start of
project construction, a rate of return on average net revalued
fixed assets in operation of 3% increasing to 4%, 5%, 6%, 7%
respectively in each succeeding year, and 8% thereafter (para. 62).



PROVINCES                                       120                         120                         1240            i26
REGlON l                   REGION IYX                                                                                           PHiLPPINES
I Abra                   45 Basilan                                                                                             P     PN
2 Benguet                46 Sulut                                                             :   PROVINCtIAL CITES WATER SUPPLY PROJECT II
3 Itcon Norte           47 Tawi
4 llocosSur              48 Zambuanga de N                                                              WATER DISTRICTS WtTH ONGOING PROJECTS
5 La Union               49 Zanmbuanga del Sur                                                                                PROJECT LOANS APPROVED BY:
6 Mountain Province       REGION X                                                                                                                                               20t
7 Pangasinan             50 Atusan Jel Norte                                                                                   *         iBRD
REGION If                 51 Agusan del Sir                                             O                                                 USAI1
8 Batanes                52 Bukidnon
9 Caqayan                53 Camiguin                                                                                           .         ADEB
10 tlgao                  54 Misamis Occidental                                                                                           D * .   ANIDA
11 Isabeia                55 MisarnisOriental                               j
12 Katinga Apayao         56 Surigaodel Norte                                 Babuynst Channel                                            PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
13 Nueva Vizcaya           REGiO1N XI                                                                                     -        ---   REGIONAL BOUNDARIES
14 Outrino                57 Davao                                      3  /
RFGION III                58 Davaodel Sur                                                                                                                                         l ag
1S) Bataan                59 Davao Oriental
1  Bulacan               60 South Cotabato                                           Solana
17 NuevaEcija             61 Surigao delSur                             .        2
18 Pampanga                REGION Xlt                                                                                                  _
19 Tarlac                 62 Lanao det Norte                REGION                           1
20 Zafnbales              63 Lanao del Sur                                                      7
REGION IV                 64 Mar indenao                                      0-       R''.Nl
21 First Reg, District    65 NorthCotabato             San.F.nan           |    .             /
22 Second Reg Ditrict     66 Sultan Kudarat                        5              14
23 Third Reg. District     REGION Xill l                                                                   0           10-;200130(                             400
24 Forth Rg tDistrict    8i7 Batangas                 Ala no        ativdae                                 0           tO1          200          300          40I0l
REGION V                68 Cavite                              7                                                              KILOMETERS
2  Albay                 69 Lagina                          a  ng .                                       0         50         100       1SO       200        250
26 CanarinesNorte          70 Marinduque               Pantqui   /9           0    naI                                              MILES
27 CamnarinesSur           71 Mindoro Occidental               o 2 '   .. Gap
28 Catanduanes            72 Mindoro Orientai            G    Ma          <            RIXlON IV
29 Mmabate                73 Palawan                  RlFO10 II] 1* nFern               Q                                         PHILIPPINE    SEA
30 Sorsogon               74 Ouezon
REGION VI                 75 Rizal
31 Akian                   76 Ronmblon                      Mar          65 
32 Antique                                                  10At,08      i,,,     san              2
33 Capiz                                                                            P.                                                                                            14I
34 Iloilo
3'5 Negros OccidentalRGONl                                                                             27
REGIONYII                                                 REGVt}NIXIl
36 Bohol                                                                                                              F Kyl  REGION V
37 Cebu                                                                                                       25
38 Negos Oriental                                                                      .      -
39 Siquijor                                                                71  72        SIBUYANSEAK   'N              )
REGION V911                                                                  I
40 Eastern Samar        SOUTH    CHINA                                 oJ                                     29
41 Leyte
42 Northem Samar                                                                                                                                   N122
43 Samar                       SEA                                                                        S VS yA  SE    j
44 Southern Leyte                                                                ,/           31\ 7
REGION IV PROVINCES                                                                      ('' /n6
0 i   .    REGIONVI| 32) 34         i     -
23/    |/                               '41J\   f C                                                                    ?,, 
<   22  0y5                               >                                     dey,9lf  LpaHoa,n.  j/'               !   -+ 1
-10 i                                P6-                                                                                                                                 l ag
24 r                                                                                                -     MtLVAAO SEA
y   ,                            s~~~~~~~~           ~         ~        ~~~ul u  SiSA  .RE    Gi,fa   61J
<                                                            St  ra9ayanwd<-oi             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~51 
REGION IN                                52             61
_ po                                                                                       w i (~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~taaa  al -y ba 1  isli
______________________________  Tfohis map has beenpreparedbythe                         Patadian            63            .
World Bank's staff exclusirely for                                             )                   97
CHIA           ftheConveninCeofthe'reads ofI
f /  Xf 7   the repout to which it is attachedt.                    C     b 5                Don<
P  _2~~~~~~~~~~ \/ ~   ~     ~     h denominat5iorns utse tandt the               f                    CtbeSt_            6      Da         Mt 
do not impl, on the part of the                           Mora Gulf     JA         I       /      \ 
rWrdtBank and its affiliates,.ny                                                                              F *  o  REGION Xi
tAlOrIIC OCEAn   judtgtnen on the legal status of                                                          J       GRl
any ltenitory or any endorsement                                             66/  6   -     69
L t I/PR I0PPINES   oracceptance of such boundaries           \                 REGION XII
sor' 510 .  wRAr   ,O                                                                                                           609
lET NAM                                 6                                                                                                                                      60
CELEBES        SEA
MALAYS,IA124Ei
i;tf t/~      NDONESIA       4
1200                         122d                        1240                          1260                             1 






PROVINCES                                       1240 122                                                 124                         lA-
REGION I                   REGION fX                                                                                             PH1LIPfINES
1 Abra                   45 BaNilan
2 Bengiuet               46 Suiut                                                          PROVINCIALCITIESWATERSUPPLYPROJECTII
3 llocos Norte           47 TawiTai                                                       PCP
4 Icos Sur                48 Zambuanga del Norte                                                                        PT
5 La Union               49 Zarnbuaena del Sur                                                                          PROPOSED SUEPROJECT WATER DISTRICTS
S Mountain Province       REGION X                                                                                         S         FIRST PACKAGE                               20Q
7 Pangsinan              50 Agusan del Nofte                                                                               0         SECOND PACKAGE
RFGION 11                 51 Agusan del Sur                                                                                            H
8 Batanes                 52 BuIkidnon                                                                                     *         tHiR  PACKAGE
9 Cagayan                53 CameigJin                                                                                      o         FOURTH PACKAGE
10 ifugao                 54 Misamis Occidental                                (i                                                     STA          PACKAGE
11 Isabela                55 Misarnis OrientaI                                                                                       STANDBYPACKAGE
12 Kalinga Apayao         56 Surigaa del Norte                                                                                __b_y_" Gbannel  PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
13 Nueva Vizcaya           REGION XJ                                            f                                                      E NS
14 Quirino                57 Davao                                                                                                    IEGIONAL BOUNDARIES
REGION lif                5S Davao del Sur                                       /      1s  (8
5 Bataan                  59 Davao Oriental                                         OBhayob  g Solo
16 Bulacan                60 South Cotabato                           umac                                                            ill
17 NuevaEciia              61 SuriegodelSur          *Vigae-unu     t          12 ,                                                   -
18 Pampaneg                REGION XI1                                4                        It                                      if
19 Tarlac                 62 Lanao del Norte                REGION1  
20 Zambeles               63 Lanaodel Sur                   RBEG i1
REGION IV                 64 Maguindanao                   0  aay           i                   H RG[O
21 First RFeg Dlstrict    65 North Cotabato                 Ni   .   2i         ' saraqo
22 Sftond Reg.                                           oN Districtli&  senO                I           II2
22 Second Reig. District  66 Sultan Kudarat                       1  (      13    f4
23 Third Re% District      REGION Xil/                                                                     0            100          200          300          400
24 Fourth Reg. District    67 Batanugas                     n                                   go          I                                                                      16I
REGION V                  68 Cavite                OSenrC' (1o  fiilas,oStnlJo                                                  KILOMETERS
25 Albay                  69 Laguna                                                                         a F                 1         1           0         250
26 CamarinesNorte          70 Marinduque                        -  19                                                               MILES
27 Camarines Sur           71 MindoroOccidenal                          I2r                                                        MILES
28 Catanduanes             72 Mindoro Oriental
29 Masbate                 7PaanOreal                 REGION~Ii                                                                   PHIILIPPINE    SEA
29 191a b_tra73 PalawYan                                      18 ;4g:O   5' 
30 Sorsogon                74 Ciuezon                                         en        >9
REGION VI                 75 Rizal
31 Aklan                   76 Romblon                                                              26
32 Antique                 76 Romlo
33 Capis  zs                                                                                                                                                                      140!
34 IloRailo                                     o                                             ay
35 Negros Oocidentai                                       REGION XIII                  *O.        t       a        e
REGION VtI                                                                       Mgp4eqo7te 
36 Bohol                                                                                                                 , 2ION V
37 Cebu                                                        ~aae
38 Newros Oriental                                                       n1-;             SIBnSA XS> 
39 Siquijor                                                         .           72                     I
REGION VIlI                                             IArr'
40 Eastern Samar        rSOUTr        LHI,t                           -o              1      1ai 7        J                     42 )
41 Leyte.                                                                                              \SOUTH                    alCaHINA  6t1
42 Northern Samar                                                                       1* 43                                                REGION VI2I
43 Samar                       SEA                                                                                                   4       REGIYAN SEAO N  VII
44 Southern Leyte                                                                                                  S                      40
REGION IV PROVINCES                                                        /        Peet40in g                     I    \ 0
REClONVI           rs /                       Fajompun
-t0<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                                                        E2a  r salant             41    L a
22                                                                        Pn
21f
\ j   /  /                         SGttJ   SEA               ~~~~~~~~RFGJONI                       t       -         6 
SV L U    SEA
P-                                                                 f       I  \    A      r RE(llON .S           .  gR Ex  5
REI;I()N    an       62 ( _b4jJ    /653.  
This MnAP has been preoPlad by the                                         <   63
CHINA                                     the convenience of the raders of
the reprct to which it is attached.
T  hedeno,ninations used and the          -f                                             &5
85~~~~~~~~~~~~~d ntontimply, on thoen Prtea of theist                                                           4      ?        /     )>
lET            yWrCnF7 do                        snk and tt5 sffdNnf anY Wt                               / B4 n ad it  fsn&vtes                       REGION XT               50
"}'CIFIC OCt.v    j:' udgSment on the legal strttus of                                                                 Da         R -  -IN X  r5I
>        I                        ~~~~~~~~~~anr tenfriortyrv ny endorsement       rfJ6                                      _13     U   j 
H\ 50977 W ILIPPINES  oracceptance of such botdnes.                              /REC    XII                                                              O
CfELfEBES      SEA
MALAYSIA[ 
n           R          sn3   i 51   4   a          120                         1220                         1240                         1260                                (0



