CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUNBER 920 PR
LOAN NUMBER 1710 PR
Project Agreement
(Second Provincial Cities Water Supply Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
LOCAL WATER UTILITIES ADMINISTRATION
Dated June 27, 1979


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 920 PH
LOAN NUMBER 1710 PH
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 27, 1979, between INTERNATIONAL DEVEL-
OPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association), INTERNA-
TIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called
the Bank) and LOCAL WATER UTILITIES ADMINISTRATION (hereinafter
called LWUA).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between Republic of the Philippines (hereinafter called
the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to
make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to twenty-two million dollars ($22,000,000), on the
terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agree-
ment, but only on condition that LWUA agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Association as are hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Borrower and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available
to the Borrower an. amount in various currencies equivalent to
sixteen million dollars ($16,000,000), on the terms and conditions
set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that LWUA
agree to undertake such obligations towards the Bank as are
hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and LWUA, part of the proceeds of the credit
provided for under the Development Credit Agreement and the pro-
ceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be
made available to LWUA on the terms and conditions therein set
forth; and
WHEREAS LWUA, in consideration of the Association's and the
Bank's entering into the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan
Agreement, respectively, with the Borrower, has agreed to under-
take the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in


﻿r                                                                         I
-2-
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
applicable thereto, and in the Loan Agreement and in the General
Conditions applicable thereto, have the respective meanings
therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) LWUA shall carry out Parts A and B of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agree-
ment with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and public
utility practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
(b) LWUA shall relend to each Water District included in the
Project, the proceeds of the Loan and the Credit relent to LWUA by
the Borrower under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, together with
the fundr in the Borrower 's currency required for carrying out
Part A of the Project in each such Water District under agreements
to be entered into between LWUA and each such Water District,
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the
Association and the Bank and which shall include, inter alia,
provisions whereby each such Water District: (i) agrees that LWUA
carry out the Sub-project in the said Water District on behalf of
the said Water District; and (ii) authorizes LWUA to perform all
acts necessary or appropriate to enable LWUA to carry out the
Sub-project in such Water District.
(c) The eligibility, preparation, review and appraisal
design of each Sub-project to be carried out in the Water Dis-
tricts shall be in accordaice with criteria acceptable to the
Association and the Bank.
Section 2.02. In order to assist LWUA in the preparation of
feasibility studies, detailed design, supervision of construction
and the review of sub-projects, LWUA shall, as may be determined
by the Borrower, the Association and the Bank, employ engineering
and management consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association and the Bank.


﻿-3-
Section 2.03. Except as the Association and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan,
shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to this
Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) LWUA undertakes to insure, c!r make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan relent to it by
the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition, trans-
portation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installa-
tion, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by LWUA to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association and the Bank may otherwise
agree, LWUA shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan relent to it by the Bor-
rower to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) LWUA shall furnish to the Association and
the Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifi-
cations, reports, contract documents and construction and procure-
ment schedules for Parts A and B of the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association and the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) LWUA: (i) shall maintain records and procedures adequate
to record and monitor the progress of Parts A and B of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and the Loan relent to it by the Borrower, and to
disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation
upon the provisions of paragraph (d) of this Section, enable, and
cause each Water District to enable, the -Association's and the
Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facilities and con-
struction sites included in the Project and to examine the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan and any
relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Association and the Bank at regular intervals all such information
as the Association and the Bank shall reasonably request concern-
ing the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to
be derived from it, the expenditures of such proceeds and the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds.


﻿(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose among the Associa-
tion, the Bank and LWUA, LWUA shall prepare and furnish to the
Association and the Bank a report, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association and the Bank shall reasonably request,
on the execution and initial operation of Parts A and B of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by LWUA, the Association and the Bank of their
respective obligations under the Project Agreement, the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreerent, and the accomplish-
ment of the purposes of the Credit and the Loan.
(d) LWUA shall enable, and cause each Water District to
enable, the Association's and the Bank's representatives to exam-
ine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property
and equipment of LWUA and of each Water District and any relevant
records and documents.
Section 2.06. LWUA shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association and
the Bank shall otherwise agree, LWUA shall not take or concur in
any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provi-
sion thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) LWUA shall at the request of the Associa-
tion and the Bank, exchange views with the Association and the
Bank with regard to the progress of Parts A and B of the Project,
the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to the
purposes of the Credit and the Loan.
(b) LWUA shall promptly inform the Association and the Bank
of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with
the progress of Parts A and B of the Project, the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Credit and the Loan.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of
LWUA and Water Districts
Section 3.01. LWUA shall, and shall cause each Water District
to, at all times carry on its operations, manage its affairs, plan


﻿-5-
its future development and maintain its organization and its
financial position all in accordance with appropriate public
utility, financial and administrative practices and under the
supervision of experienced and competent management.
Section 3.02. LWUA shall: (i) afford the Association and the
Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment on the qualifications and
experience of the proposed appointee to the position of its
General Manager in the event that such position becomes vacant;
and (ii) consult with the Association and the Bank prior to making
any major changes in its organizational structure.
Section 3.03. (a) In order to handle its increasing volume of
lending operations more efficiently, LWUA shall formulate and
furnish to the Association and the Bank by January 31, 1980, for
their comments, an action program for LWUA's policies and proce-
dures for billing and collections.
(b)   LWUA shall establish procedures satisfactory to the
Association and the Bank for making provisions for bad debts.
Section 3.04. LWUA shall cause each Water District to operate
and maintain its plants, equipment and property and promptly make
all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, in accordance with
sound engineering and public utilities practices.    V
Section 3.05. LWUA shall cause each Water District to take
out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make other provi-
sions satisfactory to the Association and the Bank for, insurance
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
appropriate practice.
Section 3.06. LWUA shall, and shall cause each Water District
to, maintain its existence and right to carry on its operations
and take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all
rights, privileges and franchises which are necessary or useful in
the conduct of its business.
Section 3.07. LWUA shall, by June 30, 1980, complete the
formation of about 50 Water Districts to carry out Sub-projects
under the Project.
E


﻿-6-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. LWUA shall, and shall cause each Water District
to, maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance with con-
sistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its opera-
tions and financial condition.
Section 4.02. (a) LWUA shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association and
the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Association and the Bank as soon as
available, but in any case not later than six months after the end
of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial state-
ments for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such.audit
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Associa-
tion and the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Association and the Bank such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of LWUA and the
audit thereof as the Association and the Bank shall from time to
time reasonably request.
(b) LWUA shall cause each Water District to: (i) have
its accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements
of income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to LWUA;
and (ii) furnish to LWUA as soon as available, but in any case not
later than six months after the end of each such year, certified
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association and the Bank may
otherwise agree, LWUA shall cause each Water District to take all
steps necessary to set and maintain its tariffs with a view of
providing revenues sufficient to produce an annual rate of return
on the value of such Water District's average net fixed assets in
operation as follows:
(i) in the third year after start of construction: 3%;
(ii) increasing to 4%, 5%, 6% and 7%, respectively,
in each succeeding year; and
(iii) 8% thereafter.


﻿-                     -  7  -
-7-
(b) For the purpose of this Section:
(i) The annual rate of return shall be calculated by
relating the operating income for the year in
question to the average of the value of the net
fixed assets of the Water District in operation at
the beginning and at the end of each year.
(ii) The term "value of net fixed assets in operation"
shall mean the gross book value of such assets,
less the amount of accumulated depreciation, as
such value shall be revalued from time to time in
accordance with methods of valuation acceptable
to the Bank.
(iii) The term "operating income" shall mean the differ-
ence between:
(A) gross operating revenue accruing from the
Water District's services; and
(B) operating and administration expenses (includ-
ing taxes, if any), adequate maintenance and
depreciation but excluding interest and other
charges on debt.
Section 4.04. LWUA shall cause each Water District included
in Part A of the Project to: (i) carry out an annual review of the
rate structure and level of its tariffs; (ii) furnish such review
to the Association and the Bank for their comments, not later than
October 1 in each year; and (iii) implement, taking into account
the comments of the Association and the Bank, the findings of such
review by January 1 of the following year.
Section 4.05. (a) Except as the Association and the Bank
shall otherwise agree, LWUA shall ensure that: (i) during the
construction period of a Sub-project in any Water District, such
Water District shall not undertake any major capital expenditures
other than those included in the Sub-project; and (ii) after
completion of Sub-project in such Water District, such Water
District shall not incur any long-term debt if its net revenues
for the fiscal year next preceding such incurrence or for a later
twelve-month period ended prior to such incurrence, whichever
amount is the greater, shall be less than 1.3 times the maximum
debt service requirements on all long-term indebtedness (including
the debt to be incurred) in any succeeding fiscal year.


﻿- 8 -
(b) LWUA shall not incur any debt if such debt would raise
LWUA's long-term debt-equity ratio to more than 3:1.
For the purposes of this Section:
(i) "long-term debt" means any debt maturing more than
one year after the date on which it is originally
incurred;
(ii) debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
loan contract or agreement (including the Loan and
Development Credit Agreements) on the date such
debt becomes outstanding and repayable in accor-
dance with the loan contract, agreement or other
instrument providing for such debt, and (B) under
a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
providing for such guarantee is entered into, but
only to the extent that the underlying guaranteed
debt is outstanding;
(iii) the term "net revenues" means gross revenues from
operations adjusted to take account of tariffs in
effect at the time of incurrence of the debt even
though they were not in effect during the twelve
consecutive months to which such revenues related,
less operating, administrative and overhead expen-
ses, including adequate maintenance expenses and
provision for taxes, if any, but before provision
for depreciation, interest and other charges on
debt;
(iv) the term "debt service requirements" means the
aggregate amount of amortization (including sinking
fund payments, if any), interest and other charges
on debt;
(v) whenever it shall be necessary to value in the
currency of the Borrower debt payable by LWUA or
any of the Water Districts in another currency,
such valuation shall be made on the basis of the
rate of exchange at which such other currency is
obtainable by LWUA, at the time such valuation is
made, for the purposes of servicing such debt or,
if such other currency is not so obtainable, at the
rate of exchange that will be reasonably determined
by the Association and the Bank; and


﻿-9-
(vi)  the term "major capital expenditure" means a
capital expenditure equivalent to 20% or more of
the Sub-project.
Section 4.06. LWUA shall consult with the Association and the
Bank prior to making any modifications in its financial policies.
Section 4.07. LWUA shall cause each Water District to estab-
lish realistic values for its assets and to maintain records ade-
quate to reflect the nature, quantity and location of such assets.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement and
the Loan Agreement become effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association, the Bank and of LWUA thereunder shall terminate
on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
and the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accor-
dance with their respective terms; or
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agree-
ment terminate in accordance with their respective terms before
the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the
Association and the Bank shall promptly notify LWUA of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan
Agreement.


﻿10-
ARTICLE Vi
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be, deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have des-
ignated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDE VAS
Washington, D.C.
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C- 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
'kl.


﻿II
~4
- 11 -
For LWUA:
Local Water Utilities Administration
NIA Building (7th Floor)
E. Delos Santos Avenue
Quezon City
Philipplines
Cable address:
LOCAL WATER
Quezon City
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of LWUA may be taken or executed by the
General Manager or such other person or persons as LWUA shall
designate in writing, and LWUA shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen
signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. As long as the Bank has not given notice to the
contrary to LWUA and s long a& the Development Credit Agreement
shall not have terminated prior to the termination of the Loan
Agreement: (a) the obligations of LWUA to consult with, and to
furnish information, documents, plans, reports, records and
statements to the Bank shall be satisfied to the extent performance
in respect of such obligations is rendered to the Association; (b)
the obligations of the Bank to consult with, and to furnish
information to LWUA shall be satisfied to the extent such obli-
gations are fulfilled by the Association; and (c) all actions
taken (including the giving of approvals or the granting of
waivers) by the Association pursuant to the Development Credit
Agreement shall be deemed to be taken pursuant to both the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement and ;-.e Loan Agreement and in the name and
on behalf of both the Association and the Bank.
Section 6.03. This Agredident may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.
~-*.-~*-  .Eli*-


﻿-12-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By 1sf S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVEOPMENT
By Is/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
LOCAL WATER UTILITIES ADMINISTRATION
By /s/ Eduardo Z. Romualdez
Authorized Representative


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Goods and civil works in respect of the Sub-project to be
carried out in Iloilo Water District shall be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with
those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977
(hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, LWUA shall prepare and forward to
the Association and the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Association
and the Bank shall reasonably request; the Association will
arrange for the publication of such notice in order to provide
timely notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to
bid for the goods and works in question. LWIJA shall provide the
necessary information to update such notice annually so long as
any goods or works remain to be procured on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding.
3.   Bidders for the works referred to in Part A.1 of this Sched-
ule shall be prequalified as described in Paragraph 1.3 of Part
A of the Guidelines.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to LWUA of inland freight and
other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the
place of their use or installation shall be included.


﻿-14-
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
the Philippines may be granted a margin of preference in accor-
dance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
the Philippines if the bidder shall have estab-
lished to the satisfaction of LWUA and the Associa-
tion that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in the Philippines equal to
at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such
goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in the Philippines.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such


﻿- 15 -
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of Part C hereof
and except for contracts referred to in Part A.1 of this Schedule,
contracts for goods and civil works may be let on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance with proce-
dures acceptable to the Association and the Bank.
2.   Contracts for equipment and materials required for the public
education program, carrying out public hearings, training and
urgently required items, estimated to cost the equivalent of
$15,000 or less, may be let in accordance with the standard
procurement procedures of LWUA acceptable to the Association and
the Bank provided, that, the total amount of such equipment and
materials shall not exceed the equivalent of $100,000 under Parts
A and B of the Project and the equivalent of $20,000 under Parts C
and D of the Project.
3.   For bidding purposes, works for each Water District included
in the Project shall form a seperate contract.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts under Parts A and B of the Project:
Except as otherwise notified by the Association and the
Bank, with respect to all contracts:
(a) Before bids are invited, LWUA shall furnish to the
Association and the Bank, for their comments, the text of the
invitations to bid and the specifications and other bidding
documents, together with a description of the advertising pro-
cedures to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such
modifications in the said documents or procedures as the Associ-
ation and the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further modifica-
tion to the bidding documents shall require the Association's and
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.


﻿-16                                           j
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, LWUA
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association and the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it
intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Association
and the Bank, in sufficient time for their review, a detailed
report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and
such other information as the Association and the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Association and the Bank shall, if they
determine that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform LWUA and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's and the Bank's concurrence, materially
differ from those on which bids were asked or prequalification
invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association and the Bank promptly after its execution and
prior to the submission to the Association and the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
and the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, LWUA shall furnish to the Association and the Bank,
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association and the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Credit Account and the Loan Account in respect
of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together
with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for
award and such other information as the Association and the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Association and the Bank shall, if
they determine that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform LWUA and
state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract
by more than 25% of the original price, LWUA. shall inform the
Association and the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver
and the reasons therefor. The Association and the Bank, if they
determine that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provi-
sions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform LWUA and state the
reasons for their determination.


