Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2917 MA
             (Second FELCRA Land Development Project)
                              between
                             MALAYSIA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                       Dated April 11, 1988
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2917 MA
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated  April  11,  1988,  between  MALAYSIA  (the
Borrower)   and   INTERNATIONAL   BANK   FOR   RECONSTRUCTION  AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the  Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project;
     (B)  the Project will  be  carried  out  by  the Federal Land
Consolidation  and  Rehabilitation  Authority  (FELCRA)  with  the
Borrower's  assistance  and,  as  part  of  such  assistance,  the
Borrower will make available to FELCRA the proceeds of the Loan as
provided in this Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions  set  forth  in  this  Agreement  and  in  the  Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and FELCRA;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.O2.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and FELCRA of even date herewith,  as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such  term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement; and
     (b)  "FELCRA"  means  the   Federal  Land  Consolidation  and
Rehabilitation  Authority  established  under  the  National  Land
Rehabilitation and Consolidation  Authority (Incorporation) Act of
1966, as amended.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.O1. The Bank  agrees  to  lend  to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the Loan
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to sixty-six
million dollars ($66,000,000).
     Section 2.02. The amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance  with  the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement for expenditures made  (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect  of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project  described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date  shall be December 31, 1991 or
such later  date  as  the  Bank  shall  establish.  The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of  the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one-
half of one percent per annum  above the Cost of Qualified Borrow-
ings for the last  Semester  ending  prior  to the commencement of
such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank  shall  notify  the  Borrower  of  the  Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest  Period"   means   the  six-month  period
               commencing on each  date  specified in Section 2.06
               of this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
Page  3
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.08. FELCRA is  designated  as representative of the
Borrower  for  the  purposes  of  taking  any  action  required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other  obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall
cause FELCRA to perform in  accordance  with the provisions of the
Project Agreement all the obligations of FELCRA therein set forth,
shall take or cause  to  be  taken  all action, including the pro-
vision  of  funds,  facilities,   services  and  other  resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable  FELCRA to perform such obliga-
tions, and shall not take or  permit  to be taken any action which
would prevent or interfere with such performance. To that end, the
Borrower and  the  Bank  shall  annually  agree  on  FELCRA's work
program and its funding for the following fiscal year.
     (b)  The Borrower shall make the  proceeds of the Loan avail-
able to FELCRA,  upon  terms  and  conditions  satisfactory to the
Bank.
     Section 3.02.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the  provisions  of Schedule 1 to the Project
Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the  General  Conditions  (relating  to  insurance, use of
goods and  services,  plans  and  schedules,  records and reports,
maintenance and land  acquisition,  respectively) shall be carried
out by FELCRA pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
     Section 3.04.  The  Borrower  shall  cause  the  Public Works
Department  (Jabatan  Kerja  Raya)  to  timely  employ  staff  and
resources in  adequate  numbers  and  quantities  for  the design,
construction  and  engineering  supervision  of  roads  under  the
Project.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) For all  expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from  the  Loan  Account  were  made  on  the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be  maintained in accordance
               with  sound   accounting   practices,  records  and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  ensure  that   all   records   (contracts,  orders,
               invoices,  bills,  receipts  and  other  documents)
Page  4
               evidencing such expenditures  are retained until at
               least one  year  after  the  Bank  has received the
               audit report for the fiscal  year in which the last
               withdrawal from the Loan Account was made; and
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph (a) (i) of  this  Section for each fiscal
               year  audited,   in   accordance  with  appropriate
               auditing   principles   consistently   applied,  by
               independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later  than  nine months after the end
               of each such year the  report of such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope  and  in such detail as the
               Bank shall have  reasonably  requested, including a
               separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
               statements  of  expenditure  submitted  during such
               fiscal  year,  together  with  the  procedures  and
               internal controls  involved  in  their preparation,
               can  be  relied   upon   to   support  the  related
               withdrawals; and
        (iii)  furnish to  the  Bank  such  other information con-
               cerning said  records  and  accounts  and the audit
               thereof  as  the  Bank  shall  from  time  to  time
               reasonably request.
                             ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  FELCRA shall have failed  to  perform any of its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement.
     (b)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the  Loan  Agreement,  an  extraordinary  situation  shall have
arisen which shall make it improbable  that FELCRA will be able to
perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (c)  The  National  Land   Rehabilitation  and  Consolidation
Authority (Incorporation) Act  of  1966,  as  amended  to the date
hereof, shall  have  been  further  amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so  as  to  affect materially and adversely the
ability of FELCRA  to  perform  any  of  its obligations under the
Project Agreement.
     (d)  The Borrower or any  other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any  action  for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of FELCRA or for the suspension of its operations.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the event specified in paragraph  (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall  occur  and  shall  continue  for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall  have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower; and
     (b)  the  events  specified  in  paragraphs  (c)  and  (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
Page  5
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  6.01.  The   following   events   are  specified  as
additional conditions to the  effectiveness  of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  arrangements have been made to  make the proceeds of the
Loan available to FELCRA  in  accordance  with Section 3.01 (b) of
this Agreement; and
     (b)  the Project Agreement on behalf  of FELCRA has been duly
authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action.
     Section 6.02. The  following  is  specified  as an additional
matter, within the meaning  of  Section  12.02  (c) of the General
Conditions, to  be  included  in  the  opinion  or  opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Project Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by FELCRA, and is legally binding upon
FELCRA in accordance with its terms.
     Section 6.03. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The Minister  of  Finance or Deputy Minister of
Finance of the  Borrower  is  designated  as representative of the
Borrower  for  the  purposes  of  Section  11.03  of  the  General
Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          The Treasury
          Jalan Duta
          50592 Kuala Lumpur
          Malaysia
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               TREASURY                          MA 30242
               Kuala Lumpur                      MA 32369
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64l45 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    MALAYSIA
Page  6
                    By /s/ Albert S. Talalla
                                         Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of  the  Loan  to  each  Category  and  the  percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in       Expenditures
    Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)  Works for:
     (a)  Land clearance,       42,300,000     35%
          planting and
          crop main-
          tenance
     (b)  Palm oil mills         4,300,000     40%
     (c)  Infrastructure        11,100,000     60%
(2)  Vehicles and                8,100,000     100% of foreign
     equipment                                 expenditures,
     (including                                100% of local
     palm oil mills                            expenditures,
     equipment)                                (ex-factory) and
                                               75% of local
                                               expenditures
                                               for other items
                                               procured locally
(3)  Consultants'                  200,000     100%
     services and
     training
                                __________
          TOTAL                 66,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
Page  7
3.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals  shall  be  made  in  respect  of  payments  made  for
expenditures prior to  the  date  of  this  Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate  amount  not exceeding the equivalent
of $5,000,000,  may  be  made  on  account  of  payments  made for
expenditures before that date but after June 30, 1987.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project  are  to increase the level and
efficiency of agricultural production,  and to improve the incomes
and living conditions of rural households.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower  and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
     Planting,  under  group  farming  arrangements,  of  idle and
unproductive lands with oil palm, rubber and other crops.
Part B:
     Maintenance during development of planted crops.
Part C:
     Construction  of  roads,   staff   quarters,  offices,  other
buildings, and associated utilities.
Part D
     Design, construction  and  supervision  of  four FELCRA State
offices.
Part E:
     Design, construction and supervision and commissioning of two
palm oil mills with  the  aggregate  rated  capacity of 60 tons of
fresh oil palm fruit bunch per hour.
Part F:
     Design, construction and  supervision  of  a central training
center, and upgrading of  a  training  center for FELCRA staff and
farmers.
Part G:
     Strengthening  FELCRA   management   and   operation  through
provision  of  equipment,   vehicles,  technical  assistance,  and
training.
                        *     *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1990.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                           Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (Expressed in dollars)*
On each April 15 and October 15
Page  8
     beginning October 15, 1991
     through   April 15, 2003                     2,750,000
_______________________
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
     The following  premiums  are  specified  for  the purposes of
Section 3.O4 (b) of the General Conditions:
    Time of Prepayment                          Premium
                                         The  interest  rate  (ex-
                                         pressed  as  a percentage
                                         per annum)  applicable to
                                         the  balance  outstanding
                                         on the Loan on the day of
                                         prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                            0.20
     before maturity
More than three years but                            0.40
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                              0.73
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity
More than eleven years but not                       0.87
     more than thirteen years
     before maturity
More than thirteen years                             1.00
     before maturity
