Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             LOAN NUMBER 2917 MA
             (Second FELCRA Land Development Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
                  FEDERAL LAND CONSOLIDATION AND
                     REHABILITATION AUTHORITY
                       Dated  April 11, 1988
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2917 MA
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated April  11,  1988, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND  DEVELOPMENT  (the  Bank)  and FEDERAL LAND
CONSOLIDATION AND REHABILITATION AUTHORITY (FELCRA).
     WHEREAS by the Loan  Agreement  of even date herewith between
Malaysia (the Borrower) and the Bank,  the Bank has agreed to make
available to the Borrower  an  amount  in various currencies equi-
valent to sixty-six  million  dollars  ($66,000,000), on the terms
and conditions  set  forth  in  the  Loan  Agreement,  but only on
condition that FELCRA agree  to  undertake such obligations toward
the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement; and
     WHEREAS FELCRA, in consideration  of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the  Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
Page  2
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in the  Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this
Agreement and the  General  Conditions  (as  so  defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section  2.01.  FELCRA   declares   its   commitment  to  the
objectives of the Project as set  forth  in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement, and, to this end, shall  carry out the Project with due
diligence  and  efficiency  and  in  conformity  with  appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and agricultural practices,
and shall provide, or  cause  to  be provided, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services  and  other resources required for
the Project.
     Section 2.02.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall  be  governed  by  the  provisions  of  Schedule  1  to this
Agreement.
     Section 2.03.  FELCRA  shall  carry  out  the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.04,  9.05,  9.06,  9.07,  9.08 and 9.09 of the
General  Conditions  (relating  to  insurance,  use  of  goods and
services, plans and  schedules,  records  and reports, maintenance
and land  acquisition,  respectively)  in  respect  of the Project
Agreement.
     Section 2.04. (a) FELCRA shall,  at  the request of the Bank,
exchange views  with  the  Bank  with  regard  to  progress of the
Project, the performance of  its obligations under this Agreement,
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
     (b)  FELCRA shall promptly inform  the  Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens  to  interfere  with the progress of
the Project, the accomplishment  of  the  purposes of the Loan, or
the performance by FELCRA of its obligations under this Agreement.
     Section  2.05.  FELCRA  shall,  in  accordance  with  systems
satisfactory to the Bank, by December 31, 1988:
     (a)  operate computerized settler loan accounts; and
     (b)  monitor and update land development costs.
                            ARTICLE III
                Management and Operations of FELCRA
     Section  3.01.  FELCRA  shall  carry  on  its  operations and
conduct  its  affairs  in  accordance  with  sound administrative,
financial,  engineering  and   agricultural  practices  under  the
supervision of qualified  and  experienced  management assisted by
competent staff.
     Section 3.02. FELCRA shall at  all times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and  other property, and from time
to time,  promptly  as  needed,  make  all  necessary  repairs and
renewals  thereof,  all  in  accordance  with  sound  engineering,
financial and management practices.
     Section 3.03. FELCRA shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make  other  provision satisfactory to the Bank
for, insurance against such risks and  in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.
Page  3
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) FELCRA  shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in  accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
     (b)  FELCRA shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (statements  of  income  and  expenses  and related
               statements)  for  each   fiscal  year  audited,  in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later  than  nine months after the end
               of each  such  year,  (A)  certified  copies of its
               financial statements for  such  year  as so audited
               and (B) the report  of  such audit by said auditors
               of such scope and in  such detail as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to  the  Bank  such  other information con-
               cerning  said   records,   accounts  and  financial
               statements as well  as  the  audit  thereof, as the
               Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
     Section 5.O2. This Agreement and  all obligations of the Bank
and of FELCRA thereunder shall terminate  on the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate  in  accordance with its terms, and
the Bank shall promptly notify FELCRA thereof.
     Section 5.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or  at  such  other  address  as  such  party shall have
designated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
Page  4
                INTBAFRAD                      440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
     For FELCRA:
          Federal Land Consolidation
              and Rehabilitation Authority
          P.O. Box 12254
          50772 Kuala Lumpur
          Malaysia
          Cable address:                    Telex:
               FELCRA                       MA 31789
               Kuala Lumpur
     Section 6.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of  FELCRA,  may  be  taken or executed by the
Director General or such other  person  or persons as the Director
General shall designate in  writing,  and  FELCRA shall furnish to
the  Bank   sufficient   evidence   of   the   authority  and  the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 6.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts,  each  of  which  shall  be  an  original,  and  all
collectively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                    FEDERAL LAND CONSOLIDATION AND
                      REHABILITATION AUTHORITY
                    By /s/ Albert S. Talalla
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Palm  oil  mills  (and   their  installation),  vehicles  and
computers shall be procured  under contracts awarded in accordance
with procedures consistent with those  set forth in Sections I and
II of the "Guidelines  for  Procurement  under  IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
Page  5
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof,  goods manufactured in Malaysia may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   (a)  Contracts for  land  clearing,  planting  and crop main-
tenance, and for construction works may be awarded on the basis of
local competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
     (b)  Crop maintenance by  scheme  participants may be carried
out on the basis of procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
     (c)  Contracts for planting of  small schemes in remote areas
estimated to cost less than the  equivalent of $40,000 each may be
awarded in accordance with procedures  satisfactory to the Bank on
the basis of bids  from  at  least five contractors eligible under
the Guidelines.
2.   (a)  Contracts for equipment estimated  to cost less than the
equivalent of $1,000,000 in the  aggregate,  may be awarded on the
basis of local competitive  bidding procedures satisfactory to the
Bank.
     (b)  Miscellaneous items  grouped  in  packages  estimated to
cost less than the equivalent of  $50,000 per package and up to an
aggregate amount not exceeding the  equivalent of $900,000, may be
procured in accordance with  the Borrower's procurement procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
     Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each contract awarded in accordance with
the procedures described in  Part  A  hereof,  and with respect to
each contract estimated to  cost  the  equivalent of $2,500,000 or
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1
to the Guidelines shall apply.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  on  the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall  be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (a) (ii) of the Loan Agreement.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist FELCRA in carrying out the Project, FELCRA
shall  employ  consultants  whose  qualifications,  experience and
terms and conditions of  employment  shall  be satisfactory to the
Bank.  Such  consultants  shall  be  selected  in  accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of
the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank  as  Executing Agency" published by the Bank
in August 1981.
