                   INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET
                           APPRAISAL STAGE

I. Basic Information
Date prepared/updated: 08/09/2011                                   Report No.: AC6486
1. Basic Project Data
Country: Tunisia                             Project ID: P127212
Project Name: Participatory Service Delivery for Reintegration
Task Team Leader: Hebatalla Abdelhamid Elgazzar
Estimated Appraisal Date: June 23, 2011      Estimated Board Date: September 30, 2011
Managing Unit: MNSHD                         Lending Instrument: Specific Investment
                                             Loan
Sector: Health (40%);Vocational training (30%);Other social services (30%)
Theme: Other human development (100%)
SPF Amount (US$m):               0.00
GEF Amount (US$m.):              0.00
PCF Amount (US$m.):              0.00
Other financing amounts by source:
         Borrower                                                       0.00
         State and Peace Building Fund                                  5.00
                                                                        5.00
Environmental Category: C - Not Required
Repeater []
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery)
                                                                  Yes [ ]     No [X]
or OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies)

2. Project Objectives
The project development objective of the Tunisia Participatory Service Delivery for
Reintegration (PSD) Project is to pilot participatory approaches to employment
generation through a cash-for-service program for vulnerable Tunisian households. The
program encompasses the financing of subprojects focusing on meeting social needs by
improving service delivery at the local level. The project contributes to: (i) fostering
social cohesion and stabilization among disadvantaged populations following the January
2011 revolution, and (ii) mitigating the socioeconomic risks faced by Tunisians returnees
fleeing Libyan civil strife and by Tunisian communities near the border with Libya
affected by depressed cross-border trade and commerce.

3. Project Description
The following components are proposed:

  A. Pilot Local Service Delivery Sub-Projects (US$4.3M):
  This component finances wages and consultant services under sub-projects that create
job opportunities in basic social service delivery, managed by the Implementing Agency
(IA), the Union Tunisienne de la Solidarite Sociale (UTSS).
 B. Local Service Delivery Sub-Project Training (US$0.43M): This component
supports Component A and would finance consultant services and goods for training and
skills development for workers and technical assistance to sub-project teams and local
government.

 C. Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation (US$0.27M): This component
would finance consultant services, goods and office equipment and supplies for the PIU
of the UTSS for day to day management and monitoring of the project. It would support
evaluating the performance of sub-projects, including periodic interim and final
evaluations. The PIU would be staffed by UTSS staff as well as consultants hired
through the proposed project for additional support.

4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard
analysis
This project will target the regions bordering Libya of Tataouine and Medenine.

5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists
   Mr Maged Mahmoud Hamed (MNSEN)

6. Safeguard Policies Triggered                               Yes         No
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01)                                     X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                             X
Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                      X
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                 X
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11)                                  X
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10)                                           X
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                     X
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                               X
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP 7.50)                          X
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60)                                   X

II. Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project.
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts:
N/A

2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area:
N/A

3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize
adverse impacts.
N/A
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described.
No social or environmental safeguards will be triggered. Nonetheless, criteria will be
described in the OM and applied during implementation by means of a screening process
to ensure that sub-projects financed by the grant will not trigger World Bank
environmental or social safeguards.

5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
N/A



B. Disclosure Requirements Date
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other:
  Was the document disclosed prior to appraisal?
  Date of receipt by the Bank
  Date of "in-country" disclosure
  Date of submission to InfoShop
  For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive
  Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process:
  Was the document disclosed prior to appraisal?
  Date of receipt by the Bank
  Date of "in-country" disclosure
  Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework:
  Was the document disclosed prior to appraisal?
  Date of receipt by the Bank
  Date of "in-country" disclosure
  Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:
  Was the document disclosed prior to appraisal?
  Date of receipt by the Bank
  Date of "in-country" disclosure
  Date of submission to InfoShop
* If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources,
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental
Assessment/Audit/or EMP.
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please
explain why:
N/A
  C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the
  ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting)

  The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information
  Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank’s       N/A
  Infoshop?
  Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a       N/A
  form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected
  groups and local NGOs?
  All Safeguard Policies
  Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities    N/A
  been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard
  policies?
  Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project   N/A
  cost?
  Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the           N/A
  monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies?
  Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the             N/A
  borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal
  documents?


  D. Approvals

Signed and submitted by:                             Name                          Date
Task Team Leader:                   Ms Hebatalla Abdelhamid Elgazzar             08/08/2011
Environmental Specialist:
Social Development Specialist
Additional Environmental and/or
Social Development Specialist(s):

Approved by:
Sector Manager:                     Mr Enis Baris                                08/08/2011
  Comments:
