                                                Document of
                                               The World Bank




                                                                Report No: ICR00003568



                IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                  (TF-11069)



                                              ON A

                                         TRUST FUND

                              IN THE AMOUNT OF US MILLION
                               (US$ 5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                              TO THE

                                    REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA

                                              FOR A

                         STATE AND PEACEBUILDING FUND (SPF)

         PARTICIPATORY SERVICE DELIVERY FOR REINTEGRATION PROJECT



                                       September 30, 2015




Social Protection and Labor Global Practice
Middle East and North Africa Region
                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective August 21, 2015)

                      Currency Unit = Tunisian Dinar (TND)
                              TND 1.00 = US$ 0.52
                             US$ 1.00 = TND 1.93

                                 FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1 - December 31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS




ALMP Labor Market Programs
CBT Central Bank of Tunisia
CSO Civil Service Organization
DPL    Development Policy Loan
FM     Financial Management
G2P    Government to People Payment
GOT    Government of Tunisia
IA   Implementation Agency
ISR  Implementation Status & Results report
M&E Monitoring and Evaluation
MENA Middle East and North Africa
MEVT Ministry of Employment and Vocational Training
MoSA Ministry of Social Affairs
PAD Project Appraisal Document
PDO Project Development Objective
PIU  Project Implementation Unit
PNAFN National Assistance for Needy Families Program
SPF  State and Peace-Building Fund
TND Tunisian Dinar
UTSS Union Tunisienne de la Solidarité Sociale




                                       ii
             Vice President: Hafez Ghanem
           Country Director: Marie Francoise Marie-Nelly
Sr. Global Practice Director: Arup Banerji
          Practice Manager: Yasser El-Gammal
       Project Team Leader: Heba Elgazzar
         ICR Team Leaders: Amr Moubarak and Suzanne Essama




                            iii
                                           TUNISIA
                              State and Peacebuilding Fund (SPF)
                    Participatory Service Delivery for Reintegration Project


                                                       CONTENTS
Data Sheet
  A. Basic Information....................................................................................................... v
  B. Key Dates ................................................................................................................... v
  C. Ratings Summary ....................................................................................................... v
  D. Sector and Theme Codes .......................................................................................... vi
  E. Bank Staff .................................................................................................................. vi
  F. Results Framework Analysis .................................................................................... vii
  G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs .................................................................... x
  H. Restructuring (if any) ................................................................................................. x
  I. Disbursement Profile ................................................................................................. xi

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 11
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 17
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 17
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 19
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Grantee/Implementing Agencies/Donors .............. 20

  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 21
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 24
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 25
  Annex 4. Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ....... 27
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 28
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 30
  Annex 7. Summary of Grantee's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ........................ 31
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 33
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 41
  Annex 10. Country Map ............................................................................................... 41




                                                                iv
                                        TUNISIA
                           State and Peacebuilding Fund (SPF)
                 Participatory Service Delivery for Reintegration Project


                                       DATA SHEET

A. Basic Information
                                                                           Participatory Service
Country:                Tunisia                  Project Name:             Delivery for
                                                                           Reintegration SPF
Project ID:             P127212                  L/C/TF Number(s):         TF-11069
ICR Date:               08/18/2015               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                           REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                      Grantee:
                                                                           TUNISIA
Original Total
                        USD 5.00M                Disbursed Amount:         USD 4.76 M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 5.00M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Union Tunisienne de la Solidarité Sociale
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process              Date               Process            Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:        05/23/2011     Effectiveness:                               10/03/2012
Appraisal:             06/23/2011     Restructuring(s):                            02/27/2014
Approval:              11/02/2011     Mid-term Review:           12/01/2013        12/01/2013
                                      Closing:                   03/31/2014        03/31/2015

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Substantial
Bank Performance:                                Moderately Satisfactory
Grantee Performance:                             Moderately Satisfactory




                                                 v
C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower           Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                             Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                                   Quality at Entry
Project at any time        No                                               None
                                                   (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                         None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Health                                                                20                   20
Other social services                                                 30                   30
Vocational training                                                   50                   50


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Other human development                                               100              100

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                        At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Hafez M. H. Ghanem                   Inger Andersen
Country Director:          Marie Francoise Marie-Nelly          Neil Simon M. Gray
Practice                   Yasser Aabdel-Aleem Awny El-
                                                                Enis Baris
Manager/Manager:           Gammal
Project Team Leader:       Heba Elgazzar                        Heba Elgazzar
                           Suzanne Essama/ Amr S.
ICR Team Leader:
                           Moubarak
ICR Primary Author:        Suzanne Essama
                           Amr S. Moubarak




                                               vi
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The Project Development Objective of the Tunisia Participatory Service Development for
Reintegration Project (PSD, the Project) is to pilot participatory approaches to employment
generation through a cash-for-service program for vulnerable Tunisian households. The
Project supports the financing of Subprojects focusing on meeting social needs by
improving service delivery at the local level. The Project contributes to: (i) fostering social
cohesion and stabilization among disadvantaged populations following the January 2011
revolution, and (ii) mitigating the socioeconomic risks faced by Tunisians returnees fleeing
Libyan civil strife and by Tunisian communities near the border with Libya affected by
depressed cross-border trade and commerce.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
N/A




                                              vii
(a) PDO Indicator(s)
                                              Original Target     Formally       Actual Value
                                                Values (from       Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                  approval          Target      Completion or
                                                 documents)         Values       Target Years
                  Beneficiaries that have participated in implementing Sub-projects (Number)
Indicator 1:

Value
quantitative or   0.00                      4000.00                           6180.00
Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/02/2011                  06/30/2014                        03/31/2015
Comments          At project completion, the total number of direct beneficiaries participating in
(incl. %          Sub-projects exceeded the target number by 55%.
achievement)      This indicator was Achieved.
                  Proportion of beneficiaries who perceived an improvement in job skills as result
Indicator 2:
                  of the training acquired through the implementation of Sub-projects (%)
Value
quantitative or   0.00                      60                                54
Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/02/2011                 03/31/2015                       03/31/2015
Comments          75% of beneficiaries indicated that "work experience", was the biggest reason
(incl. %          for an improvement in their job skills.
achievement)      This indicator was Partially Achieved.
Indicator 3:      Proportion of women among beneficiaries employed (%)
Value
quantitative or   0.00                      30.00                             70
Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/02/2011                03/31/2015                        03/31/2015
Comments
                  The proportion of women exceeded the target by over 200%
(incl. %
                  This indicator was Achieved.
achievement)
                  Members of communities benefiting from Sub-projects who receive services
Indicator 4:
                  through local Sub-projects (Number).
Value
quantitative or   0.00                      12000.00                          62669.00
Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/02/2011                06/30/2014                     10/17/2014
Comments          By project completion, the number of community members exceeded the initial
(incl. %          target by more than 500%.
achievement)      This indicator was Achieved.
                  Proportion of communities members benefiting from Sub-projects who perceive
Indicator 5:
                  services received respond to local needs (%)
Value
quantitative or 0.00                        60.00                             67.00
Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/02/2011                    06/30/2014                        03/31/2015



                                                 viii
Comments
(incl. %          This indicator was Achieved
achievement)
                  Proportion of beneficiaries and community members benefiting from sub-
Indicator 6:      projects who perceive greater involve in local decision-making regarding service
                  delivery (%)
Value
quantitative or 0.00                       60.00                               56.00
Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/02/2011                   03/31/2015                          03/31/2015
Comments
                This indicator was Partially Achieved (93% of target).
(incl. %
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                                Formally
                                             Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                           Revised
                                               approval                        Completion or
                                                             Target Values
                                              documents)                        Target Years
                  Employment opportunities are generated and access to key basic services has
Indicator 1:
                  increased (%)
Value
(quantitative     0.00                      60.00                              67.00
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/02/2011                03/31/2015                          03/31/2015
Comments          Percent of community members that reported “additional services provided
(incl. %          beyond those in the public sector” in the beneficiary survey assessment.
achievement)      This indicator was Achieved.
                  Local community participation and job skills in social service delivery have
Indicator 2 :     increased (Workers perceive service delivery training responds to job skills
                  development needs, at least 60 percent of workers, %)
Value
(quantitative   0.00                       60.00                             72.00
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/02/2011                   03/31/2015                        03/31/2015
Comments
(incl. %         Achieved target. Exceeded target (based on beneficiary survey).
achievement)
                Central and local capacity for project management, monitoring and evaluation
                has increased [Bi-annual project management (results matrix) targets have been
Indicator 3 :
                met by PIU UTSS central and regional staff, at least 70 percent of bi-annual
                results met, %]
Value
(quantitative   0.00                       70.00                             100.00
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/02/2011                   03/31/2015                        03/31/2015



                                                 ix
Comments
                Achieved target. “Targets” refers to data collection and implementation targets
(incl. %
               as per beneficiary enrolment and sub-project calls for proposal calendar.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                 Actual
        Date ISR
No.                             DO                         IP                Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                             (USD millions)
  1    09/26/2012           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      0.00
  2    05/21/2013           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      0.50
  3    02/15/2014           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      2.21
  4    11/12/2014           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      4.23


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     To extend the closing by 12
                                                     months from March 31, 2014 to
                                                     March 31, 2015. To allow
                                                     completion of some sub-
 02/27/2014               S       S           2.45
                                                     projects, completion of cash
                                                     transfer disbursements to 4000
                                                     project beneficiaries, and to
                                                     prepare beneficiary assessment.




                                              x
I. Disbursement Profile




                          xi
                                             TUNISIA
                            State and Peacebuilding Fund (SPF)
                   Participatory Service Delivery for Reintegration Project



1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1   Context at Appraisal
Country Background

1.       In January 2011, Tunisia experienced an unprecedented popular uprising, driven largely
by underlying social disparities, allegations of corruption against the government, and broad
frustration with lack of employment and economic opportunities. Protests swept Tunisia in
December 2010 and January 2011, which culminated in the ousting of the sitting president, Ben
Ali, and his regime, after 23 years in power. An interim government was established and tasked
with organizing the elections for the Constituent Assembly, which was elected in October 2011.
Within its capacity as a caretaker government, the interim Government of Tunisia (GoT) adopted
short-term measures to prepare the way for greater social and economic inclusion. Following
elections in November and December 2014, a permanent Government with a five-year mandate
was formed in 2015.

2.      Since the 2011 uprising, Tunisia’s macroeconomic outlook has been considered uncertain
due to reduced tourism, trade and foreign investment following the revolution and the crisis, at the
same time, in neighboring Libya. Before the revolution, Tunisia’s GDP growth was steady at 5
percent, relatively high for the Middle East and North Africa region. Using a poverty line of US$2
per day, poverty in Tunisia was estimated to be 15 percent as of 2010, the latest available data (new
household survey data is expected by late 2016 to update the poverty estimates). Following the
revolution, unemployment was estimated to have grown from 13 percent (500,000 people) in 2010
to approximately 18 percent (700,000 people) in early 2011. An estimated 39 percent of the
unemployed have a secondary education and 32 percent have a university education.

Sector Background

3.     As of 2011, Tunisia had made considerable progress in social outcomes for over two
decades, yet wide regional disparities in poverty, unemployment and human development
outcomes were evident. Human development indicators in poorer, western and southern
regions lagged behind the levels seen in other middle-income countries. With a population of
approximately 10 million (2011) and an average GDP per capita of US$3,072 (current dollars), life
expectancy at 74 years was considered relatively average for a middle-income country. The adult
literacy rate was estimated at 77 percent. The population was and remains largely urban at 65
percent. As low as 40 percent of the population in rural regions had access to modern sanitation,
compared to 95 percent in urban areas. Unemployment was estimated at 15 percent of the
population, exacerbated by a young population where 23 percent were below the age of 15. Youth
unemployment was estimated to be as high as 43 percent (ILO/World Development Indicators).
The infant mortality rate (IMR) was relatively low at 18 per 1,000 live births as of 2008, yet higher
than in middle-income countries such as Ukraine and Thailand. The rate of use of prenatal services
(4 or more visits) was also poorer in Tunisia than in most other middle-income countries.




                                                 1
4.      Social policy in Tunisia has been based on principles of solidarity according to
Tunisia’s series of five-year National Development Plans, with social sector expenditures
accounting for over 18 percent of GDP. Increased investment in rural roads, housing programs,
food subsidies, cash transfers and free health cards had supported improvements of living
conditions of vulnerable populations. These programs, however, have not been adequately
designed given persistent regional disparities. Social sector expenditures in 2011 comprised
approximately: (i) 4 percent of GDP on pensions; (ii) 5 percent of GDP on health (7 percent of
total public expenditure); (iii) 6 percent of GDP on education (20 percent of total public
expenditure); (iv) 1.0 percent of GDP on active labor market programs; (v) over 3 percent on food
and fuel subsidies, and (vi) approximately 0.4 percent on social assistance programs (including
cash transfers and disability benefits).

5.       In terms of social safety nets and economic inclusion, since 2003, the GoT had been
providing social assistance to vulnerable households through three main programs
administered by the Ministry of Social Affairs (MoSA), including a cash transfer program, a
free health card program. In 2011, the GoT had been providing monthly cash transfer allowances
to 185,000 households (7.2 percent of the population) and subsidized health insurance cards to
752,900 individuals (7.4 percent of the population). Beneficiary households received a cash
transfer allocation of 70 TND per month with an additional supplement of 10 TND per school-age
child, up to a limit of three children (average household size is 4). Prior to the 2011 revolution, the
number of household beneficiaries of income support was 135,000, which was increased by 50,000
after the January 2011 revolution. As of 2009, cash transfer beneficiaries were distributed as
follows: 52 percent of beneficiaries were female; 68 percent were older than 60 years; 49.5 percent
lived in rural areas; and 18 percent had a disability. The number of free health insurance card
beneficiaries also increased after the revolution from 175,000 to 195,000 (an increase of 11 percent),
with another 557,900 receiving subsidized insurance cards. In terms of disability benefits,
approximately 2 percent of the population was estimated to have had a long-standing disability;
MoSA provided disability benefits to 180,000 individuals as of 2011.



Table 1 : Overview of social assistance programs administered by MoSA, 2011
Program                                     Expenditure     As        No.      Percent of
                                           (million TND) percent beneficiaries population
                                                            of                  covered
                                                         MoSA                     (%)
                                                         budget
                                                           (%)
Cash transfers: National Assistance              146      87.4%     740,000      7.2%
Program to Needy Families (PNAFN)                                  (185,000
                                                                  households)
Health Insurance Card Program                    n/a        n/a     752,900      7.4%
Disability Assistance                             12       7.1%     180,606      1.8%
Social Counseling, Child Care and                  9       5.5%       n/a          n/a
Adult Education Programs
 TOTAL                                         158        100.0%         n/a            n/a
Source: Ministry of Social Affairs, 2011. Reflects government estimates as of April 2011.




                                                  2
6.      In terms of governance and transparency in service delivery, the period
leading up to the 2011 revolution witnessed serious issues of governance,
transparency and accountability that weakened citizens' voice and undermined
economic prospects. Government’s agenda did not include international technical
assistance and collaboration on the topic. Following the revolution, the Interim
Government established an independent governance commission to investigate corruption
and embezzlement allegations against the Ben Ali regime (2011). Although the
Government adopted a reform to implement participatory monitoring of public services,
this approach had not yet been implemented in the employment arena at the time of the
project design. Participation of the private sector and civil society in general regarding the
identification, selection and implementation for employment programs was lacking. A
lesson learned for government strategy and the Bank’s Interim Strategy Note has been to
identify areas of investment that respond to the demands for good governance,
transparency, accountability and better service delivery as part of the shared and
sustainable growth goals for the country.

Government Strategy

7.      At the time of project approval in 2011, Tunisia’s interim Government had garnered the
support of the May 2011 G8 Summit for its Social and Economic Program. This program focused
on two key pillars for the transition period: (i) improving transparency and accountability in a
quick and visible way to respond to the aspirations of the population and to signal that Tunisia is
creating a level playing field for private sector-led employment growth, and (ii) taking immediate
measures to relieve the plight of the unemployed and the most vulnerable of families and accelerate
the development of lagging regions.

Rationale for Bank Assistance

8.      The social impact of the Libyan conflict was acute in Tunisia’s regions that bordered
Libya. These regions had historically relied heavily on trade and remittances from Libya as
important sources of revenue. Prior to the conflict, Libya was host to 87,177 Tunisian workers.
Following the Libyan conflict, Tunisian migrants, largely low- and semi-skilled workers, returned
mainly to poorer governorates. They were predominately male, aged 30-50 years, with dependents.
MoSA requested the World Bank’s support in piloting social assistance programs in fragile
communities, with an influx of refugees and returning Tunisian migrants facing social unrest, in
regions bordering Libya. This request came under the auspices of creating a pilot that could
generate rapid employment opportunities for the disenfranchised communities most affected by the
Libyan crisis, with an emphasis on also improving service delivery to areas that were economically
inactive. The selection of these service delivery activities (or sub-projects) involved community
participation (see section 2.1).
9.      World Bank assistance for the Participatory Service Delivery for Reintegration
Project (the Project), financed by the State and Peace-building Fund (SPF), was mobilized to
support state building by mitigating the negative economic and social effects on households
associated with conflict-affected regions bordering Libya. The Project was to support the SPF
objectives of state and peace building through the following: (i) employment or income-
generating activities through inclusive development sub-projects which can increase access to
basic services in conflict-affected areas; (ii) peace-building through reintegrating returning
migrant workers and building trust in emphasizing a participatory nature to the selection and
monitoring of these service delivery activities to these communities affected socially and



                                                3
economically by the ongoing crisis. It would complement earlier World Bank support for Tunisia’s
Social and Economic Recovery Program provided through the Governance and Opportunity
Development Policy Loan (DPL), approved in June 2011 which included measures of improving
transparency in the public sector, increased participation and citizen voice in provision of services.
This DPL also supported Tunisia’s policies to expand civil society involvement in monitoring
service delivery in the social sectors, and ramping up employment generating activities.

10.     The Project targeted the regions of Tataouine and Medenine that had among the
poorest economic and social outcomes in Tunisia. In 2011, unemployment was estimated to be 23
percent in these regions (as compared to 18 percent nationally). Local livelihoods depended heavily
on trade, commerce and agriculture. The region of Medenine included several districts with high
poverty rates, refugees (including foreign nationals) and a high proportion of vulnerable families
whose livelihoods had previously been dependent upon trade with Libya. The Project supported
the GoT’s broader vision for improving livelihoods and stability in these regions.



1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
The Project Development Objective was “to pilot participatory approaches to employment
generation through a cash-for-service program for vulnerable Tunisian households.”

11.     The Project’s Results Framework (RF) presented six PDO Indicators against which
progress towards the PDO would be measured, and five intermediate results indicators. The PDO
indicators did not, however align fully with either the Project’s PDO as defined, or with the project
design (Section 2.1).

12.       The PDO Indicators were:

      1. At least 4,000 workers are employed to implement projects
      2. At least 60 percent of workers perceive improvement in job skills as a result of sub-project
         training
      3. At least 30 percent of workers employed are women
      4. At least 12,000 community members receive services through local sub-projects
      5. At least 60 percent of community members perceive services received respond to local
         needs
      6. At least 60 percent of workers and community members perceive greater involvement in
         local decision-making regarding service delivery


1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
There were no revisions to the either the original PDO or to its key indicators.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

13.     As identified in project documents, the Project’s primary beneficiaries were semi-skilled,
unemployed workers from vulnerable households in the poorer governorates of Tataouine and
Medenine bordering Libya. Local bureaus of the Union Tunisienne de la Solidarité Sociale (UTSS)
would be responsible for selecting beneficiaries. Specific household expenditure criteria and other
relevant details were described in the Project’s Operational Manual (OM). As employment in social



                                                  4
services tended to attract female labor force participation, the Project specifically included a target
indicator for female employment. The number of Tunisian migrants as of the end of May 2011 in
the governorates of Tataouine and Medenine was estimated to be 4.3 percent of the total number
of returnees, or 2,021 potential workers. Eligibility criteria was used to target beneficiaries in an
equitable manner given that the wage to be offered (minimum wage) was likely not low enough to
allow for efficient self-targeting (whereby lower-skilled and poorer workers would have been the
majority of applicants). To that end, a number of proxy indicators of vulnerability were used as
eligibility criteria as detailed in the Project Document. Eligibility criteria for beneficiaries were
similar to those used by MoSA for its National Program for Assistance to Needy Families
(PNAFN).

14.      Indirect beneficiaries included local community members who would receive services
provided by workers employed by the Project, such as other vulnerable Tunisian and non-
Tunisian refugees from Libya. It was estimated that the Project would provide basic social services
to 12,000 community members, assuming 3 in habitants would benefit from every worker enrolled
in the program.

1.5 Original Components

15.     The Project consisted of three components: (i) Pilot Local Service Delivery Sub-Projects
(estimated cost: US$4.3 million); (ii) Local Service Delivery Sub-Project Training (estimated cost:
US$0.43 million); and (iii) Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation (estimated cost:
US$0.27 million). Each of the components are described below.

        (i)     Component A: Pilot Local Service Delivery Sub-Projects (US$4.3 million).
        The component was to finance wages paid to beneficiaries and contracted services aimed
        at providing basic service delivery through employment generating sub-projects. The sub-
        projects were awarded and supervised by the Implementing Agency (IA), the Union
        Tunisienne de la Solidarité Sociale (UTSS). All project finances were to be managed by
        the IA through a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) established within the UTSS. Sub-
        projects would be demand-driven and selected from proposals submitted by local NGOs
        (legally established as “associations”) based on community and local government
        consultations.

        (ii)     Component B: Local Service Delivery Sub-Project Training (US$0.43
        million). This component was to finance consultants’ services and goods for training and
        skills development for workers and technical assistance to sub-project teams and local
        government in support of the local community sub-projects awarded to select NGOs
        (Component A). Training activities on planning and management of service delivery sub-
        projects, including administrative and financial management, social needs assessment, and
        human resource management would be organized and managed by UTSS and provided to
        local government and civil society.

        (iii)    Component C: Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation (US$0.27
        million). This component was to finance consultants’ services, goods and office equipment
        and supplies for the PIU of the UTSS for day-to-day management and monitoring of the
        Project. It would support evaluating the performance of sub-projects, including periodic
        interim and final evaluations. The PIU was to be staffed by UTSS staff as well as
        consultants hired through the Project for additional support.

1.6 Revised Components


                                                  5
The Project’s components were not revised.

1.7 Other significant changes

    16. Following a request from the Government in 2014, the Project was restructured on
        February 27, 2014 to extend the closing date by an additional 12 months, i.e., to March 31,
        2015. This was justified to allow for the completion of the following activities: (i)
        finalization of the sub-projects that had not yet been completed; (ii) completion of cash
        transfer disbursements to 4,000 project beneficiaries, which had turned out to take longer
        than had originally been anticipated; and (iii) preparation of the project beneficiary
        assessment, which would help develop recommendations for possibly scaling up this type
        of project in the future.


2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

17.      Project Development Objective and Intended Outcomes: As stated in section 1.2, the
wording of the PDO did not align fully with the Project’s design and the key indicators by which
progress would be measured. Further, the PDO was output oriented, with no outcome oriented
objectives. In view of this, this Implementation Completion and Results Report (ICR) interprets
the Project’s intended outcomes as understood from a review of the project design, key indicators,
and implementation support and supervision documents. The intended outcomes were to have
designed and piloted a project that: (i) built participatory approaches for the target population, and
(ii) generated opportunities for employment (including self-employment) for the target population.
A secondary objective would be to improve service delivery in the communities. Key PDO
indicators have been aligned with these intended outcomes to measure progress, as follows:

 Indicator Key Indicator                                         Intended Outcome
 Number
     1     At least 4,000 workers are employed to                Employment and income-
           implement projects                                    generating opportunities

     2        At least 60 percent of workers perceive            Employment and income-
              improvement in job skills as a result of sub-      generating opportunities
              project training

     3        At least 30 percent of workers employed are        Employment and income-
              women                                              generating opportunities
     4        At least 12,000 community members receive          Improving service delivery
              services through local sub-projects
     5        At least 60 percent of community members           Building participatory
              perceive services received respond to local        approaches AND improving
              needs                                              service delivery

     6        At least 60 percent of workers and community       Building participatory
              members perceive greater involvement in local      approaches
              decision-making regarding service delivery




                                                  6
18.     Project Design. The Project’s overall design supports the intended development outcomes
above. The contracted sub-projects were implemented by adopting three approaches: (a)
identification of potential local sub-projects through open calls for proposals at the local level to
NGOs and the private sector to solicit designs for local workfare projects targeting community
services were the projects selected were expected to be labor intensive (specifically demanding
low-skill labor) (b) selection of projects through consultations with civil society groups against
specific criteria (as described in the PAD) to ensure that citizen participation plays a role in the
selection of sub-projects that addressed community needs, and (c) involvement of beneficiaries
(through employment in sub-projects or related income-generating activities) in delivering basic
community services promised through awarded sub-projects.

19.      Participatory Processes-Theory of Change: As the border communities’ economic
potential was very limited for private sector led job growth (Section 1.1), the service delivery sub-
projects chosen were considered some of the limited options available to generate employment or
income opportunities for low-skilled and semi-skilled beneficiaries in affected areas. The selection
of these sub-projects was participatory by bringing the beneficiaries and end users of infrastructure
into local decision-making. These participatory processes included: capacity building for
community facilitators; local communication strategies; call for proposals; service delivery skills
training; and, participatory monitoring assessments among others. Participation helped build trust
between communities and government officials, thereby helping to meet secondary SPF objectives
of peace-building and social cohesion. Also, as the sub-projects were designed in a participatory
fashion, the relevance of their design to local conditions was strong (in terms of income generating
opportunities, service needs). This in turn resulted in services and employment and income-
generating opportunities more responsive to beneficiary needs, thus improving service delivery and
job creation and placement.

20.     Bank Preparation and Project Design. World Bank missions were held between
February and May 2011 to prepare the proposed project. During the preparation period, the stated
PDO and theory of change were less clearly articulated although the intent is reflected in elements
of project design. Specifically, clear definitions were prepared to guide participatory design, the
types of services expected to be delivered, eligibility criteria, and implementation arrangements
that show elements of comprehensive design. This included completed operational manuals and
PIU staffing arrangements which were defined prior to effectiveness.

21.      Institutional Arrangements. The Project’s institutional arrangements were designed to
take into account the institutional capacity of MoSA and UTSS. MoSA provided overall strategic
direction and supervision of the Project’s effectiveness, while UTSS built on its current capacity
and prior experience working with development partners to develop a project for this unique pilot.

22.     Technical and Background Analysis: Project preparation reflected international lessons
learned in using participatory approaches for employment generation through the provision of
community services and infrastructure support. Preparation and project design also considered
lessons in the design and implementation of social protection operations in Tunisia. Employment
opportunities and ensuring access to basic services at the local level can help to support social
reintegration in fragile and post-revolutionary contexts. The project design as described in the
PAD reflected lessons learned from similar approaches in Former Yugoslav Republic of




                                                 7
Macedonia1, Thailand2, Iraq3, Bulgaria4 and other Eastern and Central European countries5. In
Tunisia, participatory approaches in public service delivery in Tunisia had been limited, but
nonetheless the Project took into also account lessons learned from small-scale NGO projects
funded through private donations and the Government.

23.      Country and Sector Risks: Country and sectoral risks were assessed during preparation
through extensive consultations with Governmental and civil society groups. Risks were considered
to be high due to the regional context at the time, and due to the fact that the pilot approach proposed
by the Project was to be the first of its kind in Tunisia. Stakeholder consultations were conducted
to allow for a participatory process, although they remained limited in the Project’s target regions
given the political volatility at the time. Previous operations and analytic work showed that
opportunities and ensuring access to basic services at the local level can help to support social
reintegration in fragile contexts. The World Bank team appropriately anticipated these risks to
achieving the PDO.

2.2 Implementation

24.       The US$5M State and Peace-building Fund (SPF) Grant Agreement was signed on April
20, 2012. The four effectiveness conditions were met and the grant was declared effective on
October 3, 2012.

25.         Initial Implementation Delays. The Project showed little progress during its first year
of implementation due largely to the need to mobilize and train new PIU staff (on World Bank
fiduciary requirements), and also to comply with effectiveness conditions (due to Government
staffing changes). By September 2012, the Project had shown no progress towards targets for key
indicators (most of which reflected outputs). Implementation began in earnest in 2013. By May
2013, 485 beneficiaries (out of a target of 4000) had enrolled in the program. Project
implementation accelerated significantly thereafter, and most activities were completed on time
thereafter.

26.        Implementation of Activities Aligned with Project Design. The Project was
implemented in accordance with its design, as detailed in the Project Proposal, and the Operational
Manual The first component, employment opportunities through community service projects,
granted. Sub-projects that were supervised by the local associations that received the funds. The
second component provided training to beneficiaries who were hired under the subprojects. These
trainings included skill development (e.g., fishing, welding), financial literacy, among others.

27.      Institutional Arrangements during Implementation: The Project’s institutional
arrangements remained as originally designed throughout implementation. Coordination improved



1
  World Bank (2007). The FYR Macedonia Community Development Project: Empowerment through
Targeting and Institution Building. Washington DC: World Bank.
2
  “Piloting Community Approaches in Conflict Situation in Three Southernmost Provinces in Thailand”,
State and Peacebuilding Fund Project Document, 2009. World Bank.
3
  “Iraq Consultative Service Delivery Program”, State and Peacebuilding Fund Project Document, 2009.
World Bank.
4
  “Social Assistance for New Employment: from pilot to policy: Introducing community -based social
services in Bulgaria”, United Nations Development Program (UNDP) project review, 2009, UNDP.
5
  World Bank (2000). Moving from Residential Institutions to Community-Based Social Services in
Central and Eastern Europe and the Former Soviet Union. Washington DC: World Bank.


                                                   8
between the Ministry of Vocational Training and MoSA, whereby verification of work status and
vulnerability were systematically provided by local MoSA offices. However, there was little
documentation provided on the role and inputs of the inter-ministerial Steering Committee to allow
for improvements as needed. UTSS through MoSA was the IA throughout project implementation
which was responsible for launch of all sub-projects during implementation until project
completion. According to ISR reviews and an interview with the project director, the project did
not experience any implementation challenges at the implementing agency level. All project
finances were managed by the Project Implementation Unit (PIU), in close coordination with UTSS
regional offices, which provided on the ground capacity building support. For the most part, PIU
staff remained the same working through a design model as introduced during project inception
throughout project implementation.

28.       In-Country Supervision and Implementation Support: The World Bank’s Task Team
Leader (TTL) and fiduciary team were based in Tunisia. Furthermore, the same team was
responsible for implementation support until completion. This allowed the TTL and team to sustain
on-the-ground assistance and implementation support on any issues that arose.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

29.     Selection of PDO Key Indicators. The Project’s key indicators reflected the Project’s
intended outcomes in its three main areas (Section 2.1). Although the PDO could have been better
defined, the PDO Indicators mostly reflect intended outcomes and design. Two indicators were
output-oriented and linked directly to project implementation results. For the participatory
approaches objective and secondary objective of service-delivery, the Project would have benefited
from indicators to monitor how well both the selection and implementation process was
participatory to deliver services to target communities. Specific questions at baseline and end of
project on delivery of select services could have showed progress towards objective of improved
service delivery.

30.     Project Monitoring. The PIU (with significant implementation support by the World Bank
team) established a project administrative database which was maintained and monitored by a
dedicated statistical M&E specialist. Data was collected by the local project coordinator and by
NGOs on approximately all 6,100 beneficiary demographics, sub-project details, NGO partner
organizations, indirect beneficiaries, beneficiary perceptions of sub-projects, and follow-up
employment data following project exit (for a sub-sample of approximately 1,450 beneficiaries) in
each sub-region.

31.       For project evaluation, a survey firm was hired to conduct a final beneficiary assessment
survey during October-November 2014, near completion (Section 3.6). This survey provided
information on a sample of approximately 850 beneficiaries and a sample of NGO partners related
to demographics, beneficiary perceptions of training and work experience through the sub-projects,
and NGO perceptions of project implementation. The results of the project beneficiary survey
helped: (i) confirm the appropriateness of the project design model used in targeted communities
(i.e., labor intensive service-delivery sub-projects which are chosen by local communities); (ii)
confirm that interventions can lead to ‘increase in skill development’ and ‘satisfying local needs’
(as perceived by beneficiaries); and, (iii) provide insightful disaggregation to the effect of the
project in generating employment opportunities. These results will likely inform the future roll-out
of the program if expanded.

32.   Robustness in Measurement of Outcomes. Based on the PIU’s January 2015
Implementation Report and information from the project M&E database, the number of indirect


                                                 9
beneficiaries for instance, is based on estimates of catchment areas rather than direct surveying or
monitoring. This was due to budget and feasibility in implementation constraints, which may have
inflated the number of indirect beneficiaries by accounting for all community members as having
benefitted from the public services provided through the community sub-projects carried out. The
Project would have benefited from tools to help improve monitoring such as the use of mobile
phones and digital technology.

33.      Implementation and Utilization. The PIU compiled information on the progress of each
component by using information submitted in the context of disbursement processing and of site-
visits to monitor intermediate outcome indicators and through tracking MIS data on progress of
implementation and service delivery to beneficiaries. In an interview, the Project Director
confirmed that the PIU used this information to provide implementation and capacity building
support to NGOs experiencing delays in implementation of selected sub-projects.6

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

34.     There were no safeguard and fiduciary compliance issues during the implementation. The
project was tagged as Category “C” (no safeguard triggers), and remained as such until completion.
There were no safeguards which applied to the project.

35.     As for fiduciary compliance, during implementation support missions by the World Bank,
regular audits and interim financial reports were prepared and delivered as required. However,
some delays were experienced due to a lack of familiarity among PIU staff with Bank operational
procedures and technical requirements.

Financial Management and Disbursement

36.     Financial management (FM) supervision was carried out throughout implementation,
including meetings with PIU staff and desk reviews in accordance with OP/BP 10. The main
purpose was to review the adequacy of the project’s financial management arrangements at
different phases of implementation. Overall FM arrangements in terms of staffing, accounting,
reporting, budgeting, internal controls, flow of funds and audit arrangements were reviewed
regularly.

37.     The Project’s financial management, including budgeting, accounting, internal controls,
funds flow, financial reporting and auditing, was deemed adequate and provided: (i) accurate
financial information, and (ii) reasonable assurance that project funds were being used for the
purpose intended. However, there were initially a few challenges that were addressed in order to
fully comply with World Bank’s fiduciary requirements (Annex 9).

Procurement

38.      An assessment of procurement capacity carried out during project preparation confirmed
that UTSS had the capacity, at both central and local levels, to manage and administer the project’s
procurement. Two grant effectiveness conditions were related to procurement and they were
satisfactorily met in October 2012. These included: (i) the establishment of the PIU which included



6
    ICR author telephone interview with Project Director, Latifa Rahmani, UTSS, Tunisia. September 3, 2015



                                                     10
an officer in charge of procurement; and (ii) the adoption of the project Operational Manual,
including the procurement procedures to be followed.

39.      Two major procurement risks were identified and rated to be Substantial: (i) the lack of
specific expertise on Bank’s procurement procedures, as this was the first Bank’s financed project
implemented by UTSS; and (ii) the potential lack of competition that could have affected the
implementation of the small sub-grants assigned to local NGOs. Adequate mitigation measures
were identified and agreed with UTSS, and were adequately implemented, particularly the
Guidelines for the Selection and Implementation of Project Sub-Grants (which were used for
Component 1) which were well prepared and adhered to, allowing the use of “Community
Participatory” procurement procedures as enlisted in the Grant Agreement.

40.     Compliance with the procurement requirements was good as were control procedures. As
a result, procurement was rated Satisfactory throughout implementation. The administrative
structure was well organized and it was able to keep record of all appropriate sub-project
documentation, including those on procurement. The PIU adequately supervised procurement
procedures and ensured that they met the minimum number of bidders required under shopping for
goods and civil works contracts to guarantee a sufficient grade of competition. Over time the
capacity of the PIU to plan and execute relatively simple procurement in accordance with the World
Bank’s procedures increased. The procurement plan for components 2 and 3 were regularly updated
and received the Bank’s non-objection.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

41.        Based on the performance and results of the Project, the GoT has expressed plans to
sustain the model piloted as part of its vision to enhance its social protection and labor system
through the following three pillars which are: (i) Strengthening economic inclusion through reform
of the National Assistance for Needy Families Program (PNAFN) to support program exit
strategies; (ii) Strengthening and modernizing the information and monitoring system at the
regional level of social programs and the digitalization of social transfers; and, (iii) Improving
financial inclusion through digitizing social transfers and government-to-people payments (G2P)
through financial service providers and banking.

42.        The GoT has begun to prepare for continuing investments needed to scale-up and
integrate the model piloted under the Project within the framework of existing social assistance
programs. MoSA has sent a written request to the World Bank for a follow-on project scaling-up
the model it piloted and introducing reforms to its existing national cash transfer program for
graduation of beneficiaries into the labor market, in coordination with the Ministry of Employment
and Vocational Training.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
Rating: Substantial

43.      Relevance of Objective. The project’s objectives are relevant for the Tunisian context
today as they were at the time of the inception of the project. Specifically, Tunisia continues to face
significant challenges in high unemployment (specifically for youth and low-skilled workers), and
lack of equitable access to services in rural areas. The country also continues to witness challenges
in improving transparency and participatory approaches to service delivery where currently few



                                                  11
government programs are implemented on the ground that respond to these various objectives. The
Interim Strategy Note (ISN) for Tunisia (2013 – 2014), in place at the time the Project was approved,
has been extended through 2015. The Project, if it’s objectives had been stated clearly, would
remain highly relevant to the ISN and to Tunisia in terms of job creation (ISN Area 1), improving
service delivery (ISN Area 2, Social and Economic Inclusion), and building participatory
approaches (ISN Area 3, Strengthening transparency and accountability). However, given that the
PDO statement did not clearly reflect the intended outcomes and was set at the level of outputs,
rather than the intended-outcomes as demonstrated in project design and implementation, the
relevance of objectives is rated Modest.

44.      Relevance of Design. Given the intended objectives and theory of change as assessed in
this ICR (See Section 2.1), the design of the Project was and continues to be very relevant. The
overall scope of the project remains relevant where it focuses on two regions bordering Libya were
local services and local private-sector job opportunities lacked which has given way for
community-driven sub-projects to be piloted. These areas continue to have significant demand for
such an approach given little changes in the market demand and employment situation. The
intervention chosen (cash-for-work) continues to also be relevant as other possible solutions that
would have involved temporary employment were public works projects that faced community
skepticism and did not allow for a participatory approach in selection of projects. The pilot
operation, which was implemented through an NGO with a dedicated PIU team for the project, also
showed a break with the negative legacy and poor implementation record of previous government-
implemented public works projects. Finally, the flexibility in the implementation (which was part
of the application based/ community awarded) basis of the project, allowed for the participation of
several types of entities depending on context. The operators of the SPF project included CSOs,
firms, training centers and local professional trade associations. To that end, the project’s relevance
of design is rated Substantial.

45.      Relevance of Implementation. Although the Project met some implementation challenges
during the first year, its implementation was both participatory and demand-driven by local
communities and NGOs which resulted in the development and implementation of relevant pilot
sub-projects. The implementation of these sub-projects addressed local needs in target areas and
contributed to achieving the intended outcomes. Relevance of implementation was especially
apparent in (i) addressing the contextual challenges which the project faced at the beginning of the
implementation; and (ii) through IA responsiveness to hiccups faced at the project onset. This
relevance was measured namely through the beneficiary surveys administered by a third-party firm
in the last year of the project. To that end, the relevance of implementation is rated Substantial.

46.     Specifically, key operational tools were developed and tested which further supports the
rating of ‘Substantial’ for implementation. These tools can be scaled-up and applied to other
employment and training programs including:

      (i)   Participatory approaches to launching calls for proposals and defining local
            development priorities and designing tailored solutions;
     (ii)   Results-based contracting with firms and training providers to improve mid-term
            employability, which can be improved through gradually strengthening the terms of
            the contract
    (iii)   On the ground supervision ensures consistency in dialogue and just-in-time response
            to implementation challenges and issues before they are exacerbated.
    (iv)    Continuity in leadership of the Project (one TTL from inception until completion of
            the Project) provided continuity and fulfilled the intended outcomes of the Project.



                                                  12
            Similarly, PIU implementation team and leadership did not experience much
            reshuffling which encouraged continuity in implementation the project design.
     (v)    Monitoring and evaluation tools to target and ensure accountability of training for
            improving employability, which can be improved through increased investment and
            more robust information systems.
    (vi)    Using financial literacy trainings to reinforce employability by promoting financial
            inclusion and preparing beneficiaries for longer-term self-employment opportunities


3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
Rating: Substantial

47.      The achievement of the PDO is assessed based on the three intended outcomes presented
in Section 2.1. Using these to measure achievement, the Project has, achieved its intended outcomes
and PDO based on the key indicators.

48.     The project managed to meet most of the PDO indicators generally satisfactorily and
combined social safety nets (or cash transfers targeted to poor, low-skilled unemployed) with on-
the-job training, making them workfare plus sub-projects. In most cases, small firms and trade
associations took an active part in designing and delivering the on-the-job training, often reflecting
the skills demanded most by the local labor market. Specifically, a “tripartite” model of
implementation at the local level was created for the Tunisian context involving Government, civil
society and the private sector, but more can be done in the future to refine and improve local
participation in decision-making.

49.      Overall, targets for four of six key indicators were achieved or exceeded, and for two were
partially achieved. This suggests a rating for Achievement of Objectives as Substantial.

50.    Intended Outcome 1: Pilot sub-projects to increase employment and income-
generating opportunities.
There were three key indicators, which monitored the achievement of the above intended objective.
     Indicator 1: At least 4,000 workers are employed to implement projects. The Project
       resulted in 6,182 beneficiaries who were enrolled in 70 sub-projects. The total number of
       direct beneficiaries therefore exceeded the target number by 55%. The key indicator was
       achieved.
     Indicator 2: At least 60 percent of workers perceive improvement in job skills as a
       result of sub-project training. Based on the PIU January 2015 Implementation Report
       and information from the project M&E database, 54 percent of workers perceive an
       improvement in jobs skills as a result of sub-project training. The key indicator was
       partially achieved.
     Indicator 3: At least 30 percent of workers employed are women. According to PIU
       reports, 70 percent of workers employed were women. The sectors with the highest shares
       of women were education and social assistance, where women accounted for 77 and 75
       percent of all beneficiaries employed, respectively. The key indicator was achieved
       exceeding target by over 200%.

51.     Intended Outcome 2: Pilot sub-projects deliver services to communities in select
regions.
     Indicator 4: At least 12,000 community members receive services through local sub-
        projects. The target number of indirect beneficiaries has also largely been surpassed



                                                 13
            (62,669 achieved versus 12,000 targeted). The number of indirect beneficiaries is based
            on estimates of catchment areas rather than direct surveying or monitoring due to budget
            and feasibility in implementation constraints, which may have inflated the number of
            indirect beneficiaries. The key indicator was achieved.
           Indicator 5: At least 60 percent of community members perceive services received
            respond to local needs. This indicator appears to measure (i) whether the
            participatory process in selection of community sub-project was successful; as well
            as (ii) whether needed services are delivered. A total of 67 percent of community
            members reported perceiving that services responded to local needs. Qualitatively,
            communities, included neighboring households that benefited by services provided by
            project beneficiaries, and authorities alike found the Project opened up career
            opportunities in sectors and services with unmet needs, either because public services
            were unable to reach certain households, or because the services had never been created.
            The key indicator is achieved.

52.   Intended Outcome 3: Pilot sub-projects build participatory approaches in
community decision making
     Indicator 5 falls under this objective as well. The key indicator was achieved.
     Indicator 6. At least 60 percent of workers and community members perceive
       greater involvement in local decision-making regarding service delivery. By project
       completion, 56 percent of workers and 47 percent of community members perceive
       greater involvement in local decision-making regarding service delivery. 7 The key
       indicator is partially achieved.

53.         Detailed description of Achievement of Objectives by key indicator is available in Annex
9.B.

3.3 Efficiency
Rating: Substantial

54.      The project’s investments yielded relatively high returns as compared to traditional,
non-cash for work based social safety nets (see Annex 3 for the detailed economic and financial
analysis). The value of the Project lies in its capacity to increase productivity of social safety net
beneficiaries and improve local community development incrementally to a greater extent than do
traditional social safety nets. The expectation was that within 1 year of program exit, at least a
share of these beneficiaries would be expected to have found income-generating activities, as a
result of the skills, work and collaborative experience gained. These activities would provide at
least the equivalent of Tunisia’s minimum wage (286 TND per month, which is also the average
for self-employed, low-skilled earners). The efficiency rating for the project was based namely on
the economic allocation of resources to achieve PDO indicators. A more rigorous impact evaluation
in the future may help collect the detailed data required for a full analysis in the future.

55.     In terms of the cost-effectiveness of the Project, the comparator for purposes of this
analysis is the current social safety net program in Tunisia (PNAFN). PNAFN provides
benefits to 235,000 heads of households, or on average TND 130 per month per household over the
course of 2012-2015 when this project was implemented. Overall, during the period of 2012-2015,
the GoT spent approximately 420 million TND per year on PNAFN, or the equivalent of 0.4 percent



7
    Source: PIU (UTSS), in partnership with local associations.


                                                      14
of GDP. In terms of generosity, these cash transfers amount to nearly 21 percent of average
household expenditure. Furthermore, among the sample of 1,430 beneficiaries surveyed in the
project within 1 year of program exit, 13 percent had been employed for at least six months.

56.     Were the Project to be scaled-up to working-age beneficiaries of PNAFN, this would
equate to approximately 30 percent of current beneficiaries, or 70,500 heads of households
(leaving 164,500 who would continue receiving unconditional cash transfers). On average, the
workfare program, assuming the same design, would cost 94 million TND per year in cash transfers
and an additional 14 percent in training and operating costs, or a total of approximately 107 million
TND. For the 107 million TND investment, this yields a rate of return (ROR) of approximately 15
percent after accounting for the additional earnings after program exit.

57.     These additional benefits are expected to accrue at a financial cost that is nearly
equivalent to the current PNAFN budget and in line with average global best practice, making
the Project relatively cost-effective. Adding the cost of the productive social safety net (107
million) with PNAFN only among the 70 percent remaining (294 million), gives a total of budget
of 401 million TND (or just under 0.4 percent of GDP). This total amount is lower than the current
social safety net spending of 420 million TND, and is expected to have a higher return on
investment. This level of public spending on a scaled-up program, the coverage and transfer
amount would be in line with that of well-performing programs productive social safety net
programs elsewhere, such as Brazil’s Bolsa Familia.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory

58.      The overall outcome rating for the project is Satisfactory, reflecting an overall rating of
substantial for relevance of objectives, design, and implementation (Section 3.1), a substantial
rating for achievement of PDO (Section 3.2), and a rating of substantial for efficiency (Section 3.3).

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
 (a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

59.     Longer-term Employment and Income-generation Impact. Continued employment
was found at six months following the Project for some beneficiaries. Among 1,360 beneficiaries
who had completed and exited the Project surveyed by the PIU as of November 2014,
approximately 13 percent had found employment within six months after the completion of
workfare projects (Figure 5 Annex 9.C). Most of these beneficiaries have become salaried
employees in small firms (65 percent), with the remainder becoming self-employed (35 percent)
(Figure 6 Annex 9.C.). As a rough benchmark, among public employment programs in Tunisia
targeting the highly skilled unemployed (which also include additional job placement services), the
job placement rate was estimated to be approximately 20 percent within one year as of 2012.

60.     Social and Economic Inclusion. The Project had a positive impact on income generation
and training particularly for the poor and women not benefiting from public employment services
and social safety net programs, as well as on social cohesion by promoting involvement in local
decision-making.

61.      Gender Impact: The project’s key indicators included an outcome (which the PIU
has set partially as a goal) of having a proportion of 30% among the direct beneficiaries
(i.e., persons hired for service delivery sub-projects). The proportion of women exceeded the


                                                 15
target by over 200%, beyond program meeting its prescribed output. In part this was
achieved because of the design of the project which allowed women to take up
opportunities as direct beneficiaries through sub-projects that did not necessarily include
manual labor that is traditionally associated with males in public work projects. Although
the evaluation of the project lacked information beyond participation, the expected effects
on women empowerment are most likely aligned with similar projects. An impact
evaluation of the project is expected to provide more information on the impact of gender.

62.     Beyond the impact of the project on direct beneficiaries, there has been recorded
effect of the project on the financial inclusion of females. Specifically, through the PIU
partnership with the Center for Arab Women for Training and Research (CAWTAR) in delivering
three-day basic financial literacy trainings for female beneficiaries focused on bank services,
budgeting, debt management, savings, and financial negotiations. The objective of these trainings
was to reinforce employability through enhancing financial capability and better equipping
beneficiaries with tools for effective self-employment over the long-term. CAWTAR has since
2013 been delivering financial literacy trainings for low-income women and youth across the
MENA region, under the Enhancing Microfinance Amongst Women and Youth Project (P144655),
financed by the MENA Multi-Donor Trust Fund (MDTF). Beneficiaries who attended the training
were found to be more likely to access formal financial services as well employ budgeting and
savings to meet financial goals.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening.

63.     The Project helped to develop a model for community-driven graduation mechanisms and
livelihoods support programs for the low-skilled, poor households not benefiting from public
assistance and for social safety net program beneficiaries. The model is institutionalized through
MoSA aim to scale-up and institutionalize the employment support through community sub-
projects. An assessment is ongoing in light of the lessons learned from this pilot looking at which
aspects of the community-driven participatory approach to selection and implementation of sub-
projects to include. Adoption of these elements will demonstrate institutional change to design
and implementation of a category of social safety nets programs.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

64.         Financial Inclusion and Financial Literacy. Positive development outcomes were
realized that were not initially envisioned in the Project’s design. The Project piloted interventions
which sought to reinforce employment skills through promoting financial inclusion amongst
beneficiaries. The Government has requested that financial inclusion be included under a future
World Bank-financed operation focused on promoting employability in lagging regions.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

65.        An external beneficiary survey was conducted after the mid-term evaluation by a survey
firm recruited by the PIU in line with terms of reference approved by the World Bank (see Annex
5 for details). The survey was conducted to assess beneficiary, community and partner
organizations’ perceptions of process and implementation of the project and, among beneficiaries,
the relevance of the workfare sub-project and training modules. Overall, the main benefits of the
Project were perceived to be work experience gained by beneficiaries and the services delivered to
communities. A total of 75 percent of beneficiaries reported that they benefited by gaining new
work experience. However, only 66 percent were satisfied by the content of the training module


                                                 16
they received, mainly due to the lack of formal certification offered by the primarily informal
training they received from individual instructors. An important negative effect reported by NGOs
and beneficiaries was related to delays in receiving payments and cash transfers. These delays
were due to lags in financial management and disbursement processing, largely due to familiarity
with forms required and Central Bank processing timelines.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Substantial

66.       Although the overall high risk posed by the political and institutional context as identified
in the PAD was accurate and mitigation measures as described were put in place, the effectiveness
of those mitigation measures remained hampered by institutional and implementation challenges.
Regardless, the risk for development outcomes remains substantial given the country context
(which continues to pose similar political, economic and security challenges as on entry) and
institutional arrangement challenges to ensure adequate capacity and inter-governmental
coordination for implementation. Specifically, the government intention on using the pilot
approach to scale-up cash-for-work programs that are driven by community participation shows a
high-level of commitment. However, institutional level coordination between MoSA and UTSS is
still not clarified even now that the operation is closed. Furthermore, general delays in
implementation of public programs initiated after the revolution hamper the sustainability or scale-
up of new programs. Finally, Tunisia’s growth outlook (including decline in public revenues in
recent years) and continuous government reshuffles may make it difficult to finance larger
programs which justifies a rating of Substantial.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

67.        The Project had a strong, appropriate and relevant design at Entry. It was prepared to
respond to a request by the Government of Tunisia in less than one year after the January 2011
revolution. That said, there were two limitations to the Quality at Entry. First, the PDO, as
articulated, did not reflect the extent of the intended outcomes (both primary and secondary), which
were reflected in the Project’s design and implementation. Two of the six indicators chosen to
measure progress were output-oriented and did not fully reflect type of robust indicators that the
Project could have adopted at entry to measure progress towards achieving the objectives. Second,
readiness to implement by the Borrower was delayed in part due to inadequate preparation and
training of the IA on World Bank on fiduciary procedures. Although these risks were highlighted
in the Project Proposal and described, more attention could have been paid to: (i) support provided
to developing and adopting the OM in advance of effectiveness, including guidance on
disbursement procedures and timelines required for the PIU and the Central Bank of Tunisia; (ii)
support provided to preparing and recruiting TORs for key PIU staff, despite budget constraints in
advance of approval; and (iii) launch of pilot activities to test implementation activities. Despite
these limitations, Ensuring Quality at Entry is rated Moderately Satisfactory.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory




                                                  17
68.        Bank implementation support missions were undertaken routinely and included day-to-
day support provided by both World Bank headquarters- and the Tunisia-based task teams,
including the TTL, financial management and procurement specialists.                    Throughout
implementation, support missions included a mix of skill sets, including (i) operational manual and
implementation support provided by the Operations Officer, Operations Analyst; (ii) financial
management training and support provided by two Financial Management Specialists over the
course of the project; (iii) procurement training and support provided by two Procurement
Specialists over the course of the project; (iv) local coordination and day-to-day implementation
support particularly over the first half of the project provided by a Project Management and Social
Development Consultant; (v) monitoring and evaluation training and support provide by a Social
Protection and Labor Economist; and (vi) additional World Bank support provided through
participation by the PIU and GoT project staff in World Bank-financed capacity-building and
knowledge-sharing events, including the Middle East and North Africa (MNA) Employment and
Social Safety Nets Community of Practice (videoconferences and materials) during 2012-2104 and
the Brazil South-South Learning Forum in 2014. Quality of Supervision is rated Satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

69.     Overall Bank performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory based on the ratings of
Moderately Satisfactory for Quality at Entry and Satisfactory for Quality of Supervision.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

70.      Government performance (Prime Ministry, and Cabinet at the central level; and, local
Governors at the local level) is rated as Moderately Satisfactory given the positive results which
the Project achieved despite early delays undertaking the necessary legal steps to making the
project effective and supporting its launch of activities. To some extent, these delays were
attributed to numerous Government reshuffles and lagging capacity, as Tunisia grappled with
broader political transition just after the January 2011 revolution, which relatively stabilized by
2013. The close involvement and guidance by local Governors in coordination with appointed
regional ministerial representatives suggests that coordination was generally adequate.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

71.      Implementing Agency (MoSA implementing through UTSS) performance is rated
Satisfactory. The Project, being a pilot, innovative initiative in several respects, witnessed a
number of implementation challenges at the onset due to having to develop and build capacity
among a new PIU. However, UTSS as the implementation agency, played a critical role in building
capacity to overcome these challenges. These challenges were largely overcome after the first year
of implementation, with capacity now strengthened for future operations. Also important to note
is that based on the mid-term evaluation, of the 58 NGOs enlisted in the Project, 77 percent of them
were new NGOs that were created after the 2011 revolution. This signified that most NGOs that
participated in the Project, as in most of Tunisia, have little or no experience in project management
(as revealed in on-going sub-project evaluations). Low capacity delayed project implementation
somewhat, a constraint that will gradually recede as NGOs gain more experience over time.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance


                                                 18
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

72.    Overall Borrower performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory based on the ratings of
Moderately Satisfactory for Borrower Performance and Satisfactory for Implementing Agency
Performance.

6. Lessons Learned

Overall Main findings
73.     The Project was implemented effectively in a tri-partite approach involving local
government, civil society and the private sector. It successfully funded “demand -driven” paid
apprenticeships, chosen and designed by community, local civil society groups, training centers
and firms and which focused on delivering basic community services but also generating
livelihoods in local markets

Specific Lessons Learned from this Operation

74.     Through testing new approaches, the Project highlighted certain key lessons learned in
terms of: (i) implementation arrangements, (ii) mechanisms to boost employability through
delivering basic services, and (iii) participatory approaches to build social cohesion and address
accountability of service delivery in fragile contexts to various degrees.

75.      Implementation through public-private partnerships is feasible in new contexts,
assuming contracting and monitoring are sound. In terms of implementation arrangements, the
Project showed that public-private partnerships can support the implementation of employment-
generating, cash-for-service programs and projects. Despite early delays in setting up the legal
institutional arrangements of the Project and training a new PIU on Bank procedures, this Project
exceeded targets and nearly fully disbursed all grant funds. Moving forward, monitoring and
results-based contracting can be gradually strengthened to boost the quality and effectiveness of
implementation further.

76.      Employability through delivering basic services can help boost short-term
employment opportunities in specific sectors. In terms of employability, the Project shows the
importance of adapting designs to the profile of the unemployed and local markets. The gaps in
local service delivery provided short-term employment opportunities to semi-skilled beneficiaries.
As a result of the training and experience provided, the preliminary follow-up survey at six months
after program exit of a sample beneficiaries also showed that this experience in transferable, as a
share of beneficiaries found wage employment or became self-employed following program exit.
Moving forward, these efforts need to be coupled with boosting private investment more
strategically and more rigorous training for ensuring sustainability in those sectors that led to
employment. Broadening this kind of coordination help links beneficiaries to new employment
opportunities.

77.      Participatory approaches can help foster social cohesion and accountability in service
delivery to varying degrees. Finally, in terms of participatory approaches to build social cohesion,
the Project showed the importance of involving local actors in selecting and targeting local
development needs and solutions. Giving greater choice and involvement to key stakeholders at
the local level, including public authorities, the private sector and civil society groups helped match
demand and supply in identifying the most viable, needed opportunities. However, greater local
capacity in terms of technical know-how and financial resources and more systematic coordination
between stakeholders are needed moving forward.


                                                  19
78.      The lessons learned from the Project are relevant to the design of future social protection
and labor programs and reforms, notably in terms of: (i) introducing productive social safety net
(SSN) programs as part of Tunisia’s existing SSN framework, (ii) consolidating productive SSN
and active labor market programs (ALMP) through consolidating targeting for social protection
and labor (SPL) programs between the Ministry of Social Affairs (MOSA) and the Ministry of
Employment and Vocational Training (MEVT), and (iii) public-private partnerships at the local
level for SPL programs, notably productive SSN and active labor market programs (ALMPs).

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Grantee/Implementing Agencies/Donors
(a) Grantee/Implementing agencies
N/A

(b) Cofinanciers/Donors
N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)
N/A




                                                20
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                              Actual/Latest
                                       Appraisal Estimate                           Percentage of
           Components                                         Estimate (USD
                                        (USD millions)                               Appraisal
                                                                 millions)
PILOT SERVICE DELIVERY
                                          4,303,000.00        4,300,000.00               99
SUB-PROJECTS
SERVICE DELIVERY SUB-
                                          431,200.00            430,000.00               99
PROJECT TRAINING
PROJECT MANAGEMENT,
MONITORING AND                            264,900.00            270,000.00               98
EVALUATION (PIU SUPPORT)
Total Baseline Cost                     4,999,100.00          5,000,000.00
Physical Contingencies
                                                0.00                  0.00               0.00
Price Contingencies
                                                0.00                  0.00               0.00
                 Total Project Costs            0.00                  0.00
Project Preparation Costs                       0.00                  0.00               .00
         Total Financing Required               0.00          5,000,000.00



(b) Financing
                                                            Appraisal    Actual/Latest
                                             Type of                                    Percentage of
            Source of Funds                                 Estimate       Estimate
                                           Cofinancing                                    Appraisal
                                                         (USD millions) (USD millions)
State and Peace Building Fund                            4.90           5.00           .00




                                                  21
(c) Disbursements by Category
 Categories                  Initial         Initial     Payment as of    Payment as of    Payment as    Payment as     Cumulative      Payments     Remaining
                         Allocation (1)   Allocation +    31/12/2013       30/06/2014       of 31/12/     of 31 July   Payment as of         /       balance at
                               U$             15%                                           2014 U$        2015 U$      31 July 2015    Allocation    project
                                                                                                                                         (2) / (1)    closing
                                                                                                                                           (%)
 (1) Cash transfer to      4,030,000.00   3,884,500.00     1,306,336.28     1,263,166.00    243,813.24    828,925.27     3,642,240.79    93.76%      242,259.21
 Beneficiaries
 (2) Goods                  205,000.00      235,750.00       24,763.35       161,017.24      24,947.49     26,687.93      237,416.01    100.71%        -1,666.01
 (3) Consultant             645,000.00      741,750.00      283,431.03       157,535.00     213,236.04      84740.31      738,942.38     99.62%         2,807.62
 Services , training ,
 workshops and
 audits (Services
 consultants,
 formation,
 workshops, audits)
 (4) Operating Costs        120,000.00      138,000.00        7,576.38        32,566.98      39,268.89     56,617.10      136,029.35     98.57%         1,970.65
 Total                     5,000,000.00   5,000,000.00     1,622,107.04     1,614,285.22    521,265.66    996,970.61     4,754,628.53    95.09%      245,371.47




                                                                                 23
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component (as per PAD)                                     Output
Component 1: Pilot Local Service Delivery Sub-              All facilitators have been trained
Projects                                                    PIU UTSS has disseminated
    Capacity building for community facilitators has         communication to local UTSS,
       been conducted                                         local associations and community
         All facilitators have been trained                   communication outlets.
    Local communication strategy has been                  Sub-projects have been
       developed (messaging, outlets, and materials for       implemented.
       calls for proposals and job opportunities and
       roster of local associations has been created)
    40 sub-projects are initiated in Tataouine and
       Medenine (or 4,000 workers have been
       employed)
Component 2: Local Service Delivery Sub-Project               All workers have received training
Training                                                       certification for service delivery
    Service delivery skills training certification has        sub-projects.
       been granted to employed workers                       At least one participatory
    Local participatory monitoring assessments                monitoring report per sub-projects
       have been disseminated publicly (available on           has been published.
       UTSS website)                                          All facilitators have been recruited.
    Local facilitators have been selected and
       training for service delivery has been conducted.
Component 3: Project Management, Monitoring and               All PIU staff have been trained
Evaluation                                                    Improved M&E system in place
    Training has been conducted on Operations                Evaluation reports are routinely
       Manual, capacity building, and operational              published
       planning                                               Workshops arranged for
    Establishment of M&E framework and data                   dissemination of mid-term and
       collection plan for future scale-up                     final evaluation reports
    Evaluation, lessons documentation and planning
       for subsequent rounds has been conducted
    Mid-term and final independent evaluation and
       dissemination




                                             24
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

While there was no ERR/IRR estimated at appraisal, the Project’s investments yielded
relatively high returns as compared to traditional, non-workfare based social safety nets. The
value of the Project lies its capacity to increase productivity of social safety net beneficiaries and
improve local community development incrementally to a greater extent than do traditional social
safety nets. Given availability of the data to date, a basic framework is proposed here for evaluating
cost-effectiveness based on the additional benefits accrued in terms of earnings, and more broadly,
community externalities. The expectation was that within 1 year of program exit, at least a share
of these beneficiaries would be expected to have found income-generating activities, as a result of
the skills, work and collaborative experience gained. These activities would provide at least the
equivalent of Tunisia’s minimum wage (286 TND per month, which is also the average for self -
employed, low-skilled earners). The program would cost the equivalent or marginally more than
traditional social safety nets, but which would increase that overall cost-effectiveness of public
spending due to (i) incrementally more positive externalities to local community development,
services and infrastructure, and (ii) boosting purchasing power and local economic growth. A more
rigorous impact evaluation in the future may help collect the detailed data required for a full
analysis in the future.

The comparator is the current social safety net program in Tunisia (PNAFN). PNAFN
provides benefits to 235,000 heads of households, or on average TND 130 per month per household
over the course of 2012-2015 when this project was implemented. Over the course of 18 months,
therefore, the average head of household would have received approximately 2,340 TND in total.
Overall, during the period of 2012-2015, the Government spent approximately 420 million TND
per year on PNAFN, or the equivalent of 0.4 percent of GDP. In terms of generosity, these cash
transfers amount to nearly 21 percent of average household expenditure.

The SPF Project provided work experience and 220 TND per month for six months to one
person per household. For the first six months of the program, beneficiaries received a total of
TND 1320. Among the sample of 1430 beneficiaries surveyed within 1 year of program exit, 13
percent had been employed for at least six months, or approximately 186 beneficiaries. Assuming
this rate remains constant, of the 6180 total beneficiaries, this means that 803 beneficiaries were
working for at least 6 months at minimum wage within 1 year of program exit. 286 TND per month
is the equivalent of approximately 30 percent of total household expenditure.

These benefits also indirectly provider broader benefits not monetized or taken into account
in this analysis due to limited data. For example, as a result of one such sub-project in a remote
oasis town, non-beneficiary community members opened microenterprises to cater to beneficiaries
who were now earning. In principle, these dynamics boost broader community and economic
development over time.

Were the project to be scaled-up to working-age, able-bodied beneficiaries of PNAFN, this
would equate to approximately 30 percent of current beneficiaries, or 70,500 heads of
households (leaving 164,500 who would continue receiving unconditional cash transfers). On
average, the workfare program, assuming the same design, would cost 94 million TND per year in
cash transfers and an additional 14 percent in training and operating costs, or a total of
approximately 107 million TND. The return on investment (ROI) in terms of productivity as
measured by additional earnings would assume that at least 13 percent of these beneficiaries are
working after program exit at (at least) minimum wage for six months, or earning a total of nearly
16 million TND. For the 107 million TND investment, this yields a rate of return (ROR) of
approximately 15 percent.


                                                 25
These additional benefits are expected to accrue at a financial cost that is nearly equivalent
to the current PNAFN budget and in line with average global best practice. Adding the cost
of the productive social safety net (107 million) with PNAFN only among the 70 percent remaining
(294 million), gives a total of budget of 401 million TND (or just under 0.4 percent of GDP). This
total amount is lower than the current social safety net spending of 420 million TND, and is
expected to have a higher return on investment. Even under assumptions that the budget would be
marginally higher, the returns on investment are likely positive. This level of public spending on
a scaled-up program, the coverage and transfer amount would be in line with that of well-
performing programs productive social safety net programs elsewhere, such as Brazil’s Bolsa
Familia.

The results of this basic analysis are tentative, given limitations related to the assumptions
and the availability of data, but are nonetheless expected to hold directionally under other
scenarios. Although a full impact evaluation of the project has not been done currently Tunisia’s
PNAFN program does not have exit mechanisms, so most beneficiaries are assumed to remain in
the program. While in principle their inclusion is based on not having other sources of income, this
criteria is self-reported, so in this analysis it is assumed they mainly rely on monthly cash transfers
for income.

Overall, the total cost-effectiveness of the Project needs to be viewed in terms of both the increases
in productivity (earnings) and broader, non-monetized externalities to local community
development. The program is therefore relatively cost-effective in comparison to the overall
individual and community benefits.




                                                  26
Annex 4. Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                             Responsibility/
          Names                              Title                Unit
                                                                               Specialty
Lending/Grant Preparation
Hebatalla Elgazzar          Senior Economist                    GSPDR Team Leader
Shirley Foronda             Financial Management Specialist     GGODR Team Member
Jean-Charles Marie De
                            Senior Counsel                      LEGAM Team Member
Daruvar
Maged Mahmoud Hamed         Regional Safeguards Adviser         OPSOR Team Member
Walid Dhouibi               Procurement Specialist              GGODR Team Member
Brooks Fox Evans            Consultant                          GSPDR Team Member
Karen Majli Vega-Coronel                                              Team Member
Mehdi El Batti              Financial Management Specialist     GGODR Team Member
Christina Wright            Operations Officer                  GEDDR Team Member
Peter McConaghy             Financial Sector Specialist         GFMDR Team Member

Supervision/ICR
Aissatou Maisha Dicko       Operations Analyst                   GSPDR Team Member
Jean-Charles Marie De
                                                                         Team Member
Daruvar                     Senior Counsel                      LEGAM
Amr Moubarak                Social Protection Economist         GSPDR    ICR Co-author
Walid Dhouibi               Procurement Specialist              GGODR    Team Member
Suzanne Essama              Operations Officer                  GSPDR    ICR Co-author
Mehdi El Batti              Financial Management Analyst        GGODR    Team Member

(b) Staff Time and Cost Project:
                                           Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                          USD Thousands (including
                                         No. of staff weeks
                                                                travel and consultant costs)
Lending                          0.0                           0.0
Supervision/ICR
Total:                           36.78                          248,628.84




                                              27
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Background: An external beneficiary survey was conducted after the mid-term evaluation by a
survey firm recruited by the PIU in line with terms of reference approved by the World Bank.

Objectives: The survey was conducted to assess beneficiary, community and partner organizations’
perceptions of process and implementation of the project and, among beneficiaries, the relevance
of the workfare sub-project and training modules. The assessment included qualitative focus
groups and a quantitative survey among 1000 beneficiaries and 1000 community members.

Main results:

Perceptions of project benefits: Overall, the main benefits of the Project were perceived to be
work experience gained by beneficiaries and the services delivered to communities. 75 percent of
beneficiaries reported that they benefited by gaining new work experience. However, only 66
percent were satisfied by the content of the training module they received, mainly due to the lack
of formal certification offered by the primarily informal training they received from individual
instructors.

Beneficiaries reported additional benefits in terms of local development (Table 2): (i) greater social
cohesion and commitment to local community development; (ii) gaining entrepreneurial know-how,
which led many beneficiaries and community members to form small micro-enterprises in areas
where the project was implemented, given stronger purchasing power among beneficiaries; (iii) in
terms of gender, female beneficiaries and community members expressed becoming more active
publicly and socially as a result of sub-project community and follow-up activities; and (iv)
development of new local market and social networks as a result of connections formed between
and among beneficiaries, NGOs and local municipalities.


Table 2 Benefits perceived by beneficiaries in terms of local development (%)
                         Dimension                                 % de ceux qui pensent que
                                                                      l’impact est positif
 L’intégration sociale de la femme rurale                                      73%

 Satisfaction des besoins au quotidien                                         68%
 Initiateur de nouveaux projets                                                73%

 Un coup de main donné aux institutions publiques                              67%
 Une solidarité sociale à travers la sensibilisation de la                     72%
 population à propos de certains problèmes


Perceptions of process and implementation: In terms of implementation, partner NGOs reported
having had adequate levels of technical and financial resources to support local sub-projects.
However, the average duration of the training modules of 2 months was considered too short by
beneficiaries, and most suggested at least 4 months would be needed in the future to fully acquire
new technical trade-related skills.




                                                  28
An important negative effect reported by NGOs and beneficiaries was related to delays in receiving
payments and cash transfers. These delays were due to lags in financial management and
disbursement processing, largely due to familiarity with forms required and Central Bank
processing timelines.

Main recommendations:

Moving forward, the main recommendations from the beneficiary survey were to: (i) strengthen
the rigor and quality of the supplemental training offered to ensure technical and vocational skills
are certified; (ii) strengthen the oversight and resources offered to partnering NGOs supporting
supervision and training; and (iii) improve financial management and disbursement procedures for
more rapid processing and payments.




                                                29
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Objectives: A stakeholder workshop was organized by the PIU towards project closing, held on
February 17-19 in Zarzis, Medenine. The main objectives of the workshop were to present the
main goals and results of the Project and discuss ideas for collaboration moving forward, as well
as to honor and present beneficiaries and local partner CSOs.

Participants: All central and local government, PIU, beneficiary survey firm (Emrhod Consulting)
and NGO implementation partners attended the workshop, as well as beneficiaries and other local
NGOs, for a total of approximately 200 participants.

Themes: The workshop was organized as three days of presentations, working sessions and awards
ceremonies, highlighting the range of diverse projects and local community impacts. Key sessions
included:
    (i)    presentations from government authorities (Governors, Ministry of Industry, Ministry
           of Vocational Training and Employment and Ministry of Social Affairs) on sustaining
           interventions from the project;
    (ii)   panel on operational mechanisms to support low-skilled unemployed youth;
    (iii)  panel on enhancing vocational training;
    (iv)   panel on mechanisms for collaborating with CSOs on professional development;
    (v)    panel on supporting entrepreneurship among youth through local collaborations;
    (vi)   A wrap up session on summarizing scale-up options and sustaining the program in the
           future.

Results: The workshop resulted greater awareness of local and central decision-makers to project
results, which further boosted interest in scaling up the intervention moving forward. Subsequently,
a request for future World Bank support for scale-up was sent from MoSA to the Ministry of
Investment and International Cooperation (MICI) in May 2015, as a follow-up to an earlier request
sent at mid-term review (April 2014). As of August 2015, the request is being considered as a
potential component of the Government’s forthcoming 2016-2020 National Development Plan.




                                                30
Annex 7. Summary of Grantee's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The Participatory Service Delivery Project for Reintegration in the governorates of Medenine and
Tataouine is an initiative of the Tunisian government, which is supported by the World Bank with
a US$ 5 million grant. The project was implemented over 30 months period.

This project was conceived as an emergency response to provide additional income to young people
from disadvantaged families in these two governorates and at the same time improve the
employability of a class of young people with low-skills (some education and no diploma).

As a pilot project, its implementation was a true experiment in terms of intervention approaches in
the field of learning, delivery of basic services, mobilization of civil society and mobilization of
young people and women in community and proximity approaches.

Thus, the project was implemented through the mobilization of 66 associations and through 92 sub-
projects in the field of social assistance, education, basic health and the environment. The actions
undertaken were distributed among services and works and have contributed to the facilitation of
the access to information and services to the communities targeted by the project.

Furthermore, the project has tried to answer the problem of employment for unqualified youth with
little education through informal training and exercise on site the theoretical knowledge acquired
in class and that, through the delivery of basic services to marginalized groups and especially with
special needs.

The statistical study conducted as part of the project showed that the majority (87%) of direct
beneficiaries had only primary or secondary education and about 74% of them are older between
18 and 32 years.

These direct beneficiaries were satisfied with their participation in the project; 41% of them were
enticed by the new experience and more than two thirds (68%) reported having acquired
professional experience during this project. While 54% found that the project helped them to
develop their communication skills, and 41% say that the project helped them to find a job
opportunity. Only 40% of beneficiaries have seized the opportunity to develop raw technical skills.

Service Delivery: As for community members (indirect beneficiaries) their satisfaction with the
services provided has been estimated at 68%.
Participation in decision-making: 56% of direct beneficiaries say that the project gave them the
opportunity to participate in a social activity while 47% of community members say they have
participated in project activities.

Lessons learned from the project: the project shows that the provision of opportunities to young
people, to acquire knowledge and professional experience relating to a trade, improves their
employability. Thus, to ensure high employability, training must be: 1) adapted to the profile of the
unemployed and 2) tailored for local markets while involving different stakeholders at the local
level i.e., the public services concerned by the technical specialty from the training, the
professionals in the private sector and civil society.
Moreover, these in-service training activities as they were tested in the project must be associated
with a system of validation of competence by government technical services and the assurance of
complementary training in management, marketing, life skills, entrepreneurship and financial
education.



                                                 31
And to complete the process, it is essential to have a fund to finance income-generating activities
with ideas deriving from training.

Another important aspect that has been treated in the project is "community services". While these
services have helped to visualize the impact of the project on the communities and to ensure their
participation, they should, however, be accompanied by an upstream mechanism guaranteeing the
sustainability of their achievements.
Moreover, these services related to matters which fall within the priority concerns of the targeted
communities in both targeted governorates and services provided as part of the implementation of
sub-projects, have highlighted the need, even the urgency of their consideration in the intervention
of public services programs. This will justify the need for the institutional anchoring of the project
in the future.

The associations have played an important role in the project and that, in formulating participatory
proposals that meet the expectations of communities and defend their interests with local authorities
and mobilizing various partners (public, private and OSC) for the implementation and success in
their projects. These associations need to be more implicated in the training process the non-
graduates of and in any employment initiative at the local level.

The partnership with public facilities and some private sector professionals should bring added-
value to the sub-projects but prevent that it follows a standard for random and specific and ad hoc
initiatives. It is recommended that this partnership be managed by an incentive system and therefore
an obligation for results for different stakeholders.
As contribution to the strengthening of the local governance, the project acted through associations
to encourage participation and citizen engagement with these different levels; namely, information,
consultation, cooperation, implementation of actions and evaluation of service delivery.

The project has gone through difficulties with administrative procedures (period devoted to the
amendment of the letter of grant agreement) and disbursement procedures that have influenced the
achievement of project objectives, but these difficulties have been overcome through the flexibility
demonstrated by the project management at the World Bank. Therefore, and to minimize these
difficulties, it is recommended, on one hand, to involve the implementing agency in the discussions
on the Agreement between the Bank and the Beneficiary and to require that the process of direct
payment via the system Client Connection be well stipulated in the agreement.

Furthermore, and for similar projects that are based on the participatory approach, it is
recommended: (1) to provide more time for the implementation period and (2) to devote more
funding to the project management components (20% allocated for this project were not sufficient).

Also, it is essential to provide a more transparent beneficiaries targeting mechanism that should be
accessible through online registration or through an independent office and it, along with an
institutionalized and effective complaints handling mechanism.
Project management has generated a large data flow for which it is essential to make provision for
the establishment of a monitoring web application integrating the collection, analysis, verification
/ validation and centralization of the information on project performance indicators.




                                                 32
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

None




                                      33
Annex 9. Additional Supplemental Information

Annex 9.A. Additional Information on Financial Management (FM) Arrangements

The Project’s FM arrangements were deemed adequate and provided (i) accurate financial
information and (ii) reasonable assurance that project funds are being used for the purpose
intended. However, there were initially a few challenges that were addressed in order to fully
comply with Bank’s fiduciary requirements. They namely were:

    (a) Systematic delays in submission of financial reports (IFRs, Audited PFS) that were
        progressively reduced during implementation. The PIU was trained on several occasions
        (joint fiduciary training, fiduciary clinics and specific on-demand trainings), which enabled
        the PIU to submit IFRs on time particularly during the last year of the project. Nevertheless
        some issues with the audited PFS persisted: (i) submission delays albeit reduced; and (ii)
        quality issues regarding audits that were discussed with the PIU and that led to the revision
        of the auditor’s TORs based on standard World Bank TORs. The final audit is expected to
        be submitted by the end of August 2015, which covers the grace period (March 31 through
        July 31, 2015).

    (b) The Project’s budgeted activities per components and categories were revised as the level
        of commitments for some categories exceeded planned amounts, namely operating costs
        and training. As a result, the submission of requests for overdrafts to the World Bank were
        recommended to allow the PIU to settle final payments for these categories as there were
        no Government funds available otherwise.

    (c) Disbursement of grant proceeds was made exclusively through the advance to the
        designated account via the submission of withdrawal applications by the Central Bank of
        Tunisia on behalf of the PIU, following the procedures and guidelines already in place and
        used for existing projects financed by the Bank. The PIU requested a ceiling increase for
        the designated account from USD 500,000 to USD 900,000 to accommodate project
        expenditures, which was approved and reflected in the disbursement letter. Replenishment
        of the designated account by the Central Bank of Tunisia had been relatively slow
        according to the PIU and the ceiling increase allowed delays in payments to be reduced.
        The disbursement ratio reached the amount of USD 4.756 million as of August 21, 2015,
        or 95.12% of the total grant amount USD 5 million.




                                                 34
Annex 9.B. Detailed Description of Achievement of Objectives by Key Project Development
Indicator



 (i)   Indicator 1: At least 4,000 workers are employed to implement projects.
       Based on the PIU January 2015 Implementation Report and information from the Project
       M&E database, a total of 6,182 beneficiaries had been enrolled in 70 local sub-projects. 91
       percent of beneficiaries had either a primary or secondary education level, suggesting that
       the right target groups were included (Figure 1) and most were youth (60 percent) (Figure
       2). The total number of direct beneficiaries exceeded the initial target number of 4,000
       beneficiaries. This equates to a total of approximately 6182 persons x 6 months per person
       x 15 days per month (on average) of person-days worked, or 556,380 person-days worked.

Figure 1 Distribution of beneficiaries by educational level (%)

         60%
                                                        49%
         50%
                                    42%
         40%

         30%

         20%

         10%                                                                              7%
                     1%                                                   2%
          0%
                 Analphabète Enseignement de           Niveau         Formation         études
                                   base              secondaire     professionnelle   supérieures
       Source: Tunisia SPF Project Database, November 2014. N=4260.


Figure 2 Distribution of beneficiaries by age group %()

               45%
               40%
               35%
               30%
               25%
               20%    40%
                                          34%
               15%
               10%
                                                                    15%
               5%                                                                           11%
              0%
            moins de 25 ans       entre 26 et 32 ans          entre 33 et 39 ans       plus de 40 ans

       Source: Tunisia SPF Project Database, November 2014. N=4260.




                                                35
        In terms of total enrolment by sub-project, most beneficiaries were enrolled either in
        “social assistance” subprojects (37 percent of all beneficiaries, followed by “environmental”
        subprojects (31 percent) (Figure 3). In terms of sub-project type, the vast majority of sub-
        projects have been “social protection and local development” in nature, followed by
        “education” and “health” sub-projects. The sub-projects have been selected through
        participatory approaches where CSOs, in consultation with local citizens, propose projects
        (as described in the project document and PIU mid-term implementation report). Of the
        24 sub-projects in Tataouine, nearly 55 percent of sub-projects are classified as “social
        protection” projects (such as support to older persons and those with handicaps), 27 percent
        as “education” projects (such as basic civil works at primary schools) and 18 per cent as
        “health” projects (notably reproductive health awareness and education, as well as
        environmental health projects such as those that rehabilitate oases and wells).

Figure 3 Distribution of beneficiary enrolment by sub-project sector (%)


                                                   Sante
                                                    9%
                                                            Social Assistance
                                                           (Services, Textiles,
                                       Education
                                                              Maconnerie)
                                         22%
                                                                   37%


                                          Environment (Commerce
                                          agri-peche, infrastructure)
                                                     31%


        Source: Tunisia SPF Project Database, November 2014. N=4260.


        In Medenine, 74 percent of projects were “social protection” projects, 19 percent have been
        “health” projects and 7 percent have been “education” projects. Data from sub -projects
        showed that that sub-projects mainly comprised service delivery, with some involving
        public works. 78 percent of sub-projects have been service delivery projects (not involving
        civil works) and 22 percent were minor civil works projects (such as landscaping and
        painting considered category ‘C’ projects).

(ii)    Indicator 2: At least 60 percent of workers perceive improvement in job skills as a
        result of sub-project training.
        Based on the PIU January 2015 Implementation Report and information from the project
        M&E database, 54 percent of workers perceive an improvement in jobs skills as a result of
        sub-project training. Over 75 percent of beneficiaries rated their workfare “plus” on -the-
        job training experience favorably, compared to an average of 16 percent among low-skilled
        beneficiaries of public employment programs. The single biggest reason was “work
        experience”, cited by 72 percent of SPF beneficiaries.

(iii)   Indicator 3: At least 30 percent of workers employed are women.
        Based on the PIU January 2015 Implementation Report and information from the
        Project’s M&E database, 70 percent of workers employed were women. The sectors with



                                                   36
       the highest shares of women were education and social assistance, with at 77 and 75
       percent of all beneficiaries, respectively (Figure 2).


Figure 4 Distribution of beneficiaries by gender and by sector (%)

                                                    % Male       % Female

                                        Total           30%                  70%




                                       Health           31%                  69%


                                   Education         23%                    77%

       Environment (Agri-Fishery commerce,
                                                           41%                    59%
                    Utilities)

          Social (Services, Textiles, Masonry)       25%                    75%

                                                 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100%
       Source: Tunisia SPF Project Database, November 2014. N=4260


(iv)   Indicator 4: At least 12,000 community members receive services through local sub-
       projects.
       Based on the PIU January 2015 Implementation Report and information from the Project’s
       M&E database, the target number of indirect beneficiaries has also largely been surpassed
       (62,669 achieved versus 12,000 targeted). The number of indirect beneficiaries is based
       on estimates of catchment areas rather than direct surveying or monitoring due to budget
       and feasibility in implementation constraints, which may have inflated the number of
       indirect beneficiaries. In the future, additional resources and tools could help improve
       monitoring and evaluation such as the use of mobile phones and digital technology.

 (v)   Indicator 5: At least 60 percent of community members perceive services received
       respond to local needs.
       Based on the PIU January 2015 Implementation Report reflecting information from the
       project M&E database collected by the PIU and partner CSOs through local beneficiary
       assessments, 67 percent of community members reported perceiving that services
       responded to local needs on average. Qualitatively, communities, included neighboring
       households that benefited by services provided by project beneficiaries, and authorities
       alike found the project opened up career opportunities in sectors and services with unmet
       needs, either because public services were unable to reach certain households, or because
       the services had never been created to begin with. Given that the project did not
       specifically target improving the quality of services (only basic supplemental access), these
       results are considered realistic and the assessment credible.




                                                   37
(vi)        At least 60 percent of workers and community members perceive greater involvement
            in local decision-making regarding service delivery. Based on the PIU January 2015
            Implementation Report reflecting information from the project M&E database collected by
            the PIU and partner CSOs through local beneficiary assessments, 56 percent of workers
            and 47 percent of community members perceive greater involvement in local decision-
            making regarding service delivery. 8 Given that the project did not specifically target
            radically strengthening local governance and decision-making, these results are considered
            realistic and the assessment credible.




8
    Source: PIU (UTSS), in partnership with local associations.




                                                      38
Annex 9.C. Additional Figures on Employment and Insertion at Six Months
Following Project Exit


Figure 5 Follow-up tracer data on employment status at six months following project exit (%)

                                   Number of beneficiaries in sub-projects       Job insertion rate, unadjusted (%)
                                                                                                                      1600




                                                                                                                             Number of beneficiaries surveyed
                                                                                                                      1400
                                                                                                                      1200
                                                                                                                      1000
                                                                                                                      800
                                                                                                                      600
                                                                                                                      400

                                        50%                          6%           3%                                  200
                                                          7%                                               13%
                                                                                                                      0




Source: Tunisia SPF Project Database, November 2014, Preliminary tracer survey at 6 months
following project exit, N=1360.

Figure 6 Employment status by type (%)
                                                          Self-employment       Salaried employment
                                  80%
                                                                                             69%
   Share of employment within 6




                                  70%               65%
                                  60%
                                                                                                             50% 50%
            months (%)




                                  50%
                                  40%         35%
                                                                                        31%
                                  30%
                                  20%
                                  10%
                                  0%
                                                Total                                   Medenine             Tataouine
                                                                               Region
Source: Tunisia SPF Project Database, November 2014, Preliminary tracer survey at 6 months
following project exit, N=183 employed beneficiaries.

In the Project, for sub-projects where these networks were the strongest and best coordinated, the
transition from training to jobs was the smoothest, reaching a 90 percent job placement rate for one
such project in fishery, capturing 64 percent of all beneficiaries employed among the sample



                                                                          39
(Figure 7). As project beneficiaries were predominately female, most of the employed after the
project were also female (Figure 8), with a small advantage in Tataouine, suggesting that the project
did not disproportionately benefit males in finding employment opportunities. This results is also
promising for future efforts to boost female labor force participation. Beneficiaries and their new
professional networks had created unforeseen opportunities, despite the fact that the project had
not explicitly included specific support to job placement or entrepreneurship.

Figure 7 Employment by sector (%)
                      Maconnerie; Agro-               Textile/commerce
                        business (Auto-                (Auto-emploi et
                       emploi et Salarié)                   Salarié)
                              3%                              7%
         Commerce général
          (Auto-emploi et
              Salarié)
                6%
                    Agro-business                      Pêche
                    (Auto-emploi)                     (Salarié)
                         20%                            64%

Source: Tunisia SPF Project Database, November 2014, Preliminary tracer survey at 6 months
following project exit, N=183 employed beneficiaries.


Figure 8 Employment status by gender and region (%)

                                        % Male        % Female
   Tataouine             30%                                        70%

   Medenine                    40%                                        60%




        Total                37%                                        63%

                0%             20%           40%                  60%           80%           100%
Source: Tunisia SPF Project Database, November 2014, Preliminary tracer survey at 6 months
following project exit, N=183 employed beneficiaries.




                                                 40
Annex 10. List of Supporting Documents


Emrhod Consulting (2014). Rapport d’evaluation finale. Projet des Services Participatifs pour la
Réintégration.

Union Tunisienne de la Solidarité Sociale (2014). Manuel d’Operations. Projet des Services
Participatifs pour la Réintégration.

Union Tunisienne de la Solidarité Sociale (2014). Plan de Passation des Marchés. Projet des
Services Participatifs pour la Réintégration.

Union Tunisienne de la Solidarité Sociale (2014). Rapport d’Etat d’Avancement, mai 2014 (mi-
terme), Projet des Services Participatifs pour la Réintégration.

Union Tunisienne de la Solidarité Sociale (2015). Note d’Etat d’Avancement, janvier 2015 (pré-
clôture), Projet des Services Participatifs pour la Réintégration.

Union Tunisienne de la Solidarité Sociale (2015). Tableaux de Bord des Interventions à Medenine
et Tataouine, janvier 2015. Projet des Services Participatifs pour la Réintégration.

Union Tunisienne de la Solidarité Sociale (2015). Tableaux des Bénéficiaires à Medenine et
Tataouine, janvier 2015. Projet des Services Participatifs pour la Réintégration.

Union Tunisienne de la Solidarité Sociale (2015). Suivi du Budget, juin 2015. Projet des Services
Participatifs pour la Réintégration.

Union Tunisienne de la Solidarité Sociale (2015), Projet des Services Participatifs pour la
Réintégration, Site-Web : http://www.buildingcapacities.com/

World Bank (2012). Project Appraisal Document (PAD): Tunisia Participatory Service Delivery
for Reintegration Final Project Proposal. Project number P127212.

World Bank (2012). Tunisia Participatory Service Delivery for Reintegration Implementation
Status and Results Report, Sequence 01. Report No: ISR7697 (Archived 26-Sept-2012).

World Bank (2013). Tunisia Participatory Service Delivery for Reintegration Implementation
Status and Results Report, Sequence 02. Report No: ISR9240 (Archived 21-May-2013).

World Bank (2013). Tunisia Participatory Service Delivery for Reintegration Implementation
Status and Results Report, Sequence 03. Report No: ISR13326 (Archived 30-Dec-2013).

World Bank (2014). Tunisia Participatory Service Delivery for Reintegration Implementation
Status and Results Report, Sequence 04. Report No: ISR16424 (Archived 12-Nov-2014).

World Bank (2014). Restructuring Paper on a Proposed Project Restructuring of the State and
Peace-Building Fund Participatory Service Delivery for Reintegration TF011069 April 20, 2012
to the Republic of Tunisia. Report No: RES13680.

Annex 11. Country Map



                                               41
42
