Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
6,je  24 76- OCr-
Report No. 8486-UG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
UGANDA
LIVESTOCK SERVICES PROJECT
July 30, 1990
Agriculture Operations Division
Eastern Africa Department
Tis docuent has a restdcted diso an ad may be used by vecipnls only in the pedoumane el
their  dI  dties Us contet may no  olbhse be disclosed wout Wodd Ban  BauhItn.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  =   Uganda Shillings (Ush)
US$1           =    Ush 440.00  1/
Ushl.00              US$0.002273
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES (Metric System)
ha - hectares
km - kilometers
1 - litres
m - million
kg - kilogram
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
1/ After currency reform and exchange rate adjustment of July 1990.
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADP       Agricultural Development Project
AIHRC     Animal Health Research Center (in DVSAI)
APC       Agricultural Policy Committee
ARP       Agricultural Rehabilitation Project
BOU       Bank of Uganda
CBPP      Contagious Bovine Pleuropneumonia
CGS       Credit Guarantee Scheme
cm        Component Manager
CIF       Cost, Insurance, Freight
DC        Dairy Corporation
DFI       District Farm Institute
DTC       Department of Tsetse Control (in MAIP)
DVO       District Veterinary Officer
DVSAI     Department of Veterinary Services and Animal Industry (in HAIF)
ECF       East Coast Fever
EEC       European Economic Comrsmity
ERC       Economic Recovery Credit
ERP       Economic Recovery Program
ERR       Economic Rate of Return
FAOITCP Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations -
Technical Cooperation Program
FRR       Financial Rate of Return
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
GOU       Government of Uganda
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
IMF       Inte-national Monetary Fund
LCB       Local Competitive Bidding
MAIF      Ministry of Animal Industry and Fisheries
MIS       Management Information System
PC        Project Coordinator
PCU       Project Coordination Unit
PFP       Policy Framework Paper
PMC       Project Management Committee
PPF       Project Preparation Facility
PS        Permanent Secretary
TA        Technical Assistance
UNDP      United Nations Development Program
USAID     United States Agency for International Development
UVA       Uganda Veterinary Association



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
Pare No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ................i - i
I.   ECONOMIC SETTING .......    ....................1
II.  THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR .....     ...............    2
A.   Overview ....................                   2
B.   The Livestock Subsector ...............         4
C.   Main Constraints on Growth ............         6
D.   Sectoral Strategy ................              8
E.   Rationale for IDA Involvement    .........     10
III. THE PROJECT ........     ........................   10
A.   Project Genesis .......................        10
B.   Objectives and Strategy ...............        11
C.   Detailed Features ..................          ..  12
D.   Tr-ining and Technical Assistance              15
E.   Project Costs and Financing ...........        16
F.   Financing Plan and Arrangements   ......       17
G.   Procurement ...........................        17
H.   Disbursements .........................        19
I.   Reporting, Accounts and Audits    ........     19
J.   Impact on Rural Women .................        20
K.   Environmental Impact ..................        20
IV.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .....     ...........   21
A.  Project Coordination and Management  ...        21
B.   Component Management and Implementation        22
C.   Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation  ..       26
D.   Mid-Term Review ......     .................   27
V.   FINANCIAL ANALYSIS AND COST RECOVERY   .......      28
A.   Credit for Veterinary Privatization  ...       28
B.   Forage Development .....     ...............   30
C.   Cost Recovery of Drugs and Services  ...       31
D.   Government Cash Flow .....     .............   32
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in December
1989 comprising of Messrs. S. Marples, P. Blanc, J.C. Fayd'Herbe and J.
Stemp. Messrs./Ms. H. Walters, G. Abarcar, and F. Peacock (Consultant)
assisted in the preparation of the report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
VI.  BENEFITS, MARKETING AND JUSTIFICATION   ......       33
A.   Production       ............................  33
B.   Marketing ....... ......................       34
C.   Prices       ................................  35
D.   Economic Analysis .....................        35
E.   Project Risks and Uncertainty    .........     38
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION ....    ..........     39
Annexes
Annex  1  Project Cost Tables .....      ...................   41
Annex  2  Financing Plan ......      .......................   45
Annex  3  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements    ........      47
Annex  4  Terms of Reference, Technical Assistance  ...        48
Annex  5  Herd Projection Parameters .....     ............    55
Annex  6  Summary Seed Requirements .....     .............    56
Annex  7  Privatization of Veterinary Services   .......       57
Annex  8  Summary Economic Analysis .....     .............    65
Annex  9  National Animal Disease Control ....    ........     69
Annex 10  Tsetse Fly Control ......      ...................   73
Annex 11  Forage Production ......      ....................   75
Annex 12  Environmental Assessment Study ....    .........     80
Annex 13  Expenditures Review on Manpower Studies -
Draft Terms of Reference .....     .............   82
Maps      IBRD No. 22158       Major Cattle Movements
IBRD No. 22159      Distribution uf Contagious Bovine
Pleuropneumonia and Rinderpest
IBRD No. 22160      Areas of Increased Incidence of Bovine
Trypanosomiasis Associated with an
Increasing Tsetse Distribution



UGANDA
LIVESTOCK SERVICES PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUHHWRY
Borrower:           Government of Uganda (GOU)
Amount:              SDR 16.1 million (US$21 million equivalent)
Beneficiaries:      Ministry of Animal Industry and Fisheries (MAIF);
private veterinarians
Terms:               Standard, with 40 years maturity
Onlending Terms:    US$2.3 million to commercial banks at an interest rate
of 34.5 percent, repayable aver 10 years, with the
Government bearing the foreign exchange risk.
Project Objectives:   The project has twc main objectives: (a) to reverse
the decline in livestock numbers by arresting the deteriorating animal
epidemic disease situation in Uganda; and (b) to improve the quiality and
cost-effectiveness of livestock services provided by HAIF in accordance
with Government policy that MAIF should concentrate on disease prevention,
encouraging the development of private veterinary practices for curative
services, and the distribution of drugs through private channels.   It
would need to be followed by a second operation to broaden and consolidate
institutional reforms and sustainability.
Project Description:   The project would provide funds for:  (a)
establishment of a national animal disease control program and a tsetse fly
control program. To complement the disease control program and improve
animal nutrition, funds would also be provided to support expansion and
improvement of areas under forage in the smallholder sector; (b) credit
for establishment of about 60 private veterinary practices; and (c)
technical assistance and training to prepare and help execute a program to
streamline MAIF's organizational structure, reduce its staffing levels, and
strengthen its financial and management information systems.
Benefits:   The project would reverse the spread of significant livestock
diseases and avert major epidemics which would otherwise decimate the
national herd and, complemented by animal nutrition improvements, would
directly increase the production of animal products, for which there is a
ready market. Crop productivity would improve through better soil
fertility and draught animal power, and the forage component would improve
soil and water conservation. Control or eradication of tsetse fly would
allow re-establishment of crop or livestock production into areas currently
infested.  Increased milk production, resulting !rom the project, would
support ongoing efforts to expand milk processing and marketing facilities.
Many of the smaller dairy farmers are women.  The project would benefit
about 500,000 households, of which 802 depend heavily on lives ock for
income.
Risks: Since technology for disease control is well tested, risks arise
mainly from weak project implementation. Technical assistance and training
would reduce such risks. In addition, GOU has displayed a strong



- ii -
commitment to strengthening MAIF capacity and redefining its functions.
Efforts outside the scope of the project for ensuring financial
sustainability require similar commitment, which has been sought under the
Second Economic Recovery Credit.
Estimated Project Costs: a/          Local           Foreign         Total
------------US$ million------------
National Disease Control
Natl. Disease Prevention Program  0.4                2.1            2.5
Regional Support                    1.2              3.4            4.6
Tsetse Fly Control                    1.0              3.5            4.5
Veterinary Privatization              1.2              2.4            3.6
Forage Development
Extension                           0.3              0.3            0.6
Management                          0.4              0.3            0.7
Training                            0.2              0.2            0.4
Seed Production                     0.6              0.4            1.0
Project Management                    0.4              0.8            1.2
Institutional Development              -               0.4            0.4
Project Preparation Facility          0.2              0.6            0.8
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                5.9             14.4           20.3
Physical Contingencies                0.6              1.4            2.0
Price Contingencies                   0.8              1.6            2.4
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                 7.3             17.4           24.7
a/ Exclusive of any duties and taxes
Financing Plan:                      Local           Foreign         Total
- -------   US$ million------------
IDA                                 4.7             16.3            21.0
Government of Uganda                2.6              1.1             3.7
TOTAL                 7.3             17.4            24.7
Estimated IDA Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year       91         92        93         94        95         96
Annual             2.1       3.0        3.5         4.0       5.3        3.1
Cumulative         2.1       5.1        8.6        12.6      17.9       21.0
Rate of Return:      49Z
Maps:                IBRD Nos. 22158, 22159 and 22160



UGANDA
LIVESTOCK SERVICES PROJECT
I. ECONOMIC SETTING
1.01      Uganda is well endowed with natural and human resources, but its
ecor.omy has been devastated by nearly two decades of political instability,
economic mismanagement, and internal discord. In addition to the ample
availability of fertile land and favorable climatic conditions for
agricultural growth, it had a relatively well developed manufacturing
sector and an effective transport system. The agricultural sector accounts
for about 75 percent of Gross Domestic Product (GDP), provides over 95
percent of the country's export earnings and is a major source of
government tax revenue.
1.02        The initial years after independence clearly demonstrated the
economic potential of the country; the average growth of GDP was close to 6
percent annually from 1963 to 1970, and prices were relatively stable.
However, starting in 1970, political turmoil and economic mismanagement
radically changed the situation, and real GDP declined about 20 percent
during the 1970s. In early 1981 the then Government initiated a recovery
program, with considerable assistance from donors, including the World Bank
and the International Monetary Fund (IMF). The recovery was short lived
and the renewed cycle of instability beginning in 1984 led to an escalation
in expenditures, acceleration in inflation, overvaluation of the exchange
rate, and an absolute decline in GDP. Eventually the economy came to a
standstill in the wake of a military coup, followed by civil war.
The Economic Recovery Program
1.03        The National Resistance Movement Government, which assumed
power in January 1986, inherited an extremely poor infrastructure, a
grossly under-utilized manufacturing sector, rampant inflation and a huge
external debt with a total debt service of more than half the 1984185
export earnings. With a gradual return to political normalcy, the
Government initiated an Economic Recovery Program (ERP) in the context of a
Policy Framework Paper (PFP) (1987/88-1989/90) agreed with the IMF and IDA.
1.04      The first phase of the ERP was backed by a Structural Adjustment
Facility from the IMF, the IDA Economic Recovery Credit (Cr. 1844-0) and
other donor financing. The aims of the ERP are to lower inflation,
establish financial stability, reduce imbalances in the external trade
account, and create a foundation for sustained growth through the
rehabilitation of productive facilities and the social, physical and
institutional infrastructure. Results up to now have been mixed. The
economy grew by 6.9 percent in 1987/88, and by 6.1 percent in 1988/89
Production has rebounded as peace and security returned to most of the
country, and as the rehabilitation of infrastructure got under way.
Although a measure of discipline has been instilled in the public service,



- 2 -
the civil Fervice remains plagued by low morale and productivity, and is
grossly overstaffed and underpaid. On the economic front, the major
accomplishments have been the restoration of incentives for some producers
of export crops, the dismantling of key price and distribution controls,
and the availability of foreign exchange through a more liberalized trade
regime and a devaluation of trie Ugandan Shilling. The key objective of
stabilization, however, is yet to be achieved, primarily on account of a
larger than programmed monetary expansion. Nevertheless, considerable
progress has been made in bringing dorn the inflation rate.  From an annual
rate of 240 percent in FY88, the end-year inflation rate for FY89 was
reduced to 86 percent, a considerable improvement in spite of exceeding the
target of 55 percent. To further reduce inflation to targeted levels, the
Government has instituted a number of corrective actions, including
policies designed to control the demand for crop finance cred-t. The
inflation target for FY89-90 has been met, with an end-year inflation of 29
percent. In the external sector, overall balance of payment pressures
intensified in FY89. This reflects in particular the impact of the
continuing decline in intervention coffee prices to well below programmed
levels and the slowdown in the disbursements of import support assistance.
1.05      Government is presently discussing with IDA and the IMF the
fourth Policy Framework Paper which outlines the policies intended for
implementation during the pericd 1990191 to 1992193. The Government's
macroeconomic objectives for this period are to: (a) sustain annual growth
at 5 percent per year; (b) achieve financial stability and reduce the rate
of inflation to below 10 percent by the end of the program period; and (c)
strengthen the balance of payments sufficiently to permit a sustained
improvement in the net international reserves. IDA is supporting this
program through the Second Economic Recovery Credit (ERC II) (Cr. 1844-1).
Specifically, ERC II is supporting a package of interrelated stabilization
and structural measures which reinforce demand management, further
liberalize trade and revitalize the private sector, and lead to a
fundamental reorganization of public sector management.
II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. Overview
2.01      Uganda is critically dependent on its agricultural sector (para
1.01). Over 90 percent of the population live in rural areas, and more
than 80 percent of the working population are involved in agricultural
activities. The sector involves about 2.2 million smallholders, and is
characterized by low levels of capital outlays and largely unimproved
production methods.
2.02      The agricultural sector was devastated over the last two decades
due to political turmoil and economic mismanagement.   Attempts to restore
the country's dilapidated agro-industrial infrastructure began in the early
1980s. The Government, helped by external funding, launched a major
program for rehabilitating primarily parastatal and cooperative owned
processing facilities for coffee, cotton, tea, tobacco and sugar. While



- 3 -
major physical progress has been accomplished, the economic benefits are
lagging, as capacity utilization remains low throughout the sector mainly
because of the low level of agricultural production.   Although
agricultural GDP is estimated to have grown in real terms by over 5 percent
annually during the last two years, output levels generally remain below
those of 1965-1970. Data is unreliable, but food crop production could be
as much as 30 percent lower than in the late 1960s; over the same period
the population has grown from 9 m to 16 m, and is continuing to increase at
over 3 percent annually. The l_estock population has declined with the
rest of agriculture, resulting in a 50 percent reduction in per capita meat
and milk consumption.
2.03       As the Governwzent seeks to broaden the economic base, the ERP
is looking to the agricultural sector as a major source of growth over the
medium term. The Government's broad sectoral goals emphasize the
diversification of the export base, while achieving self sufficiency in
food and improving the well being of the rural population. These goals
translate into the following development objectives. First, increased
production requires enhanced productivity of resources used in agriculture.
While growth from land and labor being brought back into production
continues, further expansion in output will have to come mainly from
increased yields. Second, the production base needs to be broadened, and
the heavy dependence on coffee for export earnings and tax revenue reduced.
The vulnerability of the economy to changing world market conditions for
coffee was amply demonstrated during 1989. Initially, such diversification
will involve recapturing lost markets for tea and cotton, and the
substitution of local production for imports, as in the case of sugar. The
main thrust of diversification, however, will depend on the development of
non-traditional exports. Third, since it will take time to overcome
impediments to diversification, it is essential that the coffee subsector
performs strongly with respect to quantity and quality of coffee exported,
and in a manner consistent with the goals of the stabilization program.
2.04      Achievement of these objectives is hampered by economic,
institutional, technical and political constraints. Producer incentives
for export crops have been seriously eroded over the last four years as
adwinistered prices (for coffee, tea and cotton) failed to compensate for
cost increases to farmers. This erosion has been caused by low world
market prices, an overvalued exchange rate, 1/ and inefficient processing
and marketing institutions (parastatals and cooperative unions). Delays in
payment to farmers, caused by inefficient crop finance arrangements, have
further eroded producer incentives. Bad roads, in particular rural access
roads, and shortages of vehicles and fuel continue to restrict productio.i.
Scarcity of and limited access to foreign exchange constrain imports of
inputs for farmers and agro-industries.   Services such as agricultural
research and extension are inadequate. The Government is unable to
1/   In March 1989, the Government acted to offset the disincentive on
account of the overvalued exchange rate. In particular, the
Government announced that all non-coffee exporters will be able to
retain 100 percent of their export earnings for equivalent imports.
The Government has also undertaken a series of devaluations of the
local currency since March 1989.



- 4 -
adequately remunerate public servants and finance operating costs of these
services.
B. The Livestock Subsector
Recent Developments
2.05      Livestock production is estimated to contribute about 30 percent
of agricultural GDP and between 20 and 25 percent of total GDP. Livestock
is sn integral part of farming systems in Uganda and almost one third of
farming households depend on livestock for the major part of their income.
The production potei-tial is high because quality pasture can be grown year-
round. Cattle raising is the predominant livestock enterprise.
2.06      Data on livestock numbers in Uganda are poor, but it is
currently estimated that there are 3.4 m cattle, 2.5 m goats, 0.7 m sheep,
0.5 m pigs, and about 10 m poultry. Numbers of all livestock declined
during the 1980s with cattle suffering the heaviest losses, declining by
one tl.rd from 5.2 m, due to deteriorating disease control and looting.
Most of this loss has occurred in the north and east of the country which
earlier carried about 70 percent of the cattle population.
2.07      Mixed farming smallholders and pastoralists own over 90 percent
of the national cattle herd, of which over 90 percent are of indigenous
breeds. Pastoralists are found mostly in the northeast (Karamoja) and
southwest (parts of Mbarara, Bushenyi and Masaka districts). Commercial
dairy farming is based on some 124,000 animals of imported dairy "reeds
(mainly Fresian) and crosses with indigenous cattle. Commercial dairy
farming developed primarily in the 'fertile crescent" around the northern
and western shores of Lake Victoria, and in the southwest. This industry
declined dramatically in this area due to disturbances during the late
1970s and early 1980s, but grew steadily in southwest Uganda which now
produces about 90 percent of marketed milk. A commercial beef ranching
sector was built up in the 1960s and early 1970s which by 1984 produced
about 20 percent of Uganda's beef. The IDA-supported Beef Ranching
Development Project (Cr. 130-UG), implemented from 1969 to 1972,
contributed to that growth. Ranchers have suffered heavily from banditry
and only about 50 ranchers in the southwest, out of a total of 400
nationwide, remain viably stocked. Commercial poultry and pig production,
almost entirely in small units, grew steadily from 1950 to 1970. The
subsequent decline in those industries has been largely the result of a
decline in grain milling and livestock feed. Imported feed additives have
been unavailable and no new breeding stock has been imported.
2.08      Natural  grass-dominated pastures provide almost all livestock
feed. .lost indigenous cattle graze on communal pastures by day and are
enclosed for security at night. Tethering is practiced in more densely
populated areas. Exotic and crossbred animals susceitible to tickborne
diseases are usually confined to fenced dairy farms or kept in small
enclosures and hand fed on a cut-and-carry basis.   This practice of zero
grazing is gaining popularity. A survey by MAIF of dairy farmers with
exotic or cross bred animals shows that 46 percent of these farmers own



-5-
only one or two cattle, and that most of them now practice zero grazing.
It also showed that most of these small dairy farmers are women. Two zero
grazing schemes, the Heifer Project International scheme sponsored by the
Ministry of Co-operatives and Marketing together with church groups, and a
zero grazing scheme sponsored by the Ministry of Agriculture, have been
specifically targeted at women. The feed under these zero grazing regimes
is generally of only moderate quality. The staple fodder (elephant grass)
is low in protein and digestibility and results in milk yields well below
the potential for exotic and cross bred cattle.
2.09      Although adept at surviving, indigenous animals are susceptible
to epidemics of rinderpest, contagious bovine pluero-pneumonia (CBPP) and
trypanosomiasis (spread by the tsetse fly). Productivity is low. Total
herd offtake is estimated at 10 percent annually. Cows mature at 3 to 4
years of age, calve every second year and produce about 350 liters per
lactation. The mortality rate for cattle over six months of age is about 7
percent annually, for calves about 25-30 percent. The high calf mortality
results from disease (mainly East Coast Fever (ECF)), a low level of
nutrition, and poor management. The calving percentage of imported breeds
and crosses is about 60 with average production of 1750 liters per
lactation. Estimated mortality rates for imported breeds are 5 percent for
calves and 10 percent for cattle over six months of age. The high quality
of the stock and the commensurate level of care account for these
relatively low mortalities. However, t:.eir high susceptibility to endemic
diseases means that any lapse in disease control can be fatal. The 3.24 m
indigenous and 124,000 improved cattle now produce about 275 m liters and
74 m liters of milk per year, respectively. The annual meat production is
about 55,000 tons. The annual farm gate value of milk and meat production
is about US$214 m or US$75 per rural family.
2.10      The Ministry of Animal Industry and Fisheries (MAIF) is the
Government agency concerned with the development of the livestock subsector
and supervision of the livestock oriented parastatals. MAIF has three
departments: Veterinary Services and Animal Industry (DVSAI), Tsetse
Control (DTC), and the Department of Fisheries. DVSAI is responsible for
animal health and oversees the Animal Health Research Center (AHRC), the
Animal Breeding Center, which provides artificial insemination, and the
Division of Animal Production which is responsible for animal husbandry
extension and pasture development. The DTC is responsible for tsetse fly
control but not for prophylaxis and treatment of trypanosomiasis which is
the responsibility of DVSAI. Both departments were successful until the
early 1970s but are now largely ineffective because of the long period of
unrest. The parastatals within the orbit of MAIF are the Dairy Corporation
which has responsibility for milk processing and marketing, the Uganda
Livestock Industry which took part in the successful Beef Ranching
Development Project but whose properties have since been severely looted,
and the Uganda Meat Packers.  The latter two are subsidiaries of the Uganda
Development Corporation.  The Uganda Livestock Industry is being
rehabilitated with assistance from the Kuwait Fund. The Uganda Meat
Packers is now operating only as a slaughterhouse for Kampala butchers.
2.11      Makerere University.  The Faculty of Veterinary Medicine at
Makerere was established in 1971 with assistance from the Canadian
Government. Canadian support was withdrawn in 1974 aind since then UNDP has



provided some technical assistance, minor recurrent inputs and vehicles.
The new facilities provided by UIDP have revitalized the practical training
program. Also with UNDP assistance, the Faculty has run one-week refresher
courses in animal health and husbandry subjects since December 1987.
Assistance is also being provided by the Government of the Federal Republic
of Germany to rehabilitate microbiology, parasitology and hematology
training facilities. Undergraduate training facilities have been moribund
since 1980 and the practical skills of recent graduates are totally
inadequate. Annual student intake into the Faculty has risen from about 35
to between 50 and 60, of whom about half graduate. These increased numbers
are well beyond the capacity of the training facilities and poorly trained
graduates have been employed in the already overstaffed DVSAI.
2.12      Uganda VeterinarX Association Ltd. (UVA).  The UVA is a
voluntary organization composed of members of the veterinary profession
with the mandate to promote and safeguard the interests of the veterinary
profession in Uganda. It has few financial resources and depends largely
on membership fees of USh 1,000 a year. Because of the civil unrest, it
remained dormant for over a decade until its 1986 Annual General Meeting,
when a new Executive Committee was elected and the members expressed
enthusiasm for the privatization of veterinary services and for the
revitalization of the Association to play an active part in the
profession's affairs. In Jily 1990 the UVA's legal status was confirmed
through registration of the Association under the Companies Act as a
company limited by guarantee and not having a share capital. The Annual
General Meeting sets general policy. A Board of Directors, elected by the
Annual General Meeting, takes responsibility for managing the Association
as a legal entity.
2.13      Uganda Veterinary Board.  The Board was established to implement
the Veterinary Surgeons Act of 1958 which provides for the registration of
veterinarians. It has powers of disciplining veterinarians who contravene
the Act in respect of malpractice, unprofessional conduct or criminality,
through deregistration or reprimand. The Board has six members appointed
by the Minister of Animal Industry and Fisheries. All but one are
government or University employees with minimum familiarity of private
veterinary practice.
C. Main Constraints on Growth
2.14      Animal Health.   During the period of upheaval, veterinary
services deteriorated and Government disease control programs broke down.
Diseases became rampant and were a major factor in a 30 percent decline in
livestock numbers over the last 15 years.   Rinderpest and CBPP were
confined to the northeast borders of Uganda up to 1979 but have since
spread westwards and southwards into two districts representing almost half
the country (map 2). CBPP is also spreading south of Lake Kyoga in Luwero
district and is threatening the major cattle producing areas of the
southwest. Trypanosomiasis is increasing and the reinvasion of tsetse fly
into a 30,000 kmZ area of Luwero, Apac and Mubende in the west and Mbarara
in the south is causing a serious incidence of trypanosomiasis among
unprotected stock. There is a high probability that the tsetse fly will,



- 7 -
if unchecked, spread into another 15,000 km2 of the main cattle areas.
Also, the tsetse-borne disease of sleeping sickness in humans has
reappeared recently in the southeast and threatens to escalate. ECF has
spread into most of Karamoja and high mortalities are reported. In
addition to the above diseases, foot and mouth disease, brucellosis, rabies
and Newcastle disease are all important causes of deaths and reduced animal
production and/or pose risks to humans. The factors constraining adequate
disease control include weak policy formulation, lack of equipment and
transport for field services, a weak tsetse unit, uncoordinated disease
surveillance, inadequate training of professional staff, absence of disease
monitoring, recurring drug shortages, budget constraints and staff
management and supervision.
2.15      Nutrition.  Inadequate nutrition is an important consvraint to
livestock production.   The legume content of natural pastures is low and
both digestibility and protein are below requirements for high levels of
animal production, particularly dairy production. Consequently, exotic and
cross-bred cattle are producing well below their genetic potential. Poor
nutrition is a major factor in increasing mortality of indigenous calves
from ECF. Pasture improvement is constrained by lack of seed, poor
management, and the absence of an effective extension service for pasture
management and animal nutrition. In view of the high cost of importing
seed and the scarcity of foreign exchange there is a need to develop a
capability to produce good quality seed locally.
2.16      Marketing and Processing.  The live ruminant marketing system
has largely broken down. Holding grounds for quarantine and night stops on
stock trade routes have fallen into disrepair, MAIF livestock movement
control has lapsed, and the presence of various diseases limits Uganda's
access to potential export markets. Most livestock marketing is conducted
outside the formal system. Similarly, about 95 percent of total milk
consumption reaches the consumer through traditional marketing channels.
Most is consumed on the farm and the remainder sold through local markets
where it is often boiled to prevent souring. In the early 1970s, the Dairy
Corporation (DC) processed 55,000 liters of fresh milk per day through its
two main processing plants at Kampala and Mbale. Subsequently, due to the
long period of civil strife, the supply of fresh milk declined and the DC
produced recombined milk using milk powder and butter oil donated by the
World Food Program and the European Economic Community (EEC) to maintain
milk supplies to the Kampala area. The DC's operations are constrained by
lack of transport, a deteriorated road network, and unreliable supplies of
electricity and good quality water. Plant and equipment at collection
centers and processing plants are generally in poor condition due to
looting and inadequate maintenance. GOU is addressing these constraints
with donor assistance in rehabilitating rural infrastructure and support
for the DC.
2.17      Government Services.    MAIF lacks operating funds and
supporting investments. Most of the recurrent budget is spent on salaries
and wages tut salaries have been eroded by inflation and are inadequate.
MAIF is overstaffed at all levels, particuli.rly in DVSAI where the number
of veterinarians has increased tenfold over the last 20 years to around
450. At the same time staff training has declined to negligible levels.
There is little discipline among staff and morale is low. The role of the



-8 -
DVSAI has been reduced to that of a seller of veterinary drugs but supplies
are inadequate and unreliable due to lack of foreign exchange. DTC is
constrained by lack of equipment and transport and its staff have been
unable to V' -. abreast of evolving technology in tsetse control.
D. Sectoral Strategy
2.18       The Agricultural Sector Action Program.   In addition to the
macroeconomic adjustments under ERP, the Government also formed in 1987 the
Agricultural Task Forces (financed under a Bank Special Project Preparation
Facility) to focus on areas of policy and institutional reform addressing
the sectoral constraints discussed above. Their recommendations were
endorsed by the Agricultural Policy Committee (APC) 21, and determined the
agricultural policy agenda in the PFP. The main objectives guiding this
agenda are to: (a) provide incentives for an enhanced supply response under
the ERP; (b) establish efficient and competitive systems for agricultural
input importation and distribution, and for maiketing of crops and
livestock products; (c) restructure agricultural marketing parastatals in
line with trade liberalizatior and fiscal objectives; (d) optimize the
utilization of existing crop processing capacity; and (e) develop
agricultural research and extension services to support increased farmer
productivity and diversified agricultural production. This agenda
complements the Government's efforts to improve the rural infrastructure
and energize rural enterprises. The APC is translating the above agenda
into a comprehensive Agricultural Sector Action Program, which would
contain subsectoral action programs to be adopted over the next ten months.
The proposed Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit, for which the
Government has requested IDA assistance, is expected to support the
implementation of these action programs.
2.19      Livestock Subsector.  Government has declared as its objectives
in the livestock subsector: (a) improving the income of livestock owners;
and (b) diversification of agricultural production and exports. To achieve
these objectives, GOU has placed high priority on improvement in the
following areas: (a) animal health; (b) animal nutrition; (c) tsetse
control; (d) milk processing and marketing; and (e) Government services.
There are localized donor assisted projects in animal health and tsetse
control, as well as dairy processing and marketing. However, these
projects do not address the weaknesses of the institutional framework for
the delivery of livestock services. In animal health services, the
Government's new policy is to limit the role of MAIF to disease prevention,
and to encourage the development of private veterinary practice for
curative services and the distribution of drugs through private channels.
With IDA assistance, Government has begun a review of the functions of the
MAIF as part of a comprehensive program to streamline the civil service and
promote private sector initiatives.
2/   The Agricultural Policy Committee, with representation at the level
of Permanent Secretary, advises the President's Economic Council on
agricultural policy matters.



- 9 -
2.20      IDA's Lending Strategy for the agricultural sector aims at
supporting agricultural growth through sectoral policy and institutional
reforms, improved sectoral management and investments in physical
infrastructure. It supports the country assistance strategy of restoring
the country's productive capacity while steering the economy towards
sustainable long term growth.
2.21       In the recent past IDA assistance for agricultural development
has consisted of a broad based sector operation, the Agricultural
Rehabilitation Project (ARP) (US$70 m, Cr.1328); two area development
projects, the Agricultural Development Project (ADP) (US$10 m, Cr.1539) and
the Southwest Region Agricultural Rehabilitation Project (US$10 m,
Cr.1869); a Forestry Rehabilitation Project (US$13 m, Cr.1824); and a Sugar
Rehabilitation Project (US$24.9 m, Cr.1893). The objective of the ARP was
to increase foreign exchange earnings through improved resource allocations
in the export crop subsector, rehabilitation of agro-processing facilities,
provision of sector imports, and improving marketing efficiency. The
project was successful in rehabilitating export crop processing faciliti3s,
and financed a large part of agricultural input imports over the last six
years.  The establishment of an institutional capability to support and
rationalize policy making in pricing of export commodities was a major
project contribution. Policy initiatives for crop marketing reforms could
not, however, be successfully pursued due to political instability.
2.22      The twc area development projects aim at increasing farmer
productivity in the southwest and the north and eastern parts of the
country through distribution of agricultural inputs, re-establishing
extension services and rehabilitation of rural roads. Progress in
implementation has been slow. The main constraints have been (a) political
instability particularly affecting the ADP; (b) inadequate counterpart
funding and cumbersome administrative procedures to obtain foreign exchange
for import of inputs; (c) lack of supporting infrastructure, and (d)
limited project implementation capabilities in the agricultural sector
ministries. Similarly, progress on the Forestry Rehabilitation Project has
been slow. Implementation of the Sugar Rehabilitation Project, aimed at
restoring sugar production at the Kakira Sugar Estate to historical levels,
is proceeding satisfactorily under private sector management.
2.23        The Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit, designed as a
hybrid operation and scheduled for FY91, would (a) complement ERC II in
supporting financial stabilization through controlling crop finance credit
expansion; and (b) promote growth through agricultural marketing reforms,
enhancing coffee export incentives, increasing the efficiency of the
Government's Public Expenditure Program, and strengthening agricultural
research and extension institutions. As such, it would pave the way for
specific investment projects, including the development of rural
enterprises and essential agricultural support services.



- 10 -
E. Rationale for IDA Involvement
2.24      Rebuilding the livestock sector is an important element of
restoring productivity in agriculture. The establishment of efficient
viable livestock services is therefore fully consistent with country
assistance strategy. Rebuilding the national herd would lead to increases
in both meat and milk production, improve the level of nutrition and reduce
the import of milk products. IDA has been involved with livestock sector
studies carried out since 1984 and has been taking the lead among donors in
the dialogue on this sector. Joint efforts between IDA and the Government
have identified the problems in the subsector and led to the preparation of
the proposed project.   The proposJd streamlining of MAIF's structure and
staffing builds on efforts initia'ed under the Second Technical Assistance
Project (TA II, Cr. 1434), and supplements civil service reform initiatives
under ERC II (Second Tranche conditionality) aiming at functional
rationalization within selected ministries including MAIF.
2.25      TA II financed a functional review of MAIF, including an
inventory of current staff resources and their responsibilities. From this
starting point there is now a need to define and implement a timebound and
monitorable Action Program to reduce staff numbers and promote cost
effective delivery of selected animal health services within a more limited
mandate for the public sector, including development of private veterinary
practices, voluntary retirement schemes, staff retraining etc. The
preparation of this Action Program is being financed under the Third
Technical Assistance Project (TA III, Cr. 1951) and is expected to be
completed in December 1990. The proposed Livestock Services Project would
finance the implementation of the Program. IDA involvement is necessary to
provide continuity to these efforts as well as to complement and support
other donor projects to improve animal health and production.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Genesis
3.01      Following publication of the Bank's Agricultural Sector
Memorandum in July 1984, GOU formed an Agricultural Policy Committee with
an Agricultural Secretariat in the Bank of Uganda. Four Task Forces were
set up by the Agricultural Secretariat to advise Government on
rehabilitation of the agricultural sector, including one for the livestock
subsector. Political changes in 1985/86 delayed progress but in 1986, the
Livestock Task Force's interim report identified animal health, milk
production, milk marketing, tsetse fly control and privatization of
veterinary services as priorities for rehabilitation. Subsequently,
FAO/TCP undertook a feasibility study, and in March 1987 the Livestock Task
Force presented a proposal for a livestock services project. GOU engaged
consultants funded under a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) to work with
the Agricultural Secretariat from February to June 1989 to prepare the
project. The project was appraised in Deceaber 1989.



- 11 -
B. Objectives and Strategy
3.02      The project has two main objectives.  The first and immediate
objective is to reverse the decline in livestock numbers by dealing with
the alarming animal epidemic disease situation. To this end the project
would support an emergency national disease control program. and tsetse fly
control program. The disease control program would be complemented by
improved animal nutrition through support for forage development. The
second objective is to bring about improvements in MAIF which will lead to
a smaller, more cost effective organization able to discharge its
responsibilities to the livestock sector in an efficient, effective and
professional manner. This will involve ins'itutional reform, re-training
and a scheme for privatization of veterinary practice. The project to be
implemented over a five year period would need to be followed by a second
operation to broaden and consolidate institutional reform, ensure
sustainability and at the same time provide further assistance to MAIF's
animal health and production services.
3.03      The beneficiaries of the project will be smallholders, and
larger cattle and dairy farmers who are all affected by the present endemic
disease problem and all of whom are users or potential users of veterinary
services. Secondary beneficiaries are the consumers of meat and milk in
Uganda who, as a result of the project, will benefit from an increased
supply of both commodities.
3.04      In order to implement the project, MAIF will need to be
considerably strengthened in its animal disease control activities, with
major efforts directed towards training and equipment and TA.  At the same
time as this strengthening is under way in disease control, the prototype
veterinary privatization component will be seeking to move MAIF out of
curative veterinary practice which can be better handled by the private
sector. The longer term objective would be to have MAIF out of curative
veterinary practice and confined to a regulative and endemic disease
control role, plus providing extension services to smallholder farmers.
3.05      The proposed project would have six main components:  (i) a
national animal disease control program, including the establishment of
mobile service units equipped to control disease outbreaks and the
rehabilitation of MAIF's diagnostic disease control program; (ii) tsetse
fly control in the Luwero, Mubende, Masindi and Hoixa districts (areas not
covered by other donors); (iii) forage development through seed production
and services covering about 7,500 milk producing farms, 12,000 ha of
communal and ranch areas and about 10,000 km of grass strips to protect
terraced cultivation in the southwest; (iv) credit and training to assist
in the establishment of private veterinary practices; (v) institutional
development, including technical assistance to help execute a program to
streamline MAIF's organizational structure and reduce its staffing levels;
and (vi) project management support to MAIF in the areas of financial
management and procurement.



- 12 -
C. Detailed Features 3/
National Animal Disease Control (US$7.1 m)
3.06      In order to contain the deteriorating bovine disease situation
which now threatens the most productive dairy cattle populations, emergency
measures are necessary. The project would establish three mobile service
units, additional to the one unit being fielded by tLe ADP, in priority
disease control districts to contain the major epidemic diseases. Tbe
mobile service units would assist District Veterinary Officers (DVOs) in
the field diagnosis and eradication of rinderpest and CBPP, the diagnosis
and treatment of trypanosomiasis, the control of ECF and the eradication of
rabies. Each of the units would have two 4-wheel drive personnel vehicles,
two 4-wheel drive pick-ups to move equipment, and a mobile laboratory. The
mobile laboratories would be equipped for field diagnosis and to store sera
and specimens for despatch to the AHRC. They would also hold rinderpest,
CBPP and rabies vaccines for the field service units. These units would be
self contained for all vaccination programs. Funds would be provided to
purchase annually 5 million doses of CBPP vaccine, and a total of 200,000
doses of rabies vaccine. Rinderpest vaccine would be supplied under the
Pan African Rinderpest Campaign (EEC) project. In order to re-establish
and strengthen veterinary services within a narrower GOU mandate, six new
district veterinary offices would be constructed in districts with no
facilities and 27 existing offices renovated. Twenty-four district offices
and 29 veterinary cen:ers would be supplied with cold chain and other
veterinary equipment. The project would also provide for importation of
selective curative dr'gs (US$1.3 m) during the first two years of
implementation. This provision is considered necessary to ensure the
availability of drugs to combat key diseases recognizing that in due course
the private sector will be relied upon for importation of such drugs. The
410 field staff would be provided witn motorcycles. AHRC would be
strengthened to provide effective complementary diagnostic support. A
serum bank would be established as a basic tool for disease surveillance.
Equipmen', reagents and facilities would be supplied to enable the center
to carry out serological testing for CBPP, identify and quantify breeding
diseases of cattle and diseases of small ruminants. To support the
development of this component the project would provide technical
assistance in veterinary epidemiology and laboratory technology. An
epidemiologist would assist in the establishment and operation of the
mobile service units and provide staff training. A Laboratory Technologist
would be attached to AHRC to assist in re-equipping the laboratory and
training staff in up-to-date technology, and provide support to diagnostic
work in the field by the project's four mobile laboratories, and at
regional and district veterinary offices.
3/   Costs given in parenthesis represent base costs.



- 13 -
Tsetse Fly Control (US$4.5 m)
3.07      The objective of this component is to eradicate tsetse in the
Luwero, Mubende, Masindi and Hoima districts of Western Uganda. Under the
project the DTC would survey and map the tsetse fly infestation and
density, and undert;..? a coordinated control program using baits, targets
and traps. Operations would be based at Hasindi. The project would halt
the spread of tsetse fly in Luwero District from the northwest and prevent
the imminent infestation of a further 3,000 sq km of land. The tsetse
would be eradicated progressively westwards to the west of Masindi town.
9,000 sq km of land containing 200,000 cattle would be cleared in this
operation. Adaptive field trials would be conducted to test new technology
used successfully in other countries with similar environments. Particular
attention would be paid to developing cost effective sustainable control
measures using new bait technology with the involvement of local livestock
owners. Funds would be provided for the renovation of DTC's staff housing,
office accommodation and laboratory and workshop facilities at Masindi.
The project would also finance vehicles, plant and equipment, fly traps,
insecticide, odor attractants and incremental operating costs, as well as
technical assistance and training. A tsetse control specialist would be
recruited to assist in establishing and planning the control program and
adaptive trials and to provide in-service training to DTC staff in new
tsetse control techniques. The project would include the rehabilitation of
DTC's laboratory facility and provide equipment necessary for the
monitoring of effects of insecticides and other chemicals that may be used
by the project.
Forage Development (US$2.6 m)
3.08      The component would be directed at improv.!ng forage production,
management and utilization at the farm level, with particular emphasis on
dairy production. Project activities would be concentrated in the
'milkshed" areas of the "fertile crescent' and the southwest. Under the
project improved forage incorporating pasture and tree legumes would be
developed for about 7,500 farmers. A total area of about 4,000 ha of tree
legumes and 40,000 ha of pasture legumes would be established on individual
farms with project support. In addition about 12,000 ha would be oversown
with legume seed in communal and ranch areas. Tree and herbaceous legumes
would be established on about 10,000 km of grass strips in Kabale District
to protect cultivated terraces from soil erosion and provide forage and
fuelwood. The project would support the establishment and development of
local seed production on a farmer contract basis. Support would be given
to DVSAI to establish a Forage Development Unit to be responsible for seed
production and forage extension. Funds would be provided for renovation of
the DVSAI seed store, laboratory and housing at Entebbe. The project would
also finance vehicles and equipment. including seed testing and processing
equipment, seed purchase and incremental operating costs including
training. Technical assistance in forage development would also be
provided to support development of this component.
Privatization of Veterinary Services (US$3.6 m)
3.09      The project would support a prototype component for the
establishment of private veterinary practice. Credit would be made



- 14 -
available through commercial banks for on-lending to veterinary
practitioners, at present in Government service, for the establishment of
new private practices. Credit would also be made available for UVA to
establish a wholesale veterinary supply cooperative for the supply of drugs
and small equipment to its members. The UVA would be responsible for
executing the privatization component but would engage a firm of
consultants acceptable to IDA to advise on and manage this part of the
project. Funds would also be provided for Makerere University to provide
improved post graduate training including courses in business training for
veterinarians intending to enter private practice. Funds and TA would also
be provided to the University to support establishment of a veterinary
diagnostic center to be run on a full cost recovery basis. Further details
are given in Annex 7.
Institutional Development of MAIF (US$0.4 m)
3.10      Because of the need to react to a succession of epidemic disease
emergencies over the last decade, and as a result of GOU policy to employ
all new graduates, MAIF, and in particular its DVSAI, has lst the capacity
to provide a balanced spectrum of cost effective services to the subsector.
The DVSAI has focussed increasingly on animal health, to the neglect of
animal husbandry, as its financial constraints have been accentuated.
Those constraints have been in part the result of growing staff numbers,
and therefore staff costs, leaving a dwindling percentage of total cost for
operations. A similar relationship between staff costs and operations cost
has built up in the DTC. At the same time the essential responsibilities
of these Departn-ents and the technologies to be employed to meet them have
also changed over the decade. Responsibility for clinical medicine and
production of breeding stock inter alia should now and will be passed to
the private sector. The DTC's role would be greatly changed because it
would employ new field techniques which would permit it to contract part of
its work, and involve beneficiaries increasingly ', field operations. The
staff numbers which this new strategy of the DTC would require are a
fraction of its present numbers.
3.11      The project would help MAIF to define priorities in allocation
of resources so as to maximize its impact on productivity in the subsector
and to put in place staff structures to serve the subsector more
effectively within a reduced spectrum of services, i.e. to implement the
Action Program referred to in para 2.25. Consultants financed under TA III
have been engaged for preparation of the Action Program. Terms of reference
for this consultancy are given in Annex 13. Assurances were given that GOU
and IDA would reach agreement on the Action Program to be implemented under
the proposed project no later than December 31, 1990.   The project would
provide an internationally recruited Organization and Management Specialist
to the MAIF to assist in the implementation of the Action Program. Funds
would be provided for a vehicle, office equipment and incremental operating
costs.
Project Management Support to the MAIF (US$1.2 m)
3.12      The project would provide for a locally recruited Financial
Controller/Procurement Specialist to help MAIF set up financial systems for
budgeting and recording project expenditures and to assist with



- 15 -
international procurement and Bank procedures with which MAIF has lim ted
experience. Funds would be provided for transport, office equipment and
incremental operating costs. The project would also finance monitoring and
evaluation which MAIF would contract Makerere University's Faculty of
Veterinary Medicine to undertake.
D. Training and Technical Assistance
3.13      The project would provide training and technical assistance
designed to fill specific skill gaps resulting from Uganda's technical
isolation over much of the last twenty years. Funds would be provided for
selected veterinary and animal production staff to complete short courses
or study tours outside Uganda in the fields of tsetse control, forage
development and veterinary epidemiology. The project would finance
undergraduate and post graduate training at Makerere University in business
studies and clinical medicine tailored to private practice. Throughout the
project, emphasis would be given to in-service training. All project
veterinary officers would undergo refresher training covering recent
advances in epidemiology and laboratory, diagnosis of the main diseases
currently epidemic in Uganda. All staff associated with the forage
development component would participate in an initial three week
orientation/technical workshop. Subsequently, four day workshops would be
held annually and all field teams would be regularly supervised by
coordinating unit staff. Farmer training in forage development would be
conducted through field days and selected short courses at District Farm
Institutes (DFI). Training in environmental aspects with particular
reference to the safe use of chemicals would be provided for project staff
and farmers. Training would be in the form of short courses at DFIs
planned and implemented by MAIF in collaboration with the Ministry of
Environment.
3.14      Internationally recruited technical assistance would be required
to assist with project implementation in areas of specialization currently
unavailable in Uganda. TA would be provided for the positions of
Veterinary Epidemiologist, Laboratory Technologist, Tsetse Control
Specialist, Forage Development Specialist, Organization and Management
Specialist, and Business Management Specialist (UVA).
3.15      Technical assistance totalling 22 staff years of which 5 staff
years would be local consultancy has been included in the main component
costs.  Terms of reference were discussed with Government at appraisal and
agreed at negotiations (Annex 4). Contractual arrangements for recruitment
of consultants indicated in para 3.14 would be completed prior to credit
effectiveness.



- 16 -
E. Proiect Costs and Financing
Cost Estimates
3.16         The total costs of the project  including physical and price
contingencies are estimated at US$24.7 m  (Ush 10.891 m) net of taxes and
duties with a foreign exchange component of US$17.3 m  (Ushs 7,644 m) or
about 70 percent. Project costs include an amount of US$800,000 provided
under a PPF, of which US$650,000 has already beeu disbursed. Project costs
are suizarized in Table 3.1 and detailed in Annex 1.
Table 3.1:   PROJECT COSTS SUMMARY
(UGANDA?. SEILLLIN'S  '1:Zo;           USt '000)                     Z Total
---------------------------------   --------------------- ZForeign Bese
Local     Fzreis.      .stal       Local  Foreign  Total   Exchanse   Costs
A. NATIONAL DISEASE CONTROL
NATIONAL DISEASE PREVENTION PROGRAN       158,583.4    -     '    `0 4Zs?OO720.0   361.1  2.126.?  2t48.0    2.5       12
REGIONAL SUPPQRT                          524r730.5 1494s513.4  2,O:?044.0  1,193.0 37,374.6 44567.6         74       2
Sub-Totl3 NATIONAL DISEASE CONTROL           5Z;8!^'.  2,t=*t4r.0  34104r4U4.0  14554.1 5,5O1.5  7055.6         78       35
P. TSETSE FLY CONTROL                        44'5"17.4 1.'4E.30C.6  1,95,512.0  1,017.1  35192,9  4.!36.0       78       22
C. tUTTER.INARY PRIVATISATION                "  '.'l.2 I 77,128.8  1,51,04.-C  1I168.0  2,448.0  3t1l6.0        68       18
D. FORAGE DE'VELOPIENT
EXTENSION                                 114,75'75   144PO6:.5 !  5et81?.C   '60.?   327,4   588.2           56        3
HANAGEWENT                                156,073.7  :2S2:31.3   234.207.~  354.7   291.2   645.9             45        3
TRAININGu                                 108927.1   64409!.?   173C!?.O   247.6   145.7   393.2             37        2
SEED PRrUTTION                           28s?LS.9  :61 '2: f.'   450.776.0   656.7   367.8 11024,5           36        5
Sub-Tota. F37AH DEVEL'PNENT                  663y2'.2   9s,rt!C  1.h6USY21.0  1Y519.8  1,132.0 2,651.9           43       13
E. PROJECT                                                           !3'4A2ENENT  183st4 .0!1 3    3 !4,600 .0   418.1   796,9  1215.0  66  6
8. irSI'.2I:0NAL DEELOFIENT2 .2.`C  191,840.0    56.7   379.3   436.0                                           87        2
t. FROJECT PREPARATION FACILVTsv             _5760A,l  246,400.0   352,000.0   240.0   560.0   800.0             70        4
Total PAI-ELIIE COSTS                        ^.628t4S1.8 6i08it01.3 8r936,583.0  5,973.8 14,336.6 20,310.4        71      100
P11iC&1 Cantir.a%.z                         277s467.7  625W4j3.S   9024911.5   630.6  1U421.5  24052.1          69       10
F'ice Cor.tirgernciz.                       340,314.6  711'294.5  1,051,609.1   773,4  1616,6 2,390.0           68       12
M PROJECT COSTS                              3246,264,1 7644,839.6 10,891,103#7  7,377.9 17,374,6 247#52.5         70      122
:-=:::=:  ---=- ----- -:- =--=
3.17         These cost estimates are based on April 1990 prices.   Physical
contingencies have been applied in the following manner: civil works - 15
percent; other cost items - 10 percent, for a project average of 11
percent. Because of the difficulty of predicting medium term exchange
rates due to frequent changes in the local inflation rate, price
contingencies on both foreign and local costs are based on the Bank's
projection of international price increases (Manufacturers' Unit Value:
1990 to 1994 - 4.9 percent) using the current exchange rate of Ush 440
throughout the project period.



- 17 -
F. Financing Plan and Arrangements
3.18      The financing plan is summarized below and detailed in Annex 2.
Table 3.2: FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million)
Foreign                                   Z of Total
Exchange       Local                      Pro -~ct
Costs          Costs           Total      Cost
IDA            16.3            4.7             21.0        85
GOU              1.0           2.7              3.7        15
Total Project  17.3            7.4             24.7       100
The proposed IDA credit of SDR 16.1 m (US$21.0 m equivalent), including a
PPF of US$800,000, would finance approximately 85 percent of total project
costs, and 94 percent of foreign costs. In addition to the project
investments, technical assistance and credit, IDA would finance part of the
incremental recurrent costs on an annually decreasing basis (para 3.23).
IDA would also finance: (a) curative drugs for an initial period of 2
years; and (b) free vaccines relating to major epidemic diseases. GOU
would finance part of the recurrent costs on an increasing basis as well as
incremental salaries and existing staff allowances, at the levels defined
by the terms and conditions of the public service. Cost recovery
implications for GOU are discussed in para 5.14.  The foreign exchange risk
on the credit component would be borne by GOU (para 5.07).
G. Procurement
3.19      The Uganda Cen.ral Tender Board, which is responsible for
overseeing the Government procurement practices, is currently being
strengthened with support from TA III. By project start-up this unit would
be fully operational. Procurement arrangements are summarized in the
following table.



- 18 -
Table 3.3: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ ltillion)
Procurement Method
Total
Procurement Element        ICB        LCB      Other      N/A        Costs
Buildings                  0.14       2.46                            2.60
(0.14)    (2.46)                           (2.60)
Vehicles e Equipment       4.75       0.25      0.10                   5.10
(4.75)    (0.25)    (0.10)                 (5.10)
Tech. Assist. Studies
and Training                                  5.07                  5.07
(4.44)                (4.44)
Personnel & Op. Costs                           4.69       1.50        6.19
(3.18)    (0.04)      (3.22)
Other (Line of Credit
& PPF)                                                   3.06       3.06
(3.06)     (3.06)
Drugs and Forage Seeds    2.74                                        2.74
(2.62)                                     (2.62)
7.63      2.71       9.86      4.56       24.75
(7.5)     (2.7)      (7.7)     (3.1)      (21.0)
3.20      Civil Works are small-scale and scattered throughout the
country. Prefabricated buildings totalling US$140,000 including
contingencies would be procured by International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
in accordance with Bank Guidelines. The remainder, comprising renovation
of existing facilities, would be unlikely to appeal to international
contractors. These works would be procured by Local Competitive Bidding
(LCB) procedures which are satisfactory to IDA and would include local
advertising, public bid opening, clear evaluation criteria, and award to be
made to the lowest evaluated responsive bidder. Foreign contractors would
be eligible to bid. LCB documents would be reviewed by IDA before their
issuance to bidders.
3.21      Goods and Services:  Equipment, vehicles and furniture,
totalling US$4.75 million including contingencies, would be grouped in
appropriate bidding packages and procured by ICB in accordance with Bank
guidelines. Drugs and forage seeds totalling US$2.74 m would also be
procured by ICB. (These items would be grouped to the extent feasible, in
order to attract major dealers and suppliers.) Contracts for less than
US$50,000 and aggregating to US$250,000 would be procured through LCB in
accordance with GOU procedures as outlined for civil works above and
acceptable to IDA. Comparative shopping based on at least three
quotations, or purchasing off-the-shelf, would be allowed for contracts
under US$20,000 up to an accumulated total of US$100,000. Qualifying
domestic manufacturers would receive a preference in bid evaluation of 15
percent of the bid CIF price or the actual customs and duties and import



- 19 -
taxes, whichever is less. Contracts for technical assistance and studies
(US$4.3 m) would be awarded in accordance with IDA guidelines and would be
subject to prior review. Overseas and local training acceptable to IDA
(US$770,000) would be by direct placement.  Other procurement expetr.itures
such as staff salaries and recurrent operational costs would follow local
government procedures.
3.22      Contract Review:  All bidding packages for works estimated to
cost over US$150,000 equivalent and bidding packages for goods over
US$50,000 would be subject to prior IDA review of procurement documentation
resulting in a coverage of about 80 percent of total contracts. The
balance of contracts would be subject to pos review by IDA during
supervision missions.
H. Disbursements
3.23      IDA credit funds would be disbursed over 5.5 years.  This is
less than the standard profile for agriculture projects in Africa (6
years), as it has been made to reflect the operation of the IDA Special
Account (para 3.24) and the bunching of vehicles, equipment and drugs
purchases in Project Years 1 and 2. The IDA credit would be disbursed in
the following manner: civil works, vehicles and equipment, drugs, forage
seeds, technical assistance, studies and training - 100 percent of foreign
expenditures and/or 80 percent of local expenditures; credit for veterinary
practice - 100 percent of total expenditures; operating costs - 100 percent
in Year 1 - 60 percent in Year 2 - 45 percent in Year 3 - 25 percent in
Year 4 - 15 percent in Year 5. Disbursements would be made against full
documentation, except for payments under US$20,000 equivalent, which would
be made against statements of expenditure with documentation being retained
for inspection by IDA supervision missions and the project auditors. The
completion and closing dates for this proiect would be December 31, 1995
and June 30, 1996 respectively. The estimated disbursement schedule is
shown in Annex 3.
3.24      Project Accounts:  To facilitate project implementation and
expedite disbursements, the Government would establish through the Bank of
Uganda (BOU), a Special Account in US dollars to be maintained in a
commercial bank to be agreed with IDA. The account. would have an
authorized allocation of US$l,000,000, equivalent to four months
disbursement expenditures. To ensure the availability of counterpart funds
during the project early years, MAIF would retain the proceeds of curative
drugs cold under the project (para 5.14). These funds (US$1.8 million)
would be deposited into a Project Account at BOU. Assurances to this
effect were obtained at negotiations.
I. Reporting, Accounts and Audits
3.25      Separate project accounts and records would be maintained for
all project related activities. MAIF's accounting system and areas of



- 20 -
internal control and reporting would be strengthened to make the Management
Information System (MIS) more effective. It would involve close control
over MAIF's regionally decentralized operating units and external executing
agencies (UVA, Makerere University). The proposed system design would
encompass budgetary control and cost accounting aspects and would ensure
proper accountability and reporting standards by each component manager.
The locally recruited Financial ControllerlProcurement Manager (para 4.02)
would be responsible for operating the system with technical advice from
external consultants. Government would submit to IDA for approval a
detailed MIS format and implementation schedule not later than December 31,
1990. Semi-annual progress reports would be submitted to IDA not later
than two months after the end of the period, with the first report due
February 28, 1991. The Project's annual accounts would be audited by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA . The audited accounts and long form
audit report would be submitted to IDA not later than six months after the
close of each fiscal year. Assurances on the above were obtained at
negotiations.
J. Impact on Rural Women
3.26      The project would have specific benefits for rural women.  The
introduction of improved forage on zero grazed farms would benefit about
1,000 farmers most of whom are women. Improved nutrition would increase
milk production by 5,400 liters per family per year, worth about US$2,100.
The forage component would also establish seed production gardens to
produce seed for on-farm pasture development. Most of the seed producers
would be rural women who would benefit directly from the sale of surplus
seed. The inclusion of tree legumes in the forage program would provide
more accessible on-farm fuelwood supplies with considerable labor savings
for -iomen. The impact on wotmen of these interventions in forage
development would be monitored during implementation through the annual
work program (para 4.16). IndireLtly, rural women would benefit by reduced
animal disease resulting in increased production of milk and meat and
through improved nutrition and increased family incomes.
K. Environmental Impart
3.27      The project would be beneficial to the environment.  The tsetse
component would involve the removal of tsetse from areas which have long
been used for settled agriculture and cattle raising but which have
recently been reinfected. Hence existing land use patterns would be
maintained and there would be no expansion into virgin land. Control of
tsetse would reduce the risk of sickness and death among both human and
livestock populations. The pyrethroid insecticides recommended for use in
the tsetse control component of the project have very low toxicity and
risk. They are to be used merely as a modification of existing routines of
cattle dipping, or applied to artificial baits which attract only tsetse in
large numbers and which are placed sparsely. Assurances were given that



- 21 -
the procurement and use of insecticides by the project would be undertaken
according to guidelines acceptable to IDA. Provision is made under the
project for the training of veterinary staff and farmers in the handling
and use of chemicals (para 3.13), and for monitoring of effects of
insecticides and other chemicals that may be used by the project
(para 3.07). The forage program would promote the planting of trees and
persistent pasture legumes. These would increase ground cover, improve
soil structure and fertility, and reduce run-off and soil erosion.
Emphasis on leguminous trees with good coppicing ability would provide a
renewable source of fuelwood which would help address the problem of
declining tree cover. The incorporation of legumes into the farming
systems would help maintain fertility and assist the sustainability of crop
production. A summary of an environmental assessment study of the project
is given in Annex 12.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Project Coordination and Management
4.01      The main project implementing agency would be MAIF.  The APC
Sub-committee on Livestock would serve as the Steering Committee for the
project. The Steering Committee would be chaired by the Permanent
Secretary (PS), MAIF and would include representatives from the Ministries
of Planning and Economic Development, Cooperatives and Marketing, and
Environment, the Bank of Uganda and Makerere University. A Project
Coordinator (PC), appointed by MAIF, would also be a member. The Committee
would meet half yearly and would have responsibility for approving annual
work plans and budgets, reviewing annual accounts and audit reports, and
resolving policy issu'is.
4.02      Project CooLcination Unit.  A small Project Coordinating Unit
(PCU) would be established in MAIF by December 31, 1990 to coordinate
project direction and administration. The unit would be attached to the
office of the PS and would be headed by the PC, of Under-Secretary status.
The PC would be assisted by the Financial Controller/Procurement Manager
and the internationally recruited Organization and Management Specialist
and would have a small support staff. The PCU would review and compile the
annual workplans and budgets of the individual project components,
facilitate implementation of project activities and be responsible for
financial control and procurement.
4.03      Project Management Committee.  Project implementation would be
supervised and monitored by a Project Management Committee (PMC) to be
established within MAIF and serviced by the PCU. The PMC would be chaired
by the PS, MAIF snd include as members the PC, the individual component
managers (paras 4.04, 4.05 and 4.07), the Chief Research Officer AHRC and
two farmer representatives. Other staff concerned with project
implementation would be included by invitation. The PMC would meet monthly
to review progress and initiate any action necessary to overcome
bottlenecks which might impede timely or effective project implementation.



- 22 -
The establishment of the PMC and the appointment of its members is a
condition of credit effectiveness.
B. Component Management and Implementation
4.04      National Animal Disease Control.  An experienced veterinarian
within DVSAI of Assistant Commissioner rank would be responsible for
managing this component under the overall direction of the Commisoioner of
Veterinary Services. The Component Manager (CM) would report through the
Commissioner to the Project Coordinator in MAIF. The CM would be assisted
by an internationally recruited epidemiologist. Each of the four mobile
units for control of epidemic diseases would be led by a Senior Veterinary
Officer working in close cooperation with the respective District
Veterinary Officer (DVO) in the campaign areas. The Chief Research Officer
at the AHRC would have responsibility for complementary diagnostic support.
He would be assisted by an internationally recruited laboratory
technologist who would work closely with the mobile units in the field.
Specimens would be collected and forwarded to the AHRC.  The CM and the
Epidemiologist together with the Commissioner for Veterinary Services would
select priority areas for disease control.  These are likely to be Luwero,
Masindi, Mubende, Arua, Moyo and Nebbi Districts.  The exact areas would be
selected at project start-up and would depend on the current disease and
security situation. Further details are given in Annex 9. DVOs would
second staff to the mobile units. During each disease control operation
the project would pay allowances and operating expenses to the mobile unit
staff and to district staff involved in the campaign.
4.05      Tsetse Fly Control.  A Senior Entomologist within DTC would be
responsible for managing this component under the overall direction of the
Commissioner of tsetse control. The CM would be of Assistant Commissioner
rank and would report through the Commissioner to the PC. The CM would be
assisted by an internationally recruited Tsetse Control Specialist. The
project's field operations would be based at Masindi under the Regional
Tsetse Control Officer. The following operational units would be
established: (i) a resource mapping unit; (ii) a tsetse survey unit with
three field teams; (iii) three fly control units to operate "targets6;
(iv) an access unit; and (v) a support unit. A Senior Tsetse Control
Officer would be in charge of each operational unit. The mobile resource
unit would map the distribution of livestocK, livestock facilities,
incidence of trypanosomiasis, and use of trypanocidal drugs. It would
operate near and ahead of, the fly front. The tsetse survey unit would
determine the location of the fly front and monitor progress. The tsetse
control unit would undertake field trials with targets to determine
effectiveness and optimum procedures. The access unit would develop and
maintain the access tracks required by the survey and control units. A
mechanical zapport unit would be established at Masindi. This would
consist of mechanical, woodwork, metal work, tailoring and administrative
sections. The establishment and equipping of the above units would take
about nine months.



- 23 -
4.06      Control activities would commence using insecticide-treated
cattle in areas where the cattle density is sufficient and targets where
cattle numbers are low. The targets would be spaced at about 4 per km2 and
would consist of 5-6 lines of targets 100 to 150 meters apart and with
lines 2.0 to 2.5 km apart. The total band width would be about 10 km. The
bait system would take about two months to install. After about six months
of control operations the tsetse in the outside or trailing edge of the
bank would be eradicated. This would be confirmed by the survey units.
The treatment in the rear 5 km would then be progressively advanced to the
front of the treatment band. As the fly front is pushed westward the
length of the operational band would increase to about 120 km. Further
details are given in Annex 10.
4.07      Forage Development.  A Forage Development Unit would be
established within MAIF, based at the AHRC in Entebbe. The Unit would
comprise administrative, forage extension and forage seed production
sections. A CM of Assistant Commissioner rank would be in charge of
implementation. The CM would report through the Commissioner of Animal
Production and Marketing to the PC and would be assisted by an
internationally recruited Forage Development Specialist and two Senior
Animal Production Officers responsible for seed production and extension
and training, respectively.
4.08      Field centers would be developed at Tororo, Soroti, Masaka,
Mbarara, and Kabale, attached to the DVO facilities. Activities in
Mpigi/Mukono, and oversowing programs further north, would be managed from
the Entebbe unit. Tororo, Mbarara, and Kabale would be commissioned in the
first year (with Entebbe), and Soroti and Masaka in the second year. Field
teams would comprise one Animal Production Officer, or equivalent,
supervising three to five Animal Husbandry Officers (Mbarara, Masaka, and
Entebbe with five, and Kabale, Tororo, and Soroti with three each). These
small, mobile well trained units would be highly efficient, particularly
given the marked interest of the farmers in forage development, and in some
areas the existence of effective farmers' organizations. Seed production
centers would be established in Kabale, Entebbe (to service Mpigi/Mukono)
and Tororo, with Soroti included in the second year.
4.09      The forage development program would be planned by the Forage
Extension Section in liaison with field staff and the Forage Seeds Section.
Field staff would be informed of targets for various strategies, and would
then proceed with the organization of intensive extension programs, to
ensure that farmers understand the developments and have sites prepared
prior to seed delivery. They would be assisted by the provision of
posters, flip-charts, and fact sheets, and the extension program would
utilize existing farmer associations. Off-farm demonstration sites would
generally not be established. The Forage Extension Section would
coordinate seed distribution to farmers. Seed would be distributed free of
charge for the first two years' development for each fenced dairy farm,
annual cropping farm and ranch, with strict quantity limits for each
recipient; thereafter, seed would be purchased by the recipient or produced
on-farm. Seed for communal sowing, for seed kits for the establishment of
small farm seed gardens and for the Kigezi terrace development would be
provided free throughout project implementation. The field teams would
maintain precise records on all sowings. Extension staff would supervise



- 24 -
sovings on key sites, and would closely monitor the performance of species
and strategies, particularly with respect to the need for adjustments in
grazing or cutting management for improved forage and livestock production.
Pasture improvement on fenced dairy farms would typically be through the
introduction of legumes into grass dominant pastures, after burning, heavy
grazing, or light cultivation. More intensive plots on these farms would
be developed by planting tree legumes (primarily Leucaena), and mixtures of
legumes with elephant grass. Zero grazing farms would be developed with
tree legumes, and elephant grass planted with legumes, all to be utilized
strictly by cut and carry management.  Extensive grazing areas on communal
land and ranches would be improved by broadcasting well adapted legumes
onto areas which have been heavily grazed or burnt, and particularly on
sites with a loose soil surface. Annual cropping farms would be developed
by undersowing persistent legumes into the last year of the cropping phase
on a particular site, and by establishing hedges of tree legumes. On all
farm types, herbaceous and tree legumes would be interplanted with
perennial tree crops where possible. The Kigezi terrace system would be
improved through the direct seeding of tree legumes and Desmodium into
grass strips, after slashing or light cultivation. Seed kits would be
distributed to farms to enable the establishment of small (O.1 ha) seed
gardens to facilitate spontaneous expansion within the farm. All
Rhizobium-specific legumes (particularly Leucaena) would be inoculated on
site wherever possible.
4.10      Farmers for participation in the contract forage seed program
would be selected in clusters for convenient supervision, in areas of ready
availability of low-cost labor, and with emphasis on family units.
Contracts would be offered for the production of a particular species,
specifying plot size, crop husbandry, and purity standards. Initial
emphasis would be on species with reliably high yields. Seed would be
checked for purity and then be transferred to the seed storage facility,
and samples sent for quality control through the seeds project at Kawanda.
Seed would be scarified, mixed, packed, and labelled within the seed
facility. It would be distributed primarily through the Forage Extension
Teams. 'Where appropriate, inoculants would be distributed in cool-boxes,
for on-site inoculation. Precise records would be maintained on seed
distribution. Growers would be reimbursed for the supply of seed to the
project. Further details on this component are given in Annex 11.
4.11      Privatization of Veterinary Services.  The AtA would be
responsible for this component and would appoint as CM an experienced
veterinarian, with qualifications and experience satisfactory to IDA. The
CM would report through the UVA chairman to the PC. The UVA would also
appoint, to advise the CM and undertake the day to day management and
administration of this component, a firm of consultants acceptable to IDA.
The Dean's Office at the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine at Makerere
University would also set up a small training unit reporting to the CM;
this unit would consist of an administrator/veterinarian and a secretary.
The consultancy firm would provide an internationally recruited business
management adviser with previous privatization experience, and a locally
recruited credit specialist, a legal adviser and a training specialist.
The nature of this prototype privatization component is such that there
needs to be flexibility and the ability to adapt as lessons are learnt from
the ongoing privatization experience. The consultants must be prepared to



- 25 -
accommodate this and change personnel and the skills mix if necessary. The
consultants, in consultation with the CM, would initially be responsible
for developing criteria for selection and screening of applicants for
private practice.  Minimum criteria would include qualifications acceptable
to UVA, membership in UVA and a period of retraining at Makerere University
to update the applicants' veterinary skills; this retraining would also
include courses in business skills and management provided in part by the
consultants. The consultants would also, as part of their initial task,
put together indicative costings for the establishment of private practice
and, together with the lending banks, establish credit ceilings. These
ceilings would be below US$20,000 per applicant. Items that would be
included for credit would be rent and building renovation, a motorcycle,
veterinary equipment, drugs and chemicals and working capital. The
consultants would also provide any necessary advice to Makerere University
on training and course structure and content for the veterinary retraining.
This initial work would be done in the first six months of the consultancy.
After the initial period the consultants' responsibilities would include
selection of candidates based upon the criteria developed and an evaluation
of the costed proposal by the candidate for the establishment of a
practice. The consultants would provide extension support for private
practices and assist UVA in determining suitable private veterinary
practice areas. They would also advise OVA on the setting up of a
wholesale drug cooperative (para 4.12) and provide technical assistance to
Makerere University for the setting up of a full cost recovery veterinary
diagnostic service (para 4.13).
4.12      Private veterinarians would be provided with drugs and other
imported veterinary products through private importers and WVA, which will
establish a wholesale cooperative for procurement and distribution; a list
of authorized drugs would be established by the Commissioner for Veterinary
Services. Private drug importers, including UVA, would be able to apply
for the required import licenses and access to foreign exchange through
their own commercial banks.
4.13      UVA and the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine at Makerere
University will work together to provide a clinical and diagnostic service
in the faculty and at the AHRC to support private veterinary practice. The
facility will be run on commercial basis with full cost recovery.
4.14      The implementation unit at the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine
would: (i) assist the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine in planning expansion
of its retraining programs and in determining undergraduate intake to
complement the retraining program and to meet specific foreseen needs for
veterinarians; (ii) put the Faculty's mobile clinic on a staff-owned
commercial basis, so that it becomes a sustainable operation and an
effective demonstration unit for students; and (iii) similarly put the
Faculty's diagnostic services on a staff-owned commercial basis. It was
agreed that WVA would prepare a detailed work program satisfactory to IDA
and progress in implementing the privatization of veterinary services would
be monitored annually as part of the annual work program exercise (para
4.16). Further details on this component are given in Annex 7.
4.15      Institutional Development.  The PC, under the overall direction
of the PS, MAIF, would be responsible for overseeing implementation of the



- 26 -
Action Program referred to in para 2.25, assisted by the Organization and
Management Specialist. The detailed program, being prepared with the help
of consultants financed under TA III, would include redeployment and
retraining of staff and a voluntary retirement scheme. It is anticipated
that the financial requirements to meet retrenchment incentives would be
financed under the Government's Poverty Alleviation and Social Cost of
Adjustmert Program (PAPSCA).  The program would also be linked to the
privatization of veterinary services component (para 3.09). Progress on
the implerentation of the Action Program would be reviewed through the
annual work program exercise. 'See below.)
C. Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation
4.16      Annual work programs covering all project activities would be
prepared by each component manager. The work program would include:
(a) a detailed description of progress achieved so far and
of the work to be performed during the ensuing fiscal
year, including goals and objectives, a schedule of
activities, equipment requirements, proposed staffing
arrangements, and training plans, and distribution of
responsibilities for each work task. Under the
privatization of veterinary services component,
progress would be monitored against targets set in the
Action Plan (paras 2.25 and 3.11). Under the forage
development component particular attention would be
given to establishing target groups among rural women
and monitoring progress in reaching these groups (para
3.26);
(b) a budget for the period, including proposed capital
and recurrent expenditures, a comparison of proposed
budget and actual expenditures for the previous year;
and
(c) a financing plan with cash flow projections, including
GOU contributions to the project account.
4.17      The annual wtork programs would enable the PMC and Steering
Committee to review progress, examine proposed activities and make the
necessary arrangements for budgetary and other support. Draft annual work
programs would be submitted to IDA for review and acceptance not later than
May 1 each year. The final version approved by the steering committee
would be submitted to IDA by the PCU not later than July 1, each year. The
initial work program up to June 1991 would be prepared and submitted to IDA
by January 1, 1991. Assurances to this effect were given at negotiations.
4.18      Monitoring and Evaluation.  Monitoring of animal diseases
throughout the country would be planned by the Director of AHRC with
assistance from the internationally recruited epidemiologist. DVOs would
report notifiable diseases on a monthly basis, and map outbreaks of



- 27 -
epidemic diseases in each district to reveal patterns of disease movement.
The Director of AHRC would contract Makerere University's Faculty of
Veterinary Medicine to carry out sample surveys of the more important
diseases and their impact on productivity in the sub-sector. The Director
of AHRC wold report half yearly on the animal disease situation nationwide
and would include in those reports evaluation of the project's disease
cor.trol program. The monitoring of tseLse fly populations within the
pro4ect area would be undertaken by the project survey unit which would
determine the initial location of the fly front and subsequently monitor
movement of the front in response to project control measures. The forward
progression of operations as the fly populations are eliminated would
depend on the absolute accuracy of the surveying and reporting of those
teams.  The FDU wwald monitor forage development focussing on the volume
and location of seed distribution and the increase in areas of improved
pasture under different farming systems. Makerere University's Faculty of
Agriculture would evaluate the impact of these programs by sample surveys
of farms. The UVA would monitor Privatization of Veterinary Services. The
criteria for success would be the pace of establishment of private
practices, the financial success of those private practices, and the
satisfaction of farmers in the locations served by those practices relative
to adjacent locations without private practices. GOU would contract with
Makerere University's Faculty of Veterinary Medicine in project year four
to conduct a sample survey of private practices established under the
project to evaluate their contribution to the subsector.
4.19      Reporting.  The component managers would prepare and submit
semi-annual progress reports through the PCU to IDA. The semi-annual
progress reports would compare actual progress with that proposed in the
annual work program and budget. Progress reports would be sent to IDA
within two months of the end of the reporting period. The first report
would be due on February 28, 1991.
D. Mid-Term Review
4.20      Mid-term Review.  A project mid-term review would be conducted
jointly by GOU and IDA not later than December 31, 1993. The mid-term
review would, among other things, review the constraints and bottlenecks
which may at that time be affecting implementation. Issues to be covered
would include progress in establishing cost effective and sustainable
animal disease control, tsetse control and improved forage development and
the effectiveness of cost recovery measures (para 5.14). Special
importance would be given to assessing progress in the establishment of
private veterinary practices and in implementing the Action Program to
streamline MAIF's organizational structure, reduce its staffing levels and
improve cost recovery. GOU would submit a Mid-term Progress Report to IDA
covering the above areas, no later than two months prior to the scheduled
review. Terms of reference for preparation of a follow-up project would be
agreed at the mid-term review. The above arrangements were agreed at
negotiations.



- 28 _
V. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS AND COST RECOVERY
5.01      Financial Sector.  A Bank reconnaissance mission (October 1989)
identified the key sectoral issues: adverse effects of high inflation on
savings mobilization, inefficient allocation of scarce savings, and weak
liquidity position of the commercial banks. Broad understanding has been
reached with the Government on areas requiring in depth study. Actions
supporting a viable tinancial sector strategy are expected to be agreed
with the Government following review by the Government and the Bank of the
findings and recommendations of the study. The project's small credit
component supporting the prlvatization of veterinary services would be
broadly consistent with the Bank's overall strategy, in particular as
concerns interest rates and the utilization of financial intermediaries.
A. Credit for Veterinary Privatization
5.02      The lending terms and conditions on the two categories of
investment financed under the project are summarized below:
New         Drug
Practice       Sale
Coop
Duration (Years)                      10          4
Grace period (Years)                   1          2
Interest Rate (Z)                    50          48
Investment Amount (US$)          20,000      40,000
Credit Amount (USS)              20,000      40,000
Mortgage on Assets Financed (Z)    100
Financial Rate of Return (Z)         18.2        73.0
5.03      Funding requirements for each type of venture are only
indicative and have been established to achieve an optimal return, and
would vary according to individual cases. The varying periods for loan
repayment and grace periods have been made to reflect the specifics of each
case.
5.04      Veterinary Practice Income.  Fees charged by private
veterinarians would vary little from those charged by active Government
veterinarians for artificial insemination, preventive medicine and animal
husbandry. In order to prevent unfair competition from Government
veterinarians who operate using Government facilities, it was agreed during
negotiations that Government would: (a) discontinue its curative veterinary
services when private veterinary services become available in an area; and
(b) subcontract through UVA, epidemic disease vaccinations to private
veterinarians in the regions where private practice are established. The
margins on cooperative sales would be in the range of 25 percent which



- 29 -
would be adequate for this type of activity. An indicative fee schedule for
various services, which would be established by UVA, is given in Annex 7.
5.05      Cash Flow projections of models including debt servicing for
each type of venture indicate satisfactory Financial Rates of Return (FRR).
However, since veterinary practice privatization is of a promotional
character, 20 percent of the credit requirements would be funded by a grant
from Government (para 5.07). A cash rlow for a new practice model is
detailed in Annex 7.
5.06      Credit Aiministration.  Proceeds of the IDA Credit related to
the privatizatioII of veterinary services and the establishment of a
cooperative wholesale drug trading agency would be onlent by GOU to
participating bantk(s). who in turn would lend to private veterinarians and
UVA. Ultimate beneficiaries would be selected following basic criteria as
set out in Annex 7 to be further specified by UVA with the help of
consultants. Since the financial status of some of the commercial banks is
unclear 4/, their participation in the project would be subject to prior
screening of their financial standing, administrative capability and
operational network by BOU in consultation with IDA. UVA would be
associated with the credit administration process in assessing the
technical and financial viability of the credit proposals and monitoring
the withdrawal of GOU veterinary services from areas where private
practices come into operation. An assurance was obtained from the
Government during negotiations that a Credit Committee would be formed,
made up of UVA executive members and credit officers of the participating
banks. This committee would be responsible for reviewing all loan
applications submitted by veterinarians who intend to start private
practice, and determining the technical and financial viability of the
proposed practices.
5.07      The Bank's ongoing review of the financial sector in Uganda will
likely propose major reforms to institutional and interest rate structures
for the sector. Pending the implementation of such recommendations, which
may take place later during 1990, the interest rate chargeable to the
ultimate borrowers under the credit scheme would be in line with current
commercial term lending rates, and with the Government assuming the foreign
exchange risk. Also, the repayment of loans given by banks would be
guaranteed under BOU's ongoing Credit Guarantee Scheme (CGS) for
agricultural business loans, issued by commercial banks participating in
the scheme. An assurance has been given by the Government that the CGS's
provisions for guarantee eligibility and coverage will be revised to
accommodate commercial bank loans envisaged under the project on adequate
terms.
5.08      Specifically, the Government would lend funds to participating
banks at an annual interest rate of 34.5 percent, to be repaid over a
period of ten years. Onlending by banks to final beneficiaries would be at
an annual interest rate of 50 percent, including an administrative fee of 2
percent payable to WVA and a premium for the CGS not exceeding 2.5 percent
41   Uganda Financial Sector Review Reconnaissance Mission Report (IBRD),
October 1989.



- 30 -
payable to BOU. Loans to veterinarians would be repaid over a period of
ten years including a grace period of two years. The relatively high
margin for the commercial banks would be necessary to cover the expected
costs of administering and monitoring small loans. These onlending terms
woul.. be subject to review and adjustment by the Government in consultation
with IDA, taking into consideration credit market conditions, parameters
for bank efficiency, and the financial position of the Credit Guarantee
scbeme. Assurances were obtained from the Government at negotiations that
(a) the Government would assume the foreign exchange risk on the loans, and
(b) the Government would consult with IDA prior to any change to the
interest rate chargeable to the final beneficiaries under the proposed
credit scheme. Execution of subsidiary loan agreements between the
Government and the participating banks reflecting the above onlending terms
and conditions, including credit guarantee, and satisfactory to IDA, would
be a condition of credit effectiveness.
B. Forage Development
5.09       The high nutritional content of improved forage would increase
both the carrying capacity of farms and the average output per animal. The
effect on farm income would be substantial. with annual increases at full
development ranging from US$2,050 (33 percent) for zero grazing to
US$39,100 (301 percent) for large dairy farms. Because of the low costs
involved, PRRs for all types of farms participating in the program would be
very high as indicated below.
Zero      Small     Medium    Large
Grazing   Dairy      Dairy     Dairy
(1.5 ha)  (6 ha)    (19 ha)   (62 ha)
Carrying Capacity (Heads):
Without Project                1          3          11.2       40
With Project                   2          5.6        20         70
Annual Milk Production (Liters)
Without Project           1,600       3,240      12,000         40,300
With Project              7,000      13,110      46,500        161,700
Project FRR (percent)             96        169           133            141
5.10      Cost recovery of seeds would be fully achieved in the medium
term, leaving GOU to finance basic extension services. The pilot nature of
this component justifies free distribution during an initial period of two
years, except for communal sowing which would be provided free throughout.
Direct forage production costs involving purchase from local farmers,
storage and distribution, would amount to US$4.05 per kg. The import
parity price is US$20.00 per kg and would justify a producer price of



- 31 -
US$15.95 per kg, but indicative producer price of US$4.00 has been
initially determined as adequate Lncentive to farmers due to the minimal
costs involved. Total seed requirements under the project and the
respective share of locally produced and imported seeds are given in
Annex 6.
5.11      The purchase of imported seeds would gradually decrease and
cease in Year 5 as supply is being taken over by local producers. The
following table indicates the number of participating farmers and the
production estimates. Availability of local supply would follow with one
year lag:
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4
Participating Farmers    (No)    18          S0       120        150
Annual Production      (Tons)      3.0       15.0      38.5       48.0
5.12      Until (a) there is a proper understanding of production systems
for the range of species; and (b) a large enough demand has been built,
project involvement in the seed packaging and distribution process would be
required. The seed production scheme would be evaluated by September 30,
1993, and if found profitable, the packaging and distribution process would
be transferred to the private sector at September 30, 1994. Agreement was
obtained at negotiations, that Government would carry out such a review and
consult with the IDA on the transfer process.
C. Cost Recovery of Drugs and Services
5.13      MAIF's Recurrent Costs include staff salaries, allowances and
operating costs of the DVSAI and the TCD and vaccines provided free to
farmers. MAIF's owned ranches require annual subsidies of Ush 60 million
(US$163,000). Because of budgetary constraints, funding of MAIP's costs
are currently limited to the payment of staff salaries and few operating
costs. The project would raise recurrent costs levels by an annual US$1.5
million and cost recovery and revenue raising are proposed to finance this.
5.14      Cost Recovery.  MAIF currently recovers from staff the cost of
bicycles, motorcycles and equipment and sells curative drugs at a mark up
price of 15 percent to farmers. Under the project, a user fee of 20
percent would be charged to farmers on the project financed curative drugs.
Total revenue generated from this source would be US$300,000. Additional
revenue would be raised through a vaccination fee of the Ush equivalent to
US$0.50 per head of cattle which would be introduced on diseases such as
rinderpest, CBPP, foot and mouth, and rabies. GOU would also save
budgetary resources through the gradual phasing out of MAIF ranches and
farms which incur losses and are not required for extension and research



- 32 -
purposes. It was agreed at negotiations that MAIF would (a) introduce a 20
percent user fee on curative drugs financed under the project, by March 31,
1991; (b) introduce a vaccination fee of not less than the Uganda shillings
equivalent of US$0.50 per head of cattle by December 31, 1993; and (c)
prepare and implement a program satisfactory to IDA for the phasing out of
the MAIF's ranches and farms not required to support its extension and
research activities. These arrangements would be examined at the mid-term
Reveiw (para 4.20).
5.15      UVA Operating Cot.-s would be partly financed for an 'nitial
period of 5 years under the project while WVA builds its capacity to
develop new services through its Practitioner Chapter (Annex 7). Existing
financing has been obtained through the Pan African Rinderpest Campaign
(US$150,000) to finance the first experiments in veterinary services
privatization under conditions similar to the project. Part of it
(US$50,000. would be used to set up and operate UVA's administrative office
(Annex 7). UVA's future income would be derived from its fees on credit
evaluation activities (para 5.06), from setting up a Drug Distribution
Cooperative for service to its members (para 4.12), and raising
subscription dues to its 335 members (currently Ush 1000/year - about
Us$3.00). This would be of particular relevance for members of the
Practitioner Chapter.
D. Goverrnent Cash Flow
5.16      Government Cash Flow benefits would be mainly from foreign
exchange savings. They have been estimated at US$5.4 m in Year 6
increasing to US$18.0 m by Year 10. They would be generated by an expected
increase in raw milk production of about 17 and 56 m liters respectively
sold to the urban population, the main consumers of imported reconstituted
milk. Uganda's current imports of meat are of insignificant value, and
incremental production would be consumed locally. GOU total annual income
in Year 6 and 10 would be US$5.4 m and US$18.0 m, respectively.
5.17       The balar.ce of annual funds after meeting (a) project induced
incremental recurrent expenditures of US$4.1 m and (b) IDA debt service,
would be US$1.1 m in Year 6 and US$13.2 m in Year 10. It would adequately
cover non-incremental recurrent expenditures of US$1.6 m. The net
cumulative balance available to GOU at Year 10 would be US$8.8 m.



- 33 -
VI. BENEFITS, MARKETING AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Production
6.01      The project attacks the main constraint to a restoratior. of
livestock numbers and livestock produ^tion in Uganda - the high and
unchecked disease challenge. As a result of the project's programs to
restore control of tsetse fly infestation in 9,0fO sq km and to prevent the
further infestation of a 3,000 sq km area, to reestablish national disease
control programs, to rehabilitate the veterinary service and establish an
important segment of it on a private basis, and to stimulate improved
pasture development, the project would result in dramatic recovery in meat
and milk production, and in livestock numbers. Total Ugandan meat
production would increase some 25 percent, with beef production alone
rising by 42 percent, and milk production would increase by 30 percent.
6.02      Because of the breakdown in disease control, livestock numbers
have declined sharply from 1970, and cattle numbers have fallen from an
esadmated 5.2 m in 1978 to an estimated 3.36 m in 1989. Livestock numbers
are expected to return to a level of about 4.8 m by the year 2000 through
disease control and improved pastures. Beef production, presently
estimated at 55,000 tons (carcass weight) per year, is expected to increase
at full project development to 78,346 tons, with annual incremental
production of 23,346 tons by project completion. Milk production,
presently estimated at 350 m liters in 1989, will rise incrementally by
173.5 m liters per year by project completion to a total of 523.5 m liters
annually (see table 6.1).
Table 6.1: INCREMENTAL MEAT AND MILK PRODUCTION BY PROJECT COMPONENT
Meat             Milk
(tons)        (Mil. Liters)
Project Component
Animal Health                   1,566              15.1
Tsetse Fly Control              7,580              38.6
Veterinary Privatization        5,570              14.0
Forage Development              6,630             105.8
Total Incremental Production    23,346              173.5
Estimated 1989 Production        55,000             350.0
Note:  Based on herd projection parameters indicated in Annex 5.



- 34 -
6.03      Without the project, it is unlikely that livestock numbers would
increase significantly, although there could be adjustments among regions,
and there is a strong possibility that further disease outbreaks could
further worsen an already seriously deteriorated situation.  Therefore, the
without project situation would be one in which meat and milk production
would not improve or would improve only slightly, and the downward per
capita trend would continue. Since the early to mid-1970s, the stagnation
and decline in meat and milk production, and more importantly the 70
percent increase in population, has resulted in an estimated 50 percent
reduction in per capita meat and milk consumption. Per capita beef
consumption has probably fallen from near 7 kg in 1970 to about 3.5 kg now,
and milk consumptiorn has fallen from abaut 40 to 2V liters per capita.  The
sharp increases in production that are expected to result from the project
will begin to restore these earlier consumption levels, but these
improvements will leave supply substantially below domestic demand at
current levels and well below domestic demand due to population and income
growth. Thus, despite the sharp production increases resulting from the
project, serious demand constraints are not anticipated.
6.04      The increase in annual herd size and offtake resulting from the
project would lay the groundwork for subsequent livestock developments.
Tsetse control measures would raise the carrying capacity of cleared
pastoral land from 23 head/sq km,with al economic margin of US$14.50 per
head to 70 head/sq km and US$28.0 per head, respectively.
B. Marketing
6.05      The marketing system for meat and milk, like that of most other
commodities, has been disrupted as a result of the political/militarv
turmoil of the past two decades and the related economic and infrastructure
deterioration. The formal livestock marketing system includes about 160
umarketsn, 11 night stops on stock routes, and 5 holding grounds. Many of
these facilities are in poor condition. Most of the livestock marketing is
therefore conducted outside the formal system and is largely market
determined. Livestock slaughtering is undertaken on-farm, at local markets
on simple slabs, at municipal abattoirs, or at the Uganda Meat Packer's
Kampala Plant.
6.06      Eighty-six percent of milk is consumed in rural areas, either
on-farm or sold locally by small producers. Thirteen percent (48 m liters)
is sold in the urban market. About half of the urban supply is raw milk
sold by private vendor. and half is pasteurized, packaged milk sold by the
government owned Dairy Corporation, with three plants in Kampala, Entebbe
and Mbale, most of which is re-constituted skim milk provided by various
donor aid programs. The availability of aid-supported reconstituted milk
provides a cushion to meet the urban milk demand, until the well recognized
deficiencies in the present dairy marketing system are corrected through a
number of donor-supported programs. As improvements in the dairy marketing
system take place, use of imported skim milk is expected to be phased out
and replaced by an increasing whole milk supply.



_ 35 -
C. Prices
6.07      Meat prices in Uganda are unregulated and meat is marketed
through a network of butchers and traders. The projected incremental
production of 23,436 tons would be readily absorbed by the resumption of
earlier consumption levels and expected population and income growth.
Official milk pricing -- essentially the control and subsidization of urban
milk prices through low cost, aid-supplied dry fat skim milk -- have
contributed to the decline of the formal domestic dairy industry, as prices
have failed to follow demand and inflation. Mid-1989 fresh milk retail
prices in Kampala were around Ush 200/liters (US $1.00). This was much
lower than the price charged for ultra heat-treated milk imported from
Kenya, which sells at Ush 400/liters in Kampala. In milk surplus areas it
was as low as Ush 80/liters (US$0.40). For the same period, the official
retail price of reconstituted milk was Ush 130/liters (US$0.60), but
prevailing market prices in Kampala ran around Ush 150 (US$0.75). The CIF
cost of imported powde=ed milk is currently US$0.32/liters and
reconstituted milk US$0.40/liters. The Dairy Board's high transport and
marketing costs, aggravated by large milk losses, account for the large
retail price difference.
6.08      Producer prices have registered a sharp increase of 40 percent
in real terms between 1988 and 1989 -- from Ush 60/liters to Ush 171l1ites
((US$0.25 to 0.86) at the then prevailing exchange rate. The latter price
is approximately in line with the import parity price of powdered milk.
Cost of production at farm-gate has been calculated at US$0.086/liters,
which is very low compared with international standards (Australia
US$0.15/liters, Europe US$0.25/liters) and provide an adequate financial
incentive to farmers with FRRs on investments in forage production ranging
between 96 percent for the zero grazing model to 169 percent for a 6 ha
small dairy farm (para 5.09).
D. Economic Analysis
6.09      Economic Benefits.  The project's main quantifiable benefits
derive from its four main productive components: Animal Health, Tsetse Fly
Control, Veterinary Privatization and Forage Development, for each of which
a separate economic analysis has been carried out. The physical output of
these components is indicated in table 6.1 and the net economic benefits
are indicated in table 6.2. The containment of CBPP would produce benefits
in two ways: (a) avoidance of epidemic losses of up to 50 percent (average
25 percent) where the disease expands in previously unexposed areas; and
(b) reduction to negligible levels of losses in endemic areas where
estimated mortality rates are around 1 percent and a further 5 percent of
animals suffer weight losses of 25 kg. Veterinary privatization, the
restructuring of MAIF and the accompanying training programs would have a
beneficial impact upon the performance of animal husbandry services and in
turn lead to an increase in national milk and meat production. A livestock



- 36 -
model based on a 100 head herd, which represents an average dairy ranch
size in Uganda, shows that the annual (US$ equivalent) increase in the
value of meat and milk production would be from US$16,750 to US$29,790, a
77 percent increase, of which 34 percent would be the increase in the value
of meat production. The major beneficiaries from the Forage Production
component would be 4,100 farmers targeted for the forage development
program, which, at full development, would result in the equivalent of
105 m liters of incremental milk production, valued at farm-gate prices at
US$35 m. The production of improved forage seeds in gardens especially
designed for this purpose would benefit schools and particularly women, who
would be the main developers of seed gardens as commercial enterprises. The
net value of livestock production in areas cleared from tsetse fly is
expected to increase from US$4.0 m equivalent to US$23.6 m within 10 years.
6.10      Human health, particularly of children, would be enhanced by the
increased availability of milk. Human health would be further improved by
the control and progressive reversal of animal diseases communicable to
humans, such as rabies and sleeping sickness. The forage development
component would have valuable erosion control side benefits. None of these
benefits have been quantified.
6.11      All  economic costs are expressed in constant December 1989 US$
using border prices. Traded items are valued at their CIF cost less taxes,
duties and internal transport costs. The cost of non-tradables has been
adjusted by the standard conversion factor of 0.53 to reflect the
divergence between the official and the shadow exchange rates. 5/ Milk
produced and consumed in rural areas is treated as a non-tradable with a
farm-gate economic value of US$0.23/liters. Fresh milk sold in Kampala and
other major urban areas is treated as an import substitute, valued at
US$0.40 at point of sale. Beef (largely a non-tradable for Uganda) is
treated as a non-tradable and valued at US$1.67/kg carcass weight at farm-
gate. Non incremental value has been ascribed to animal by-products, but
breeding animals, a valuable traded product, are valued at 100 percent of
their foreign exchange value. Benefits and costs have been calculated over
20 years with zero residual value.
6.12      Economic Rate of Return.  Economic analyses were carried out for
three discrete sub-projects: Animal Health (which combines both disease
control and veterinary privatization components because of the close
interaction between thcse two components); Tsetse Control: and Forage
Development. The ERR for the project as a whole subsumes the costs of the
Project Management and Institutional Development components, which are only
2 percent of total project costs, although no material benefits are
attributed directly to these components. The projects' overall ERR is 49
percent. The separate ERRs for the project's sub-components have been
calculated on the basis of directly quantifiable benefits (see table 6.2
5/   At the time of field appraisal, the conversion factor was calculated
on the basis of the official exchange rate of USh 370/US$1 and a shadow
exch&nge rate of USh 700-7501US$1. In July 1990 the official exchange rate
was changed to USh 440/USSl. The standard conversion factor of 0.53 has,
however, bean retained for the purpose of estimating economic project
costs.



- 37 -
Table 6.2:   NET ECONOMIC BENEFITS BY COMPONENT a/
(US$'000)
Animal Health & Veterinary
Privatization                            YR 5         YR 10        FULL DEV.
Benefits                                 12078        24700        19955
Costs                                      5030        5128         2439
Net Economic Benefit                       7048       19571        17516
Tsetse Fly Control
Benefits                                 11067        19577        19577
Costs                                     13987        3842          458
Net Economic Benefit                      -2920       15736        19120
Forage Development
Benefits                                    990       14331        21111
Costs                                      1471        4390         6040
Net Economic Benefit                       -481        9940        15071
ProJect Management Cost
Total Yr 1 - 5                             10821
Total Livestock Services Project
Benefits                                 24135        58608        60644
Costs                                    20834        13361         8937
Net Economic Benefit                       3301       45248        51707
a/ From Annex 8. Benefits and Costs in border prices



- 38 -
and Annex 8) measured as either a reduction in the mortality rates of
animals, or an increase in the production of livestock products - meat and
milk. All project costs are included in the calculation of the project's
overall rate of return. The underlying assumptions of the economic
analysis and rate of return calculations are shown in Annex 8.
Project Economic Rates of Return, Total And By Components
Total Project                         492
Animal Health & Veterinary
Privatization                      602
Tsetse Fly Control                  361
Forage Development                  52Z
E. Project Risks and Uncertainty
6.13      The project faces few technical or weather related risks.
Climatic conditions in Uganda make the occurrence of drought remote. Most
of the technical recommendations proposed under the project involve
practices that are well understood in Uganda and were carried out
successfully in the past, or involve new approaches to the solution of old
and well understood problems. Where new techniques are introduced, they
are based on proven methods used under similar climatic and socio-economic
conditions in Africa and elsewhere. The project's main risks are related
to: (a) the pace of implementation of MAIF's restructuring and the
veterinary practice privatization scheme, both of which would determine the
quality of service to livestock holders; and (b) farmer willingness to
participate in the forage development program. The first risk would be
minimized by Government nomination of MAIF as a priority ministry for
restructuring under the Public Service Performance Improvement Project
financed under the IDA Technical Assistance II Credit. This commitment
would be further strengthened by a monitorable Action Program (para 2.25)
to be agreed with IDA as a condition of ERC II second tranche release (para
2.24). The recruitment under the project of a Management and Organization
specialist to assist in the formulation and execution of the program would
further minimize this risk. Participation in the forage program would be
promoted by free seed distribution during the first 2 years (para 4.09).
Once the benefits are demonstrated, as in neighboring Ethiopia, it is
likely that demand for forage seed will exceed supply.
6.14      Sensitivity tests suggest that the project is relatively secure
in its economic benefits with project delays and consequent lags in
benefits having the greatest impact:
Total Project ERR
Basic Assumption                      49?
Benefits Down 102                     412
Costs Up 10                          421
Benefits lagged 2 years               24Z
Benefits down and lagged, costs up   19?



- 39 -
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
General Conditions
7.01      Assurances were obtained at negotiations on the following:
(a) GOU and IDA would reach agreement on the Action Program by
December 31, 1990 (para 3.11);
(b) TORs for internationally recruited technical assistance (para
3.15);
(c) MAIF would be authorized to retain the proceeds of curative
drugs sold under the project for deposit in an account at BOU
(para 3.24);
(d) By December 31, 1990, GOU would submit for IDA approval a
detailed HIS format and implementation schedule for MAIF (para
3.25);
(e) Semi-annual progress reports on each component would
be submitted to IDA within two months of the reporting
period, with the first report due February 28, 1991
(paras 3.25 and 4.19);
(f) Project accounts would be audited annually by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA and submitted not later than six
months after the end of each fiscal year (para 3.25);
Cg) Procurement and use of insecticides would be undertaken
according to guidelines acceptable to IDA (para 3.27);
Ch) By December 31, 1990, a Project Coordination Unit
would be established in MAIF (para 4.02);
(i) A detailed work program of UVA activities under the project
would be prepared and progress on the work program would be
monitored annually (para 4.14);
tj) Annual work programs and budgets would be submitted to IDA for
review and acceptance as set forth in para 4.17;
(k) A mid-term review would be conducted jointly by GOU and IDA by
December 31, 1993; GOU would submit a mid-term progress report
to IDA not later than two months prior to the scheduled review
(para 4.20);
(1)  (i) Phasing out of Government veterinary services; and
(ii) subcontracting the epidemic disease vaccinations
to private veterinarians (para 5.04);



- 40 -
(m)  Banks would require IDA approval prior to participating in the
Veterinary Practice Privatization credit scheme; and a Credit
Committee involving the UVA and qualifying commercial banks
would be created to handle credit requests by veterinarians
(para 5.06);
(n)  Government would: (i) assume the foreign exchange risk on the
credit scheme; and (ii) consult with IDA on changes to the
credit interest rates (para 5.08);
(o)  GOU would carry out a review of the seed production scheme by
September 30, 1993; if found profitable, the packaging and
distribution process would be transferred to the private sector
by September 30, 1994, in consultation with IDA (para 5.12);
(p)  GOU would:
(i) levy a 20 percent user fee on the project
financed curative drugs by March 31, 1991;
(ii) introduce a vaccination fee by December 31, 1993;
and
(iii) gradually phase out Government ranches and
farms not required for extension and
research (para 5.14).
Conditions of Effectiveness
7.02      The following would be conditions of credit effectiveness:
(a)  GOU would have completed contractual arrangements for the
recruitment of a Veterinary Epidemiologist, Laboratory
Technologist, and Tsetse Control, Forage Development,
Organization and Management, and Business Management Specialists
(para 3.15);
(b)  establisbment of the PMC and appointment of its members (para
4.03); and
(c)  execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between GOU
and participating banks (para 5.08).
Recommendation
7.03      With the indicated assurances and conditions, the proposed
project is suitable for a credit of SDR 16.1 million (US$21 million
equivalent) to the Government of Uganda on standard IDA terms with 40 years
maturity.



- 41                                         Annex  1
Page 1 of 4
UGINDA
LIVEST0CK SERVICES PROJECT
SUMRY ACCOUNTS COST SUMARY
(UGANDAN SHILLINGS  '000)               (USS '000)                      I Total
Z Foreign   Base
Local      Foreign      Total       Local foreign   Total   Exchange    Costs
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. BUILDINGS                            503,590.6  385,473,4   899,064.0  1144.5    876.1  24020.6              43       10
B. VEHICLES I EQUIPMENT                  126,326.2 1,131.743.8  1,258#070.0    287.1  2,572.1  2,859.3          90       14
C. EQUIPMENT
TECHNICAL EQUTPIENT                   48,611.2  188.549.8    237,160.0    1104;   428.5   539.0              80        3
OFFICE EQUIPMTNt                       7t409.6    22.026.4    29436#0    16.8         50.1    66.9           75        0
LAB EgUIPIENT                         14.066.8    70.281,2      84.348.0    32.0    159.7   19l.7            83        1
Sub-Totl EQUIPMENT                       70.087.6  280.856.4    350,944.0    159.3   638.3    797.6             80        4
D. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                 295328.0   723.448.0  1,018,776.0   671,2  1t644.2  2,315.4             71       11
E. OFFICE FURNITURE                         924.0        396.0      1.320,0      2.1      0.9      3.0          30        0
F. TRAINING                              162,698.8   432,005.2    594,704.0    369.8    981.8  1.351#6          73        7
S. SEED PURCHASES                       221,804.0    88.616.0    3109420.0    504.1    201.4    705.5           29        3
H. STUDIES AND AUDITS                    104,016.0   140,624,0    244.640.0    236.4    319.6   556.0           57        3
I. LINE OF CREDIT                       202,400.0   607,200.0    809.600.0    460.0  1,380.0  1,840.0           75        9
J. PROJECT PREPARATION FACILITY          105,600.0   246,400,0   352,000.0    240.0    560.0    800.0           70        4
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                   1.792M775.2 4,036,762.8  5,829.538.0  49074.5  9t174*5 13,249.0           69       65
II. RECURRN3T COSTS
A. PERSONl. ALLOVANCE                  398.310#0            -    398,310.0    905.3        -    905.3           -        4
B. BUILDING MAINTEWNACE                  6,160.0      2,640.0      8,800.0     14.0      6.0     20.0          30        0
C. VEHICLE I MOTORCYCLE MAINTENANCE    141,981.4 14037.724.6  1,179*706.0    322.7  2,359.5  2,681.2           89       13
D. EQUIPMENT MAINTENUNCE                  4,074.4    40,541.6     444616#0      9.3     92.1    101.4          91        0
E. OFFICE SUPPLIES                      32,093.6    44,202.4      76,296.0     72.9    100.5    173.4          58        1
F. DRUGS AND VAMCINES                   45.210.0   858,990.0    904,200.0    102.8  1.952.3  2,055.0           95       10
G. MISCLLANEiOUS OPERWTING COSTS       184,023.4   267.438,6    451.462.0    418.2    607.8  1,026.1           59        5
H. MONITORING AND EVALUATION             3,564.0      9,636.0     13,200.0      8.1     21.9      30.0         73        0
I. ADAPTIVE RESEARCH                     6,600.0            -      6,600.0     15.0        -     15.0           -        0
J. SEED DISTRIBUTION COStS     -        12,534.8      9,670.2     22.205,0     28.5     22.0     50.5          44        0
K. LABOR                                 1,155.0        495.0      1,650.0      2.6      1.1      3.8          30        0
Total  RECRRENT COSTS                      8350706.6 2,271,338.4  3,107,045,0  1.899.3  5,162.1  7.061.5           73       35
Total BASELINE COSTS                      21628.481.8 6,308,101.3  8.936.583.0  5,973.8 149336,6 204310.4           71      100
Physical ContingmdCins                   277,467.7   625t443.8    902,I11.5    630.6  1U421,5  29052.1           69       10
Price Contingencies                      340,314.6   711,294.5  1,051,609.1   M7.4  1,616.6  2t390,0             68       12
Total PROJECT COSTS                       3,246,264.1 7,644,839.6 1048914103.7  7,377.9 17.374,6 24M752.5           70      122
1U1Y 16. 1990 16:46



Anniex 1
- 42 -                                      Page 2 of 4
LIVESTOCK SEVICES PROJECT
Soaas Accounts bh Year
Totls IncludinJ Contittocags                          Totals Including Cantingmiss
(U6AN1A SIILLINGS  '000)                                     (WIU 00)
199       I991      1992       1993      I994       Tatl       1990   1991   192   IM    1994   TOW
3333*3333**33*3** 332 333*** *:3*33  *3 33*2 3233 3333Z2 ZZ33*333 g333* 3s*2333 g33333
1. InESTT CMS
A. IBULDINU                        215,445.8  317,034.5  195.662.5  205,250.0  210.913.2 1#144#305.9   489.6  720.5  444.7  46t.5  479.3 2u600.7
3. UUCtES I EOUIPIT                652,874  433,289.1  216624.1  178,925.7          - 1.481.706.4 1.483.8  984.7  492.3  406.6     - 3,367.5
C. EIUIPIENI
TEODICAL ElUIPENlt              120,890.2   989413.3  39,831.9   15.454.2   3,602.6   279,192.2   274.8  223.7  90.5   35.1   8.2   632.3
OFFlCE E   0INi                  19,239.3  14,416.4         -          -         -    33P955.6   43.7  33.2        -      -      -    76.9
LAD E3JIP)ENT                    18,272.4   34,M.4   484016.6          -         -   101,061.3   41.5   79.0  109.1       -      -   D2.7
Sub-TOl EMIElNT                    159,401Q8  147.802.1   87848.5   15,454.2    3s602.6   413,109.1   360.0  335.9  199.7  35.1    8.2   938.9
D. tCtC. ASSISTANCE                439,330.2  378,152.7  180,498.6  106348.0  111.559.1 I 115,888.6   M.5  859.4  410.2  241.7  253.5 2,763.4
E. OfFICE fP131111s                  1,487.6        -          -         -          -     1t487.6    3.4      -      -      -      -      3.4
F. TRAIUIIN                        15452.1  143.094.7  136,72.6  1924360.0  152.629.   740,327.5   215.1  325.2  310.9  414.5  34.9 1,612.6
8. SED Room                         22,115.3   73,133.8  94,669.0   95,472.8  108,076.t   393,467.5   50.3  166.2  215.2  217.0  245.6   894.2
:1. SDIES AND AUDITS               113,055.6   14,564.3   10.912.9   11s447.6  156.11  306,091.1  256.9   33.1   24.8   26.0  354.8  695.7
I. LIE   CllEDtf                   307,432.0  114,434.1  163,692.8  194,608.9  21691  4   996.321*0   698.7  260.1  372.0  442.3  491.3 2,264.4
J. PROfT PREATlON fACtTY           3524000.0        -          -         -          -   3524000.0  800.0      -      -      -      -   800.0
Tos tIETNEWN  COStS                 2.387,591,8 1,621,505.3 1.0869696.9  M,867.3  959,043.6 7,044,704.9 5,426.3 31655.2 2,469.8 2,249.7 2,79.6 16,010.7
I1. RECI3T COSTS
A. PIRSOILLOWE                     56850.1  1009337.9  10M9.   114.418.6  1204025.1   499,614.4   129.2  228.0  245.4  260.0  272.8 1,135.5
8. WJILM  HAIrTENAE                   198.3     780.2    1.909.7    3720.5    4,863.4    11,472.2    0.5    1.8    4.3    8.5   11.1   26.1
C. YOUICLE I TTO. NUNIENM         121,100.9  266,163.3  334,656.3  375,452.1  393.849.2 1,491,221.9   275.2  604.9  760.6  853.3  95.1 3,389.1
D. EUIPNET NAENTE                        -    3,48S.0  1I.403.9   20,549.4   22,756.1   58,193.5      -    7.9   25.9   46.7  51.7   132.3
E. OFFICE SUPfIES                  14.181.5   18,829.6  19,752.3   20,720.1   21,735.4   95,218.9   32.2   42.8  44.9  47.1   49,4   216.4
F. DOSO ANDMIES                   384,290.0  403,120.2  128,226.0   77271.2   81,057.5 1.073,964.8   873.4  916.2  291.4  175.6  184.2 2,440.8
S. NISCELkONU SOEATIE CTSM        102#865,7   9,?37.1  119986.8  1156563.3  125,429.9   561,582.0  233.8  222.1  272.7  262.6  295.1  1,276.3
;6 NURI AND EWTCN            .      4,958.6    2,600.8    2,728.2    2,861.9   3.002.1   16,151.6   11.3    5.9    6.2    6.5    6.8   36.7
I. .ADTIVE ESEfARI                       -         -    2,728.2    2,861.9    M002.1    8,592.2      -      -    6.2    6.5    6.      19.5
J. SEED DISTRUMTI Cams              1,969.1    3,64.2    6,212.7    7,414.0   9,096.4    28336.4    4.5   8.3   14.1   16.9   20.7   64.4
K. LABO                              371.9      390.1     409,2      429.3      450.3    24050.8     0,8   0.9    0.9    1.0    1.0    4.7
TotalU    R    Caml                  686.78,1  9974088.5  735,996.1  741,261.3  M95,266.8 3.846,398.8 1,560.9 2038.8 .67n2.7 1684.7 1.847 8,741.8
338=:3-_  S 33   =S3233323333232=3   23333323    33S 3333322 23
TOWl PROECT MS                      3,074M.79 2#5189593.8 1,822,693.0 1,731,128.6 1,744,310*4 10,891.103.7 687.2 5,724.1 4,142.5 3934.4 3964.3 24,752.5
JuIs 16 1990. 16145



LIVESTOCl SERVICES PROJECT
Project Cosonents b, Year
Totals Includinr Contingeies                              Totals Including Contingrnies
(UBAN    SNIU.INOS  '000)                                        (US$ '000)
1m         1t         tm 2        93         194        Total      1990   1991   IM       IM     1994   Total
A. NATIONAL DISEASE CONTROL
NATINL DISEASE PREVENTION PROSRAN       480.261,0  304,810.9  244,447.9  140,232.9  147#104.3  1,316,957.0 1r091.5  692.8  555.6  318.7  334.3 2,992.9
REGIOL SIN'?UT                          540548*3  735,46,5  504,223.4  342,386*8  364,021*7 2,486,726,8  1,228.5 16r71.7 1,146,0  778,2  827.3 5,651.7
Sub-Total NATIONAL DISEASE COMTROL       1,020,909.3 1.040.357.4  748,671*3  482,619.7  511,126,0 3,903,503.7  2,320,0 236404 1,701.5 1,096.9 1,161.7 9,644.5
8. TSETSE FLY CONTROL                      513.717.?  693,454.2  324t275*4  563,679,0  3569833.0 2,451.959.4  1,167.5 1,576,0  7370 1281.1  811.0 5,572.6
C. VETERINARY PRIVATISATION                554,662.3  326,70407  347,301.5  358,543.5  372,864.4  1,960,076.3  1,260.6  742.5  789.3  814.9  847.4 46454.7
0, FORAGE DEVELOPNENT
EXTENSION                                714006.9   68543.4   53,473*0   614602.3   64#62048   JlYrZ46.4   161.4   it.V  1ZI.3  140.0  14*,    r,f).6
MI ENENT                                110.142,5   99388.6   71,298.2   34,714.8   36,415#8   341,949.9   250.3  203.2  162.0   78.9    U.8   777.2
TRAINtI                                  4Y546.1    W#Jf7.Q    36,803*6   32,883.2   42,600.2   212,510,1   113,3  114.5   83.6   74.7   96,8   483.0
a" flWSnfi;1uN                           800381.1   99t446.1  U1064#2   14i3S4.  13u949349   56S097.0   182.7  22640  275.9  282.7  317.0 1,284.3
Sub-Total FORAGE IMELOP1fNT                Slt,3/6   307,752,9  2820949.0  253,594,3  283,130.7 1,438,U0.4   707.7  699,4  64311  576.4  643,5 3,270#0
E. PROJECT IANEII2T 2319                               e&w./ W    69,296.6   72,692.1  220,356.2   659,970.4   526.3  150.1  157.5  165.2  500.9  1,49.9                       4
F. INSTITUTIONL DEVELOPNENT                 90,246.2   84,265.1   50,199.1          -           -   2246710.4   20S.1  191.5  114.1        -       -   510.7
8. PROJECT PREPARATION FACILITY            352000.0          -          -          -           -   352,000.0   800.0       -      -       -      -   800.0                    a
Total PROJECT COSTS                        3,074,7.9 24518#593.8 1.822,693.0 1.731,128.6 10744310.4 10.991,103.7 6,987,2 5724.1 4,142,5 3,934.4 3,964.3 24,752,5
Juiv v/ 1990 13:43
41



Wm
LWITOEK SERVICS PROJECT
Swamis kemot bit Project Cavmt
(26MWM  grN.Uu   '000
MoWDISEASE COMTI
NAT!...                                                   FWASE IEWOPNEf                                                                     Phwscal
DISEASE                                        ------   -----------------------*----                              PROJCT                    ot,gi.
PROJEITI   RESIUU      MTSTE FLY   VETRIAR                                       SEED     PROJCT   INSTITIITIOW.L PREPAbTICI
PROGRM     &MY0K       CONRI    PRlVAfSATION ETUSION NAWAMGENIT TRAINING  PRUIONI  NANBEEN   DEWU'EN             FACKIUT       Total      I      .At
1. ~~~~~~~~~~mum  U81,r=222~=11mumamMua
A. "IJmm                               44,000.0  630,714.0   64*240.0       141.240.0        --                      99800.0                                           Mo - 98,64.0  15.0  t33t35?.6
3. WIImIOE   ua EUI T                 198,760.0  320,32.0   596.024.0       26,80.0  55,400.0  19,800.0  13200.0  17*996.0   13200.0           6,400.0          -  1.259.070.0  10.0  1MOM7.
TWWCI EGUIPENEiT                    22,000.0  119,240,,   89,400.                  ,.0    0-1,760.0                     -     1,320.0       1*3200            -    237,160.0  10.0   23,716.0
OfficE ENIMiIII                                       -    23,148.0             -         - 3e..0         440o0         -        80.0         88.0                  29,436.0  10.0    2,943.6
LaD EIInTm                          70,400.0          -      WM#.               -         --                  - 9.8,                       -                  -     094349.0  30.0    8,434.8
bw-,nas uuaimtr                        92,400.0  119,240.0   1179524.0             - 2,112.0   3,399.0  W2,200       9.680,0   2MO0M          2*2000            -    3509444.0  10.0   35,094.4
0. TECUICIL MsASISTC                 246.400.0-                            256t960.0        - 180,416.0         -         -  176,000.0      154*000.0          -  l.0I9.776    0.0  101,87.6
E. OFFICE PI3IT1RE                                                                 -                440.0              98.0           -             -           -       20320.0  0.0      132.0
F. TRININ                              51#M2.0                342,760.0      71.280,0             -       t 28,744.0-                               --    594,70.0  0.0   59,470.4 
S. SEED PIRNSE                                           ---                                    -                   310*420.0                -                   -    310.420.0  00    31,042.0
No STUDIE NO AUDITS                           --                7*040.0            -                    -        --237,600.0                        --    244,640.0  0.0   24,464.0
tINEU OF CREDIT                                         - -               59600.0-                              ---                         -                  -    809dO.O0.  10.0   80*960.0
J. PROJEC  PREPARATION FACLIUT                                                                                                                           3524000,0    352,000.0  0.0        0.0
Total INVEITNEN  COSTS                   623,480.0 1,070.344.0  1*127.5880    1,305.92.   57.552.0 209,044.0 144,144.0 347.666.0  429t000.0     162*80.0   352*000.0  5.829s538.  10.2  592,20.0
tl. RECURRENIT COST
A. K SOUIL MLGUAN                     23.760,0          - 204,336.0               -92*400.0  28,358.0  15415.0  34.100.0--                                     -        v398.O1.  0.0   39,931.0
3. BUILDING MINAICE                          -    7,920.0           -             -         -          -        -     990.0          -             -           -       8,800.0  10.0     90.0
C. VEHICLE t NOTORETIE NAINTENMdE     93.720,0  337,92.0   5068*5.0                   8 3*435.0  25,245.0  W.15.0  30*61.0   19*800.0        11,880.0          -  1t19t706.0  10.0  117*970.6
D. EBUIIEN  MAINTENNC                 22*560.0   21,560.0           -             -      9.0          -    704.0          -          -             -           -      449616.0  10.0    4*461.6
E. OFFICE SUPPLIES                           --              34,056.0             -24*640.0  149960.0           - 2.640.0            -                         -      764 216.0  10.0    7,629.6
F. OM29 MD VACCINES                  332200.0  572,000.0            -             -         ---                 -               -                  -            -    904,200.0  10.0   90,42.0-
6. NISCEUAIEUS OPERATING COSTS               -          -    61*182.0     285*120.0         -             44000.0  11,000,0   fl,600.0       37*160.0           -    451,462.0  10.0   45,146.2
M. NONITORING AND EVALATION                  -          -           -                            -    -              -                       -    13*200-              3200.0  10.0    19320.0
1. ADAPIV  RESEARC                           --                -          -                      6*600.0        -         --                                   -       6.hOO.0  10.0     660.0
J5. SEED DISTRI8UTION COStS                  -          -           -                       --                     22,250P-205.0                                          050   0.0    2,220.5 
K. LAWO                                                        -          -                           -         -   1.650.0          -             --                   .60.0  10.0       165.0 a
x
Total RECIDREN  COMT                     4712*20.0  939400.0   868*230.0      285*20.0 2201.267.0  75.163.0 28,875.0  103ol110O  105.600.0      29.040.0           -  3,107,045.0  0.0  310*04.5 ~ 
Total ASEIIE costs                      1,094*720.0 2,009.744.0  1.9#158I1,    1*591040.O  258SM9.0 284P207.0 173*019.0 450*776.0  534*600.0     191.840.0   3S2M.O0.   8936.593.0  10.1  902*911.5 
Phwsica Cmtont1Me.ti                  111*672.0  232,513.6   202*793.8     166.166.0  258891.9  28*420.7  7,301.9  45.517.6   53,460.0       19*194.0                MM0291.5  0.0         0.0  '
Price Cw,tti..mices                    110*465.0  244*469.2   253*347.6     202*870.3  34.545.5  29.322.2 22,189.2  69oO03.3   71,910.4        13468.4           -1*051,609.2  9.5  100*418.3 4'
Tot.3 PROJECT COSS                      2.316.957.0 2496.726.8 2,451#959.4  1960.076.3 319*246.4 342,949.9 212,520.1 565.097.0  659*970.4      2214*710.4   352,00W.0  10,891,103.7  9.2 1.003,329.8
71   ;=-; ;:.#=. =-  ......  a# ... or..-.x ...... =.-. ag.-..*.Zvu ....  C= ...                              czz_-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  .~*
Foiwimn Eac*aoe                       *22,932.2 1808.922.5  tt.89.661.t  I1*327,930.9  176*31.3  1539298.9  75#490.7  19494.2  445.613.2      195t432.5   246,400.0  7,644,839.6  9.1  692',036.9



-Anex  2
Page 1 of 2
U6D
LIVESTOCK SERVICES PROJECT
Financing Plan bv Summarv Accounts
(USS '000)
INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPOKENT   GOVtRNMENT OF
ASSOCIATION       UGANDA          Total                     Local
- --------  - _ _----------                (EI:cl.  Duties I
Amount    X    Aaount    %     Amount   %    For. E-ch, T;.es)    Taxes
I. INVESTNENt COSTS
A. BUILDINGS                            2,600.7 100.0      0.0   0.0  2.600.7  Q0.5       1.;18.5  1,482.2          -
B. VEHICLES S EQUIPHENT                 3f367.5 100.0        -     -   33671.5  13.6      3,029.4    338t1         -
C. EQUIPMENT
TECNICAL EQUIPMENT                     632.3 100.0      0.0   0.0     632.3   2.6        503.1    129.1          -
OFFICE EQUIPMENT                        76.9 100.0      0.0   0.0      76.9   0.3         57.5     19.4         -
LAB EQUIPMENT                          229.7 100.0        -     -     229.7   0.9        191.2     38.5          -
Sub-Total EQUIPWENT                       938.9 100.0      0.0   0.0     938.9   3.8        751.9    187.0         -
D. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                 20763.4 100.0        -     -   2,763.4  11.2      14957.0    806.4         -
E. OFFICE FURNiTURE                         3.4 100.0        -     -       3.4   0.0          1.0      2.4          -
F. TRAINING                               975.9  58.0    706.7  42,0   1.682.6   6.8      1i219.1   463.5           -
6. SEED PURCHASES                         894.2 100*0        -     -     894*2  3.6         242,0    652.3          -
H. STUIDIES AND AUDITS                    695.7 100.0        -     -     695,7   2.9        422.3    273.3          -
I  LINE OF CREDIT                      2y264.4 100,0         -     -   2264.4   9.1       1y698.3    566.1         -
Jo PROJECT PREPARATION FACILITY           800.0 100.0        -     -     800.0   3.2        560*0    240*0
Total INVESTIENT COSTS                    154304.0  95*6   706.7   4.4  16JO10.7  64.7    10?999.4  5f011.3           -
II. RECUIRENT COSTS
A. PERSONNL ALLOANCE                         -     -  19135.5 100.0   1,135.5   4.6            -  1,135.5         -
B. BUILUING MAINTENACE                       -     -    26.1 100.0       26.1   0.1          7.2    18.3          -
C. VEiICLE I MOTORCYCLE MAINTENANCE   29609.6  77.0    779*5  23.0  3M389.1  13.7    2M980.7    408,5             -
D. EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE                     -     -    132.3 100.0     132.3   0,5        120*2     12.1
E. OFFICE SUPPLIES                           -     -    216.4 100*0    216.4   0.9         125.2     91,2         -
F. DRUGS AND VACCINES                 2.318.8  95.0    122.0   5.0  2,440.8   9+9        24318.8    122.0 
St MISCELLANEOUS OPERATING COSTS        766,6  60.1   509.7  39.9   10276*3  5.2           766.6   509,7          -
H. MONITORING AND EVALUATION              36.7 100.0        -     -      36&7   0.1         26.2      9.9         -
It ADAPTIVE RESEARCH                         -     -     19.5 100.0      19.5  0.1             -     19,5         -
J. SEED DISTRIWUTION COSTS                   -     -     64.4 100.0      64.4   0.3         27.8     36.6         -
K. LABOR                                     -     -      4.7 100.0       4.7   0.0          1.4      3.3         -
Total RECURRENT COSTS                     5.731.7  65.6  3,010.1  34.4   8,741.8  35.3       6,375.2  2r366,6         -
Total Disbursement                         21f035.7  85.0  30716,8  15.0  24,752.5 100.0    17.374.6  7,377.9          -
JulY 16, 1990 16:46



- 46 -                                 Annex 2
Page 2 of 2
UGDA
LIVESTOCK SERVICES PROJECT
Financing Plan BY Disburseeent Categ0ru
(USS '000)
INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPOMENT BUVERNNENT OF
ASSOCIATION      UGANDA          Total                    Local
-------------- -- --------------  (Excl.  Duties I
Amount        A Acurit   Z    Aaunt   Z    For, Exch. Taxes)   Taxes
=Z=:===  ===:=  === =--::::::  :==:=::: _ ==== ===== _ =_ = === == ==
A. BUILDINGS                          2,600.7 100.0      0,0  0.0  2,600.7  10.5   1118.'  1482.2              -
B. VEHICLES I HEAVY EQUIPHENT         3.367.5 100.0        -    -  3,367.5  13.6       302?.4   338.1           -
C. EQUIPMENT
TEDHNICAL EQUIPMENT                  632.3 100.0      0.0  0.0    632.3   2.6         503.1    129.1         -
OFFICE EQUIPMENT                       76.9 100.0     0.0   0.0      76,9  0.3         57.5    19.4          -
LAB EQUIPMffNT                       229.7 100.0        -    -    229.7   0.9         191.2    38.5          -
Sub-Total EQUIPMENT                     938,9 100.0      0.0   0.0    938,9   3.8        751.9    187.0         -
D. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                2,763.4 100.0        -    -  2.763,4  11.2    1.957.0   806.4            -
E. OFFICE FURNITURE                       3.4 100.0        -    -        3.4   0.0         1.0      2.4         -
F. TRAINING                             975.9  58.0    706.7 42.0  1,682#6  6.8        1,219.1    463.5         -
S. SEED PURCHASES                       894.2 100.0        -    -    894.2   3.6         242.0    652.3         -
H. STUDIES AND AUDITS                   695.7 100l0         -    -    695.7  2.8         422.3   273.3          -
I. LINE OF CREDIT                     2,264.4 100.0        -    -  2f264.4   9.1    1y698,3   566.1             -
i. PROJECT PREPARATION FACILITY         800.0 100.0        -    -    800.0   3.2         560.0   240.0
K. PERSONNEL ALLOVNCE                       -    -  1,135.5 100.0  1,135.5   4.6              - 1,135.5
L. BUILDING MAINTENANCE                     -    -    26.1 100.0        26.1   0.1         7.8    18.3          -
K. VEHICLE I MOTORCYCLE MAINTENANCE    2,609.6  77.0   779.5  23.0  3,3W89.!  13.7    2,980.7   408,5           _
N. EQUIPMENt HMAN    CE                     -    -    132.3 100.0    132.3  0.5          120.2    12.1          -
0. OFFICE SUPPLIES                          -    -    216.4 100.0    216.4  0.9          125.2    91.2          -
P. DRUGS AND VACCINES                 2s318,8  95.0   122.0  5.0  2,440.8  9.9    2,318.8    12.0              -
0. MISCELLANEOUS OPMTING COSTS          766.6  60,1   509.7  39.9  1.276.3  5,2          766.6   509.7          -
R. MONITORING AND EVALUATION             36.7 100.0        -    -       36.7  01         26.8      9.9         -
S. ADAPTIVE RESEARCH                        -    -      19.5 100l0      19.5  0.1            -    19.5          -
T. SEED DISTRIBlTION COSTS                  -     -    64.4 100.0       64.4  0.3         27.8    36.6
U. LABOR                                    -    -       4.7 100,0        4.7  0.0         1,4      3.3         -
Total Disburseent                      21,035.7  85,0  3,716.8  15.0  249752.5 100l0    17,374.6  7.377.9
JulY 16, 1990 16:46



Annex 3
DlSBURSEYENT SCHEDULE
t   Iw s
9*'          1          16 Io     199     1                             19W
Esteatd 194 Olsbursauits
3XA Fiscal lfw
I.91    192    1993    1994    1995    1994
-U 94  million
ual  lst Su  tw            170    I.U4   1,404   2,441   2,946   1.741
2nd sas             421   1,482   1,92   1,427   2.291   1.40
CmlAstive                 212    5.0    8,542  12.430  17,867  21,036
Project Completion Date: December 31, 1995
Project Closing Date:   June 30, 1996



- 48 -                            Annex 4
Apoendix I
LrVESTOCK SEnVCES PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Forage DeveloDMent Adviser
Duration of Post:   36 months
Duty Station:       Entebbe
Working Languages    niglish
Essential Qualificatioms and Ezxerienlc
The adviser would have a degree in Agronomy. A second degree in tropical
forage production or ruminant nutrition would be desirable. He/she would
have a detailed up-to-date knowledge of use of tropical legumes and extensive
recent experience in tropical pasturelforage development.  Experience in
tropical livestock production systems and development of extension training
programs would be required.
Duties
The Forage Development Adviser would be responsible to the Component Manager.
Duties would includes
(a) assisting with the preparation of annual work plans for
pasture/forage development; designing and monitoring a program for
seed distribution and cost recovery;
(b) regular supervision of all field activities, and monitoring of the
performance of species and strategies;
(c) assisting in the development of annual plans for seed production
and conditioning; supervision of all field activities in seed
productions
(d) staff training and assisting with preparation of appropriate
training and extension materials;
(e) assisting vith the importation of seed and specialied equipment;
(t)  assisting the Component Manager in all aspects of the program's
CPGENlstorfda



Annex 4
49 -                            Aopendix 2
1UGANDA
LIVESTOCK SERVICES PROJECT
Temsa of Reference for Tsetse Control Specialist
Duration of Postt   30 months
Duty Station:       Hasindi
Working Languaget   hEglisi
Essential Qualifications and Exserience
The incumbent would have a degree in entomology with at least five years
experience of working on tsetse control, including some experience with
modern techniques using targets and fly traps.  African experience would
include extended field operations. Proven capacity to stimulate and direct
self help among rural populations would be a most desirable quality.
Duties
The Tsetse Control Specialist would be responsible to the Component Manager
appointed by the Comissioner of Tsetse Control. Duties would include:
(a) Helping to establish the following project component units:
Ci) Resource Unit;
(ii) Survey Unit with four mobile sections;
(iii) Fly Control Unit to operate targets, which would develop an
increasing element of self help; and
(iv) Access Unit.
(b) Planning work programs for the above units; and
(c)  Planning   -operation research and evaluation of trial techniques.
Success of ths component would rely heavily on the accuracy of surveying and
mappitg of tsetse fly populations. The DTC already has well established
procedms for such work but the Specialist would refine and adapt these to
the  now 91  eradication procedures which the project will adopt.   The
Specialsk dwill be especially concerned with establishing procedures for
effective beeficiary participation in the fly control programs, so as to
make thm self sustaining in the medium to long term.
CPGEIs tortcs



Annex &
- 50 -                                Appendix 3
UGANDA
LIVESTOCK SERVICES PIOJECT
Terms of Reference for Veterinarv ftidemlolouist
Duration of Post:   24 months
Duty Station:        Kampla
Working Language:   English
lssential Qualifications and szerience
The candidate should have a degree in veterinary medicine with at least ten
years' experience of preventive veterinary medicine in the tropics.  The
candidate must be energetic and be prepared to spend half his working time
in the field. A post-graduate degree in epidemiology or tropical veterinary
medicine is desirable, together vith previous experience of project
implementation.
Duties
The Epidemiologist would be responsible to a Component Manager appointed by
the GOU. fis particular responsibilities would bos
Ca) In relation to th mobile veterinary services units:
Ci) to help establish the units as operational entities;
(ii) to establish procedures for operational control;
(iii) to coordinate the activities of all 4 units;
(iv) to supply the needs of the units for vaccines, drugs.
equipment and consumables; and
(v) to assist the Component Manager to fomnlate strategies and
priorities.
(b) To submit through the Component Manager to the project
FI-nc ial/Procurmnt Manager all request for purchases of material
U*ute. The Laboratory Manager (TechnLcal Assistance) will assist
la the ordering of all laboratory equipmet and supplies.
(c) so assist the Director of the AEBC to orgmaise a course for all
SYOs on recent advnces in the epidemiology and control of the
major cattle killing diseases in Uganda.
CPGEN1:torvc



Annex 4
-    -                              Appendix 4
__AM
LIVZSTOCK SZUIcES PiOJiC?
Terms of Reference for Labordtory Technologist
Duration of Post:   24 asuths
Duty Stations         utebbW
Working Language: t   nglish
Essential Qualificatione and -x3erience
The candidate should have either a degree in laboratory technology or an
internationally recognized advanced laboratory tschnician qualifications.
Experience in ordering, setting-up and maintaining laboratory equipment is
essential. Previous experience in developing laboratories in the tropics is
desirable.
Duties
Under the Director of the AIMC the Laboratory Technologist would be responsible
fors
(a) The order of all laboratory equipment an supplies needed for the
mobile laboratory components of the mobile veterinary service
units;
(b) Establishing and supervising laboratory techniques in tIe mobile
laboratories;
tc) ae will set-up all naw equipment purchased for the ABRC and
instruct laboratory staff In operation and maintenance;
(d) He will establish the seru bank; and
(s) Be will give in-service training to laboratory technicians and
laboratory assistants.
CPGENlstorlm



- 52 -                             Annex 4
Appentdix 5
Page 1 of 
UGANDA
LIVESTOCK SERVICES PROJECT
Terms of Reference Financial and Procurement Wanaper
Duration of Post:   60 months
Duty Stations        Kampala
Working Language:   English
Essential Qualifications and Experience
The candidate should haV, a degree in accounting from a recognized
institution or professional body (ACA, ACCA. CPA), with at least ten (10)
years experience in a senior position in a large scale organization with
multiple business activities or ir. the civil service. He must have a proven
experience of working conditions in the African environment. He must
demonstrate ability to handle in an effective manner complex issues dealing
with funds management on a decentralized basis and procurement involving
technical specifications for a variety of goods and services.
Duties
He will form part of the Project Coordination Unit at HAI? and be answerable
for all aspects of his duties to the Project Coordinator.  He will have
technical authority (functional relationship) over all officers in areas of
the Project accounts, finances and procurement. His specific responsibilities
will be:
(a) In relation to Project Accounts and Finances:
(i) to supervise the operation of the project accounting systems
both at HAIF and WA. He will be assisted in his duties by the
DVSAI's Assistant Commissioner Finance and the WA accountant;
(ii) to ensure the timely production of accounting data in support
of the project Management information System (HIS). He will
monLtor the performance of the accounting firm subcontracting
the computer processing of the MAIT accounts;
(UiJ) to prepare financial statements as part of the project
periodic reporting arrangements;
(iv) to arrange for the timely issue of the project's annual
audited accounts;
(v) to translate the annual work program into budget terms and to
participate in all discussions with technical ministries
relating to annual budgetary allocations;



- 53 -                                 Appendix S
Page 2 of 2
(vi) to organize and supervise the operation of the project
budgetary and internal control systems within MAIF and UVA;
and
(vii) to coordinate the project's funding operations, ensuring the
availability of finance through timely submission of funding
requests to the project financing institutions.
(b) In relation to Procurement:
(i) to ensure that procedures agreed between IDA and Government
of Uganda are adhered to;
(ii) to coordinate all procurement requests issued by the project
Component Managers;
(iii) to ensure that administrative procedures established by the
Kinistry of Finance aid the Central Tender Board are adhered to,
through permanent liaison with these institutions.
(iv) to ensure proper liaison with the technical ministries (Public
Works and Housing); and
Cv)  to exercise quality control over the financial and legal
aspects of procurement contracts for the project goods and
services.
CPGENl lsptor



- 54 -
Annex 4
Appendix 6
UGANDA
LIVESTOCK SERVICES PROJECT
Teos of Reference: Management and Ortanization Specialist
Duration of Post:   30 months
Duty Station:       Kampala
Working Language:  English
Essential Qualification. and Experience
The candidate should hold a higher degree in Business Administration
(minimum degree would be an MBA). with Organization as a major. Minimum
required experience of 10 years. of which 5 years within a large
organization. Demonstrable achievement of assignments of equal or higher
complexity will be required.
Duties
He will form part of the Project Coordinating Unit and will be answerable
for all aspects of his work to the Project Coordinator. His specific duties
will be to:
(a) assist and advise the Project coordinator in:
(i)       discussions with other ministries concerned with the legal,
administrative and financial aspects of staff retrenchment
(Economic Planning and Development, Finance. Public Service
Conmission);
(ii)      organizing the financial package and relaced incentives of
the staff retrenchment action plan;
(iii)     implementing a step by step phase out of the parastatal
ranching activities and resolving administrative, legal and
financial issues relating to the privatization of the ranches;
Uiv)      phasing out the veterinary drug activities of the
parastatal drug import Uganda Pharmaceutical Limited (UPL);
(v)       drawing up MAIF revised organization chart and defining the
duties and responsibilities of each attached position;
(vi)      initiating its long term work program and related financial
budget for negotiations with the conoerned ministries;
(b) coordinate with the head of the Department of Veterinary Services and
Animal Industry (DVSAI). the organization and phasing of the
retraining program for staff retained within DVSAI;
(e) supervise and coordinate with the Uganda Veterinary Association (UVA)
all measures relating to the privatization of the veterinary
activities of MAIF;



- 55 -
Annex 5
UGANDA
LIVESTOCK SERVICES PROJECT
Herd ProJection Parameters
Herd Type
Small        Large        Zeio
Mixed Farm Fenced Dairy Grazing
(Cross-Bred) (Cross-Bred) (Exotic)
Units  Pastoral   Mixed Farm  Pire- Full    Pro- Full Pre- Full
(Indigenous)(Indigenous) Proj Dev      Proj Dev   Proj Dev
1. Herd Structure
Bulls               Z        2            2        3    2        2    2     0   0
Cowv                Z       53           48       55   40       57   39    60  57
Heifer 0.5 Yr       z        8            9       15   14       15   14    21  22
Heifer I.5 Yr       z        7            8       14   13       14   13    19  21
Heifer 2.5 Yr       2        7            8       13    6       13    6     0   0
Steer  0.5 Yr       2        8            9        0   13        0   14     0   0
Steer  1.5 Yr       2        8            8        0   12        0   12     0    0
Steer  2. 5Yr       2        7            8        0    0        0    0     0    0
Total Herd                 100          100      100  100      100  100   100  100
2. Parameters
Calving Per Cent   2        45           50       60   75       60   75    70   80
Age 1st Calving   Year    3.5           3.5      3.5    3      3.5  3.0   2.5  2.5
Milk/Day            L      1.5            2      7.5   11        7   11     9   15
Lactation Langth  Day      200          200      240  280      240  280   260  290
Milk Production/
Lactation       '000 L   0.3         0.4       1.8 3.08    1.68 3.08  2.34 4.35
Cove Milked/Day    2        13           13       22   23       22   22    30   36
Off-take            2      9.0         10.2       23   22       20   20    35   40
Mortality
Male Calves         1       30           25       10   10       10   10     5    5
Female Calves      2        30           25        5    5        5    5     5    5
Others                       7            7      7.5    5       10  7.5     5    5
Increase in Herd   Z       3.1         3.1       8.0 10.3      f.1  8.7    15  18
Sales/Herd No.      $     26.6           40      226  362      200  354   376  848



-56-                          Annex 6
SUMMARY SEED REOUIREMENTS AMD SUPPLY
(TOMNES)
Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Yegr 4 Year 5 Xear 6
Seed Reauirement
Free Seed                  1.78    7.78   16.38-  34.23   38.29   36.68
Othe }/                                    1.55    5.41    9.22   17.23
Total                      1.78    7.78   17.93   39.64   47.51   53.91
Seed Supply
Seed Produced Locally      3.00   15.00   38.50   48.0    60.0    60.0
Local Seed Availability   0        3.00   15.0    38.5    48.0    60.0
Import Requirement         1.78    4.78    2.9.3    1.14    0       0
Breakdown of 'Free Seed'
Imported                   1.78    4.78    2.38    0.93      -       -
Locally Produced           0       3.0     14.0   33.0    38.3    36.7
Prolect Cost (of Free Seed)
ust (.000)
Imported Seed (S20/Kg)   35.6    95.6    57.6    18.6        -       -
Local Seed ($3/Kg)Z/       0       9.0    42.0    99.9   114.9   110.1
1/ Hofte srown or purchased seed



- 97 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 5
UGANDA
LIVESTOCK SERVICES PROJECT
PRIVATIZATION OF VETERINARY SERVICES
(i)       Potential Client Base
1.   The majority of Uganda's remaining 3.3 million cattle population are
kept by traditional herders. Since the introduction of exotic cattle
in the 1960s modern cattle management methods have been established.
In 1974 there were 3,800 specialized dairy farms carrying about
41,000 exotic, 33,000 cross breeds and 127,000 indigenous cattle.
There were 434 fenced ranches carrying 330,000 heads. By 1988 these
cattle were drastically reduced by the effects of war and banditry
and about 50 ranches are now concentrated in the southern part of the
country, primarily in 18 districts. Out of these districts, about 12
have sufficient exotic and cross bred cattle to justify private
veterinary practices. The 12 include the south-western districts, and
those around Kampala, Mukono, Jinja, Iganga and Mbale in the east.
With confidence being restored, investment in farm and ranch
rehabilitation is increasing.
2.   Improved ranches and dairy farms would create a strong demand
for private veterinary services. Parasitic and other production
diseases such as liver fluke, mastitis and calf scour will need to be
brought under control. Cattle raisers need protection against rapidly
advancing epizootics such as rinderpest, CBPP and foot and mouth
disease   Animal production procedures such as artificial
insemination and pregnancy diagnosis would be important aids to
efficient farm management. In intensive dairy areas active
veterinarians perform between 30 to 40 dystocias a year. Most
improved farms are accessible by motorcycle or 4WD vehicle throughout
most of the year. Crushes, holding yards and plunge dips on many
farms have deteriorated but are readily repairable. Although
traditionally raised cattle provide most of the country's meat, milk
and hides, their owners appear less likely to demand modern husbandry
and veterinary techniques. The indicative private practice fees list
and cash flow models for a typical private practice are given in the
appendices to this annex.
(ii)      Regional Basis
3.   Mbarara District is the home for 480 active improved dairy farms and
the Ankole Ranching Scheme, with 51 ranches carrying 33,000 cattle.
Livestock holders in the district have a long tradition of cattle
raising, and any introduction of new veterinary programs should be
carried out by well trained and experienced veterinarians.



- 58 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 5
4.   Masaka District is relatively close to Kampala and supports numerous
livestock production activities. Its cattle population numbers about
one third of Mbarara, with a large number of exotic or cross-bred.
Livestock farmets are progressive and support three large active
Dairy Farmers and Ranchers Associations. There are 23 veterinary
shops in Masaka,many owned by veterinarians and para-veterinarians
mainly working for GOU.
S.   Kabale District supports several active Government veterinarians
providing veterinary services to dairy farmers. There about 3,600
cross bred cattle and 120 improved dairy farms, as well as about
50,000 indigenous cattle in the district. Improved farms carry out
quite sophisticated and developed management techniques. Farmers are
serious about farm management and are willing to spend money on their
farms and livestock. They are accustomed to pay for veterinary
services including clinical services. Traditional herders have
recently started using drugs against East Coast fever and many are
willing to pay for veterinary services.
6.   Kabarole District has a long established dairy industry with nearly
400 fenced improved farms. There are about 9,000 exotic or cross-bred
cattle in the district. There is a strong local market in neighboring
Fort Portal and Kasese for milk.
7.   Bushenyi District There are about 13,200 exotic and cross bred cattle
in the district, mainly on small mixed farms, and 140,000 indigenous
cattle. Because of long distances between cattle raisers. though
connected by good roads and telephone, new veterinary practices would
need to plan their field programs well. The farmers in the area are
accomplished and progressive and should provide a strong demand for
services.
8.   Mukono, Jinja and Kampala Districts include many developed farms,
including dairy ranching on up to 2SO ha, intensive medium farms of
12 to 60 ha, and smallholder farms of 1 to 3 ha. There are 13,500
exotic and cross bred cattle and 132,000 indigenous cattle in the
area. These districts have good roads and telephone systems. Farmers
are very progressive and would be receptive to private veterinary
advice.
9.   Mpigi District includes 5,000 exotic and cross-bred cattle and
120,000 indigenous cattle. There is a large number of high income
cattle owners who would strongly utilize an efficient private
veterinary service. There is a good road network and power and
telephone services are being rehabilitated.
10. Mubende district has more than 5,000 exotic and cross-bred cattle
raised on improved farms, and 280,000 local breeds mostly
transhumant. It should be able to support at least one private
veterinarian.



- 59 -
ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 5
11. Rakai District has about 27,000 exotic and cross breds including
1,000 friesian on 3 ranches. The high level of reported dystocia
would form an important part of the veterinary practice activity in
early years.
12. Mbale District has 7,000 exotic and cross breeds, mostly of dairy
type raised on mixed farms. Farmers are progressive and organized
into cooperatives which would provide good contact groups for a newly
established practice.
13. The phasing of the establishment of the new veterinary practices are
given in the table in Dara 20.
(iii)     Clinical Diagnosis
14. Access to good diagnostic services would be very important to the
quality of service and hence to building confidence amongst farmers.
The project would finance the establishment of student run private
mobile veterinary units at Makerere University and at the Animal
Health Research Center (AHRC).
(iv)      Makerere University Faculty of Veterinary Medicine
15. With many veterinarians under-employed and the prospect of staff
retrenchment at MAIF, the Veterinary Faculty would put a temporary
restriction on the recruitment of new undergraduate students. It
would re-orient its activities to postgraduate training of existing
veterinarians for modern professional practice. With recent UNDP
assistance an ambulatory clinic has been revitalized with the
provision of new facilities and the establishment of four
subcenters. In spite of financing assistance and low fees
(consultation US$ 0.50 to US$ 1.00 equivalent, vaccination US$ 0.25)
the clinic averages one farm visit a day. The diagnostic services
would be privatized. By charging higher fees, providing services, and
increasing the remuneration to rostered veterinarians, the clinic
would be put on a business like footing and become a busy sustainable
operation within the university. It would also form the basis of a
first class veterinary practical training facility.
(v)       Uganda Veterinary_Association Ltd. (UVA)
16. UVA is a voluntary organization composed of members of the profession
registered as a company limited by guarantee, without share capital,
under the Companies Act. Registration of incorporation was done in
July 1990. The UVA is managed by a Board of Directors elected by the
Annual General Meeting. UVA's commitment to privatization was confirmed
at the 1989 Annual General Meeting by the majority (200) of its 335
members. The Association currently meets with serious financial
difficulties due to rampant inflation that has eroded membership
dues (USh 1,000 (US$3) per year in 1989 terms for a total of US$1 005



- 60 -
ANNEX 7
Page 4 of 5
equivalent). In 1988 its annual expenditures were about USh 122,000
(about US$800 under 1980o  chang  rates).  Th6se  put strict limits on
the UVA's ability to support its commitment to the privatization process.
17.  Practitioner Chapter. In the early stages of privatization,
considerable efforts would be required from UVA to prepare the way
and facilitate changes needed in Government. A specialized Chapter
would be constituted within the WVA. Hembership would be restricted
on the basis of members' occupation, experience and professional
qualification, to be determined by UVA's Executive Committee (minimum
two (2) years experience in private practice or attendance to
Hakerere retraining program, would be minimum criteria).
18.  Trading Activities. UVA would facilitate the establishment of a
trading (and later manufacturing) cooperative wholly owned by UVA
members. It would import or trade in drugs, chemicals, materials and
equipment essential to the operation of private practice.
19.  Assistance Under PARC;  The African Rindernest Troeram has nrovided the
equivalent of US$ 150,000 to assist in the privatization program. Of
this amount, US$ 50,000 would be used to equip WVA with basic
furniture and office equipment, to employ an office administrator and
to pay for a vehicle and office running costs for a period of 3
years. USS 20,000 would be used to finance retraining of
veterinarians at Hakerere University. and US$ 80,000 for a pilot
credit line at commercial banks.
20.    Phasing of the Establishment of the New Veterinary Practices
Year
1  2       3       4        5
Dairy Coop. Societies (No.)           25      50      75     100      100
No. of Dairy Cattle/Society         580      630     681     736     848
Exotic Cattle (No.)              14.500  31,500  51,100  73,600  84,800
Improved Dairy Farms and Mixed
Farms (Io.)                       12,400 106,000  95,500  81,750  80,000
No. of Rancheo                   144,000 148,000 152,000 157,000 162,000
No. of Traditional Cattle (a)       2.56    2.64    2.71    2.80    2.88
Total Exotica In Milk Shod
Are                              134,500 142,590 151,146 160,215 169,828
Total Indigenous Cattle In
M11k Shod Are  (a)                  2.70    2.78    2.86    2.95    3.04
Scores
Exotiec  in DCSs   10                145     315     511     736     848
Imp. Farms         3                372      318     286     245     240
Rench Cattlo       2                288      212     191     164     160
Traditional Cattle 0.1              256      264     271     280     288
Score After Indoxation       .    1,061   1,109   1,259   1,425   1,536
No. of Veterinary Practices



- 61 -
ANNEX 7
Page 5 of 5
21   Implementation  The Uganda  Veterinary Association is committed to
privatization but at present has little or no expertise in the area. In
order to commence the prototype privatization, and to avoid building up a
WA bureaucracy in lieu of a government bureaucracy, a consulting firm will
be employed to provide the necessary expertise and manpower (TORs are in Appeneix 3).
In the longer term, if 'rivatization is successful it should grow spontaneously and
require little or no assistance. The consultancy firm will provide initial
support (six months) to set up th.e privatization, and then provide ongoing
implementation support. The i.itial support will include:
(a) Development of criteria for selection and screening of candidates for
private practice. It is anticipated that there will be more applicants
than the program can accommodate in its early stages which uill enable
fairly vigorous standards to be applied. Minimum criteria will include the
applicant having undertaken a period of retraining at Makerere University
in order to update veterinary skills and learn some business and management
skills. The applicants will also need to have previous training and
experience judged to be suitable for private veterinary practice.
(b) Developing some indicative costing for the establishment of private
practice and, together with the lending Banks, establishing credit ceilings
and loan and repayment procedures. Credit ceilings would be below
US$20,000 per candidate.  Items eligible for credit would include:(i) Rent
and renovation of premises; (ii) Motorcycle; (iii) Veterinary equipment,
drugs and chemicals; (iv) Working capital.
(c) Together with the unit established at Makerere University, develop
the business component of the veterinary retraining course to be undertaken
by Government Veterinarians seeking to move to the private sector, and
provide any teaching input necessary to the business courses.
22. With the completion of the initial phase of support the consultants
will assist with implementation of the program. This will include:
(a) Selection of candidates based upon the criteria previously developed
and on the evaluation of the candidates costed proposal. The ability to
put together such a proposal should be considered a demonstration of the
type of basic skills necessary to run a small veterinary business and will
be taught in the business courses at Makerere.
(b) Provide extension support to the newly established private veterinary
practices.
(c) Assist WVA in determining suitable private veterinary practice areas.
(d) Advise WVA on the setting up and running of a drug cooperative.



Annex 7
- 62 -                        Appendix 1
UGANDA
LIVESTOCK SERVICES PROJECT
SELF-E.PLOYED VETERINARIAN - VETERINARY PRACTICE MODEL.
Fee Structures
(indicative only)
US$
A.  Consultation                                                             2.50
B.  Consultation rate - per hour                                             5.00
C.  Travelling time - per hour plus transport costs                          3.50
D.  Injection                                                                 1.50
E.  Laboratory - simple diagnostic procedure                                 2.50
F.  Laboratory - diagnostic procedure                                         1.50
G.  Pregnacy diagnosis (rectal exam) first presentation                      2.50
Pregnancy diagnosis - subsequent presentations ea                        0.50
H. Gynaecological examination and treatment                                  12.50
I. Obstetrical procedure - dystocia, minimum                                15.00
J.  Obstetrical procedure - dystocia, embryotomy                            30.00
K.  Surgery - caesarian section (cattle) including drugs                     50.00
L.                                                                           15.00
M.  Surgery - prolapsed prepuce                                              30.00
N.  Surgery - rumenotomy including drugs                                    45.00
0.  Surgery - eye ablation                                                   15.00
P.  Surgery - cattle - claw amputation                                       15.00
Q.  Surgery - calf - umbilical hernia                                        10.00
R.  Castration - burdizzo - flrst presentation                               2.50
- subsequent presentations ea                                 0.50
S.  Castration - first - open presentation                                    3.50
- subsequent presentations ea                                 0.75
T.  Castration - surgical                                                    10.00
.U. Dehorning - adult - first presentation                                   12.50
- subsequent presentatlons ea                          5.00
V.  Vaccinations - rabies - inci vaccine cost - first presentation            2.50
- subsequent vaccinations                          1.00
- poultry diseases - first presentation            2.50
- subsequent presentations     0.07
- FMD - first presentation                         2.50
- subsequent presentations                   1.00
W.  Drenching - first presentation                                            2. 5C
- subsequent presentations ea                                  0.50
X. Artificial insemination (fee US$5.00;  semen US$5.00)                     10.00
Y. Autopsy                                                                   5*00
Z. Sales of veterinary drugs, chemicals and equipment



- 63 -
SW   E1P1litI VETEIIUIU
................... ..........                                   Annex    I
in  litiW P1ItE                                                ADpendix 2
.... ... _._._....
USN  FLO  STAItEMI r0ni
...... ~ ~     ~      ~      ...    .. . .......
FEES FICA  FRO   SEIVICS       9150  14500  110     15500  16000  16000  16o00   16000  1600  16000
tO55S pUs SALES               149   11521  12103  12?t3  11101  11187  14720  15603  16539  16500
,,.... . ....... . . ..........................................- 
tOTtL IKK                      13140  21681  27113  28268  29101  29887  301720   1603  32539  12500
IlIIESTKIIT COSTS
....... . . . ....
Iu[LI,IUS iEMATION            2100
RlayLE                        180                           100                                   1600
VETEIIMil EIUIE               6O00
SFt61    S10C                 2000
foTA                          I500        0      0       01  0o         0      0       0       1  t00
PaTI   COSIS
IEt                           1500   50010 ISO    1SO    IS0O1ISO          ISO      1O IS         1500
suA        2E.    .           240    240    240    240    240    240    240    2400   240    240
OtalUCKIE COSTS               1500   ISO   IS0    1500   ISO0   IS00   150 0   1500   150 t1
Ina  All EUIP. IE5.           3000   866    n10    9600   9850  10444  11061  11132  12435  12446
*ISUOSES                       370    400    420    440    40    40    s0e             530    5U   50
LImIt 12 W   SWEN             3450   3480   34"   3500   30   3500   3504    3            35      3500
5aUTIC FEES                    420    330    300       O     30 10   300    300    301    300    300
StATIyIOT  W  MT.              2t      150    IS    150    150    15 1SO     I     150 15 0    I10
ia mE                          60    650    60          0    650 S     0    6S 0    65"    650    6S0
LEOAL.AC1 OUN fEES             4Ut    200        200    2O0     l0   2N     20t    2Z      2O0    280
TILITIES                       400    3OO    300    30        0 10       3 0 10             30t    300
IEPIIS W a lINEC               250    250    250    250    250    250    2s5        2       25     25
SM. U fE          s            I"  1o  to0  1o  1to  100  IU  10                            0   100
LIVIU   EVENSES               3O    36O   360    3600   360   3U60   36            36U    360      60
ItIIL                         12*  23m5   2390  240  24760  25371  211  26712  27445  2743
_**vs - *@ -  - *- + .              ................ .........................._-o
ThA  Sto  O LS                 3M240  23528  23960  244     2650  25s373  217  26712  274     M36
MET CON FLU                    o1o00   2500   3143   3773   2541   4516   4702   401   509    3264
C   CAt  FLU                  -2000 -17499 -14357 -10579  -8038  -S5          1110   6071  11165  14429
...... . ................ _.*wv^ . .*ws^^ ..... .^* ...................*
FINAKIL INTEIIUL
RATE IF iETURN                  1i.2U
IEU SEIVICIMl
..... ......                    o
IalulUs A/                     Moto
PLAIE                                 200t     17500  15000  12500  1000    7500 5OO        2ots
IEPAnES                            0   250    25       2500   2500   20    2500   214500   2500
a-use * ....... ....... .**e^v . . ........*^ . .s* .   
AmmUt UTSTAII                  2000   270   15000  12500  10000   750o   5000   2500           0
1t CUIN FLOI AFtER KEIt            0       0    643   1278      41   2016   2202   231   2594   3264
SEIVICIEI
For louas prgvijl uder tj  Ctr#it Whrutu  Sctne,tbe  otifisslai midE prpil  the Iliiag
t4k sith ceIllteral qWj to 2fl of horr%itSp - is this csut I500.



- 64 -
ANNEX 7
Appendix 3
UGANDA
LIVESTOCK SERVICES PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Consultants to UVA
The consultancy team will be led by an internationally recruited management
specialist with experience in privatization. Other members of the team will
be recruited locally and consist of a credit specialist, a legal specialist
and a training specialist.
The initial tasks of the consultants will be to:
(a) develop selection criteria and a screening mechanism to be used
in the selection of cand.dates for privatized veterinary practice;
(b) develop indicative costing for the establishment of private
practice and work with the lending banks to establish credit ceilings
and loan and repayment procedures;
(c) develop procedures for an annual performance and accountancy
audit for the recipients of the privatization credit and agree with
the lending banks and UVA on the procedures tor foreclosing on the
privatized veterinarians who fail either part of the audit;
(d) together with the Veterinary training unit at Makerere
University develop a set of business courses to be incorporated in
the veterinary retraining program;
Following the completion of the initial tasks the consultants will assist in
the implementation of the program. This will include:
(e) selection of candidates for the privatization credit based
upon previously developed criteria;
(f) provision of extension support to the newly established
private veterinary practices;
(g) carrying out an annual performance audit and, together with
the lending banks, an accounting audit of privatized practices
established with the loans;
(h) advice to UVA on the setting up and running of a drug
cooperative;
(i) assistance to the business training component of the
veterinary retraining at Makerete.



- 65-                                                   ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 4
LIVESTOCk SERVICES PROJECT
iGMAb uF ECONOMIC ANLSIS iUSS'000)
iR I *R 2   'R 3    fh 4   iR 5    Re         7    R  iRS  fh9   iP 10  YR 11  YR 12   f 13  4R 4   R15  YR    IR 17-20
MIN LHEiLTH -- --
BENEFITS                          0   3503   7256   i339  12079  14592  17799  20631  22984  24700  19955  19955  1955  195   1955  19955   195
COSTS                          5400   5407   4666   4542   5030   4697   4094   4990   5051   5128   5153   5190   5234   5260   5313   5313    5313
NET ECONOIC BEFIT             -5400  -1905   2590   4796   7048   9895  12905  1551  17933  19571  14803  14766  14722  1468  14642  14642   14642
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN          602
TSETSE FLi CONTROL
BENFITS                         654   2420   4745   7627  11067  14329  16477  186   19102  19577  19577  19577  19577  1951  19    19577   19577
COSTS                          1124   4794   7355  109"9  13987  16920  13994  10610   7226   3842    458    458    459    459    458    458         458
NET ECONOMIC BENEFIT           -470  -2364  -2610  -3372  -2920  -2591   2493   7458  11876  15736  19120  19120  19120  19120  19120  19120   19120
ECOMIC RATE OF RETURN            36o
FORAGE OEIELGPINT
BENEFITS                         -6    -22      13    256    990   2498   4866   7923  11222  14331  1699   18764  20012  20738  21111  21247   21201
COSTS                           619    586    656    931   1471   1703   2390   3064   3724   4390   5016   5525   5845   5996   6040   6045    6045
NET ECONWOIC  EElFIT           -625   -607   -642   -676   -481    795   2476   4859   7498   9940  11968  13239  14166  14743  15071  15201   15236
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN          521
PROJECT  AIU IT COSTS           382    11S    119    119    346
TOTAL LIVESTOCK SERVICES POJECT
BENEFITS                        649   5901  12014  17221  24135  31419  39143  46622  53307  59609  56417  59297  59544  60271  60644  6n779   60614
COSTS                          7526  10996  12795  16591  20034  23319  21278  19654  16000  13361  10626  11172  11537  11721  11911  11916   11816
NET ECONOMIC BENEFIT          -6978  -4994   -791    630   3301   9099  17965  27969  31307  45241  45790  47124  4009  48550  49833  48963   499S
23322  2333  32223           =S=23 a3   = 23322  2 s222   Z 232   233  23a3a  23333  22323  332=3  22233  3523  23
ECONMIC RATE OF RETURN           49 I
2.32



ANNEX 8
- 66-                                              Page 2 of 4
USA40                                               U6ANDI LIYESTOCK SERVICES PROJECT
ANINAL HEALTH PROJECT: ECONONIC ANALiSIS
YR OFlfEVELMET-    NOTE   UNIT          tR I  lR 2   1R 3   R 4   YR 5   iR 6   iR 7   R E   YR 9         YR 10  YR It YR 12  ,R 13 1R 14 tR 15+
UITHOUT PROJECT                       ---                           HERD MORTALITIES FROM CSPP HITH AND HITHOUT PROJECT
NATIONL HERD SIZE               '000    3360   3309   3259   3209   3160   3112   3065   3019   2972   2927   2602   2882  2992   2682  2692
Z IN CLEAR AREA                   I       55     49    43    37    31    24    18    12            6      0      0      0      0      0      0
l IN ENDEIIC AREA                 l       4i1    51    57    o3    69    76    82    e8           94    100    100   100    100   100   100
NO. IN CLEAR  REA               '00    18.9  1621   1401   1197    990    747   552    362    179         0      0      0      0      0      0
NO. IN ENDEMIC AREA             '000    1512   1689  1958  2022   2180  2365  2513   2656  2794   2927  2892   2882   2682   2982   2692
NO. EXPOSED TO EPIDEMIC         '000     205    202    199    196    193    190   187    184   181    179        0      0      0      0      0
EPIDEMIC MORtALIT. (25U3        '000      51    51    50    49        48    48    47    46        45    45       0      0      0      0      0
ENDEMICM HETLITIES till          000      15    17    19    20    22         24    25      27     28     29    29    29       29    29    29
TOTAL NORTALITIES               '000      ot    67    dB    69    70    71    72    73            73    74    29       29     29    29    29
IITH PROJECT
NATIONAL HERD SIZE              '000    3360   3309   3294   3284   3284   3294   3294   3284   3284   3294   3284   3294  3294  3284  32
IN CLEMRAREA                      I       55     52    52      52    52    52    52        52    52      52     52     52     52    52    52
Z111 ENEIC AREA                   3       45    49    49    49    49    48    4            48     48    49    48    49    49         4      49
N0. IN CLEAR AREA               '000    1849   1721   1708   1708   1709   1708   1706   1708   1709   1706   1708   1706   1708   1708   1709
NO. IN ENDEMIC AREA             '000    1512   1598   1576   1576   1576   1576   1576   1576   1576   1576  1576  1576  1576   1576  1576
NO. EIPMSED TO EPIDEIIIC        '000     205    99       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0
EPIGEIIC NRTALIT. i251)         '000      51     25      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0
EIDEIIC IORtALITIES         a/ 1000       15     16    16       8      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0
TOTAL NORTALITIES               000       66    41      16      8      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0
fR I   YR 2   YR 3   fR 4   YR 5    YR 6   YR 1   YR 8   YR 9 YR 10  YR 1I YR 12  fR 13 YR14 R 15+
PROJECT IEIEFITS                   --------                           SUMMARY OF NET ECIOINIC ENIEFIT
DECREMENAL IORTALITIES      '000        0     27    53    61    70    71    72    73           73     74    29      29    29      29    29
TOTAL VALUE OF
DECREMETAL MORTALITI   bl SW000         0   3344  6570   7650   9755   889   9S90   9079   9163  9244   3603   3603  3603   3603   3603
YETERINARY PRINATISATION  '*000        0    158   696   1688  3323  5697  6809  11553  1361  15456  16353  16353  163   16353  16353
PROJET COSTS IUS O10)
VETERINARY PRIYATISATION             611    632   992   1357   1945  2258  2455   2541   2611   2699  2714  2751   2794  22   2S74
AINAL DISEASE CONIR    cI           1373   1134   525   231   231
I1ErTITUTIIAL DEVELOPMEIIT  d1       977   1202    710   515    515
TOTAL                                2961   2968  2227  2103   2591   2259  2455  2541   2611   2689  2714   2751   2794   2828  2674
NON INCREMEITAL COSTS
(nDt qratinq bmfits)  AN.DIS  2094   2094   2094  2094   2094   2094  2094  2094  2094  2094  2094   2094  2094  2094  2094
INSTIT   345    345    345   345   345    345    345   345    345    345   345    345   345    345   345
2439   2439  2439  2439   2439   2439  2439   2439  2439   2439   2439   2439  2439   2439   2439
TOtl PRECtOStS                       54     5407   4666   4542   5030   4697   4894   4960   5051   5128   5153  S1i',  5234   5268  5313
NET ECONOMIC 6SFIT l         '000  -5400  -1905   2590  4796   7048  9895  12905  156S1  17933  19571  14803  14766  14722  1468  14642
ECONMIC RATE OF IETUI                  601
-m



ANNEX 8
-67-                                              Page 3 of 4
U6AND : LIVESTOCK SERVICES PROJECT
TSETSE FLY CNR   : SWY O  ECOJIC ANAYSIS
fUSS '000)
NIT0OUT PROJECT              YR I   YR 2   YR 3   YR 4   YR 5   YR 6   YR 7   Y      fR 9   YR 10  YR 11 YR 12  YR 13 Et  14 1R 15+
VALUE OF LIVESTOCK PRODUCTION:
IdSE AREA INFESTED            3042  3042   3042   3042   3042  3042   3042   3042   3042   3042   3042   3042  304?  3042   3042
REA CLEAR                     4724  3543   23621181          0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0
CLEAR AREA INFESTED            528    973   1337  119   1919   1492   1247   1093  1001   1001   1001   1001   1001   1001   1001
INFESTED REA CLEARED             0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0
TOTAL VALUE OF PRODUCTION     8294   7559   6741   5842   4862   4534   4289   4125   4043   4043   4043  4043  4043   4043  4043
INVESTIENT COSTS                 0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0
OPERATIN COSTS                   0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0
TOTAL COSTS                      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0
NET ECONOMIC BENEFIT          8294   7559   6741   5842   4962  4534   4289   4125   4043   4043   4043  4043  4043   4043   4043
NITH PROJECT
VALUE OF LIVESTOCK PRODUCTION:
REA IFESTED                   3042  2434  125  1217   608           0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0
BASE AREA CLEAR               5905   5905   5905   5905   5905  5905  5905  5905  5905   5905  5905   5905  5905  5905   5905
CLEAR AREAINFESTED               0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0
INFESTED AREA CLEARED            0   1640   3756  6347   9413  1295  14861  1623  17240  17716  17716  17716  l7716  17716  17716
TOTAL VALUE OF PROCTION        941   9979  11496  13469  15929  19963  20766 22193  23145  23621  23621  23621  23621  23621  23621
INVESTMENT COSTS:
CATTLE P FCAE                  0   3384   6768  10152  1353   16920  13536  10152   6769   3384      0      0      0      0      0
PROJECT COSTS      a/        931    814      0    336
OPERATINS COSTS      a/        293    517    597   511   451             458   458    456    458    453   459   459    459    458
TOTAL COSTS                   1124   478   7355  10999  13997  16920  13994  10610  7226   3842    458    459    458   459    459
NET ECOMIC OEIT               7824   5195   4132   2471   1941   1943  6M   11584  15919  19779  23163  23163 23163  23163 23163
INCREENITAL ECONOMIC ENIEFIT  -470  -2364  -2610  -3372  -2920  -2591   2483   7459  11876  156  19120  19120  19120  19120 19120  19120
ECONOMIC RATE OF RET            362



UEANI: LIVESTD) SERVlCES PRRDJECT
FORRE  E9ELOPIIENt: EElIE   LVSIS IUS  0W0)
a  I     R 2      YR 3      tR 4     YR 5     YR 6      VI 7     tR a      tR 9     VA tO    VP1i   YR 12    9  13    YR 14    YR IS    YR 16   YR Itl
ECOIIDIII   NLISIS
INCRENTAL "ILK PRE D IL '0001                         0       91      6S       250      667    1505    27730    44279    62509    79425    92362   tOOS13   104166    049  S05600   1050    I0
FARNUATE RAN VALUE PER LITRE (US$)       0.23
VALUE OF ICEPENTAL  ILK P )CEDIFIASCAL)               0       21       15I      575     1579      3465     6373    10184    14377    5B269    21243    23072  2#M           24253    24334    2433      24314
VALUE OF INCRETMAL HEAT PEO        IFtNCIAL)         -9      -53      -532     -194     -102       263      65        641     2372     3122      3957     4934     5910      4695     7175      7377     7429
TOTAL VALUE OF NEAT I KLi (FIACIALI                  -9      -32        20      391     1478      3726     7263   I1925    16749    21369    25200    2800        298       3095S    31509    31711    31763
COIVERSION FACTOR                        0.67
TOTAL VALUE OF NEAT L NILk (FINAIALt                 -6      -22        13      256      990      2498     4866     7923    11222    14331    16194    58764    20012    20736    21111    21247    21281
0'
FARI INVESTIENT COSTS IUSS 000)                      7       32        92      593      321       437      493       464      351      209        97       23        0         0        0         0        0
INCREMENTAL FARM OFERATINS OSTS WUWO0)                3       31       127      351      736      1265     1997     2601      3373     4181     4929      5502     5945     5996      6040    6045       6045
PROJECT COSTS                                       69       524       436     3S7       414
TOTAL COSTS                                         619      586      656       931     1471      1703     2390     3064      3724     4390     5016      5525     5         5996      00      6045      045
NET COSTS: BENEFITS                                -625     -607      -642     -676     -461       795     2476     4959      7498    t940    11368    13239    14166    54743    15071    15201    I5r
ECONIOIC RATE OF RETURN           52t
o0
x
1-



- 69-
ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 4
UGANDA LIVESTOCK SERVICES PROJECT
National Animal Disease Control
Background
1.        During the 1960s and early 1970s Uganda achieved a high degree
of control of livestock diseases making it possible to run large numbers of
exotic dairy cattle. Since 1971. outbreaks of unrest have caused both a
breakdown of livestock movement control and the loss of most of the
effectiveness of veterinary services. With peace and stability now
achieved in most of the country, effective disease control strategies can
be developed. The major killing diseases threatening the survival of the
animal industry are rinderpest, CBPP, trypanosomiasis and East Coast Fever.
The most important zoonotic disease is rabies. Disease distribution is
strongly influenced by cattle movements. The main movement patterns are
shown in Map 1. The major features of disease distribution are as follows:
a)   Rinderpest and CBPP.  These two diseases were confined
to the north-east borders of Uganda by 1979. However,
in that year they together re-entered Kotido District
and spread westwards and southwards (Map 2). Clinical
evidence from the field together with evidence from
slaughterhouses indicates that CBPP is presently
endemic in 12 nothern and eastern districts
representing almost half of the country. There is
circumstantial evidence for rinderpest being endemic
within the same districts. Vaccination campaigns have
reduced mortality in adult stock, but DVO reports
occasional high weaner mortality associated with
rinderpest like symptoms. By mid-3989, the two
diseases were still spreading at the edges of the
endemic area. Moyo District in the northwest has
current epidemic outbreaks of CBPP causing high
mortality. Five hundred cattle were reported to have
died out of a group of 800. The same district has two
active foci of rinderpest, one on the border with Gulu
District and the other on the border with Arua
District. Rebbi District is recovering from two
active foci of rinderpest found in 1988. The
rinderpest outbreaks appear to be extensions of the
westward movement of the disease from Kotido through
Kitgum and Gulu Districts. The CBPP in Moyo District
appears to have come from a new source. The disease
was first discovered in refugee cattle entering Gulu
District from the Sudan and which then moved westwards
into Moyo. Epidemic CBPP was also found south of Lake
Kyoga in Luwero District in 1968.



_ 70 _
ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 4
b)   Trypanosomiasis.  Cattle may be found infected with trypanosomes
(T. congolense and T. vivas) in every district of
Uganda due to the wide distribution of tsetse species
and the movements of cattle. The dangerous tsetse are
the savannah species (G. morsitans, G. pallidipes)
from which large areas of Uganda were cleared over a
40 year period up to the end of the 1970s. These
areas are shown on Map 3. The reinvasion of cleared
areas of Kotido, Kitgum and Gulu Districts is not
being accompanied by reports of acute trypanosomiasis
because north Kotido normally has a light cattle
density and the other two districts have had the
majority of their stock rustled.
c)   East Coast Fever.  The tick vector Rhipicephalus appendiculatus
is classically present throughout Uganda with the
exception of cold mountain areas and dry areas in the
northeast. Before the civil disturbances there was
evidence that distribution had extended almost to
Moroto township. The movement of rustled cattle into
Kotido and Moroto Districts may have introduced the
tick into new areas previously considered to be
marginal habitat. The potential for mortality in
susceptible cattle exists therefore over the great
majority of the country.
d)   Rabies.  Up to the time of civil disturbances and war, rabies
occurred in Kabale District and sporadically around
Mount Elgon in the east. The disease has now become
endemic throughout the country.
Disease Control Strategies
2.        Rinderpest.  Control measures for rinderpest form part of the
Pan African Rinderpest Campaign (PARC) and include:
a)   Vaccination of all cattle in the country including
calves in the first three years of the campaign. From
year 4, vaccinations will be confined to adults in
border areas and yearlings;
b)   control of livestock movements;
C)   surveillance and epidemiological studies;
d)   establishment of serological tests for the diagnosis
of rinderpest and rinderpest-like diseases;
e)   sero surveillance of the immune status of vaccinated
cattle;



_ 71 _
ANNEX 9
Page 3 of 4
f)   ultimately, a stamping out policy for any new foci of infection.
3.        CBPP.  Policy is based on eradication of the disease through
vaccination accompanied by serological testing and slaughter of reactors.
The insidious nature of the disease enables a wide distribution before
clinical syptoms are first seen. The most serious threat to the south-
western districts appears to be the active disease found in cattle
belonging to refugees to the east of Luwero District. These cattle stand
at the head of a chain of transhumant cattle movements stretching southwest
into the northern half of Nyabushozi county in Mbarara District (Map 1).
Another danger comes from the unauthorized movements of livestock from
northern districts to the south and southwest. Mobility and flexibility of
veterinary services are required to combat these dangers. Under the
project, control measures would rely on intensive vaccination campaigns
(twice the first year and once a year thereafter), control of cattle
movement, serological detection of carrier animals, and quarantine. This
is an area of urgently required intervention not presently assisted by
external agencies.
4.        Trypanosomiasis.  Control is based on the eradication of tsetse
accompanied by prophylactic and curative drug treatment. The main emphasis
is on vector control which is covered under the tsetse fly control
component. Drug regimes have been established for the block treatment of
cattle relative to the prevalence of the disease. Survey data, however is
inadequate and epidemiological studies are required to define cattle
grazing areas and reinfection rates. The challenge from Savannah tsetse
species may prove too great to be controlled by prophylactic drugs.
5.        East Coast Fever.  Cattle breeds indigenous to Uganda are able
to acquire life-long immunity to ECF following calfhood infections. If
indigenous cattle do not acquire immunity as calves, they are susceptible
to fatal infections as adults. Also, some calf mortality will occur if
infection is associated with inadequate nutrition and/or other diseases.
Exotic cattle are equally susceptible both as calves and adults. Present
strategy for the control of ticks and tick-borne disease includes:
a)   Provision of tick control facilities (dips, sprays
etc.) and acaricides;
b)   rational deployment of acaricides;
c)   improving the management of facilities through dip
wash analysis and testing for acaricide resistance;
and
d)   applied research, particularly into new acaricides.
Tick control requires a twice a week spraying or dipping routine to break
the life cycle. The proposed project would support tick control only in
respect of exotic and crossbred cattle. The practice of attempting to



- 72 -
ANNEX 9
Page 4 of 4
control ECF in indigenous cattle under traditional management by breaking
the cycle of the vector is not financially viable. GTZ funded support to
AHRC is carrying out experiments on the economies of tick control on
indigenous cattle under fenced ranch conditions and in collaboration with
the EEC, commercial firms and GOU are also investigating new acaricide
technology including "pour-on" products. The proposed project would
complement the ongoing activities by supporting veterinary field staff with
drugs, and diagnostic equipment. Acaricides are provided by other
bilateral donors.
6.        Rabies.  Initially, control measures are focussed on protecting
urban populations by annual vaccination of dogs and elimination of strays.
Those measures will be accompanied by improved diagnostic facilities and
epidemiological studies of the disease under Ugandan conditions which are
currently lacking.



_ 73 _
ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 2
UGANDA LIVESTOCK SERVICES PROJECT
Tsetse Fly Control
Basic Issues
1.        During the last ten years the tsetse fly has reinvaded about
30,000 sq km of Uganda. With this spread of flies there has been a marked
increase in the incidence or risk of tsetse-borne diseases. These
diseases, known as the African Trypanosomiases, take the form of sleeping
sickness in humans and Nagana in domestic stock, and are almost always
fatal unless treated by drugs. However, exclusive dependence on drugs
would be prohibitively expensive and control of tsetse is the only viable
long term solution to the trypanosomiasis problem in Uganda. The vectors
of these diseases in Uganda comprise some nine species and sub-species of
tsetse which are found in habitats ranging from open woodlands to forests.
2.        The patterns of transmission of Sleeping Sickness make control
relatively simple. The habitats of the main vector, G.f. fuscipes, are
localized, making the flies easy to attack. Moreover, it is not necessary
to remove all of the flies to have a significant effect. The transmission
cycle can be broken by a 95X reduction in fly densities, coupled with drug
treatments to reduce the trypanosome reservoir in humans and livestock.
With Nagana the situation is more complex. The vectors of this disease are
often spread widely, making them difficult to tackle. A permanent
reservoir of trypanosomes is present in the wild hosts of the flies. In
these circumstances a 95Z reduction in fly densities can have little effect
on the incidence of Nagana and it is necessary to eliminate the flies
completely.
Current Operations
3.        Southeast Uganda.  A successful control campaign in the sleeping
sickness areas of the southwest has been undertaken with donor funding.
Techniques used include both aerial and ground spraying and trapping using
odorless traps impregnated with the pyrethroid insecticide deltamethrin.
2,800 sq. km. were treated in 1988.
4.        Southern Uganda.  The Kagera Basin organization has a program to
control tsetse in the border areas of southern Uganda, northwestern
Tanzania, Rwanda and Burundi. The program is in a preparatory phase.
5.        Southwestern Uganda.  This project was initiated in 1986 with
assistance from UNDP and UNCDF. Operations began in 1988 based on ground
spraying using Dieldrin. Concern over environmental safety led to
abandonment of this practice and operations have been suspended pending
evaluation of alternative control methods including bait systems.



_ 74 _
ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 2
Tsetse fly control operations under the Livestock Services Project
6.        Project implementation would cover western Uganda where about
420,000 cattle are at risk. Initial steps would involve the establishment
of a resource mapping unit which would map the distribution of livestock,
the incidence of Nagana, location of dips, spray races, crushes and areas
using trypanocidal drugs. This information would be used in determining
the starting point for control measures and the intensity of coverage.
Control measures would be based on bait techniques with particular
reference to recent work in Zimbabwe and Kenya. This would include
deployment of artificial baits treated with odor attractants and a
pyrethroid insecticide e.g. Deltamethrin and the use of Deltamethrin
treated cattle as natural baits. In areas where dipping and/or spraying is
practised, the application of insecticide for natural baits would be
combined with tick control. Survey units would be established to monitor
the efficacy of the control measures employed.
7.        Before launching a major control effort a field trial covering
about 5 sq km would be undertaken over a period of 6 months. The aim would
be to (a) establish the required density and confirm the effectiveness of
the targets; (b) train staff; (c) refine procedures; and (d) expose the
public to the system.
8.        The technology for tsetse control is evolving rapidly and
results from ongoing research with artificial baits, especially in Zimbabwe
and Kenya, would be tested under Uganda conditions. Study areas of
particular interest would be improved odor attractants, the use of natural
objects as targets e.g. tree trurz,s and rocks and optimum placement
patterns of targets. Study tours under the project would provide
opportunities for Uganda staff to keep in touch with such developments.



- 75 -
ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 5
UGANDA LIVESTOCK SERVICES PROJECT
Forage Production
Background
1.        Uganda enjoys good forage resources relative to most other East
African countries. The well distributed rainfall and fertile soils ensure
that abundant supplies of green forage are available for most of the year
in most of the country. Feed quality rather than quantity is the main
nutritional constraint for ruminant livestock. This is mainly due to the
low legume content of pastures. The natural pastures often contain many of
the desirable grasses, such as Chloris gayana, Panicum maximum, Brachiaria
brizantha. B. decumbens, B. ruzizensis and Cynodon dactylon, but their
quality is low at times due to seasonal factors and low nitrogen inputs.
Whereas many natural pastures are adequate for beef production if managed
properly, they have serious limitations for dairy cattle. Moreover, many
pastures are dominated by weed grasses such as CymbopoRon and Sporobolus
spp. and in some areas bush regrowth, lantana and other poisonous plants
are major problems. There are few forage legumes in the pastures. Some
pastures are overstocked, and very little nutritious forage is available to
livestock. In the zero grazing system with elephant grass, the fodder is
often protein deficient and is mostly cut when it is too mature, which
means that the proportion of leaf is low and digestibility and protein
content is well below dairy cattle requirements. Elephant grass is often
not chopped up into small pieces, which would also aid intake. No forage
protein supplement is usually fed in zero grazing systems. In many areas
the stands are not planted close enough together and are not kept free from
weeds, so dry matter yields are very low. Nearly all rations/feeds fed to
dairy cattle are unbalanced. They are especially deficient in protein, but
energy also can be limiting.
2.        These pasture quality problems cannot be readily overcome by
planting improved forage cultivars due to the non-availability of both
legume and grass seed. When local seed has been available in recent years
its quality has been poor. This especially applies to grass seed, where
very high seeding rates are needed. Although pasture seed is expensive,
farmers are prepared to pay the price and there is a very big demand.
There are presently no staff in MOA or MAIF who have the experience of
successfully growing commercial areas of pasture seeds. When seed is
available productive legume-based pastures rarely persist, because of poor
management cf the legume component of the pasture. Poor establishment
techniques, the choice of the wrong species, poor seed quality, low soil
fertility, over-grazing and diseases such as anthracnose on stylos and rust
and rhizoctonia on siratro, greatly reduce the vigour and persistence of
the legume component. Extension staff have little experience of what to
plant and how to establish pastures on a large-scale, and the management
techniques necessary to maintain pasture productivity on a field-scale.



- 76 -
ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 5
Forage Research in Uganda
3.        Prior to the late 1960s a considerable amount of forage research
had been carried out in Uganda, principally at Serere and Kawanda. The
results from this work indicated that the indigenous grasses in general
were better adapted than the introduced species, but indigenous legumes
generally have little potential. The legume species that have performed
best and are suggested for general use and/or further development are:
Centrosema pubescens (centro), Desmodium intortum (green leaf), Desmodium
uncinaturm (silver leaf), Neonotonia wightii (glycine), Macroptilium
atropurpureum (siratro) and Stylosanthes guianensis (stylo). Results from
this work on grass and legume species stimulated considerable research on
various interrelated phases of ley pastures. This has included research on
establishment, seeding rates, fertilizer requirements, grass/legume
mixtures, inoculation studies on legumes, intensity of grazing and
defoliation, nutritive value and/or digestibility, and initial seed
production trials. However this research has been at a virtual standstill
since 1974, although new studies on plant introduction and evaluation, in
association with ILCA, have recently started at Makerere Agricultural
Research Institute, Kabanyolo.
Recent Overseas Forage Research Applicable to Uganda
4.        Since 1970, there has been a large amount of pasture research
and successful pasture development in other tropical countries. Much of
this has direct application to livestock development in Uganda. Some new
developments which would be incorporated into the Forage Development
Component of the project are detailed below.
i)   New Pasture Legumes
a)   Stylosanthes spp.  One of the great problems
with Stylosanthes species since 1974 has
been the effect of anthracnose disease
(Colletotrichum gleosporiodes) on commercial
varieties. S. humilis (Townsville stylo)
and S. guianensis (Schofield and Graham
stylos) were completely devastated by this
disease and new cultivars and species had to
be sought. The ones now used are Verano,
Seca and Cook stylos.
b)   Verano stylo (Stylosanthes hamata) was the
first stylo released for the dry monsoon
tropics. It is adapted to lowland tropics
and 600-I,500 mm of summer rainfall.  It is
a self-regenerating annual and has been
grown with native grasses and with Urochloa
mosambicensis and Brachiaria decumbens.
Verano stylo would be well adapted to the
annual cropping areas of eastern and
northern Uganda and also heavily grazed



- 77 -
ANNEX 11
Page 3 of 5
pastures in the banana-based farming systems
and communal grazing areas.
c)   Seca stylo (Stylosanthes scabra) is a
perennial shrub with wide adaptation in the
tropics and sub-tropics. It is particularly
suited to low phosphorus soils. It persists
in areas of 500 mm rainfall, but also
tolerates rainfall up to 3,000 mm per year.
Its nutritive value is not very high
(although annual liveweight gains of 140
kgisteer have been recorded), but it
establishes easily when oversown into native
pasture and offers a means of low cost
pasture improvement. It withstands heavy
grazing, persists after fire, and is
resistant to the present races of
anthracnose. In Uganda it would do well in
permanent grasslands in the drier and
pastoral areas and heavily grazed pastures
in the wetter areas.
d)   Cook Stylo (Stylosanthes guianensis) Is a
perennial stylo well suited to wet tropical
conditions. It will grow in similar areas
to the locally bred Serere stylo, but
probably has greater resistance to
anthracnose disease.
e)   Glenn joint vetch (Aeschvnomene americana)
is well adapted to seasonally wet soils. It
is a self-regenerating annual and can cope
with an extended dry season. It establishes
readily into roughly cultivated grasslands
and is effectively spread by cattle. It
withstands heavy grazing and it will grow
with vigorous grasses and is the first
reliable legume for these types of
situations. In Uganda it would be a useful
legume fo-: pastures in the above 1,000 mm
rainfall areas and would be of great value
in heavilf pastured and communal grazing
areas.
f)   Wynn cassia (Cassia rotundifolia) is a aeui-
prostrate legume that is adapted to stndy
surface soils and to similar areas that
Siratro grows. It requires 600 mm or more
rainfall and can be a short-lived perennial
or self regenerating annual depending on the
severity of the dry season. As it has a



- 78 -
ANNEX 11
Psge 4 of 5
semi-prostrate habit and is free-seeding, it
is likely to be much more easily managed
than Siratro and does not suffer from the
rust disease now afflicting Siratro. It
should be well suited to the annual cropping
areas and permanent pastures in the drier
areas.
(ii) Fodder Shrub and Tree Legumes
a)   Leucaena.  In Uganda there art S number of
leucaena types growing well, bu_ they were
introduced a long time ago and many are tree
types which are of little value for grazing.
Under the project, seed of the more leafy
varieties (Peru and Cunningham) would be
introduced. Peru and Cunningham Leucaena
(Leucaena leucocephala) is a deep-rooted
perennial growing up to 10 m in height.
Although native to Mexico, it is now widely
cultivated in the tropics as a fodder plant
because of its high quality.  Leucaenu grows
well in neutral and alkaline soils but grows
poorly on acidic soils, high in alumina.
Management studies for forage production
indicate optimum dry matter yield could be
obtained at 16 weekly cutting at 50-300 cm
cutting height. Dry matter yields from 10-
28 tonnes/ha per annum have been recorded
with plant populations ranging from 50,000-
500,000 plants/ha. It has fast regrowth
rates and survives continued defoliation for
10-20 years without replanting. In
Australia and in the Philippines, leucaena
is grazed as a pasture, whereas in India,
Thailand and Indonesia, leucaena is grown in
backyards and as 'live fences', with the
foliage cut and harvested by farmers. Both
systems have their uses in Uganda.
b)   Gliricidia maculata is a medium-sized, fast
growing tree, native to Mexico and the West
Indies. It is now in widespread use as a
shade tree in tea, coffee and cocoa
plantations. It is a deep-rooted perennial,
high in protein (25-30Z crude protein). It
can be planted as hedges or as living fences
to provide forage. Ix withstands grazing
and lopping up to l1.-L 5 m in height
without much damage. zfowever, it tends to
shed its leaves during drought and at



- 79 -
ANNEX 11
Page 5 of 5
flowering. The plant is widely used as a
browse in Fiji, Sri Lanka and Indonesia, and
should be of value in similar situations in
Uganda.
c)   Sesbania sesban is a fodder tree that is
also fast-growing and short-lived, that
regenerates rapidly after cutting. The
leaves and young branches are usually cut
for fodder. The plant can tolerate a wide
range of soil conditions (including acid
soils), periodic flooding and water logging.
It should do well in Uganda and provides
useful fodder in the lower fertile and wet
areas where leucaena will not do so well.



- 80 -
ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 2
UGANDA
LIVESTOCK SERVICES PROJECT
Environmental Assessment Study
SUMMARY
A limited environmental impact assessment was carried out for
the Uganda Livestock Services Project from February 19 - March 20, 1990.
The environmental risks affecting the project are related to the
potential for negligent use of insecticides in disease control, with
particular reference to tsetse control, potential future problems of
overgrazing, deforestation and erosion in reclaimed areas, and the
pollution of water sources due to unsatisfactory waste disposal.
The assessment rep3rt suggested certain measures to be taken,
and these recommendations have been incorporated in the project. This
assessment therefore found no reason to oppose or reject the proposed
project, as it is presently formulated, on environmental grounds.
Below is the summary of the major conclusions.
The most sensitive environmental question is related to the
tsetse fly control component. This is however to be built upon the latest
techniques in biological control methods using baited traps and insecticide
treated targets and living cattle traps. The pyrethroid insecticide
(Deltamethrin) recommended is the safest available with low mammalian
toxicity and rapid degradation characteristics. The project also includes
provisions for a close follow-up of ongoing research in tsetse control
methods in the form of study-tours and research contacts, that may
eventually lead to the project disposing of the use of insecticides
altogether. Baited traps alone is now being favored by certain research
institutions.
There is a need for the project to be closely linked to
environmental knowledgeable institutions in Uganda through some form of
interministerial coordinating body. Provisions will be made for the
Agricultural Policy Committee's subcommittee for the livestock sector to
take the responsibility of coordinating the environmental concerns related
to the project.
There are a number of area specific or agency specific
coordinating bodies in tsetse control in Uganda, as well as an
interministerial coordinating committee for tsetse control. However, the
functioning of this committee leaves something to be desired, and the
project will revitalize the coordinating functions with the view to
securing coordinated long term planning of tsetse control activities, and
ensuring to the extent possible, that the different institutions involved



- 81 -
ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 2
become aware of the different techniques, insecticides, chemicals and
methods being used, and the options open for improved environmental
techniques.
Functioning equipment and facilities for environmental
monitoring and control have not been available to the project or the Tsetse
Department, and the project can for various reasons not rely on the
Government Chemist for such assistance. The project will therefore now
include the rehabilitation of the analysis facility at the Tsetse
Department, including the provision of equipment necessary for the
monitoring of effects of insecticides and other chemicals that may be used
by the project.
All project staff, but particularly field staff, will be given
short training courses (locally organized) on environmental aspects
relevant to the project and project area. Such training will also include
satety precautions with respect to the use of pesticides, pesticide and
ir.secticide control, treatment of toxic wastes, an understanding of the
local natural environment and natural resources, an understanding of
livestock's impact on forests, soils, vegetation and wildlife, recognition
of overgrazing, etc., and they will also be trained in extension
techniques.
Environmental legislation in Uganda is weak and the possibility
of controlling livestock pressure on communal land is practically absent,
often leading to the misuse of rangelands. Since the project will be
reopening grazing areas through tsetse control, the project staff will, in
cooperation with relevant GOU units, look into the possibility of
regulating land use in project areas based on the carrying capacity of the
land, and support the elaboration of land management plans when necessary.
The Veterinary Privatization Component raises questions related
to professional ethical use and distribution of chemicals and drugs,
including the disposal of residual waste items with potential environmental
hazards. The access to dangerous drugs and chemicals will therefore be
controlled and limited. The Uganda Veterinary Association will have the
r-^sponsibility for such controls. Private veterinarians should operate
under license and be given training in relevant environmental matters.
The Department of Environment in the Ministry of Environment
Protection (MEP) should be relied upon tor environmental monitoring
assistance. Monitoring of the project should be carried out at regular
intervals (every 6 months), and MEP should be supported with field
operation expenses if necessary.



ANNEX 13
- 82 -                         Page 1 of 3
UGANDA
LIVESTOCK SERVICES PROJECT
Ministry of Animal Industry and Fisheries
Expenditures Review and Manpower Planning
Draft Terms of Reference for Consultant Services
Background
1.        The Government of Uganda is seeking financial support from the
World Bank to help build sustainable services in the animal health sector.
One of the objectives of the Livestock Services Project (LSP) is to assist
the establishment of private veterinary services, and to progressively limit
government services, through the Ministry of Animal Industry and Fisheries
(MAIF), to what the government budget can be expected to adequately sustain.
2.        Government has taken recent policy decisions to reduce public
sector interventions in the livestock sector in areas such as drug
distribution and clinical veterinary services.   There is also a need to
critically examine possibilities for private sector involvement  in other
services such as preventive veterinary services, artificial irsemination etc.
ard/or to increase the cost recovery in these areas. The staff currently
employed in the MAIF are in excess of the complement which effectively can
be supported with available operating funds.   Budgetary constraints on
recurrent expenditures will continue and impose need for limiting and
focusing MAIF animal health control services to a scale that can be
sustained.  Efficiency in allocation of financial resources and a gradual
reduction of employees leading to cost effectiveness in the delivery of
services are important objectives.
Studies Completed
3.        As  a  first  step  towards  addressing  these  objectives  the
Agricultural Secretariat of the Bank of Uganda engaged local consultants to
review the present staff and structures in the MAIF.  This report, dated
September 1989, proposes reorganization of the Department of Veterinary
Services and Animal Industry into a Department of Animal Health and a
Department of Animal Production.  However, the report does not recommend an
overall reduction in staffing, and does not specifically address the need for
more efficient use of financial resources.
4.        MAIF is one of four ministries being studied under the Public
Service Performance Improvements Project. Under this project data on staff
establishment, staff in post, vacancies and staff in excess of establishment
have been matched against areas of responsibility, duties and job
descriptions prepared by the MAIF. A report on these findings is entitled
Structural and Functional Analysis - Ministry of Animal Industry and
Fisheries.   However,  this study does not cover proposals  for improved
management systems or control of staff numbers.



ANNEX 13
- 83...                        Page 2 of 3
5.        A brief study on staff establishment targets was carried out by IDA
consultants in February 1990 (final report expected by end-March 1990). The
study provides indicative establishment targets which need to be modified by
a more detailed examination of the present staffing situation, and the
circumstances   underpinning   present   staffing   patterns   and   levels
Concomitantly, Government together with IDA is undertaking an expenditure
review of MAIF.
Objectives and Organization
6.        To broaden and deepen the efforts initiated under the Agricultural
Secretariat's study, and using the data assembled under the Public Service
Performance T provements Project and the IDA Consultants' Study, the HAIF now
proposes to employ the services of two international consultants (totalling
6 man-months) to prepare a detailed time-bound action plan for MAIF to
improve efficiency in resource allocation, including a program for reduction
of staff.   The consultants, one of whom would be a business management
specialist and the other a veterinarian, would work as part of a team which
would include HAIF representatives from the Department of Veterinary Services
(DVS) the Department of Tse-Tse Control (DTTC), and the Planning Unit.
Tasks
7.        Specific tasks are to:
(a) review HAIF's recurrent expenditures for the various departments
within HAIF over the last two years, particularly with reference
to allocation of such expenditures by major cost items;
(b) review the use of manpower by major activities within the two
departments; based on such review and results under (a) assess the
manpower and other operational costs of individual activities or
services provided;
(c) based on (i) optimum unit manpower requirements for veterinary
services, animal production services and tse-tse control, and (ii)
assumed scale of those services, prepare detailed technical
manpower requirements for public and private sectors over the next
ten years;
(d) identify the current surpluses (deficits) of MAIF staff for
individual services relative to the requirements indicated in (c)
above;
(e)  propose lAIF staff establishment targets which are to be adopted
as realistic benchmarks for planning a gradual reduction of MAIF's
staff over a 5 - 10 year period. These targets would be based on:
(i) projected subsector manpower requirements for veterinary
services, animal production services and tsetse control;
(ii) Government's policy decisions regarding "privatization" of
veterinary and other subsector services; and



ANNEX 13
Page 3 of 3
- 84 -
(iii) projections of capacity of the private sector to gradually
assume such services.   The proposals should consider the
recommendations for MAIF staff establishment targets already
presented by earlier studies (referred to in para 3 and 4) and
the consultants' own investigations of the present staffing
situation.
(f) prepare a detailed plan to bring about a gradual reduction of
overall professional and administrative staff to the targeted
numbers, and as part of such program specify mechanisms and
programs to support the ir ,.lementation of such a plan e.g. support
for privatization of ve 'rinary services, voluntary retirement
scheme, retraining of sta f etc. 'Tn preparing this plan cognizance
would be taken of the work being carried out in this area by the
PAPSCA consultant to the Public Service Commission.
(g) on the basis of such a plan, and considering recommendations as
under (d), project capital and recurrent cost expenditure (in
constant terms) for the departments over the next ten years; and
(h) define the numbers of professional and para-professional staff to
be trained and/or retrained over the next ten years to meet the
estimated needs of the public and private sector of the sub-sector.
Implementation and Reporting
8.        It is expected that the consultants will make two visits to Uganda.
The total elapsed time for this assignment will be 17 weeks. The business
management consultant will have overall responsibility for the assignment and
report preparation. The veterinarian will provide input primarily into tasks
(b), (c) and (e) above.  The following schedule is envisaged:
Weeks  1 -  4        First Field Visit
Week   5             Preparation of Inception Report
Weeks  6 -  9        GOUIIDA Review
Weeks 10 - 15        Second Field Visit and Preparation Draft
Final Report
Weeks 16 - 17        Preparation Final Report
9.        Following the completion of tasks 7(e) above, expected after week
five, the consultants will submit an inception report to the Minister of
MAIF, with a copy to IDA. The report will include their recommendations for
staff establishment targets, and their proposed work programme to address the
remaining tasks. A draft final report will be submitted to the Minister
(copy IDA) after week 15 and a final report by week 17.
CPGEN1:TORULSP2



UGANDA
LIVESTOCK SERVICES PROJECT                                                                     k
MAJOR CATTLE MOVEMENTS
MARCH 1989                       ARAY _,                        /                               C)TUDO
t  1 J / 2~~~~~~~~~RU                                                     KITGUM        se7K7 I/DhX
AmW affcted by catte rusf\ng
Trofshumian ovements
4       .   Refugee catme
<''=    ~~Ur-utF.rd 1tode rowes                                                                                             --_BB--7PC        jb 
-0-           Authozed tude roue     ZAIRE
t          D*KtY' rcwds                              MASINDI        |     A*                     SOOT r   otr v 
----         Intentndal bounda,Res
}          ~~~~HOIMA                                                        )R   v A M AI   _
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IAG
Kr  *                   t                    a MPIGI               at
>   4    MEtARARA   MAS_AKAt<tt30uTM
t KAEIAlE  ?5 50 75RAKA                                                        ZAiREKsofEWs3RNA 
" ,A IFT,                                0~>^ *                         2 < f , A I    0  40  60   MH         \    TANZoANIAa
l    /        Y   2v'aril ~~~NA                                                  3  2              



UGANDA
LIVESTOCK SERVICES PROJECT
DISTRIBUTION OF CONTAGIOUS BOVINE
PLEUROPNEUMONIA AND RINDERPEST
APRIL 1989                     ARU         MOYO                          TK7O
r                           <             g         /              \~~~~~~VJ  KITGUM     |KoTOO              (     
bovine plburopnevim ore
-Diedioen f odevrpe                                                     UAP
ZAIRE                                 AP*C 5o                                  MOROTO 
Dioict caidntaols   bJn                    A              |*                            SORO        |
National capital                                                                         soeand   rI 
J    ~~~   }   s   w ~~~~~~ /        /              I ~~~KAPCHORWzAI
Dird boundhries           /                                                             /  0
-             International boundaries
*               #2             ~~~~~~~~HOIMA                LUWERO                            T  d OR6ER                    ,
- >WGtOw   \          {   ~~MUt3ENDt-  /                                   *   O
/ * -P -_ MPIGI t  :,':;,+~.-.:','  '"  ''"
~~ [ t<~~ASESE /t_~>\_*_-+- ,
$      1>_  ABARARA                 MASAKCA                                             SUDAN                ;
|    BUSHENl                8  /          *                                            kU    e
$NANDA            ,. .                                                                 ZIA,
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 2_  so Yi                                    _0               BURUNMff
- tAIRI-                  *                    AfIZAN4IA            0     20   40   60 WM                          TANZNL
f~~~~~~~~l /                           '^At L , 3  rfl,,<



UGANDA                                               SUCAN 
LIVESTOCK SERVICES PROJECT
AREAS OF INCREASED INCIDENCE OF BOVINE                /
TRRANOSOMIASIS ASSOCIA~TED WITHl ANKEIY
INCREASING TSSE DISTRIBLOTN              ARUA        MOYO                                               KOTDO
1981-1989
r                            *           Gt                      >\~~~~~~~~~AR4  KITGUM  \         mwu0D _l
Area of dxreosd inddence of                              cu
bovine trynosomtaosits
~~~ ~~Diradion of isiroead d!dbuion~e
of tietso Bly 
Arw ofa  proLouSe inmae dieribufion _J._ 
f ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~AR ZAR            TAZAI                   0    20   40   \0 to4ro
of *  e B  r oRWAonD by  r
69  Notai.-;cpibto                                                                                            KAPCHORVORW
- Ehfsm~~Drid bourJ/\;k  _KM 0wWrye
keffrtna bonar     v                                                          0         0>    > a<X -M   -
.        _#GBf y/ ~~~~~~~~HOIM ^W \\ROA 9  
(S; X         w            II~~~~~~~~UBENDE   0         )   >AT                       J -S .".
JV      ~~~KAQAROLE     02                          A>          U    N tIAA v                        ,.__
_ ~~~~~MBARARA             /      MASAKA                       -                        X2SUDAN  
J {1 k \ ~~~~~~~~RAKAI                     1        |Victorio                     ZAJRE     t       klKENYA| 
ZAIRE           K_fn *                    TANZANIA                      20              mm              ,               T     NIA     Ocean 
|   _  /       <   RWA~~~~          ~~NDA      2t      P                          tS 



