Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 19480
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
UGANDA
LIVESTOCK SERVICES PROJECT
(Cr. 2176-UG)
June 24, 1999
Rural Development Operations
Eastern and Southern Africa
Africa Region
This Document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Uganda Shillings (UShs.)
At Appraisal: US$1 = UShs. 440.00
At Completion US$1 = UShs. 1,293.50
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
July 1- June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APC          Agricultural Policy Committee
ARTP II       Second Agricultural Research and Training Project
CBPP          Contagious Bovine Pleuro Pneumonia
DAR           Directorate of Animal Resources
DCA           Development Credit Agreement
DTC           Department of Tsetse Control
ECF           East Coast Fever
FAO           Food and Agriculture Organization
FMD           Foot and Mouth Disease
GOU           Government of Uganda
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
IDA           International Development Association
LSP           Livestock Services Project
MAAIF         Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Industry and Fisheries
MAIF          Ministry of Animal Industry and Fisheries
MIS           Management Information System
MTR           Mid Term Review
O&M           Operations and Maintenance
PARC          Pan African Rinderpest Campaign
PC            Project Coordinator
PCU           Project Coordination Unit
PIC           Project Implementation Committee
PMC           Project Management Committee
PPF           Project Preparation Facility
PSC           Project Steering Committee
SDR           Special Drawing Rights
UVA          Uganda Veterinary Association
W/A           Withdrawal Application'
Vice President:              Callisto Madavo
Country Director:           James W. Adams
Sector Manager:             Sushma Ganguly
Task Team Leader:            Taqi Sharif



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LIVESTOCK SERVICES PROJECT
(Cr. 2176-UG)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE .................................................................i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ................................................................                                       ii
PART  I: PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION  ASSESSMENT ........................................1
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION  OF OBJECTIVES .                                       ..................................................1
B. ACHIEVEMENT  OF PROJECT  OBJECTIVES .......................................................3
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE
PROJECT .................................................................5
D. PROJECT  SUSTAINABILITY  ..................................                       ..............................   12
E. BANK  PERFORMANCE ................................................................                                13
F. BORROWER  PERFORMANCE ................................................................                            14
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME .14
H. FUTUTRE OPERATIONS  ....................                          ............................................    15
1. LESSONS LEARNED  ................................................................    15
PART  II:  STATISTICAL  TABLES ................................................................                         17
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments ......................................                   ..........................   17
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans/Credits ................................................................                 19
Table 3:  Project Timetable                                 ................................................................   19
Table 4:  Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .............................. 20
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation                        ....................................................  21
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation .............................................................    24
Table 7:  Studies Included in Project ...........................................              .....................   24
Table 8A: Project Costs ................................................................    25
Table 8B: Project Financing ................................................................   25
Table 9:  Economic Costs and Benefits ................................................................                26
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants ................................................................                  28
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ..................                          ...................... 30
Table 12: Bank Resources:  Staff Inputs ................................................................              30
Table 13: Bank Resources:  Missions .................................................                ...............   31
Appendix A  - Aide Memoire ................................................................    32
Appendix B - Government's Terminal Evaluation Report - Evaluation Summary .... 43
Maps: IBRD 22158, 22159 22160
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
UGANDA
LIVESTOCK SERVICES PROJECT
(Cr. No. 2176-UG)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Livestock Services
Project (LSP) in Uganda, for which Credit 2176-UG in the amount of SDR 16.1 million
(US$21.0 million equivalent) was approved by the International Development Association
(IDA) on September 11, 1990, and made effective on November 4, 1991.
2.    The Credit was closed on September 30, 1998, twenty-seven months after the
original closing date of June 30, 1996. About 81% of the Credit was disbursed by the end
of March, 1999. This is expected to reach about 91% when all the outstanding withdrawal
applications will be processed.
3 .    The ICR was finalized by Taqi Sharif (AFTR1), and reviewed by Sushma Ganguly
(AFTR1). It was based on an earlier draft prepared by staff of the FAO/World Bank
Cooperative Program, who undertook an ICR mission to Uganda in October/November
1998.1 The Borrower contributed to the ICR by preparing a Draft Project Implementation
Completion Report and providing input to the Aide Memoire prepared by the ICR mission.
A copy of the Aide Memoire of the ICR mission and of the Executive Summary of the
Government's Terminal Evaluation Report are attached as appendices A and B,
respectively.
Messrs. Pietros Kidane (Mission Leader/Economist, FAO, and S. Shanthaikumar (Livestock Specialist,
Consultant).



- ii-
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    Livestock services had deteriorated in Uganda following the political turmoil and
economic difficulties of the seventies and early eighties. As a result of this, rapid spread of
many devastating diseases, such as rinderpest, contagious bovine pleuro pneumonia
(CBPP) and east coast fever (ECF) occurred, and caused high livestock mortality. This led
to a drastic reduction in the livestock population and in meat and milk production.
Project Objectives
2.    The project had two main objectives: (a) to reverse the decline in livestock numbers
by dealing with the alarming animal epidemic disease situation, and supporting production
enhancement measures; and (b) to bring about improvements in the then Ministry of
Animal Industry and Fisheries (MAIF) - now Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Industry and
Fisheries (MAAIF) - which would lead to a smaller, more effective, and efficient
organization. It was envisaged at appraisal that the 5-year Livestock Services Project (LSP)
would need to be followed by a second operation to broaden and consolidate institutional
reform, ensure sustainability, and provide assistance to MAAIF's animal health and
production services.
3.    The project originally comprised the following six components: (i) a national
animal disease control program, including the establishment of three mobile service units
equipped to control disease outbreaks; (ii) tsetse fly control in four districts; (iii) forage
development through seed production and services covering about 7,500 milk producing
farms, 12,000 ha of communal and ranch areas, and about 10,000 km of grass strips in
Kabale district; (iv) veterinary privatization through the provision of credit and training to
assist in the establishment of private veterinary practices; (v) institutional development,
including technical assistance to help execute a program to streamline MAIF's
organizational structure and reduce its staffing levels; and, (vi) project management
support to MAIF in the areas of financial management, procurement, and monitoring and
evaluation.
4.    Following a severe drought in 1992/93, and uncontrolled livestock movements in
the "cattle corridor" (Luwero to Mbarara), a Water Supply component (US$2.1 million)
was added after the Mid Terrn Review (MTR - February 1994). Initially, the MAAIF
proposal was to construct or rehabilitate 100 small valley dams/tanks. After the
completion of a study in 1997, which concluded that it was more cost effective to build
valley dams instead of tanks, a policy decision was taken to construct and rehabilitate 20
valley dams/existing tanks.
5.    The project was appraised in December 1989, signed in November 1990, and
became effective in November 1991. This time lag was mainly due to the delay by the
Government of Uganda (GOU) in meeting the conditions of Credit effectiveness. The
project, which provided for an IDA Credit of SDR 16.1 million (US$21.0 million), was
expected to be implemented within 5 years, but was extended for another 27 months.



- 111 -
Implementation Experience and Results
6.    Project implementation was slow due to several constraints. These included: a one
year delay in meeting the conditions of Credit effectiveness; cumbersome arrangements for
project organization and management, which created a parallel set-up to the then MAIF;
shortage and delayed release of counterpart funds by GOU, including no release of
counterpart funds in FY94 when LSP was declared a "non-core" project; weaknesses in the
procurement of goods and services; organizational changes resulting from GOU
institutional reforms, which merged MAIF with the Ministry of Agriculture in 1991; the
decentralization of government in 1993, which transferred staff accountability and
responsibility for project implementation from the center to the districts; and the
unification of agricultural extension in 1995, which entailed the transfer of the forage
component from Directorate of Animal Resources (DAR) to the extension service.
7.    Following a joint GOU/IDA MTR in February 1994, a major restructuring of the
project was agreed to take account of the emerging priorities and GOU funding constraints,
and the project was reclassified as a core operation. The proposed changes included:
simplified organizational arrangements; introduction of a new water supply component;
reduction of funds for the forage component and its transfer from the project to the
extension service; exclusion of the long-term technical assistance personnel; increased IDA
disbursement for operational expenses; and expansion of the credit component's scope to
include livestock related enterprises, in addition to private veterinarians. However, it took
another 17 months to amend the DCA (in part because of changes required in the credit
program to adapt it to the new policy framework for rural finance), and this aggravated
further the slow implementation progress, as no expenditures could be made regarding the
new and modified components. During the MTR, the expected preparation of terms of
reference for a follow-on project did not take place.
Achievement of Objectives
8.    Overall, whilst the project has made some important contributions, it partially
achieved its objectives. According to DAR figures, there was a modest increase (6.6%) in
livestock population (para.25). Production of meat and milk has also increased due to
improved animal health and husbandry practices, including feeding. The major animal
diseases, such as rinderpest and CBPP, which spread throughout the country unchecked
during the difficult political and civil strife of the 1970s/1 980s, have been brought under
control, albeit with significant financial support (US$ 24 million) from other donor
projects. Noteworthy results were achieved in introducing improved forage production
technology, and in the establishment of private veterinary practices. On the other hand, key
project objectives and quantitative targets were either not met, or were significantly below
the planned figures (Table 5). The achievements and key project objectives and targets not
achieved under various components are summarized below.
9.    National Disease Control: Whilst the project succeeded in controlling the major
animal diseases through massive vaccination, with vaccines provided by the Pan African
Rinderpest Campaign (PARC), the objectives under this component were partially
achieved. During the project period, total animals vaccinated against rinderpest and CBPP
amounted to about 6.36 million and 6.14 million, respectively, against targets of 5.8



- iv -
million under each disease. Important achievements were also attained in the control of
other animal diseases such as trypanosomiasis, FMD, rabies, and Newcastle disease, but
the targets under these latter diseases were not achieved. The project did not: (a) establish
three mobile service units in priority disease control districts to contain the major epidemic
diseases; (b) strengthen MAIF's diagnostic control program with TA and technical
equipment; (c) construct six new district veterinary offices and renovate 27 existing office
and laboratory facilities, mainly due to weaknesses in procurement.
10.   Tsetse Fly Control: The objectives under this component were partially achieved.
A total of 9 well equipped and functional survey units (against a target of 22) have been
established under the project, enabling the Department of Tsetse Control (DTC) to have
reliable information on species distribution and densities of tsetse flies. Some 1,750
farmers have been sensitized on tsetse and trypanosomiasis control measures. With regard
to the actual control activities, about 4,000 odour-baited (6% of 62,000 planned)
insecticide impregnated targets and 400 insecticide impregnated pyramidal traps (target
76,000) were deployed, and about one million cattle (only 45% of 2.2 million target) have
been treated with live-bait technology. The project has opened up about 200 km of
motorable access routes (40% of target of 500 km) in two districts reclaimed from tsetse
infestation. At project completion, the tsetse area cleared amounted to only 1,000 sq. km
(1 1 %) of the 9,000 sq. km envisaged. The civil works program for the improvement of
buildings and facilities under the component was not carried out due to weaknesses in
finalizing the detailed designs/specifications.
11.   Forage Development: The development objectives were only partially achieved.
The forage production system was affected by the budget freeze of 1993/94, and by the
unexpected transfer of the forage unit to the Extension Department in FY 1995/96. In
addition, at the MTR, funding for the forage component was reduced to cater for the new
water supply component. All these factors had a negative impact on the forage program.
The program was not integrated within the extension service, and there were no funds
specifically allocated for continuing the forage development activities. Therefore, the
development of a sustained seed production and distribution system could not be achieved
by the project, and the seed testing and processing equipment has not been installed. The
forage program has succeeded in demonstrating the profitability of forage production for
both cut and cany (zero grazing) and pasture development for grazing. At completion, the
project had procured locally from farmers and distributed 48 tons of forage seed, and
established about 1,540 zero grazing units, 6,800 farm household grazing units (against a
target of 7,500), 390 farmer groups, and 14 bull stations to improve dairy production.
Over 50% of farmers practising zero grazing are women. While the increased milk
production in the milk shed area is believed to be, in part, due to the project's forage
development activities, it should be noted that the area covered (6,500 ha of a target of
44,000 ha of fenced areas) under this component was well below the target envisaged.
12.   Support to Private Veterinary Practice: At appraisal, US$ 4.5 million (18% of
total project cost) was set aside to provide credit and training to assist in the establishment
of private veterinary practices. In spite of the time consuming efforts made in preparing the
credit scheme, not a single loan was taken from the project funds by the veterinarians,
enterprises, or the Uganda Veterinary Association (UVA). This occurred because some



commercial banks did not qualify for participation in the project, and those which qualified
did not agree to the terms and conditions of the on-lending plan. The credit scheme was,
therefore, cancelled in mid-1997. However, veterinarians were not discouraged by this
situation, and they started to open private practices, particularly in the high potential
districts, where improved dairy fanming was growing. So far, about 80 veterinarians have
established private practices, which is more than the target of 60 that the project had aimed
for. The project provided funds for sensitization which induced the emergence of private
veterinary practices. A crucial factor that encouraged veterinarians was the favorable
policy environment created by the Government, which allowed import and sale of
veterinary drugs and some vaccines.
13.   Water Supply. Since only three of the total 19 valley dams/tanks being
constructed were operational at project completion, and the remaining 16 reservoirs
required varying degree of work to become operational, the objectives under this
component were partially achieved. Whilst the inclusion of the water supply component
was compatible with the project's objectives, the implementation of the valley dams/tanks
was problematic from the start. There was no prior preparation of the component's
activities or detailed technical, social, economic and environmental appraisal. The only
information provided by the MTR was that about 100 valley dams and tanks would be
constructed and rehabilitated with the cooperation of the local communities. Following
IDA's advice, and based on the results of a technical study in 1997, which showed that it
would be more cost effective to build the relatively larger valley dams instead of the
smaller tanks, and because of resource and time constraints, a policy decision was taken
within MAAIF to construct/rehabilitate only 15 valley dams, instead of 100 tanks. This
decision does not appear to have been widely discussed with the districts and the local
communities, and led to the perception that funds ear-marked for valley dams were not
being properly managed by MAAIF. Contracts for the 15 valley dams were awarded to
two firms in September 1997, following a competitive bidding procedure, and the valley
dams were to be completed by June 30, 1998. In view of the delays experienced on
account of El Nino rains, and an assurance provided by MAAIF that the remaining civil
works would be completed within an additional three months, IDA agreed to a final
extension of the water supply component until September 30, 1998.
14.   Because of the delays in the completion of these valley dams, a Parliamentary
Select Committee initiated a fact-finding review. Following the start of this review, and
negative reporting in the press since October 1998, that questioned the existence of the
valley dams and alleged possible misuse of public funds, IDA sent a special mission to the
project area.
15.   Based on a visit to eleven sites in January, 1999, the IDA mission's main
conclusions were that: (a) eleven valley dams and one valley tank did exist, albeit they
were at different stages of construction. Because of poor planning and supervision,
however, only three valley dams were functional with some defects; (b) in all cases, the
possibility of water use by the local population was not adequately considered; (c) the
delay in the completion of the valley dams was partly due to adverse weather conditions,
but largely due to poor contract management by DARJMAAIF; (d) the primary
stakeholders (communities and districts) are willing to maintain the valley dams because it



- vi -
is one of their priority needs (there were, however, still gaps in information relating to
transfer of ownership to the beneficiaries -- these gaps should be addressed); and, (e)
MAAIF needed to provide additional information regarding cost overruns, and on how it
intended to complete the remaining civil works, given the high expectation of the
beneficiaries and advanced stages of construction of most of the valley dams. IDA also
sought, and received, a formal assurance from MAAIF that if further funds are reimbursed
against pending withdrawal applications (W/As), such funds would be used specifically to
complete these valley dams. In view of the adverse findings of the recent parliamentary
report on the valley dams, GOU intends to conduct engineering and value for money audits
of these dams. An interim report of a GOU engineering audit team which visited seven
sites (March 1999) has generally confirmed the findings of the earlier IDA mission, and
concluded that "substantial work has been done on the ground, and there is need to
urgently resume construction to avoid loss of Government resources already spent".
16.   The three operational valley dams, and the remaining twelve valley dams on
contract once completed, will certainly benefit the local beneficiaries by supplying water to
the people and their livestock, particularly during the dry season. The valley dams are
considered appropriate technology for holding larger quantities of water for longer periods,
as provided by the project area's topography. Animal diseases will be checked by
avoiding long distance travel to grazing areas with watering points. To this end, farmers
are being organized into water users' group. The lack of any environmental assessment
study leaves these communities unprepared for any eventual negative side effects resulting
from the valley dams' construction.
17.   Institutional Development: Overall, the objectives under this component have
been partially achieved. The training funds were fully utilized. The strengthening of DAR
was, however, undertaken at a time when GOU had decided that the implementation
responsibility for projects shall rest with the districts, and the sector ministry headquarters
would be responsible only for setting policy, monitoring, and technical backstopping. For
institutional development under the project to have the desired impact, most of the trained
staff at DAR should have moved to the districts. The TA and other support envisaged to
help streamline MAIF's organizational structure, and to put in place staff structures to
serve the subsector more effectively (e.g. in such key areas as veterinary epidemiology,
laboratory technology, organization and management) within a reduced spectrum of
services, was not achieved. This was postponed on account of, inter alia, the
decentralization strategy, and the desire to tackle capacity building under the proposed
Agricultural Sector Management Project (which did not materialize because of GOU's
decision to seek grant funds instead of borrowing from IDA). The project also did not
succeed in strengthening MAAIF's financial management and procurement capabilities,
resulting in procurement delays and cancellation of many civil works.
18.   Organization and Management: The organization and management of the
project, as provided in the original design, was too complex due to the numerous
management levels created outside the then MAIF's normal structure. Its complexity was
further exposed when the Government decentralized most of the activities to the districts.
The modification of the project organization and management by integrating the project
into the normal MAAIF program improved implementation by reducing the steps in the



- vii -
management chain and by placing responsibility and accountability on the departments'
heads. Instead of managing the project within the original allocation of US$ 1.2 million,
however, US$ 4.5 million has been expended on project management, thus limiting
expenditures under the capital budget.
Project Costs and Financing
19.   At completion, total project costs amounted to USh. 21,375 million or
US$20.3 million, i.e., 82% of the appraisal estimates in US$ terms. The reduction in
project costs was mainly due to the exclusion from the project of the credit component and
the international technical assistance personnel. Disbursement as of March 31, 1999,
amounted to US$18.4 million, excluding outstanding withdrawal applications. If all the
outstanding applications for reimbursement are accepted, total disbursements are expected
to reach US$19.1 million, equivalent to 91% of the original credit amount, or 77% of total
costs. An amount of US$2.27 million from the credit component was cancelled. Partly
because of the SDR's appreciation vis-a-vis the US$, the Credit still has undisbursed funds
of about US$1.9 million.
Project Sustainability
20.   Although, the different components may have varied levels of sustainability,
overall, project sustainability is considered as unlikely. In general, the development
activities and technologies that have been introduced to farmers or private individuals are
likely to be continued by the people concerned as they are convinced of their usefulness.
Some doubts remain, however, with regard to the sustainability of animal health and
disease control through field veterinary services, as private sector services are limited, and
this will now depend on the discretionary allocation of funds for these services by each
district. As the districts currently have very limited means of supplementing the block
grants from the central government by raising their own revenues, the sustainability of the
level of animal health services that have been strengthened by the project (with support
from other donor projects) is regarded as unlikely. This notwithstanding, it is expected
that DAR, which is still responsible for the major epizootic diseases, i.e., rinderpest and
CBPP, will provide sufficient funds out of its budget to control these diseases. However,
problems are likely to remain regarding the control of other animal diseases by the districts
on account of their limited resources. Sustainability of clinical treatment is likely as
veterinary drugs will continue to be imported and distributed by the private sector, and the
treatment will be given by private veterinarians. This will, however, be limited to districts
served by the private sector. Similarly, the sustainability of private veterinary practice is
also likely on a rather limited basis.
21.   While some farmers have realized the value of pyrethroids and adopted the control
measures, the sustainability of tsetse control is unlikely on account of the limited capacity
of the district administrations to provide guidance to the farmers in the whole country.
With regard to forage production, nutritious forages are being produced, on a limited scale,
either from own seeds or by purchasing these from other farmers. Farmers' groups which
produce forage seeds are now exploring means of producing and distributing seeds in an
organized manner. Although most of the valley dams/tanks are not yet operational, the



- viii -
establishment of "users associations," currently being organized, is essential if the
operations and maintenance of these valley dams/tanks are to be sustained.
Bank Performance
22.   Overall, IDA's performance is regarded as less than satisfactory. Such a rating
reflects IDA's shortcomings both during appraisal and supervision. For instance, the
organization and management proposed for the project was too complex. It was also
decided at appraisal to put three conditions for project effectiveness (e.g., revision of the
national credit guarantee scheme), which delayed the project start-up for about one year.
Subsequently, it became clear that these conditions were not indispensable. While the
project organization and management was restructured during the MTR, and efforts were
made to address implementation problems subsequently, the supervision intensity needed
for a project of this complexity was absent (generally only one mission per year). The
anticipated gain from assigning task management to staff in the Resident Mission in the
last year or so did not materialize. Further, based on the borrower's view, the supervision
reports were generally brief and lacked technical details that could be used as guidance by
the implementing units, and implementation was affected on account of delays experienced
in IDA's approval of amendments to the DCA. In spite of the problems encountered in
implementing the water supply component, IDA supervision missions did not include an
engineer until March 1998, when the project was approaching completion.
Borrower Performance
23.   The Borrower's performance is, overall, also regarded as unsatisfactory. The delay
in project start-up resulted from GOU's (i.e., the then MAIF's) inaction on the conditions
set for effectiveness. During implementation, GOU not only provided inadequate
counterpart funds for executing the project, but was also slow in releasing these funds.
Hence, implementation progress was seriously hindered. The declaration of the project as
a non-core operation, and the subsequent budget cut for the entire 1993/94, should be
considered as GOU's reduced commitment to the project. GOU's insistence on the
inclusion of a water supply component without sufficient technical preparation and
adequate consultation with stakeholders was a source of problems to the project, although
there were legitimate grounds for its inclusion, particularly after the country's experience
of severe drought during 1992 and 1993. The delay in the completion of the valley dams
can also be largely attributed to poor contract management by DAR/MAAIF.
24.   GOU is to be, however, credited for the enabling environment created by its policy
of liberalizing the importation and distribution of veterinary drugs and some vaccines.
This has stimulated the private sector, such as the establishment of private veterinary
practices, and enabled livestock producers to benefit from the opportunities created.



- ix -
Assessment of Outcome
25.   Given that there was limited achievement of the project's objectives - even the
quantitative targets agreed at the MTR were only partially achieved (paras. 13-30 of Part I)
- the overall outcome of the project is regarded as unsatisfactory. This notwithstanding, the
project has made important contributions, as indicated earlier. Livestock population has
reportedly increased by 6.6% since the project started. According to DAR, cattle
population increased from 5.12 million in 1991 to 5.46 million in 1997, and milk
production increased by 36% from 369 million liters to 500 million liters, during the same
period. Economic analysis carried out for the project at completion by the FAO mission
shows economic rates of return of 27% for the animal health component, 44% for the
forage development and 31% for the whole project, compared with appraisal estimates of
60%, 52%, and 49%, respectively.
Future Operations
26.   With the decentralization of the Government administration, the field veterinary
services and extension have been transferred to the districts. The districts will, therefore,
plan activities and prepare budgets for their respective areas of jurisdiction. Only the
major epizootic diseases, namely rinderpest and CBPP, will remain with DAR, which will
carry out the surveillance and vaccination required to control these diseases. However, it is
not clearly known for how long this responsibility will remain with DAR. The private
sector activities such as forage seed production, clinical treatment of animals, tsetse
control, and O&M of valley dams are expected to be carried out on a limited basis by the
farmers individually, in groups, or in cooperation with other private sector operators like
the veterinarians. However, district field extension services are still not fully operational
to provide the necessary technical assistance to farmers. Based on an agreed GOU/IDA
strategy for the future, these extension services are expected to become fully operational
following the likely effectiveness of the IDA supported Second Agricultural Research and
Training Project (ARTP II) in July 1999, and will be supported under a national extension
project (Phase II), currently under preparation.
Lessons Learned
27.   Key lessons leamed are as follows:
* The design for project organization and management should, as much as
possible, adhere to the existing structure, so that there is no difference in
importance between the way project and non-project activities are planned and
implemented. Otherwise, confusion arises if responsibilities and modus operandi
for project and non-project activities are given unequal importance.
* Technically unprepared components such as the water supply component, are
bound to lead to implementation difficulties, cost overruns, and delays.
* For components such as the water supply component, under which the initial
siting of, and the operations and maintenance of the valley dams/tanks is
dependent upon the local communities, it is critical for Govemment



implementing agencies and Bank staff to ensuire that such decisions are fully
discussed and agreed with the local stakeholders.
* Conditions set for project effectiveness should be absolutely necessary and
indispensable for the successful implementation of the project, as precious time
is often wasted until they are complied with, or waived subsequently.
* A thorough review of expected cash flows of would be veterinarian borrowers
and of potential lending by commercial banks would have revealed that there was
no basis for a credit component to cater for the private veterinarians. This would
have saved project management time consuming efforts that were made to make
the credit component operational, and enabled the release of funds that were tied
to this component.
* The creation of a favorable economic environment can go much further to
stimulate private sector initiative than the mere supply of credit, as envisaged by
the project. This was demonstrated by the progress in the establishment of
private veterinary practices, following the liberalization of veterinary drug
importation and sale policies.
* The quality of IDA supervision fell short of expectations on account of
infrequent supervision missions, the absence of an engineer to supervise the
water supply component, and GOU's view that supervision reports were
generally brief and lacked technical guidance. The frequency and skills mix of
supervision missions should be commensurate with the complexity of a project to
achieve the desired results.
* The intended intensity of supervision expected by IDA management from the
assignment of task management responsibility to staff in the Resident Mission
during the last one year or so did not occur. Quality supervision of a project with
components requiring specialized technical skills can only be assured through a
team effort, and depends largely upon the judgment/experience of a task
manager.
* Transfer of responsibility for a component from one implementing agency to
another, without due efforts to integrate it within the new program, may stall
progress, as it happened with forage development when it was transferred to
extension with no consideration for additional funding.
•  An amount in excess of three times the original allocation (US$1.2 million) was
expended under the Project Management category. IDA team leaders need to
closely monitor recurrent expenditures in particular to ensure that these are
consistent and commensurate with a project's objectives and activities, and are
being spent efficiently and effectively.
* It is clear that shortage of counterpart funds disrupts and delays project
implementation. In this case, general recommendations for increasing funds do
not help, but concrete measures aimed at increasing the level of financing of



-Xi -
components do, as experienced by the project concerning the use of funds
collected from the proceeds of sales of inputs.
* Sustainability of project components is more likely in the case of activities that
are adopted by farmers as part of their normal practice, such as the use of live-
bait technology for tsetse control, and forage development for improving
forage/dairy production.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
UGANDA
LIVESTOCK SERVICES PROJECT
(Cr. No. 2176-UG)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1.    The Livestock Services Project (LSP) was conceptualized during the mid-eighties
as one of the programs that aimed at rehabilitating the agricultural sector, which was
emerging from the damages caused by the political turmoil and economic difficulties of the
seventies and early eighties. The project had two main objectives: (a) the first and
immediate objective was to reverse the decline in livestock numbers by dealing with the
alarming animal epidemic disease situation, and supporting production enhancement
measures; and b) bring about improvements in the Ministry of Animal Industry and
Fisheries (MAIF) - now Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Industry and Fisheries (MAAIF) -
which would lead to a smaller, more cost effective organization, able to discharge its
responsibilities to the livestock subsector efficiently and effectively. While these goals
were in line with the country's plans and strategy of reconstructing the economy, it was
envisaged at appraisal that the 5-year LSP would need to be followed by a second
operation to broaden and consolidate institutional reform, ensure sustainability, and
provide assistance to MAAIF's animal health and production services.
2.    The project, which was appraised in December 1989, originally comprised the
following six components:
(a) a national animal disease control program, including the establishment of three
mobile service units equipped to control disease outbreaks, and the
rehabilitation of MAIF's diagnostic disease control program;
(b) tsetse fly control in Luwero, Mubende, Masindi, and Hoima districts;
(c) forage development through seed production and services covering about 7,500
milk producing farms, 12,000 ha of communal and ranch areas, and about
10,000 km of grass strips in Kabale district, to protect terraced cultivation;
(d) veterinary privatization through the provision of credit and training to assist in
the establishment of private veterinary practices;
(e) institutional development, including technical assistance to help execute a
program to streamline MAIE's organizational structure and reduce its staffing
levels; and,
(f) project management support to MAIF in the areas of financial management,
procurement, and monitoring and evaluation.



- 2 -
3.    Following a severe drought in 1992/93, the lack of easy access to water resulted in
uncontrolled cattle movements in the "cattle corridor" (Luwero to Mbarara), affected the
efficacy of the dips, and limited the impact of the disease control component. To address
this problem, GOU requested the Mid Term Review (MTR - Jan./Feb., 1994) mission to
consider the inclusion of a Water Supply component, and to reallocate US$2.1 million
from the remaining funds. This was agreed by the Bank in May 1994, but on account of
problems relating to the provision of credit, the Development Credit Agreement (DCA)
was not amended until September 1995. Initially, the MAAIF proposal was to construct or
rehabilitate 100 small valley dams/tanks. After the completion of a study in 1997, which
concluded that it was more cost effective to build valley dams instead of tanks, a policy
decision was taken to construct and rehabilitate 20 valley dams/existing tanks. Of these,
five valley dams/tanks were to be constructed/rehabilitated, under force account, by
MAAIF's Namelere Farm Machinery Unit (later reduced to four valley dams/tanks), and
the remaining 15 larger reservoirs were to be built through competitive bidding by
independent contractors.
4.    The project was expected to be implemented over a five-year period, and was
estimated to cost USh 10,891 million or US$24.75 million, net of taxes and duties, with a
foreign exchange component of about 70%. IDA was to finance 85% (US$21m) of the
total costs and the Government of Uganda (GOU) the remainder 15% (US$3.75m).
5.    Project implementation was to be vested with MAIF, but a complex system of
project organization and management was proposed. The sub-committee on livestock of
the Agricultural Policy Committee (APC) was to serve as the Project Steering Committee
(PSC). It was to meet half yearly and have responsibility for approving annual work plans
and budgets, accounts, and resolve policy issues. It was to be chaired by the Permanent
Secretary (PS), MAIF, and included members from the ministries of Planning,
Cooperatives and Marketing, Environment, Bank of Uganda, and Makerere University,
and the Project Coordinator (PC), to be appointed by MAIF. A Project Coordination Unit
(PCU) was also to be established within MAIF, headed by the PC, whose main task was to
"coordinate project direction and administration". Project implementation was expected to
be supervised and monitored by a Project Management Committee (PMC) to be
established under the PS, MAIF, whose other main members would be the PC, Component
Managers, Chief Research Officer, Animal Health Research Center, and two farmers'
representatives.
6.    The DCA was signed on November 7, 1990, and LSP was declared effective on
November 4, 1991, after four postponements due to delayed compliance with the
conditions for project effectiveness. These conditions included: revision of the national
Credit Guarantee Scheme; subsidiary loan agreements with commercial banks; the
appointment of six international technical assistance (TA) specialists who would assist in
project implementation; and, the establishment of the PMC. In the end, following GOU's
appointment of a finance manager/ procurement expert, IDA waived the condition
regarding the recruitment of the other TA personnel.



- 3 -
B. ACIHEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
7.    While the project did make a number of noteworthy contributions, overall, its
performance was not satisfactory. Recognizing the complexity of the project's design for
implementation by MAIF, which had capacity constraints, and the slow progress that was
achieved in the first two fiscal years after effectiveness (actual disbursements of SDR
1.28m in FY92-FY93 were only about 20% of SDR 6.55m estimated at appraisal for that
period), the MTR mission and the new MAAIF agreed on revised targets for the project
components. Despite the downward revision of these targets at the MTR, most of the key
targets were not achieved, as set out below.
8.   In terms of achievement of project objectives, according to Directorate of Animal
Resources (DAR) figures, there was a modest increase (6.6%) in livestock population
(para. 38 ). This reflects a reversal in the decline of livestock numbers, prior to the project.
Production of meat and milk also increased-with milk production increasing by 36%-due
to improved animal health and husbandry practices, including feeding. It must be
recognized, however, that the political stability and the enabling economic environment
created by the Government (which included concurrent support in excess of US$24 million
from other donors' projects, such as the Pan African Rinderpest Campaign (PARC), Dairy
Rehabilitation Project, Cattle Breeding Project, and IDA projects such as Economic
Recovery Credit, Agricultural Development Project, and Southwest Region Agricultural
Rehabilitation Project) have played an important role in bringing about these changes.
9.    The performance targets for vaccination against rinderpest and contagious bovine
pleuro pneumonia (CBPP), which spread throughout the country unchecked during the
difficult political and civil strife of the 1970s/1980s, were exceeded marginally, but this
would not have been possible without complementary support from the PARC. This has
effectively checked the spread of these two diseases. Apart from the control of these two
major diseases, the project has also made sizeable contributions towards controlling the
spread of foot and mouth disease (FMD), rabies, brucellosis and trypanosomiasis. The
performance targets for FMD, trypanosomiasis, and other diseases such as Newcastle and
Gumboro were, however, not achieved.
10.  Important results have also been achieved in introducing improved forage
production technology, albeit on a limited scale. The technology of producing and feeding
high value forages is now well established amongst many livestock farmers, particularly
amongst those who opted for zero grazing. A sizeable contribution has also been made to
some farmers whose traditional grazing areas have been enriched through highly nutritious
legumes and grasses. The project has also sought to establish nineteen valley dams/tanks
that can provide water to animals in the so-called "grazing corridor" during the dry season.
This is expected to minimize the spread of diseases by reducing long distance migration to
where water is available year round. While it is recognized that the Forage Development
component was transferred in 1995/96 to MAAIF's Extension Directorate for
implementation under the IDA-supported Agricultural Extension Project, the quantitative
achievements under LSP were well below the performance targets.
11.   Limited success was also achieved in strengthening the DAR, through training and
provision of equipment. The situation of the staff and facilities before the project started



was extremely precarious, because the normal functions of rendering the veterinary and
extension services had broken down. This was partially reversed by the project through a
staff training program and equipping DAR's headquarter and district offices. The project
can also be partially credited for stimulating the ongoing process of establishing private
veterinary practices through sensitizing veterinarians and providing them with training on
the skills of running private businesses.
12.   As indicated earlier, the above achievements cannot be attributed solely to LSP.
The political stability since 1986 and the economic reforms undertaken by GOU under the
Economic Recovery Program and Economic Recovery Credit (Cr. 1844-UG), along with a
number of concurrent donors' and IDA projects, contributed to LSP's achievements. More
importantly, however, a number of key project objectives were either not achieved, or there
were limited achievements.
13.   The key project objectives not achieved, or where there were limited achievements
include:
(a) Animal Disease Control Program: It was envisaged that three mobile service
units would be established in priority disease control districts to contain the
major epidemic diseases, and MAIF's diagnostic control program would be
strengthened with TA and technical equipment. Six new district veterinary
offices were to be constructed in districts with no facilities, and 27 existing
offices were to be rehabilitated. This was not achieved;
(b) Veterinary Privatization: At appraisal, an amount of US$4.5 million (18% of
total project cost) was set aside to provide credit and training to assist in the
establishment of private veterinary practices. The DCA was amended to
provide credit for 100 enterprise loans, as well. Credit was also to be made
available for Uganda Veterinary Association (UVA) to establish a wholesale
veterinary supply cooperative for the supply of drugs and small equipment to its
members. Whilst limited training has taken place, no credit was provided to
veterinarians, enterprises, and UVA;
(c) Institutional Development: Except for full utilization of training funds, the TA
and other support envisaged to help execute a program to streamline MAIF's
organizational structure, and to put in place staff structures to serve the
subsector more effectively within a reduced spectrum of services, was not
achieved. This was postponed on account of the creation of the expanded
MAAIF, decentralization strategy, and the desire to tackle capacity building
under the proposed Agricultural Sector Management Project (which did not
materialize because of GOU's decision to seek grant funds instead of borrowing
from IDA);
(d) Financial Management/Procurement: The integration of the project's financial,
accounting, and procurement functions with those of MAAIF's Finance and
Administration Department, nor the setting up of an MIS, was achieved;



- 5 -
(e) TA: 22 staff years of TA (including 5 staff years of local consultancy) was
provided. Most of the TA expertise required in key areas such as veterinary
epidemiology, laboratory technology, tsetse control, forage development, and
organization and management, was not utilized; and,
(f) Project Management: Instead of managing within the original allocation of
US$1.2 million under this category, an amount of US$4.5 million has been
expended on recurrent expenditures, thus limiting expenditures under the
capital budget.
In view of the above factors, the overall assessment of project outcome is rated as
unsatisfactory.
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS
AFFECTING THE PROJECT
General
14.   Project implementation was slow due to several constraints. The initial cause for
lack of progress was the delay in meeting the conditions of Credit effectiveness, which
took about one year after the Credit was signed. After the project was declared effective,
the delay in implementation was due to the cumbersome arrangements for project
organization and management, which created a parallel set-up to the then MAIF, shortage
and delayed release of counterpart funds by GOU, and weaknesses in the procurement of
goods and services. Other factors that affected implementation were: the organizational
changes that took place as the result of Government institutional reforms, which comprised
the merger of MAIF with the Ministry of Agriculture in 1991, including the transfer of its
offices from Kampala to Entebbe; the decentralization of government in 1993, which
transferred staff accountability and responsibility for project implementation from the
center to the districts; and the unification of agricultural extension in 1995, which entailed
the transfer of the forage component from DAR to the extension service.
15.   Although an implementation workshop was carried out in November 1991, and an
agreement was reached with IDA on the start-up actions, little progress was made by the
project during the first eighteen months after it was declared effective. According to
project management, the lack of an implementation manual that could have guided staff on
the start-up, planning, and execution of the different components, affected the pace of
project implementation. Implementation performance improved slightly towards the end
of the project's second year, as GOU allocated increased funds to the project, and a number
of bid documents for the procurement of goods and services were approved by GOU.
With the facilitation of transport and other equipment and supplies, implementation of both
the animal health and production components started to gain momentum. This was,
however, short-lived. GOU downgraded the project to a non-core operation during its
Public Expenditure Review in 1993. This lower classification was mainly due to the
project's overall poor performance. As a non-core operation, the project could not be
allocated GOU resources; hence, no funds were released to the project during FY 1993/94.



- 6 -
16.   A joint GOU and IDA mid-term review (MTR) of the project was carried out in
January/February 1994. The review recognized that implementation of the project had
been impeded by the complexity and weaknesses in the original design of the project, as
well as by capacity constraints - particularly financial management and procurement
capacity. During this review, a major restructuring of the project was proposed, to take
account of the emerging priorities and GOU funding constraints. The proposed changes
included: introduction of a new component of water supply; reduction of funds to the
forage component and its transfer from the project to the extension service, under AEP;
exclusion of the long-term technical assistance personnel; increased IDA disbursement for
operational expenses; and expansion of the credit component's scope to include livestock
related enterprises, in addition to private veterinarians. With regard to project organization
and management, the review proposed to abandon the complex structure, and to implement
the project through the existing organizational arrangements within the MAAIF.
Following the approval of the MTR proposals by both GOU and IDA, the project was
reclassified as a core operation, and it was agreed to amend the DCA to take account of the
changes. However, it took another 17 months to amend the DCA (in part because of
changes required in the credit program to adapt it to the new policy framework for rural
finance), and this aggravated further the slow implementation progress, as no expenditures
could be made regarding the new and modified components. During the MTR, the
expected preparation of terms of reference for a follow-on project did not take place. In
order to facilitate the implementation of the restructured project, the original Credit closing
date of June 30, 1996 was extended thrice. Most project components closed on June 30,
1998, with the exception of the water supply component which was extended until
September 30, 1998, to enable the completion of ongoing construction works relating to
the small valley dams/tanks.
National Disease Control
17.   The project envisaged that the deteriorating animal disease situation in the country,
particularly of bovines, would be controlled through the establishment of three mobile
service units, the provision of drugs and vaccines, strengthening disease diagnosis and
surveillance, and the provision of training to improve staff and farmer capability of disease
control. The project also included financing for the provision of vehicles to the field staff,
construction of 6 new district veterinary offices and renovation of 27 existing ones, supply
of cold chain and other equipment to 24 district offices and 29 veterinary centers, and
rehabilitation of some communal dips.
18.   At completion, the project succeeded in controlling the major animal diseases
through massive vaccination, supported by continuous surveillance. Vaccination against
the main epidemic diseases, particularly rinderpest and CBPP, has helped to reverse the
declining trend of animal production. During the project period, total animals vaccinated
against rinderpest and CBPP amounted to about 6.36 million and 6.14 million,
respectively, against targets of 5.8 million under each disease. It should be noted that the
vaccination against rinderpest and CBPP was caried out in conjunction with the PARC.
The latter provided the vaccines, and the project supported with operational funds.
Important achievements were also attained in the control of trypanosomiasis, FMD, rabies,
Newcastle disease, gumboro, fowl typhoid, lumpy skin disease and brucellosis through
vaccination and/or treatment. The targets under all these diseases, however, were not



- 7 -
achieved. According to DAR, no rinderpest has been reported since 1996, and most of the
other diseases have been significantly reduced. The only exception is FMD, whose total
control has become difficult as a result of unregulated cattle movement due to conflicts and
political turmoil in the neighboring countries. The project strengthened the field service
through the provision of transport (10 motor vehicles, 356 motorcycles and 700 bicycles),
and cold chain and laboratory equipment. There was also a large training component,
including support to the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine of Makerere University by means
of sponsoring three staff for MSc degrees, and several short-term courses. The provision
of the three mobile units was later abandoned in favor of strengthening the epidemiology
activities at headquarters and district centers. The proposed construction of six new
district veterinary offices and renovation of 27 existing offices and laboratory facilities
were not carried out mainly due to weaknesses in procurement.
Tsetse Fly Control
19.   In order to control animal trypanosomiasis in mid-western Uganda on account of
tsetse fly infestation, the project proposed to survey and map the tsetse fly infested areas to
determine fly densities, and subsequently to devise a controlling and eradication program
using baits, targets and traps. To this end, the project was to provide vehicles and other
equipment, supplies and material, staff training, operational funds, as well as renovation of
staff housing, office buildings, and laboratory and workshop facilities at Masindi
headquarters. In spite of the initial delays in the procurement of inputs, this component has
accomplished some of its tasks. A total of 9 well equipped and functional survey units
(against a target of 22) have been established under the project. This has enabled the
Department of Tsetse Control (DTC) to have a clear picture and reliable information on
species distribution and densities of tsetse flies, which is crucial for the preparation and
implementation of control and eradication programs. Inputs provided under the project
included insecticide and related supplies, vehicles and plant equipment, and training,
consisting of 9 MSc. degrees, in-service training for 40 new staff, and a number of short-
term courses in different fields. Some 1,750 fanners have been sensitized on tsetse and
trypanosomiasis control measures. With regard to the actual control activities, about 4,000
odor-baited, insecticide impregnated targets (6% of 62,000 planned) and 400 insecticide
impregnated pyramidal traps (target 76,000) were deployed, and about one million cattle
(against a target of 2.2 million) have been treated with live-bait technology (dipping, pour
on and spraying animals). The project has opened up about 200 km of motorable access
routes (against a target of 500 km) in two districts reclaimed from tsetse infestation. At
project completion, the tsetse area cleared amounted to only 1,000 sq. km of the 9,000 sq.
km envisaged. The civil works program for the improvement of buildings and facilities
under the component was not carried out due to weaknesses in finalizing the detailed
designs/specifications of the work required.
20.   The overall results of the tsetse control efforts are considered unsatisfactory
because the physical targets achieved were well below those agreed at the MTR. This
notwithstanding, in the areas covered under LSP, studies conducted by the project have
shown that tsetse fly numbers have decreased significantly. Reduction in tsetse densities
varies from about 43% to 98%, depending on the level of initial infestation. As a result,
the cattle population has started to increase, and there are signs of areas, previously
abandoned due to tsetse infestation, being repopulated.



-8 -
Forage Development
21.   A full fledged forage development unit was established within DAR early on to
spearhead the forage production program. The unit was provided with 7 pick-up vehicles,
20 motorcycles, office and field equipment, seed testing and processing machinery, 1,850
kg of imported forage seeds2 and staff training, including funds to train 4 staff members for
their MSc. degrees. The program's field work was organized on a district by district basis,
under the overall responsibility of the newly established forage unit. In each of the
designated 20 districts - later expanded to 28 - a forage officer and an assistant forage
officer were appointed to implement the forage program. This program consisted of forage
production by farmers for feeding their animals, forage seed production for procurement
by the project, and extension service for forage growing and feeding. Ten forage farmer
groups per county, each with 20 members, were formed to produce forage for themselves
and for seed multiplication purposes. As the forage production system was progressing, it
was suddenly hit by the budget freeze of 1993/94, and by the unexpected transfer of the
forage unit to the Extension Department (within MAAIF) in FY 1995/96. In addition, at
the MTR, funding for the forage component was reduced in order to cater for the new
water supply component. All these factors had a negative impact on the forage program,
and progress slowed. The program was not integrated within the extension service, and
there were no funds specifically allocated for continuing the forage development activities.
Therefore, the development of a sustained seed production and distribution system could
not be achieved by the project, and the seed testing and processing equipment has not been
installed. In spite of all these setbacks, however, the forage program has succeeded in
demonstrating the profitability of forage production for both cut and carry (zero grazing)
and pasture development for grazing. At completion, the project had procured locally from
farmers and distributed 48 tons of forage seed, and established about 4,100 zero grazing
units (against a target of 17,100), 6,800 farm household grazing units (against a target of
7,500), 390 farmer groups, and 14 bull stations to improve dairy production. Over 50% of
farmers practicing zero grazing are women. While the increased milk production in the
milk shed area is believed to be, in part, due to the projects forage development activities,
it should be noted that the area covered (6,500 ha of a target of 44,000 ha of fenced areas)
under this component was 85% below the target envisaged. Likewise, progress in over
sown communal areas/ranches (36 ha of 12,000 ha planned) and planting of grass strips
(no progress against 10,000 km planned) was unsatisfactory.
Support to Private Veterinary Practice
22.   In support of the policy to privatize clinical veterinary services, the project
proposed to provide credit and training in basic business management practices for 60
veterinarians willing to become private practitioners. The Uganda Veterinary Association
(UVA) was designated as the agency responsible for implementing the privatization
component, and was expected to accomplish this task by employing consultants. Provision
of credit for UVA was also envisaged to establish a wholesale veterinary cooperative store
for the supply of drugs and some equipment to its members. UVA was registered as a
2 Including Elephant grass/Pusa Giant Napier (Pennisetum purpureum); Kikuyu grass (Panicum
clandestinum); Guinea grass (Panicum maximum); Alfalfa/Lucerne (Medicago sativa); Centrosema
(Centrosema pubescens); Leucena (Leucena leucocephala); Caliandra tree; Lab-lab; and Setaria (Setaria
anceps).



-9 -
limited liability company in order to acquire legal status for implementing the component:
UVA also carried out studies on the viability of privatized veterinary services in the
districts, organized promotional seminars to sensitize farmers, and held three short-term
courses for veterinarians on topics related to artificial insemination and on running
effective business ventures.
23.   In spite of the time consuming efforts made in preparing the credit scheme, not a
single loan was taken from the project funds by the veterinarians. This occurred because
some commercial banks did not qualify for participation in the project, and those which
qualified did not agree to the terms and conditions of the on-lending plan. In addition, the
commercial banks had some misgivings in providing medium-term loans to individuals
whose credit worthiness was not established, and whose cash flow was not adequate to
enable the repayment of loans. Furthermore, the interest rate, which was over 20%, was
considered too high for the emerging business of private veterinarians. The credit scheme
was, therefore, cancelled in mid 1997. However, veterinarians were not discouraged by
this situation, and they started to open private practices, particularly in the high potential
districts, where improved dairy farming was growing. So far, about 80 veterinarians have
established private practices, which is more than the target of 60 envisaged under the
project. The project provided funds for sensitization which induced the emergence of
private veterinary practices. It should be recognized, however, that a crucial factor that
encouraged veterinarians was the favorable policy environment created by the
Government, such as the liberalization of importing and selling veterinary drugs and some
vaccines. GOU is presently studying the possibility of contracting vaccination campaigns
to private practitioners, and is reviewing the specific roles of public and private
veterinarians, with a view to further encouraging the number of private veterinarian
practices. In order to improve the viability of their businesses, most of the privately
operating veterinarians are combining their practices with other side activities, such as
consultancy services on dairy development and sale of drugs.
Water Supply
24.   Following the request by MAAIF/GOU, the water supply component was added
after the MTR. While there was political pressure to include this component in the project,
it was consistent with the project objectives. Approximately US$2.1 million was allocated
for this component. There was no prior preparation of the component's activities or
detailed technical, social, economic and environmental appraisal. The only information
provided by the MTR was that about 100 valley dams and tanks would be constructed and
rehabilitated with the cooperation of the communities. The water supply component aimed
at providing water points in the traditional cattle "grazing corridor" as a means of disease
control (through a decrease in livestock movement) and promoting livestock production.
As such, the component was compatible with the project's objectives. However, this fact
should not have prevented MAAIF from preparing a justification of the component's
technical and economic feasibility, environmental suitability, financing plans, and
management arrangements, before being considered for implementation.
25.   In August 1995 - about 10 months before the original Credit closing date of June
30, 1996 - a consultant engineer was recruited by the project to assist in the planning,
design and estimation of bills of quantities for the proposed dams and tanks.
Implementation of the water supply component was divided into two programs: a pilot



- 10-
scheme in Mbarara district, consisting of 1 small valley dam and 3 tanks to be executed by
MAAIF on force account, and a total of about 100 tanks/reservoirs to be
constructed/rehabilitated by private contractors. The pilot scheme was expected to provide
information and data necessary for constructing the 100 tanks. Soon after the start of the
dam/tanks under the pilot scheme, construction came to a standstill because of shortage of
funds, since the financing arrangement under force account was for GOU to pay for the
works first, and to seek IDA's reimbursement later. As no funds were advanced by GOU,
little progress was made during the year 1996/97. Work resumed in 1997/98 after GOU
and IDA agreed to use funds generated by the sale of forage seeds and vaccines in the
construction of the reservoirs. The plan of constructing/rehabilitating 100 tanks was
reviewed in March 1996. The IDA mission (June 1996) recommended to MAAIF that it
undertake an economic cost/benefit analysis of valley dams before embarking on their
construction. Based on the results of a technical study in 1997, which showed that it
would be more cost effective to build the relatively larger valley dams instead of the
smaller tanks, and because of resource and time constraints, a policy decision was taken
within MAAIF to construct/rehabilitate only 15 valley dams, instead of 100 tanks.
Contracts for the 15 valley dams were awarded to two firms in September 1997, following
a competitive bidding procedure, and the valley dams were to be completed by June 30,
1998. In view of the delays experienced on account of El Nino rains, and an assurance
provided by MAAIF that the remaining civil works would be completed within an
additional three months, IDA agreed to a final extension of the water supply component
until September 30, 1998.
26.  In December 1998, project management submitted requests for reimbursement of
funds against withdrawal applications (W/As) for expenditures incurred until September
30, 1998. Following a review conducted by the Parliamentary Select Committee on
Agriculture and negative reporting in the press since October 1998, that questioned the
existence of the valley dams and alleged possible misuse of public funds, IDA sent a
special mission to the project area. The main objectives were to assess the level of civil
works achieved at each valley dam site, determine whether expenditures incurred under the
pending W/As were eligible for financing, and to elicit the views of the districts and local
communities as regards the construction of the valley dams that could strengthen the
Bank's assessment of project performance.
27.   Based on a visit to eleven sites in January, 1999, the IDA mission's main
conclusions were that: (a) eleven valley dams (8 new dams, 2 under rehabilitation, and 1
under pilot scheme) and one valley tank did exist, albeit they were at different stages of
construction (because of poor planning and supervision, only three valley dams were
functional with some defects--the estimated time needed for completion of these valley
dams varied between two weeks - six weeks, while the Nyakahita dam needed a design
review prior to further work); (b) the valley dams appeared to be "over-designed"
compared with similar valley dams constructed under the South Western Agricultural
Rehabilitation Project (in all cases, the possibility of water use by the local population was
not adequately considered); (c) the delay in the completion of the valley dams was partly
due to adverse weather conditions, but largely due to poor contract management by
DAR/MAAIF; (d) the primary stakeholders (communities and districts) are willing to
maintain the valley dams because it is one of their priority needs; there are, however, still
gaps in information relating to transfer of ownership to the beneficiaries. These gaps need



- 11 -
to be addressed; and, (e) MAAIF needed to provide additional information regarding cost
overruns, and on how it intended to complete the remaining civil works, given the high
expectation of the beneficiaries and advanced stages of construction of most of the valley
dams. IDA also sought, and received, a formal assurance from MAAIF that if further
funds are reimbursed against pending W/As, such funds would be used specifically to
complete the remaining civil works of these valley daTns. In view of the adverse findings
of a recent report on the valley dams by the Parliamentary Select Committee on
Agriculture, GOU intends to undertake engineering and value for money audits of these
valley dams. An interim report of a GOU engineering audit team which visited seven sites
(March 1999) has concluded that "substantial work has been done on the ground, and there
is need to urgently resume construction to avoid loss of Government resources already
spent."
28.   The three operational valley dams, and the remaining twelve valley dams on
contract once completed, will certainly benefit the local beneficiaries by supplying water to
the people and their livestock, particularly during the dry season. The areas selected for
the interventions are prone to dry weather, and valley tanks have generally not proven to be
appropriate as they dry up within a short time. The valley dams are considered appropriate
technology for holding larger quantities of water for longer periods, as provided by the
project area's topography. Animal diseases will be checked by avoiding long distance
travel to grazing areas with watering points. To this end, farmers are being organized into
water users' group. The lack of any environmental assessment study leaves these
communities unprepared for any eventual negative side effects resulting from the
construction of these valley dams.
Institutional Development
29.   The project provided considerable support to strengthen DAR and the provision of
livestock services through staff training and provision of equipment. About 38 staff have
received education at MSc. level. Some 190 staff have also attended short-term training
mainly in livestock management, and 55 staff have participated in international
conferences. In addition, 70 workshops in the fields of animal health and production have
been organized and attended by about 800 staff. The project has also provided substantial
field transport facilities and laboratory equipment to 39 districts and to the main DAR
laboratory in Entebbe. Although the initial package of internationally recruited technical
assistance personnel was cancelled, the project has benefited from about 170 person-
months of consultancy in the field of civil engineering and management, as required. Six
studies have been conducted by the project to leam about the viability of dips, tsetse
targets, milk production, valley dams/tanks, and private veterinary practice. All these
inputs improved the capability of DAR to effectively combat diseases and enhance
livestock production, resulting in the improved delivery of livestock services to producers
in the limited areas that were covered. The strengthening of DAR was, however,
undertaken at a time when GOU had decided that the implementation responsibility for
projects shall rest with the districts, and the sector ministry headquarters would be
responsible only for setting policy, monitoring, and technical backstopping. For
institutional development under the project to have the desired impact, most of the trained
staff at DAR, should have moved to the districts. The project also did not succeed in
strengthening MAAIF's financial management and procurement capabilities as intended at
appraisal.



- 12 -
Organization and Management
30.   The organization and management of the project, as provided in the original design,
was too complex due to the numerous management levels created outside the then MAIF's
normal structure. Its complexity was further exposed when the Government decentralized
most of the activities to the districts. The modification of the project organization and
management by integrating the project into the normal MAAIF program improved
implementation by reducing the steps in the management chain and by placing
responsibility and accountability on the heads of the departments (Commissioners). The
Project Implementation Committee (PIC), introduced after the MTR, became an
appropriate forum to discuss and plan project implementation, as its members were the
heads of the DAR departments. The project has, however, throughout failed to improve
the capacity within DAR in the procurement of goods and services. The delay in
purchasing equipment and the cancellation of many civil works was mainly due to
weakness in procurement.
Project Costs and Financing
31.   At completion, total project costs amounted to USh. 21,375 million or US$20.3
million (including about US$500,000 claimed against pending W/As), i.e., 82% of the
appraisal estimates of US$24.75 million. The reduction in project costs was mainly due to
the exclusion from the project of the credit component and the international technical
assistance personnel. Disbursement as of March 31, 1999, amounted to US$18.4 million,
excluding outstanding withdrawal applications. If all the outstanding applications for
reimbursement are accepted, total disbursements are expected to reach about US$18.9
million, equivalent to 90% of the original Credit amount of US$21.0 million, or 77% of
total costs. The funds allocated to the credit component of US$2.27 million were
cancelled. In part because of the appreciation of the SDR vis-a-vis the US$, the Credit is
expected to have undisbursed funds of about US$1.4 mnillion after the pending W/As have
been processed.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
32.   Although, the different components may have varied levels of sustainability,
overall, project sustainability is considered as unlikely. In general, the development
activities and technologies that have been introduced to farmers or private individuals are
likely to be continued by the people concerned as they are convinced of their usefulness.
Some doubts remain, however, with regard to the sustainability of animal health and
disease control through field veterinary services, as this will now depend on the
discretionary allocation of funds for these services by each district. Those district
administrations which consider livestock as a priority subsector are likely to allocate
relatively higher resources to deliver the animal health services, while those who put less
emphasis on livestock are likely to allocate minimal resources. As this is already
happening in the field, and the districts currently have very limited means of
supplementing the block grants from the central government by raising their own revenues,
the sustainability of the level of animal health services that have been strengthened by the



- 13 -
project is regarded as unlikely. This notwithstanding, it is expected that DAR, which is
still responsible for the major epizootic diseases, i.e., rinderpest and CBPP, will provide
sufficient funds out of its budget to control these diseases. However, problems are likely
to remain regarding the control of other animal diseases by the districts on account of
limited resources at their disposal. Sustainability of clinical treatment is likely as
veterinary drugs will continue to be imported and distributed by the private sector, and the
treatment will be given by private veterinarians. This will, however, be limited to districts
served by the private sector. Similarly, the sustainability of private veterinary practice is
also likely on a limited basis, as the demand for their services is increasing, particularly by
the modem milk plants and meat producers. Furthennore, GOU is considering using the
services of private veterinarians in its regular vaccination campaigns, and the veterinarians
themselves are diversifying their activities into veterinary drug sales and livestock
production.
33.   Some farmers in the LSP supported districts are purchasing pyrethroids to be used
under the live-bait technology, and have confirmed that they will continue to do so to
control tsetse. Pyrethroids are also effective against ticks and other biting flies. While
some farmers have realized its value and adopted the control measures, the sustainability of
tsetse control is unlikely on account of the limited capacity of the district administrations
to provide guidance to the farmers in the whole country. With regard to forage production,
nutritious forages are being produced, on a limited scale, either from own seeds or by
purchasing these from other farmers. Farmers' groups which produce forage seeds are
now exploring means of producing and distributing seeds in an organized manner.
Although most of the valley dams/tanks are not yet operational, the establishment of "users
associations", currently being organized, is essential if the operations and maintenance of
these valley dams/tanks are to be sustained.
E. BANKPERFORMANCE
34.   Overall, IDA's performance is regarded as less than satisfactory. Such a rating
reflects IDA's shortcomings both during appraisal and supervision. For instance, the
organization and management proposed for the project was too complex. Instead, what
was needed for a country like Uganda, which was coming out from a difficult social and
political situation, was a simple and straight forward set-up. It was also decided at
appraisal to put three conditions for project effectiveness, which delayed the project start-
up for about one year. With the benefit of hindsight, it became clear that these conditions
were not indispensable. In fact, none of them actually materialized: the technical
assistance personnel were never recruited; the PMC was cancelled by the MTR; and, the
subsidiary loan agreement was finalized, but no loan was delivered under the project.
35.   While the project organization and management was restructured during the MTR,
and efforts were made to address implementation problems subsequently, IDA's
supervision was also not satisfactory. First, the supervision intensity needed for a project
of this complexity was absent. The frequency of supervision was one mission per year
(except in 1998), instead of the normal two missions per year, with gaps of up to 18
months between missions. The low frequency of supervision resulted in slow actions in
resolving the project's implementation problems. The anticipated gain of task



- 14 -
management from the Resident Mission in the last year or so did not materialize. Second,
based on the GOU's view, the supervision reports (including the MTR) were generally
brief, and lacked technical details that could be used as guidance by the implementing
units. Third, no detailed justification or technical back-up, for example, was provided as to
why there was a sharp reduction in funds for the forage component, or why the water
supply component was included. Whilst it is recognized that the technical details of the
new water supply component should initially have been provided by GOU for IDA's
review, the lack of such technical details/justification resulted in implementation
difficulties and intensive discussions, overshadowing the main livestock health and
production support programs. Fourth, in spite of the problems encountered in
implementing the water supply component, IDA supervision missions did not include an
engineer until 1998, when the project was approaching completion.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
36.   Overall, the borrower's performance was also unsatisfactory. The delay in project
start-up resulted from GOU's (i.e., the then MAIF's) inaction on the conditions set for
effectiveness. During implementation, GOU not only provided inadequate counterpart
funds for executing the project, but was also slow in releasing these funds. Hence,
implementation progress was seriously hindered. The declaration of the project as a non-
core operation, after having signed a Credit agreement with IDA, and the subsequent
budget cut for the entire 1993/94, should be considered as GOU's reduced commitment to
the project. GOU's insistence on the inclusion of a water supply component without
sufficient technical preparation and adequate consultation with stakeholders was a source
of problems to the project, although there were legitimate grounds for its inclusion,
particularly after the country's experience of severe drought during 1992 and 1993. The
delay in the completion of the valley dams can also be largely attributed to poor contract
management by DAR/MAAIF.
37.   On the positive side, GOU is to be credited for the enabling environment recently
created by its policy of liberalizing the importation and distribution of veterinary drugs and
some vaccines. This has stimulated the private sector, such as the establishment of private
veterinary practices, and enabled livestock producers to benefit from the opportunities
created.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
38.   Livestock population has reportedly increased by 6.6% since the project started.
According to DAR, cattle population increased from 5.12 million in 1991 to 5.46 million in
1997, and milk production increased by 36% from 369 million liters to 500 million liters,
during the same period. Economic analysis carried out for the project at completion by the
FAO mission shows economic rates of return of 27% for the animal health component, 44%
for the forage development and 31% for the whole project, compared with appraisal estimates
of 60%, 52%, and 49%, respectively. Given that there was limited achievement of the
project's main objectives - even the quantitative targets agreed at the MTR were only partially
achieved (paras. 17-29) - the overall outcome of the project is regarded as unsatisfactory.



- 15 -
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
39.   With the decentralization of the Government administration, the field veterinary
services and extension have been transferred to the districts. The districts will, therefore, plan
activities and prepare budgets for their respective areas of jurisdiction. Only the major
epizootic diseases, namely rinderpest and CBPP, will remain with DAR, which will carry out
the surveillance and vaccination required to control these diseases. However, it is not clearly
known for how long this responsibility will remain with DAR. The private sector activities
such as forage seed production, clinical treatment of animals, tsetse control, and O&M of
valley dams are expected to be carried out on a limited basis by the farmers individually, in
groups, or in cooperation with other private sector operators like the veterinarians. However,
district field extension services are still not fully operational to provide the necessary technical
assistance to farmers. Based on an agreed GOU/IDA strategy for the future, these extension
services are expected to become fully operational following the likely effectiveness of the IDA
supported Second Agricultural Research and Training Project (ARTP II) in July 1999, and will
be supported under a national agricultural extension project (Phase II), currently under
preparation.
1. LESSONS LEARNED
40.   The following lessons can be drawn from the implementation of the project:
-  The design for project organization and management should, as much as
possible, adhere to the existing structure, so that there is no difference in
importance between the way project and non project activities are planned
and implemented. Otherwise, confusion arises if responsibilities and modus
operandi for project and non project activities are given unequal importance.
*  Technically unprepared components such as the water supply component, are
bound to lead to implementation difficulties, cost overruns, and delays.
D  For components such as the water supply component, under which the initial
siting of, and the operations and maintenance of the valley dams/tanks is
dependent upon the local communities, it is critical for Government
implementing agencies and Bank staff to ensure that such decisions are fully
discussed and agreed with the local stakeholders.
*  Conditions set for project effectiveness should be absolutely necessary and
indispensable for the successful implementation of the project, as precious
time is often wasted until they are complied with, or waived subsequently. In
the case of LSP, it is not obvious if the conditions were indispensable as they
could have been tackled during implementation, if they were needed at all.
* A thorough review of expected cash flows of would be veterinarian
borrowers and of potential lending by commercial banks would have revealed
that there was no basis for a credit component to cater for the private
veterinarians. This would have saved project management time consuming



- 16-
discussions that were spent to make the credit component operational, and
enabled the release of funds that were tied to this component.
* The creation of a favorable economic environment can go much further to
stimulate private sector initiative than the mere supply of credit, as envisaged
by the project. This was demonstrated by the progress in the establishment of
private veterinary practices, following the liberalization of veterinary drug
importation and sale policies.
* The quality of IDA supervision fell short of expectations on account of
infrequent supervision missions, the absence of an engineer to supervise the
water supply component, and GOU's view that supervision reports were
generally brief and lacked technical detail. The frequency and skills mix of
supervision missions should be commensurate with the complexity of a
project to achieve the desired results.
* The intended intensity of supervision expected by IDA management from the
assignment of task management responsibility to staff in the Resident
Mission during the last one year or so did not occur. Quality supervision of a
project with components requiring specialized technical skills can only be
assured through a team effort, and depends largely upon the
judgment/experience of a task manager.
* Transfer of responsibility for a component from one implementing agency to
another, without due efforts to integrate it within the new program, may stall
progress, as it happened with forage development when it was transferred to
extension with no consideration for additional funding.
*  An amount in excess of three times the original allocation (US$1.2 million)
was expended under the Project Management category. IDA team leaders
need to closely monitor recurrent expenditures in particular to ensure that
these are consistent and commensurate with a project's objectives and
activities, and are being spent efficiently and effectively.
* It is clear that shortage of counterpart funds disrupts and delays project
implementation. In this case, general recommendations for increasing funds
do not help, but concrete measures aimed at increasing the level of financing
of components do, as experienced by the project concerning the use of funds
collected from the proceeds of sales of inputs.
* Sustainability of project components is more likely in the case of activities
that are adopted by farmers as part of their normal practice, such as the use of
live-bait technology for tsetse control, and forage development for improving
forage/dairy production.



- 17-
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives        Substantial    Partial    Negligible  Not Applicable
( /)     ~(-f)        (If)            )
Macro policies                                  F  1                      21
Sector policies                    [I]         [R]
Financial objectives               [            [7]
Institutional development            i]         [Z                        L]
Physical objectives                [I           Ii71
Poverty reduction                  [             W      
Gender issues                                   F71
Other social objectives                         571                       ELI
Environmental objectives           LI            W           L             Cl
Public sector management                                     FY I          L
Private sector development           7I                       LI          II
Other (specify)                    L            L            L             L
B. Project sustainability          Likely       Unlikely    Uncertain
(1)          (1)         (1)
LI    F                   O
Highly
C. Bank performance             satisfactory  Satisfactory   Deficient
(/1)         (1)         (1)
Identification                               FW            LI
Preparation assistance          [I]          []            L
Appraisal                        L           LI
Supervision



- 18-
Highly
satisfactory  Satisfactory  Deficient
D. Borrower performance               (1)          (1)         (1)
Preparation                                 WE 3          [
Implementation                  F]               Ir
Covenant compliance             E]           LI           5[7
Operation (if applicable)       E             L            L
Highly                                     Highly
E. Assessment of outcome        satisfactory  Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory  unsatisfactory
(Th oe  (sf) (a)
3The overall rating is considered marginally satisfactory.



- 19 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title           Purpose             Year of approval              Status
1. Agricultural Extension   Support to agriculure by  September 1992         Closed 12/31/98
strengthening extension
2. Agricultural Research   To strengthen             December 1992               Ongoing
and Training            agricultural research
3. Cotton Sector        Increase cotton                May 1994                  Ongoing
Development             production
Table 3: Project Timetable
latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)       1986                  April 23, 1986
Preparation                                      Feb - June 1987       Feb - June 1987
Appraisal                                        January 20, 1990      December 4, 1989
Negotiations                                     April 23, 1990        May 14, 1990
Board presentation                               June 19, 1990         September 11, 1990
Signing                                          November 7,1990      November 7, 1990
Effectiveness                                    February 5, 1991
May 6, 1991
August 5, 1991
October 4, 1991      November 4, 1991
Midterm review                                   December 31, 1993    Jan-Feb, 1994
Loan closing                                     June 30, 1996         September 30, 19984
June 30, 1997
June 30, 1998
4 Most Project components closed on June 30, 1998. The extension to Sept. 30, 1998 was largely for the
Water Supply Component.



-20-
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(SDR Millons)
FY 91  FY 92  FY 93  FY 94  FY 95  FY 96  FY 97  FY 98  FY 99
Appraisal            1.60    3.86    6.55    9.66   13.69   16.10          -       -        -
estimate
Actual                       0.53    1.28    2.54    4.57    7.30    9.73   12.06   12.98
Actual as % of                14%     20%     26%      33%     45%     60%      75%     80%
estimate
Date of final      Expected before June 30, 19995
disbursement
5 Normally, final disbursements should have been completed by January 31, 1999. On an exceptional
basis, the Bank has agreed to process the last withdrawal applications by June 30, 1999. The estimated
amount of this disbursement (US$500,000) has been included in Tables 8A and 8B.



-21 -
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
|.   Key implementation indicators61       Unit               Estimated          Actual
1. Disease Control
Animals Vaccinated (1993-1997/98%
Rinderpest                                 number            5,800,000          6,357,120
CBPP                                       number            5,800,000          6,136,800
FMD                                        number            1,200,000           720,455
Rabies                                     number              200,000           447,165
Trypanosomiasis                            number         not specified         2,335,120
Newcastle                                   number           7,600,000          3,707,285
Gumboro                                    number            4,900,000          3,008,315
Fawl typhoid                               number         not specified         1,371,020
Brucellosis                                number         not specified             8,410
Anthrax and blackquarter                   number         not specified            87,175
Civils Works
Construction of new district offices       number                   6                  0
Renovation of existing district offices    number                  27                  5
Tick control
- Rehabilitated dips (no.)                                        250                  6
- New dips (no.)                                                   10                  0
Training - Staff:
MSc Training                               number          not specified             25 8/
Short-term (overseas)                      number         not specified               10
Short-term (domestic)                      number         not specified              100
International conferences (attended)       number          not specified              33
Local workshops (attended)                 number          not specified             360
Provision of Equipment
Mobile disease control units               number                   3                  0
Laboratory equipment to districts           district               24                 39
Laboratory equipment to vet centres            vet cen             29                  0
Laboratory equipment to central lab.     central lab.               1                  1
Motor Vehicles                             number                  15                 10
Motorcycles                                number                 410                356
Bicycles                                   number         not foreseen               700
2. Tsetse Fly Control
Vector Control
Survey and mapping                         district               22                  9
Tsetse area cleared                          km2               9,000               1,000
Traps deployed                            number              76,000                400
6/ Targets consist of those set at appraisal and those set later at mid-term review.
7' Many vaccines were procured under other programmes, such as CBPP andrinderpest which were
provided by the Pan African Rinderpest Campaign (PARC).
8' Including 3 staff members of the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine of Makerere University.



- 22 -
I.  Key implementation indicators 61      Unit               Estimated          Actual
Targets deployed                          number              62,000             4,000
Animals treated                           number           2,200,000          1,000,000
Civil Works
Establishment of access routes               km                 500                193
Construction of cattle crushes           number                  36                  0
Renovation of Masindi headquarters    all complex        all complex             none
Provision of Equipment
Pick-up vehicles                         number         not specified                8
Trucks                                   number         not specified               2
Tractors loaders                         number         not specified                3
Staff Training
MSc                                      number         not specified                9
Short-term local                         number         not specified               19
International Conference                 number         not specified                3
Farmers sensitised on tsetse control     number         not specified            1,750
3. Forage Development
Production Activities
Importation of seeds                           kg        not specified            2,480
Seed locally produced/distributed              kg        not specified           48,000
Demonstration farms                       number         not specified               56
Tree Legumes                                   ha               4000                  0
Pasture Legumes                                ha             40,000                  0
Oversown communal areas/ranches                ha             12,000                 36
Planting grass strips (Kabale Distr.)         km              10,000                  0
Zero grazingunits                         number              17,100              4,100
Farm households/grazing units             number               7,500              6,800
Support to pasture dev. (fenced areas)         ha             44,000              6,500
Districts covered                         number                  20                 28
Bull stations                             number                  20                 14
Provision of Equipment
Motor vehicles                            number         not specified               8
Motorcycles                               number         not specified              20
Tractor                                   number         not specified               1
Seed testing and processing plant         number         not specified               1
Traming
Staff sent for MSc. Training              number         not specified               4
Workshops for staff                       number         not specified              35
Seminars for farmers                      number         not specified             200
Exchange tour for farmers                 number         not specified               5



-23 -
I.   Key implementation indicators        Unit              Estimated           Actual
4. Water Supply
Pilot reservoirs on force account         number                   5
Reservoirs established under contract     number                  15                159
5. Privatization of Veterinary Practice
Veterinarians privatized                  number                  60                 80
Number of loans                           number                  60                  0
Training of veterinarians                 number                  90                 60
Seminars for farmers                      number         not specified            1,000
Enterprise loans approval                 number                 100                  0
9 All not fully complete



- 24-
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
I.   Key operating indicators in
SAR/President's Report                 Estimated                         Actual
Not Applicable
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined
Study             at appraisal/redefined           Status             Impact of study
1. Reorganization of    Establish means and ways      Completed in 1991    No follow-up because
MAlF                     for reorganizing the MAIF                          MAIF was reorganized
under the Civil Service
Reforn of 1991
2. Cost effectiveness of    Assess the economic       Completed in 1997    Policy on tick control
communal dips            viability of dips                                  clarified
3. Comparative study of   Determine the relative cost  Completed in 1997    Mobile targets were
cost effectiveness of    effectiveness of the two                           found to be cheaper,
mobile versus fixed      methods before finalizing                          hence recommended to
targets for tsetse control   recommendations                                producers
4. Options for           Draw a strategy for the      Completed in 1997    The findings are to be
privatisation of         proposed privatisation of                          used in the forthcoming
veterinary services      veterinary services                                support by PARC
5. Cost effectiveness of    Assess the viabilty of    Completed in 1997    Valley dams were
different types of       reservoirs to be constructed                       found to be more cost
reservoirs               by the project                                     effective than tanks
6. Privatisation of forage   See if this transfer could be  Completed in 1997    As the project was
seed industry            feasible under private sector                      about to close no follow
conditions                                         up was made
7. Comparative analysis   Up-dating of earlier studies  Completed in 1998    Expected to be used by
of milk production costs                                                    Govemment and the
private sector inay
enterprise analysis



-25 -
Table 8A: Project Costs
Actual/latest 1
Appraisal estinate (US$'000)      estimate
(US$'000)
Item                      Local      Foreign        Total          Total
costs   Exchange costs
National Disease Control  1,554.1     5,501.5      7,055.6      7,605.9
Tsetse Fly Control        1,017.1     3,519.9      4,536.0      3,048.5
Veterinary Privatisation  1,168.0     2,488.0      3,616.0        289.6
Forage Development        1,519.8     1,132.0      2,651.9      1,464.5
Project Management         418.1        796.9      1,215.0      4,453.6
Institutional Development   56.7        379.3        436.0        343.5
Water Supply                                -            -      2,422.7
Project Preparation Facility    240.0   560.0        800.0        661.0
Physical Contingencies     630.6      1,421.5      2,052.1                l
Price Contingencies        773.4      1,616.6      2,390.0
TOTAL                     7,377.9    17,374.6     24,752.5     20,289.3
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (US$M)        Actual/latest
estimate
(US$M)
Local       Foreign      Total
Source                        Costs       exchange
costs
IDA                           4.7          16.3         21.0       18.9
GOU                           2.7           1.0          3.7        1.4
TOTAL                         7.4          17.3         24.7       20.3



- 26 -
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
General
As appraised, the project aimed at increasing the production of livestock and livestock products through
improved animal health and better feeding. The bulk of the investment was directed towards national disease
control, in anticipation of major benefits that would accrue from this component. Indeed the increase in
livestock numbers are due to improved health. The forage component has also made a positive impact on
milk production.
Project Benefits
The main project benefits are increased meat and milk production as the result of improved animal health and
forage development. No separate assessment of benefits has been made for the tsetse and veterinary
privatisation components for lack of data. The benefits assessed on animal disease control are based on the
cattle population growth estimated by the Directorate of Animal Resources (DAR) for the period 1991 to
1997. An offtake of 9% has been assumed for calculating increased meat production. Although the bulk of
the livestock increase is due to the project, only 25% of the incremental production has been attributed to the
project. This was converted to meat, assuming a live weight of a local bovine of 250 kg and a dressing out
rate of 50%. The impact of the disease control component on milk production is also based on the increase of
cattle population. It was assumed that 40% of the incremental cattle population were cows, and of these 16%
were in lactation, milking each cow 1.5 litre per day for 284 days.
The forage component has also contributed significantly to the country's milk output. An area of some 6,800
ha has been brought under zero grazing, which is equivalent to dairy farming of 17,300 cows at a rate of one
cow per acre of cross-bred cows. Without the project, the farmers were assumed to have been cultivating the
land to a food crop, as animals were being decimated by diseases and other problems. An average of 12.75
litres per day of milk is assumed to be produced by the cross-bred cow over 290 days..No benefit has been
calculated on the grazing areas sown or enriched by the project's improved forage crops.
Project Costs
Actual project costs, which are based on current prices, have been adjusted before they were used in the
economic analysis. The costs were apportioned into two components in order to assess the economic rate of
return of the two components, i.e., the national disease control and forage development components. All
animal health related components and 75% of the project operational and management costs have been
considered to pertain to the disease control component. All the forage development costs plus 25% of the
operational and management expenses were ascribed to the forage component. Annual replacement and
operating costs for DAR and district administration have been assumed to be 10% of the project costs.
Market and Prices
Demand for meat and milk has been increasing due to the improved economic performance and higher
peoples' incomes. Meat and milk prices vary from place to place reflecting the demand and supply situations
of the different locations. As incomes continue to rise, demand for meat and milk is expected to increase in
Uganda, and no difficulties are foreseen for disposing of project output at reasonable prices. The technologies
introduced by the project have, in fact, improved productivity, enabling the sale of meat and milk at
reasonable prices.
Although tradable, meat and milk are unlikely to be exported in a significant manner in the near future.
Therefore, both commodities have been treated as non-traded in the analysis. On the average, the fann-gate
price of meat is about USh 500 per kg, and this has been used in the analysis. The farm-gate price of milk
varies from USh 200 per litre in milk shed areas, to USh 300 per litre and over in less supplied areas. As



- 27 -
production is growing rapidly in the less supplied area, it has been assumed that prices will tend to level off
around USh 200 per litre, and this has been used in the economic analysis.
Economic Rate of Return
Economic Rates of Return (ERRs) were calculated for the disease control and forage development
components and for the project as a whole. The calculations were made over a period of 20 years. All project
costs incurred and benefits accrued during implementation were reinstated to mid-1998 prices, using the
consumer price index for the country.
Based on the above assumptions, an ERR was calculated for the two project components and for the whole
project. The results as compared to appraisal are shown below:
Item                                       Appraisal Estimates  Latest Estimatesa'
Animal Health & Veterinary Privatisation          60%                  27%'
Tsetse Fly Control                                36%
Forage Development                                52%                  44%
Whole Project                                     49%                  31%
a'No separate ERRs were calculated for the veterinary privatisation and tsetse control for lack of data.
b/ This excludes veterinary privatisation.
The ERRs currently estimated reflect the economic attractiveness of the project, although they are lower than
what had been estimated at appraisal. The reason for the variance could be due to the exclusion of benefits of
tsetse control and veterinary privatisation.



- 28 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Livestock Services Project
Cr. 2176-UG
Original    Revised
Covenant  Present   fulfilment  fulfilment           Description of                    Remarks
Agreement  Section    type        status      date        date               covenant
DCA         3.03 (a)      2        CD                             Subsidiary Loan Agreement for on  No loan was given to veterinarians
lending to private veterinarians
DCA         3.04 (a)      2        CP    03.31.91                 Introduce levy on veterinary
curative drugs and introduce
nominal vaccination fee
DCA         3.04 (b)      2        NC                             Open Bank Account to collect levies
and fees (3.04(a))
DCA         4.01          1        CD      12.31.92               Audited Project Accounts, SOEs
and Special Account
DCA         Sch 4
DCA        Para 1         5         C                             Establish Agricultural Policy
Conmittee as Steering Committee
DCA        Para 2         5         C     12.31.90                Establish Project Coordination as
Steering Conmmittee
DCA        Para 3         5         C                             Establish Project Management    Abolished by MTR
Conmmittee
DCA        Para 4         5         C     By June each            Submit annual work program for
year                   review May 1 of draft and AWP by
July 1
DCA        Para 5         5         C     End Feb and             Semi annual progress reports
Aug each year
DCA        Para 6         5         C      12.31.93               Review of Project (MTR)
DCA        Para 7         5         C                             Appointment of National Animal   Abolished by MTR
Disease Control Component
Manager
DCA        Para 8 (a)     5         C                             Appointment of Tsetse Control   Abolished by MTR
Manager
DCA        Para 8 (b)               C                             Procure tsetse insecticides in
accordance with WB Guidelines
DCA        Para 9 (a)     5         C                             Appointment of Forage           Abolished by MTR
Development Control Manager
DCA        Para 9 (b)     5        CD    09.30.93                 Review of Seed Production Schemne
by Makerere Faculty of Agriculture
DCA        Para 9 (c)     5         C                             Prepare and inplement program for
phasing out MAAIF fIrms and
ranches not required to support its
extension and researrh activities
DCA        Para 10        5        CD                             Appointnient of consultant firm to
carry out imnplermentation of private
veterinary component
DCA         Para 11       5        CD                             Bank of Uganda Credit Guarantee
Scheme for private veterinarians



- 29 -
Original    Revised
Covenant  Present   fulfilment  fulfilment           Description of                   Remarks
Agreement  Section      type      status      date        date               covenant
DCA        Para 12 &      5        CD                             UVA and participating bank      No loan was given
13                                                    establish joint credit corrmnittee to
review loan applicants for
privatisation of veterinarians
DCA        Pam 14         5        NC                             GOU to discontinue curative
veterinary services in areas in which
private veterinarians are established
and sub-contract through UVA
epidemic disease vaccination
DCA         Para 15       5         C                             Makerere University Faculty of
Veterinary Medicine to establish
training unit for private veterinarian
component
DCA         Para 16       5        CP    12.31.90                 Imrplementation of institutional  Became irrelevant by the civil
development component based on   service reform of 1991
consultants report
DCA         Para 17       5        NC      12.31.90               MIS system to support institutional
development
Covenant Types                                              Present Status
1 = Accounts/audits                                         C = Complied with
2 = Financial performance/revenue                           CD = Complied after delay
3 = Flow and utilisation of project funds                   NC = Not complied with
4 = Counterpart funding                                     CP = Cornplied with partially
5 = Management aspects of the project of executing agency
6 = Environnental covenants
7 = Involuntary resettlenent
8 = Indigenous people
9 = Monitoring, review and reporting
10 = Project implementation not covered by categories 1- 9
11 = Sectoral or cross sectoral budgetary or other resources allocation
12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/regulatory/institutional action
13 = Other



-30-
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title         I  Describe and comment on lack of compliance
Basically, there was compliance with the applicable Bank Operational Manual Statements
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                      Planned                 Revised                Actual10
project cycle
Weeks        US$        Weeks        US$       Weeks        US$
Preparation to            NA           NA          NA           NA          79.0  187,100
apptaisal
Appraisal and lending     NA           NA          NA           NA          66.1  171,906
development
Negotiations through      NA           NA          NA           NA          11.1  30,200
Board approval
Supervision               NA           NA          NA           NA         160.0  479,900
Completion                                                                  11.2  38,700
TOTAL                                                                     327.4  907,800
10 Includes travel costs (Direct Cost only)
NA = Not Available - not recorded in the FACT System



- 31 -
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating
Stage of                   Number                     Specialised    Implemen-   Development
project cycle      Month!       of        Days in       staff skills     tation       objectives      Types of
year     persons       Field      represented        s status                   problems d
Identification
Preparation d'        1-6/89
Appraisal             12/89          7          105       A, E, EN, F, L,
L, I
Supervision 1         02/92         3            15       E, F, L              S             HS             PR
Supervision 2         01/93         2            8        F, L                 S             HS            PR, CF
Supervision 3         01-02/94       5          100       A, E, F, I, L        S             HS            PR, CF
Supervision 4         07/95         3           33        E, F, L              S              S            PR, CF
Supervision 5         05-06/96       2           22       F, L                 S              S            PR, CF
Supervision 6         02/97          2          22        F, E, L              U              U             NR
Supervision 7         02/98         3           36        E, EN, L             U              S          PR, PM, FC
Supervision 8         06/98         3            54       E, EN, L             U              U         PR, CF, PM
FC
"  A = Agriculturalist E = Economist; EN = Engineer, F = Financial Analyst; L = Livestock Specialist; I = Institutions Specialist
bS S = Satisfactory; U = Unsatisfactory; HU = Highly Unsatisfactory; HS = Highly Satisfactory-, NR = Not Rated
r/ CF = Counterpart Funds; FC = Financial Covenants; PM = Project Management; LC = Legal Covenants; PR =Procurement
dI Prepared by GOU with the assistance of consultants



- 32 -
APPENDIX A
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
UGANDA LIVESTOCK SERVICES PROJECT
(Cr. 2176-UG)
AIDE MEMOIRE
A. INTRODUCTION
1.        A mission'-' from the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme visited
Uganda from 26 October to 9 November 1998 to prepare an Inplementation Completion
Report (ICR) for the Livestock Services Project (LSP). Upon arrival in the country, the
mission was briefed by the Directorate of Animal Resources (DAR) of the Ministry of
Agriculture, Animal Industry and Fisheries (MAAIF), and was provided with two useful
documents: a Terminal Evaluation Report and a draft ICR on the project. The mission
also discussed project implementation with other relevant agencies viz., the Bank of
Uganda, the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine of Makerere University, the Uganda
Veterinary Association (UVA) and commercial banks. Field visits were carried out in
Mpigi, Mukono, Nakasongola, Soroti, Masaka, Masindi and Mbarara districts.
2.        The mission wishes to express its appreciation to DAR management and
staff for the organization of the project implementation review, including the field visits,
and for the preparation of the different reports on project implementation. The excellent
cooperation and assistance provided to the mission have greatly facilitated its work.
3.        The mission's preliminary findings and conclusions on the implementation of
the project are presented below, and are subject to confirmation by World Bank
management.
B. BACKGROUND
4.        The project was part of the initial Government efforts that aimed at reversing
the decline of livestock population that occurred as a result of the political turrnoil and
economic mismanagement of the seventies and the first half of the eighties. The need for
an urgent intervention in livestock development was first recognized by a Livestock Task
Force, that was one of the four Task Forces established by the Government to advise it on
the rehabilitation of the agricultural sector. The Task Force, in its report of 1986,
identified several areas that needed to be tackled as a matter of priority in order to
rehabilitate the livestock sector rapidly. These comprised animal health, milk production,
' Consisting of P. Kidane (Mission Leader, Economist, FAO) and S.Shanthikumar
(Livestock Specialist, Consultant).



- 33 -
milk marketing, tsetse fly control and privatization of veterinary services. The Livestock
Task Force, with the assistance of FAO, undertook a feasibility study, and presented a
project proposal for developing livestock services in March 1987. These proposals were
further refined and packaged into a preparation project by GOU with the assistance of
consultants, financed under a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) provided by the World
Bank. The preparation report, which was completed in June 1989, was appraised by IDA
in December 1989.
5.        As appraised, the stated project objectives were as follows: a) to reverse the
decline in livestock numbers by dealing with the alarming animal epidemic disease
situation, and supporting production enhancement measures; and b) to bring about
improvement in the Ministry of Animal Industry and Fisheries (MAIF) - now MAAIIF -
which would lead to a smaller, more cost effective organization, able to discharge its
responsibilities efficiently and effectively. Project components comprised:
i) a national disease control programme, including the establishment of three
mobile service units equipped to control disease outbreaks and the
rehabilitation of MAIF's diagnostic disease control programme;
ii) tsetse fly control in Luwero, Mubende, Masindi, and Hoima districts;
iii) forage development through seed production and services covering about
7,500 milk producing farms, 12,000 ha of communal and ranch areas and
about 10,000 km of grass strips to protect terraced cultivation in the
southwest;
iv) credit and training to assist in the establishment of private veterinary
practices;
v) institutional development, including technical assistance to help execute a
programme to strearnline MAIF's organizational structure and reduce its
staffing levels; and
vi) project management support to MAIF in the areas of financial
management and procurement.
6.        The project was expected to be implemented over a five year period, and was
estimated to cost Ush 10,891 million or US$24.7 million, net of taxes and duties, with a
foreign exchange component of about 70%. The project's funding plan provided for IDA
to finance 85% of the costs and for Government of Uganda (GOU) the remaining 15%.
7.        The MAIF was designated the main project implementing agency. However,
an elaborate system of project organization and management was proposed. Policy level
coordination was to be vested with a Steering Committee, to consist of the sub-comnmittee
on livestock of the Agricultural Policy Committee (APC), other five concerned
institutions, and a Project Coordinator (PC), to be appointed by MAIF. A Project
Coordination Unit (PCU) was also to be established within MAIF, headed by the PC,
whose main task was to be the coordination of project direction and administration.



- 34 -
Project implernentation was expected to be supervised and monitored by a Project
Management Committee (PMC) to be established under MATE, whose main members
would be the Component Managers (to be designated by the project) and other relevant
institution or staff.
8.        The project was signed on November 7, 1990, and declared effective on
November 4, 1991, after four postponements due to delayed compliance with the
conditions for project effectiveness. These conditions were: the completion of contractual
arrangements for the recruitment of six technical assistance personnel who would assist
in project implementation; the establishment of the PMC; and the execution of a
subsidiary loan agreement between GOU and participating commercial banks. In the end,
IDA waived the conditions regarding technical assistance personnel, considering as
sufficient for the purposes of meeting this condition GOU's letter of appointment to a
finance manager/procurement expert.
C. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOME
General
9.        Project implementation was notably slow due to several constrains. The
initial cause for lack of progress was the delay in meeting the conditions of credit
effectiveness, which took about one year after the credit was signed. After the project was
declared effective, the delay in implementation was due to the cumbersome arrangements
for project organization and management, which created a parallel set up to the existing
MAAIF, shortage and delayed release of funds by GOU, and weaknesses in the
procurement of goods and services. Other factors that affected implementation were the
organizational changes that took place as the result of Govemment institutional reforms,
which comprised the merger of MAIT with the ministry of Agriculture in 1991, including
the transfer of its offices from Kampala to Entebbe; the decentralization of government in
1993, which transferred staff accountability and responsibility for project implementation
from the centre to the districts; and the unification of agricultural extension in 1995,
which entailed the transfer of the forage component from DAR to the extension service.
10.       Although an implementation workshop was carried out in November 1991,
and agreement was reached with IDA on the start up actions, little progress was made by
the project during the first eighteen months after it was declared effective. According to
project management, the lack of an implementation manual that could guide staff on the
start-up, planning and execution of the different components, has affected the pace of
project implementation. Implementation performance improved slightly towards the end
of the project's second year, as GOU allocated increased funds to the project, and a
number of bid documents for the procurement of goods and services were approved by
GOU. Therefore, with the arrival of transportation facilities and other equipment and
supplies, implementation of both the animal health and production components started to
gain momentum. However, this was short-lived as GOU down graded the project as non-
core operation during its Public Expenditure Review in 1993. This lower classification
was mainly due to the poor performance of the project. As non-core operation, the project



- 35 -
could not be allocated GOU resources, hence no funds were released to the project during
the entire fiscal year of 1993/94.
11.       A joint GOU and IDA mid-term review of the project was carried out in
January/February 1994. The review recognised that implementation of the project had
been impeded by the complexity and weaknesses in the original design of the project, as
well as by capacity constraints - particularly financial and procurement capacity. During
this review a major restructuring of the project was proposed, to take account of the
emerging priorities and GOU funding constraints. These included: introduction of a new
component of water supply, reduction of the forage component, exclusion of the long-
term technical assistance personnel, increased IDA disbursement on operational expenses
and expansion of the scope of the credit component to include livestock related
enterprises, in addition to private veterinarians. With regard to project organization and
management, the review proposed to abandon the complex structure and to implement
the project through the existing organizational arrangements within the MAAIF.
Following the approval of the mid-term review proposals by both GOU and IDA, the
project was reclassified as a core operation, and it was agreed to amend the Development
Credit Agreement (DCA) to take account of the changes. However, it took about 18
months to amend the DCA, and this has aggravated further the slow implementation
progress as no expenditures could be made regarding the new and modified components.
During the mid-term review, the expected preparation of terms of reference for a follow-
up project did not take place. In order to facilitate the implementation of the restructured
project, the original credit closing date of June 30, 1996 was extended twice. Therefore,
the project closed on June 30, 1998, with the exception of the water supply component
which was extended until September 30,1998 to enable the completion of on-going
construction works.
National Disease Control
12.       In order to check the deteriorating health condition of livestock, particularly
of bovines, the project proposed to establish three mobile service units, each consisting of
two four-wheel drive personnel vehicles, two four-wheel drive pick-ups and a mobile
laboratory. The units, to be deployed in priority areas, were to support the activities of the
veterinary field services in controlling epidemic and endemic diseases, as well as tick-
borne diseases through: the provision of drugs and vaccines, strengthening disease
diagnosis and surveillance, provision of training to improve staff and farmer capability of
disease control. The project also proposed to finance the provision of motorcycles to each
of the 410 the field staff, construction of 6 new district veterinary offices and renovation
of 24 existing ones, supply of cold chain and other equipment to 54 district offices and
veterinary centres and rehabilitation of some communal dips.
13.       At completion the project has succeeded in reversing the precarious disease
situation by controlling the major animal diseases through massive vaccination,
supported by continuous surveillance. Vaccination against the main epidemic diseases,
particularly rinderpest and contagious bovine pleuro pneumonia (CBPP), has helped to
reverse the declining trend of animal production. During the project period, total animals
vaccinated against rinderpest and CBPP amounted to about 6.36 million and 6.14 million,



-36 -
respectively. It should be noted that the vaccination against rinderpest and CBPP was
carried out in conjunction with the Pan African Rinderpest Campaign (PARC). The latter
provided the vaccines and the project operational funds. Important achievements were
also attained in the control of trypanasomosis, foot and mouth disease (FMD), rabies,
New Castle disease, gumboro, fowl typhoid, lumpy skin disease and brucellosis through
vaccination and/or treatment. Since 1996, no rinderpest has been reported, and all the
other diseases have been significantly reduced and brought under effective control. The
only exception is FMD, whose control has become difficult as a result of unregulated
cattle movement due to conflicts and political turmoil in the neighbouring countries. The
project has effectively strengthened the field service through the provision of transport
(10 motor vehicles, 350 motorcycles and 700 bicycles), cold chain, laboratory equipment
and a large training input, including support to the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine of
Makerere University by means of sponsoring three staff for MSc degrees, and several
short-term courses. The provision of the three mobile units was abandoned in favour of
strengthening the epidemiology activities at headquarters and district centres, because the
major diseases had in the meantime spread all over the country.  The proposed
construction and renovation of office and laboratory facilities were not carried out mainly
due to weaknesses in procurement.
Tsetse Fly Control
14.       The project aimed at controlling animal trypanasomosis, hence tsetse fly
infestation, in mid-western Uganda, where it had become a major cause for the decline in
livestock production. The plan was to survey and map the tsetse fly infested area by the
Department of Tsetse Control (DTC) to determine fly densities, and subsequently to
devise a controlling and eradication programme using baits, targets and traps. For this
purpose, the project was to provide vehicles and other equipment, supplies and material,
staff training, operational funds as well as renovation of staff housing, office buildings,
laboratory and workshop facilities at Masindi headquarters. In spite of the initial delays in
the procurement of inputs, this component has accomplished most of its tasks. A total of
9 well equipped and functional survey units have been established under the project,
covering more districts than the four envisaged at appraisal. This has enabled DTC to
have a clear picture and reliable information on species distribution and densities of tsetse
flies, which are crucial for preparing and implementing control and eradication
programmes. Inputs provided under the project included insecticide and related supplies,
vehicles and plant equipment ( 1 station wagon vehicle, 7 pick-ups, 2 lorries, 53
motorcycles, I wheel loader, 1 crawler tractor and 1 wheel tractor with implements) and
training consisting of 9 MSc degrees, in-service training for 40 new staff and a number of
short-term courses in different fields. Some 1,750 farmers have been sensitized on tsetse
and trypanasomosis control measures. With regard to the actual control activities, about
4,000 odour-baited, insecticide impregnated targets and 400 insecticide impregnated
pyramidal traps were deployed, and over one million cattle have been treated with live
bait technology (pour-on insecticide). The project has opened up about 200 km of
motorable access routes in two tsetse affected districts. However, the civil works
programme related to the improvement of buildings and facilities was not carried out for
the reason explained above in relation to civil works.



- 37 -
15.       Results of the tsetse control efforts are considered satisfactory. Studies
conducted by the project have shown that tsetse fly numbers have decreased significantly.
Reduction in tsetse densities varies from about 43% to 98%, depending on the level of
initial infestation. As a result, the cattle population has started to increase and there are
signs of repopulating areas previously abandoned due to tsetse infestation. This trend is
expected to continue as farmers and staff are now better equipped in terms of tseste
control technology. The live bait technology has been taken up rapidly by many farmers,
because it is more cost effective and the pyrethroids used on a spray, dip or pour-on are
also effective in controlling ticks and biting flies.
Forage Development
16.       Implementation of the improved forage production programme was among
the first components to register progress, as a full fledged forage development unit was
established within DAR early on. The Unit was provided with 7 pick-up vehicles, 20
motorcycles, office and field equipment, seed testing and processing machinery, 1,850 kg
of imported forage seed and staff training, including 4 MSc programmes. The programme
organized its field work on a district by district basis, under the overall responsibility of
the newly established forage unit. In each of the designated 20 districts - later expanded
to 28- a forage officer and an assistant forage officer were appointed to become
responsible for the implementation of the forage programme, which consisted of forage
production by farmers for feeding their animals, forage seed production for procurement
by the project and extension service on forage growing and feeding. Ten forage farmer
groups per county, each with 20 members, were formed to produce forage for themselves
and for seed multiplication purposes. As the forage production system was progressing,
it was suddenly hit by the budget freeze of 1993/94, and by the unexpected transfer of
the forage unit to the Extension Department in 1995. In addition, at mid-term review
funding to the forage component was reduced in order to cater for the new water supply
component. All these factors had a negative impact on the forage programme, and
progress slowed. The programm was not integrated within the extension service, and
there were no funds specifically allocated for continuing the forage development
activities. Therefore, the idea of developing a sustained seed production and distribution
system could not be achieved by the project, and the seed testing and processing
equipment has not been installed. In spite of all these setbacks, however, the forage
programme has succeeded in demonstrating the profitability of forage production for both
cut and carry (zero grazing) or pasture development for grazing. At completion the
project had procured and distributed 48 tons of forage seed, and established about 1,540
zero grazing units, 6,800 farm household grazing units, 390 farmer groups and 14 bull
stations to improve dairy production. The increased milk production in the milk shed area
is believed to be primarily due to the project's forage development activities. According
to farmers, forage based dairy fanning has made a significant impact on their incomes.
Support to Private Veterinary Practice
17.       In support to the policy of privatizing clinical veterinary services, the project
proposed to provide credit and training in basic business management practices for 60
veterinarians willing to become private practitioners. UVA was designated as the agency



-38-
responsible for implementing the privatization component, and was expected to
accomplish this task by employing consultants. Provision of credit for UVA was also
envisaged to establish a wholesale veterinary cooperative store for the supply of drugs
and small equipment to its members. UVA was registered as a limited liability company
in order to acquire legal status for implementing the component. UVA also carried out
studies on the viability of privatized veterinary services in the districts, organized
promotional seminars to sensitize farmers and three short-term courses for veterinarians
on topics related to artificial insemination and on running effective business ventures.
18.       In spite of the time consuming efforts made in preparing the credit
component, not even a single loan was taken from the project funds by the veterinarians.
This is because some commercial banks were not qualified to participate in the project,
and those who were qualified did not like the terms and conditions of the on-lending plan.
In addition, the commercial banks had some misgivings in providing medium-term loans
to people whose credit worthiness was not established, and whose cash flow was not
adequate to enable the repayment of loans. Furthermore, the interest rate, which was over
20%, was considered too high for the emerging business of private veterinarians. The
credit scheme was, therefore, cancelled in mid 1997. However, veterinarians were not
discouraged by this situation and they started to open private practices, particularly in the
high potential districts, where improved dairy farming was growing. So far about 80
veterinarians have established private practices, which is more than what the project had
aimed for. The project was instrumental in inducing the emergence of private veterinary
practice through continuous sensitization. However, it should be recognized that the
crucial factor that encouraged veterinarians was favourable policy environment created
by the Government, such as the liberalization of importing and selling veterinary drugs
and some vaccines. Government is presently studying the possibility of contracting
vaccination campaigns to private practitioners, and reviewing the specific roles of public
and private veterinarians, with a view to consolidating the emerging private veterinarian
practice. Most of the privately operating veterinarians are combining other side activities,
such as consultancy services on dairy development and sale of drugs, in order to improve
the viability of their businesses. Many of them are borrowing from commercial banks
short-term working capital to purchase the necessary drugs and other supplies.
Water Supply
19.       The water supply component was added during the mid-tern review,
following the request by MAAIF. Although US$2.1 million was allocated for this
component, there was no prior preparation of the component's activities, let alone their
appraisal. The only information provided by the mid-term review was that about 100
valley dams and tanks would be constructed and rehabilitated with the cooperation of the
communities. The water supply component aimed at providing water points in the
traditional cattle grazing corridor as a means of disease control (through a decrease in
livestock movement) and promoting livestock production. As such it is compatible with
the stated objectives of the project. Having said that, however, the dams and tanks should
have been prepared in detail, their feasibility and environmental impact assessed, and
their financing plan and management arrangements laid out, before being considered for
implementation.



-39-
20.       In August 1995 - about 10 months before the original credit closing date of
June 30, 1996 - a consultant engineer was recruited by the project to assist in the
planning, design and estimation of bills of quantities for the proposed dams and tanks.
Implementation of the water supply component was divided into two programmnes: a pilot
scheme in Mbarara district, consisting of 1 dam and 3 tanks to be executed by MAAIF on
force account, and a total of 50 reservoirs - 30 new ones and 20 existing reservoirs - to be
constructed/rehabilitated by private contractors. The pilot schemes were expected to
provide information and data necessary for developing the 50 reservoirs. Soon after the
start of their execution, the pilot schemes came to a standstill because of shortage of
funds, since the financing arrangement under force account was for GOU to pay for the
works upfront, and to seek IDA's reimbursement later. As no funds could be advanced by
GOU, little progress was made during the year 1996/97. Work resumed in 1997/98 after
GOU and IDA agreed to use funds generated by the sale of forage seeds and vaccines in
the construction of the reservoirs. The plan of constructing/rehabilitating 50 reservoirs
was reviewed in March 1996, and was reduced to 15 due to shortage of funds. The
contract for the 15 reservoirs was awarded to two firms in the second half of 1997. With
the exception of one, the construction of all the reservoirs is almost completed, and are
expected to be commissioned soon. As an indication of poor preparation, a number of
schemes experienced cost over-runs, particularly those that had to be modified during
implementation.
21.       The reservoirs will certainly benefit the inhabitants of the surrounding areas
by supplying water to the people and their livestock, particularly during the dry season.
Animal diseases will be checked by avoiding long distance travel to grazing areas with
water points. However, this will depend on the success of operating these facilities on a
sustainable basis. The lack of any environmental assessment study leaves these
communities unprepared for any eventual negative side effects resulting from the
construction of these dams.
Institutional Development
22.       The project provided considerable support to strengthen DAR and the
provision of livestock services through staff training and provision of equipment. About
38 staff have received education at MSc level. About 190 staff have also attended short-
term training mainly in livestock management, and 55 staff have participated in
international conferences. In addition, 70 workshops in the fields of animal health and
production have been organized and attended by about 800 staff. The project has also
provided substantial field transport facilities and laboratory equipment to 39 districts and
to the main DAR laboratory in Entebbe. Although the initial package of internationally
recruited technical assistance personnel was cancelled, the project has benefitted from
about 170 man-months of consultancy, in the field of civil engineering and management
as required. Five studies have been conducted by the project to learn about the viability of
dips, tsetse targets, milk production, water reservoirs and private veterinary practice. All
these inputs have greatly improved the capability of DAR to effectively combat diseases
and enhance livestock production, hence to provide improved delivery of livestock
services to producers.



- 40 -
Organisation and Management
23.       The organisation and management of the project as provided in the original
plan, was too complex due to the numerous management levels created outside the
normal MAAIF system. Its complexity was more exposed when the government
decentralized most of the activities to the districts. The modification of the project
organization and management by integrating the project into the normal MAAIF
programme slightly improved implementation by reducing the steps in the management
chain and by placing responsibility and accountability on the heads of the departments or
Commissioners. The Project Implementation Committee (PIC), introduced after the mid-
term review, had become an appropriate forum to discuss and plan project
implementation, as its members were the heads of the DAR departments. The project has
throughout failed to improve the capacity within DAR in the procurement of goods and
services. The delay in purchasing equipment and the cancellation of many civil works is
mainly due to weakness in procurement.
Project Costs and Financing
24.       At completion, total project costs amounted to Ush. 21,375 million or
US$20.3 million. Disbursement as of October 31st, 1998, amounted to US$18.32 million,
excluding outstanding withdrawal applications.
Borrower and IDA Performance
25.       Both GOU and IDA should be commended for conceptualizing the LSP as a
means of combatting the alarming animal disease situation, and in addressing production
related problems, in the context of rehabilitating the agricultural sector. The negative
consequences to the sector and the costs of rehabilitation would have been greater if
interventions to tackle the animal health situation were to be delayed by even a few years.
However, the performance of both GOU and IDA during the implementation of the LSP
was less satisfactory. This is because sufficient efforts were not made to ensure that
problems faced by the project were resolved expeditiously. For instance GOU often
failed to provide all the funds it approved or to release on a timely basis whatever was
allocated to the project. IDA was also reacting slowly in resolving the problems of the
project as it was supervising the credit only once a year, and that also not critically
enough. For example, the lingering problems in preparing plans and bids for civil works
until the project closed, could have been resolved much earlier. Likewise it should have
been understood that the abandonment of the forage development component to its fate,
after its transfer to the extension service, and reducing its funding would stall the
development of this component. Regarding the water supply, both GOU and IDA share
the responsibility for accepting to implement technically unprepared schemes, hence for
the difficulties encountered during implementation. The complex project organisation and
management of the project is also to be considered a major flaw in project design.



-41 -
Project Impact and Sustainability
26.       Inspite of the problems encountered during implementation, the project has
made a decisive contribution in changing the alarming animal health situation which
existed before LSP. This means that project performance would have been much
superior, if the problems faced during implementation had been removed. Rinderpest and
CBPP, which cause the highest mortality in cattle, are now virtually under control as a
result of a massive vaccination campaign and continuous surveillance. Trypanasomosis in
the mid-western part of the country has also been brought under control. The
liberalization of veterinary drug importation and sale has markedly improved the
prevention and treatment of animal diseases with the assistance of the government or
private veterinarians. All these activities have resulted in reversing the decline of
livestock population and significant increase in livestock numbers have been witnessed
since the implementation of LSP. Although other projects such as PARC have also
contributed to livestock development, the most important livestock development
programme in Uganda during the nineties remain LSP.
27.       Important achievements have also been attained in improving production and
productivity through forage development. The project has successfully introduced the
technology of producing high value forage crops, and is being adopted by farmers
rapidly. Forage seeds are now being produced and sold freely in the country, albeit in a
non-organised manner. Many farmers who produce and use improved forages, either for
cut and carry feeding or grazing, are apt at explaining the benefits of these activities in
increased milk production. Although it is too early to judge the impact of the water
reservoirs, they are also expected to bring about significant development in livestock in
the areas concerned. Overall the project has made a positive impact on the Country's
economy. However, it should be noted that the risk of possible negative environmental
impact in terms of human and animal health and overgrazing were not assessed.
28.       The sustainability of the project will greatly depend on each district, as they
are now responsible for funding and managing the components. There are signs now in
some districts of under funding field veterinary activities and this may affect
sustainability. Fortunately, the responsibility for the major epidemic diseases such as
rinderpest and CBPP is still with DAR, and are determined to carry on with vaccination
campaigns and surveillance as and when required. Sustainability of tsetse control, using
live bait technology, and forage development is practically guaranteed as it will be
carried out by farmers themselves who have enthusiastically adopted them. Discussions
are underway among seed producing farmer groups to join an association to establish the
basis for forage seed production and marketing. As they are now planned, the water
reservoirs will be managed by users who are now being registered as an association.
Members will pay for the operation and maintenance of the reservoirs, and this is
expected to ensure sustainability.
Lessons Learned
29.       The following lessons can be drawn from the project: (a) organisation and
management should be kept simple and incorporated within the government structure in



- 42 -
order to avoid delays in implementation due to added bureaucracy; (b) lack of counterpart
funds disrupts and delays project implementation. Hence some concrete measures in
increasing the financing of operational costs are necessary, instead of giving general
recommendations which do not improve the situation; (c) restructuring and
decentralisation of government entails the transfer of staff and project activities, thereby
disrupting agreed project plans and momentum gained in implementation. It pays to plan
gradual and smooth integration of programmes into new situations, instead of abrupt
incorporation of the new changes; (d) technically unprepared components, such as the
water supply, are bound to entail implementation difficulties, cost overruns and delays,
contrary to the original intention of expediting their implementation; (e) as can be seen
from para 28, sustainability is better guaranteed by ensuring that farmers are made
responsible for operation and maintenance of components; and (t) creation of a
favourable climate by government can stimulate private operators, such as the privatized
veterinarians, more than provision of credit or other assistance.



-43 -
APPENDIX B
Livestock Services Project (Cr. 2176-UG)
Government's Terminal Evaluation Report
Executive Summary
This is the internal terminal evaluation report of the Livestock Services Project (LSP) by
the Government of Uganda. It is based on the findings of field visits, interviews, review
of project progress reports and discussions held with beneficiaries and implementors of
LSP in February 1998.
The report evaluates the success of the LSP in generating anticipated impact towards the
achievement of stated objectives. It assesses appropriateness of the design, the
implementation arrangements and achievements, project effects and overall impact on the
beneficiaries and the environment. Lessons learnt from implementation experience are
given for future development of livestock industry.
The report has been prepared as a requirement for World Bank assisted projects. The
main aims of the LSP were to reverse the decline in livestock numbers through
improvement in disease control and other productivity enhancing measures, improve the
quality and cost effectiveness of livestock services, and to support government policy of
encouraging the development of private veterinary practice for curative services and the
distribution of veterinary drugs through private channels. The project is being
implemented under six components: National Animal Disease Control, Tsetse Control,
Forage Development, Veterinary Privatisation, Institutional Development and Water for
Livestock. The project was to run for five years from November 1991 to June 1996 at an
estimated total cost of US$24.7 m and was extended two times each for twelve month
periods to June 1997 and June 1998 plus an extra 3 months to September 1998 to allow
completion of the project activities.
A total of US$15.8 m which is 75% of total IDA funding had been spent by 16th April
1998 and is expected to exceed 90% by project closure on 30th June 1998.
The project was reviewed and restructured at Mid-Term Review (MTR) in February
1994. The project has been effective in strengthening delivery of livestock services.
Essential vaccines, drugs, professional equipment and transport for both headquarter and
field staff were procured. Staff skills have been enhanced through training 38 staff at
MSc level and several short courses. Operational funds for mass vaccinations against
CBPP and Rinderpest, Foot and Mouth Disease and Rabies among others were provided.
Regular disease monitoring and surveillance were carried out and disease control
measures effected.
Under the Tsetse Control, tsetse survey units were established in 10 districts of mid
Western Uganda, i.e., Masindi, Hoima, Kiboga, Luwero, Kibaale, Mubende, Apac,
Kabarole, Bundibugyo and Mbarara which conducted tsetse surveys to determine
prevalence, distribution and density of tsetse species. Tsetse distribution maps showing
relative abundances of tsetse flies in 142 Sub-counties were produced. Nine (9)



- 44 -
entomologists have been trained at MSc level while forty (40) newly recruited
entomologists got in-service training. Eight staff vehicles were procured as well as 53
motorcycles for field staff, access route construction equipment, pyrethroids, odour
attractants, trap making materials and 10,000 targets. Integrated community based tsetse
control measures including live bait technology and tsetse traps and targets to reclaim
large areas from tsetse infestation were used.
For effective implementation of forage activities, the unit acquired 8 staff vehicles, 20
motorcycles, seed testing equipment and procured assorted demonstration materials
including barbed wires, fencing posts, fertilizers and 71,850 kg of assorted legume and
grass seeds. Local seed multiplication for both was initiated and 46.5m tons of seed
bought by LSP and redistributed to farmers. Regular training for staff and farmers has
been held and 4 staff have acquired MSc. Farmers have been equipped with improved
husbandry management skills in pasture improvement (oversowing) fertilizing, fencing,
upgrading cattle and local capacity to produce pasture legume and grass seeds
established.
Water for livestock production is a late comer to the project, introduced at MTR and
covers 6 districts namely Ntungamo, Mbarara, Sembabule, Nakasongola, Kiboga and
Mubende. Under the Pilot scheme covering 4 reservoirs, 3 are nearing completion and
one of them is already being used. Work on the 15 contracted reservoirs was proceeding
in a phased manner but due to interruption by El-Nino, work is likely to be completed at
least 2-4 months beyond closing date of 30 June 1998 as per supervising Consultant
Engineer's estimate.
Disease control efforts were supplemented by efforts to privatise curative veterinary
services. Some 22 veterinarians were trained in financial and business management and
40 private practices have been established. Studies were carried out which identified the
form of privatisation model to be pursued in Uganda. For example revision of veterinary
legislation and recognition of role of paravets are key elements of the continued refonn.
Liberalisation of trade in veterinary drugs and inputs since 1992 has resulted in their
widespread availability country wide. However, credit funds amounting to US$2 m were
not accessed because of stringent conditions imposed making it unattractive both to
Commercial Banks and end users.
The evaluation shows that as a result of improved disease control and nutrition, the
incidence of epidemic disease has been reduced and productivity of the animals gone up.
Calf and cow mortality have reduced while offtake has increased. For example the daily
milk yield of a friesan local cross has increased from 7 to 10 litres while calf mortality
has reduced to 7 from 10. The result of these is herd growth of 3% p.a. (1997) compared
to .4% (1986). The increase in milk production to from 393m litres (1994) 500 m litres
(1997) is accompanied with corresponding installment of 6 new milk processing plants
and export of surplus raw milk to neighboring Rwanda and Democratic Republic of
Congo.
The project has therefore attained its major objectives of reversing the decline in
livestock numbers through improvements in disease control and productivity enhancing
measures. The quality and cost effectiveness of livestock services has been through



- 45 -
increased staff mobility and cost recovery measures. Distribution of veterinary drugs by
private sector is one of the most successful initiatives undertaken by LSP. Awareness has
been created of the need for privatisation of curative services and farmers are more
willing to pay for the services even as their incomes have generally increased. However,
recognition must be made of the contribution of other projects in the subsection such as
PARC, Dairy Rehabilitation and GTZ support to animal Health Investigation,
Rehabilitation of the feeder and trunk road network and macroeconomic stability
especially inflation.
Despite the above achievements, there were some implementation constraints. The
design of the project management and implementation structure was complex and until
restructured at Mid-Term Review in February 1994, it was a major source of
implementation delays. The institutional reforms under the merger of MAIF and MOA,
decentralisation, Unified Extension affected the level of staffing and funding available to
implementors at district level. There was also chronic counterpart underfunding all
through except in 1997/98 and the flow was often late.
Delays were also incurred due to unusually long lapses on part of IDA to take action
notably infrequent supervision missions, approval of civil works (30 months), DCA
amendments and granting approval for appointing Programme Advisor.
The Ministry (Namalere) did not have the capacity to implement the pilot water phase.
Later on, the construction of water reservoirs in 1997/98 was unduly disrupted by El-
Nino. As a result there are some activities which won't be complete by 30 June 1998.
Important lessons were leamt from LSP experience among which are: The design of the
project should be compatible with existing structures and a detailed implementation
manual and a monitoring system are essential elements. Funding of activities should be
consistent and go to where the responsibility is. Effective control of some diseases and
vectors is best carried out as a regional not district effort. The participation of grassroot
implementors in project identification and ongoing planning as well as effective
supervision by the top management of the project are crucial for successful
implementation.
It is important that in view of the delays in implementation, activities not completed by
30'h June 1998 be completed and measures instituted to ensure their sustainability. These
include review of undergraduate veterinary curriculum, pasture demonstrators, bull
scheme, revolving seed scheme and its privatisation, legislation and policy reform
(Veterinary Surgeons Acts) and liberalisation of drugs and vaccine trade and construction
and rehabilitation of DVO's offices. In addition, there are new priorities which have
surfaced in order to modernise agriculture and eradicate mass poverty. This report
recommends a follow-on project to address the above issues.



36                      31'                     31                       31
UGANDA                                                   SUDAN                                                                    d 
LIVESTOCK SERVICES PROJECT
MAJOR CATTLE MOVEMENTS                                     OY                                                                        KENYA
MARCH  1989                         A                                        0 KrrG                       KOTID
ARsUA                                            -C:<                         KITGUM         7KOnro  
3'             Areaaatededbycraltleruslling                                                                            3*
(1983-89)
Transhumant rnovernents                                        _w
'*           Refugee .Me                                                 /MOOTe
Unauhohized trade routes          NEBB                           APAC
-4*.-         Authorized trade routesYt                                                                                       M       00:
-9    *        District capitals                                                   A              )C
Noftonal cap'ital
District boundaries                           ND
Internmaional bounda ries
|l  TORORO  *MBALE
3'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z
(8UND18UGY ~ ~ ~    ~~~~~~~~~              25  Si S t  1/S  iS  CIGMETEroro 
K  NDI_                                                __ _ _ _ __ _  _ _ _                  U U D
KAAEgTNANAAB KAlAROLE                                                  60 MILES                        ANNOIA
NA1_ MBARARA 31                     1KA  ,
/    |-ts,BUSHENY                                  MA3AKA  ,'\UDANETIOIA~
X : gH  WSHENYI fj   A? tuf V   tf                                   SOMALI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SOALIA
o  e-]G A     t1/      /        0  0  ~~~~~~~RAKAI    ' |00:                                               g        EY 
,   _>  _   \  X r                   :                                        _    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RWANDA-      
KABALE i o~~~~~~~~~ 25                                S o75  100 KILOMeTReS       BURUND 7,
2    .        ~~~KA8ALE 9i    j^            TAZA                      °      2     40    66 MILESTAZNA 0  
2                                                TAZAI                                                                                                  a rWNA)  P/3  §S    D



4'             UGANDA                                                        SUDAN                                                                         4' -  7
LIVESTOCK SERVICES PROJECT                                                     ~-  
DISTRIBUTION OF CONTAGIOUS BOVINE\/2 MY                                       ,(\1 /'
PlEUROPNEUMONIA AND RINDERPEST    K,o.7                                                                                                         ENYA
APRIL 1989                          ARUA                      .                    fGMP                      KOTIDO    \ '
| ARUA        J                           sKITGUM                               KOnIDo ;0
Area of endemic contaqious GU -  
bovine pleturopneumonia                /                 UU      *    -!\{/ 1 
Epidemic rinderpest                                        8* ;GULU                                                            MOROo\
it . pluropneumonia            (NBI    S'0|                                                 LIRA       ,,                 g 
. Direction of cdvance |  n1  2g]    \J                                  PC     g URAts9 i, 
I              Zq                         A t 1,,981 1 s_t            to               >    ~~~~~~~~~~~MOROTO \
e  *       ~~~~Districtcapitols               tYMASINDt                        I    ,                                soRonT,98,1 
63   National capifal              Afb    t)            MASINDI                                       so,aan0/ 4                 KAPCHORWA
-          ~~~~~District boundaries  / /       _      8/                        T       \                             UI>  
International boundariesI  /*   _       
4 / / ~~~HOIMA @tM HRA
o                  >   /    ~~~~~~~~~~~                            ~~~~HOIMA  UWER M[  t   KMALE 
fUNDIBUGg < v ~~MUBENDE (XittR 
,{ *               (  MU~~~~ ~       ~ ~~BENDE                                KMIIAJNJ          J        T.W.S  # ,1,xI$2l
KAEAROLE   MKNIGANAM  ie<efjn@sTt..s>.f
/t_        >          MtGI t aMUKONO  >                            e    e   2 ....                    ,,,,~MUK
rASES   MPIGIJ_  . t 
ol                 KASESE 2L                                                                                                                               0  . @s\
~~~~~~~~~M8ARAPA  7mAA ,^ c\SUN @9T
/   <    E~~~~~USHENI                     /MSK                                                                               ETHIOPIA 
Edv.aid l  7  .  M   ~~MBARARA                        /         0                                   CAR    
- 19   f<<4      &                 Mb,,0 \  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~RAKAJ         V  \ictoria                 _        wA D X          ENYA        /
t 9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0    25   50   75   100  KILOMETERS                            BURUNDI 
2              1(~~~~~~~A8ALE  X                ,s7NA0                     °      2       0     60 MILES                      TNAI                ld}l 
2   /             ,rWANA  b|           3f                    )  3                          3!zZTANZA'-NIA>



31                            3f                           3S                            33 1/
UGANDA                                                                 SUDAN
LIVESTOCK SERVICES PROJECT
AREAS OF INCREASED INCIDENCE OF BOVINE                                       MOYG
TRYPANOSOMIASIS ASSOCIATED WITH AN                                                                               IMNYA
INCREASING TSETSE DISTRIBUTION                        ARDA                                                                                 KC07 DO
1981-1989
3o                                  (  ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~ARUA                                         K  KTGUM O                     KOTIDO      <                   3
Area of increased incidence of
bovine tryponosomiosis
Direcitio of increased distribution                               UL                                                                          OO
of tsetse fly                                                                                                                                MOROTO
Area of probable increase distribution
of tsetse f y not accompa,ned by data
on bovine trypao-somiasis -5U
0    District capitols                                                                                                    SOROT
*                                                                      )                                                                                     |~~~~~~~~~~~~AI
National capital!OR
District boundaries                                                                                                                           K
Interncational boundariesa
HO1MA                                                                  LE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SOAI
ROLEI3U M hlBENDE : ;    0                                                                                        RO 
>            ~~~ABkAROLE   + D+                                                        U D +C {                                        ^sdgy3bes t
a                                1  j t _  _ RWANSDAUDAN
_~~~~~v;                                      W  WAt                                                                                      A  A.;i_r.oM



