Page  1
                                                   CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2176 UG
                   (Livestock Services Project)
                              between
                      THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      Dated November 7, 1990
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2176 UG
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated November 7, 1990, between THE REPUBLIC OF
UGANDA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
Page  2
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "MAIF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Animal Industry
and Fisheries;
      (b)   "DVSAI" means the Department of Veterinary Services and
Animal Industry within MAIF;
      (c)   "DTC" means the Department of Tsetse Control within
MAIF;
      (d)   "AHRC" means the Animal Health Research Center within
DVSAI;
      (e)   "UVA" means the Uganda Veterinary Association;
      (f)   "PCU" means the Project Coordination Unit to be estab-
lished within MAIF;
      (g)   "Participating Bank" means a bank selected by the
Borrower to participate in the credit scheme under Part D 1 of the
Project, in accordance with criteria satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation, including appropriate administrative capability and the
required operational branch network.
      (h)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into by the Borrower with one or more Participating Banks
pursuant to Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
      (i)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project prep-
aration advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant
to exchanges of letters dated, April 11, 1988,  May 11, 1988,
March 16, 1990 and April 24, 1990, between the Borrower and the
Association; and
      (j)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to sixteen
million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 16,100,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in U.S. Dollars through the Bank of Uganda a
special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection
against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments
out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Page  3
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1996 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each June 1 and December 1 commencing
December 1, 2000 and ending June 1, 2030. Each installment to and
including the installment payable on June 1, 2010 shall be one
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Bor-
Page  4
rower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through MAIF
and UVA with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate financial and administrative practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall relend an amount not
exceeding the equivalent of two million three hundred thousand
dollars ($2,300,000) from the proceeds of the Credit to Par-
ticipating Banks under Subsidiary Loan Agreements to be entered into
between the Borrower and Participating Banks under terms and
conditions which shall have been approved by the Association, which
shall include: (i) an undertaking by Participating Banks to on-lend
the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan to veterinarians and UVA under
Part D.1 of the Project under the terms and conditions specified in
paragraphs 11, 12 and 13 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (ii) a
repayment period not exceeding ten years; and (iii) interest at the
rate of thirty four and one-half percent (34.5%) per annum.
      (b)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreements in such manner as to protect the interest
of the Bororwer and the Association and to accomplish the purposes
of the Credit and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any provisions thereof.
      Section 3.04. (a)  In order to assist MAIF to cover part of
the incremental cost of Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall,
unless otherwise agreed with the Association, take all measures
necessary to:
            (i)   levy a twenty percent user fee, on the CIF cost
                  and handling charges of veterinary curative drugs
                  financed from the proceeds of the Credit under
                  Part A of the Project, by March 31, 1991; and
            (ii)  introduce a nominal vaccination fee, of not less
                  than the Uganda Shillings equivalent of $0.50 per
                  head of cattle, by December 31, 1993.
      (b)   The Borrower shall open and maintain in the Bank of
Uganda, in the name of MAIF, an account and deposit therein the
proceeds of all sales of veterinary curative drugs procured under
Part A of the Project, and use such funds to exclusively finance
incremental operational costs pursuant to paragraph 2 (c) of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Page  5
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                  the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
                  in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Association;
           (ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
                  but in any case not later than six months after
                  the end of each such year, a certified copy of
                  the report of such audit by said auditors, of
                  such scope and in such detail as the Association
                  shall have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Association shall from time to
                  time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;
           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account or payment out of the Special Account was
                  made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
                  bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
                  such expenditures;
          (iii)   enable the Association's representatives to
                  examine such records; and
           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                            ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning
of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the Borrower has established the Project Management
Committee and appointed its members pursuant to paragraph 3 of
Page  6
Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
      (b)   the recruitment of: (i) a veterinary epidemiologist,
(ii) a laboratory technologist, (iii) a tsetse control specialist,
(iv) a forage development specialist, (v) a business management
specialist, and (vi) an organization and management specialist
pursuant to paragraphs 7, 8, 9, 10 and 16 of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement; and
      (c)   the Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been executed
pursuant to Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement.
      Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan
Agreements have been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and
the Participating Banks and are legally binding upon the Borrower
and the Participating Banks in accordance with its terms.
      Section 5.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance  of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            P.O. Box 8147
            Kampala, Uganda
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  FINSEC                    61170
                  Kampala
      For the Association:
            International Development
             Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                    248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.            82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                        THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
Page  7
                        By /s/ Stephen K. Katenta-Apuli
                                         Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                           SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                           Amount of the
                         Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed           Expenditures
      Category            SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)   Civil Works             1,760,000         100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                80% of local
                                                expenditures
(2)   Vehicles,               5,380,000         100% of foreign
      equipment, drugs                          expenditures and
      and seeds                                 80% of local
                                                expenditures
(3)   Credit under            1,530,000         100%
      Part D.1 of
      the Project
(4)   Incremental Operating   2,220,000         100% for the
      Costs                                     period through
                                                June 30, 1992;
                                                60% in fiscal year
                                                1992-93; 45% in
                                                fiscal year
                                                1993-94; 25% in
                                                fiscal year
                                                1994-95; and 15%
                                                from July 1, 1995
                                                through December 31,
                                                1995
                           Amount of the
                         Credit Allocated             % of
                            (Expressed           Expenditures
      Category            SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(5)   Technical               3,070,000         100% of foreign
      assistance and                            expenditures and
      training                                  80% of local
                                                expenditures
(6)   Refunding of              610,000         Amounts due
      Project                                   pursuant to
      Preparation                               Section 2.02 (c)
      Advance                                   of this Agreement
(7)   Unallocated             1,530,000
      TOTAL                  16,100,000
Page  8
                             ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
      (c)   the term "incremental operating costs" means expendi-
tures incurrred for: (i) repair and maintenance of vehicles and
heavy equipment financed under the Project; (ii) laboratory and
office supplies; and (iii) allowances for staff of PCU, Project
Management Committee, DVSAI, Department of Tsetse Control and the
Faculties of Veterinary Medicine and Agriculture of Makerere
University.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.
                           SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are: (a) to reverse the
deterioration of the animal epidemic disease situation in Uganda;
(b) to improve the quality and effectiveness of livestock services
provided by MAIF; and (c) to support the Borrower's policy of
encouraging the development of private veterinary practices for
curative services and the distribution of drugs through private
channels.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     National Animal Disease Control
1.    Establishment of three mobile service units equipped to
control animal disease outbreaks through the acquisition of
vehicles, including motorcycles, bicycles, mobile laboratories,
veterinary and workshop equipment, curative drugs and vaccines and
the construction and renovation of district veterinary offices.
2.    Rehabilitation of MAIF's diagnostic facilities through
technical assistance and training.
Part B:     Tsetse Fly Control
      Implementation of a tsetse eradication program in the Luwero,
Mubende, Masindi and Hoima districts including: (i) renovation of
DTC's staff housing, office accommodation, laboratory and workshop
facilities at Masindi and the central tsetse control laboratory in
Kampala; (ii) acquisition of vehicles, plant, equipment and
insecticides; and (iii) technical assistance and training.
Part C:     Forage Development
      Expansion and improvement of forage production including: (i)
seed production and services covering about 7,500 milk producing
farms, 12,000 ha communal and ranch areas and 10,000 km of grass
strips to protect terraced cultivation; and (ii) establishment of a
forage development unit within DVSAI through renovation of
facilities, acquisition of vehicles, equipment and seeds, and
technical assistance and training.
Part D:     Privatization of Veterinary Services
Page  9
1.    A credit scheme to assist: (a) veterinarians currently
employed by MAIF to establish private practices; and (b) UVA to
import drugs and equipment to be supplied to members.
2.    Establishment of a veterinary diagnostic center and strength-
ening of the post-graduate veterinary medicine program at Makerere
University.
Part E:     Institutional Development
1.    Streamlining MAIF's organizational structure.
2.    Strengthening MAIF's project management and monitoring
capabillities, through technical assistance and acquisition of
vehicles and office equipment.
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1995.
                           SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, civil works and goods
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for equipment, vehicles,
furniture, drugs and forage seeds shall be grouped into bid packages
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Uganda may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Civil works, other than prefabricated buildings, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satis-
factory to the Association.
2.    Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less per
contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of
$250,000 may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
3.    Items or groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent of
$20,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed the equivalent of $100,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from
at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
Page  10
      (a)   With respect to each contract for: (i) civil works
estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000 or more; and (ii) goods
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of
the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall
be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has
authorized withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist MAIF and UVA in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall cause MAIF and UVA to employ the experts and
consultants, referred to in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such experts and
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981.
                           SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
Project Coordination and Management
1.    MAIF shall be responsible for the overall implementation of
the Project, with the assistance of the sub-committee on livestock
of the Agricultural Policy Committee which shall serve as the
Steering Committee (the Steering Committee). The Steering Committee
shall be chaired by the Permanent Secretary, MAIF and include
representatives of the Ministries of Planning and Economic
Development, Environment and Cooperatives and Marketing, the
Agricultural Secretariat of Bank of Uganda, Makerere University and
the Project Coordinator to be appointed by MAIF, as members. The
Steering Committee, which shall meet semiannually, shall be
responsible for approving annual work plans and budgets, reviewing
annual accounts and audit reports, as well as resolving policy
issues.
2.    A project coordination unit (PCU), to be headed by the Project
Coordinator and comprising a financial controller/procurement
manager, an organization and management specialist and support
staff, shall be established by December 31, 1990, and thereafter
maintained within MAIF to coordinate Project direction and
administration. PCU shall be responsible for the review and
compilation of annual work plans and budgets, facilitation of
implementation of Project activities, and for financial control and
procurement.
3.    Supervision and monitoring of Project implementation shall be
Page  11
carried out by a Project Management Committee which shall be
established within MAIF, under the chairmanship of the Permanent
Secretary, MAIF, or his representative and including the Project
Coordinator, the managers of the various components of the Project,
Ccommissioners for veterinary services and tsetse control, the Chief
Research Officer in AHRC, two representatives of farmers, and
appropriate staff as may be needed from time to time. The PMC shall
meet monthly to review progress and take appropriate measures to
expedite effective Project implementation.
4.    Annual work programs prepared by the managers of the various
components of the Project and duly approved by the steering com-
mittee pursuant to paragraph 1 of this Schedule, shall be submitted
to the Association by the PCU, not later than July 1, of each year.
Drafts of the annual work program shall be submitted to the
Association for its review and comments not later than May 1 of each
year.  The initial work program covering up to June 1991, shall be
prepared and submitted to the Association by January 1, 1991.
5.    The managers of each component of the Project shall prepare
and submit to the PCU, semiannual reports on the progress of the
Project, comparing the actual results achieved during the period
covered in the report with targets set in the work program and
budget. The PCU shall forward to the Association the first report by
February 28, 1991, and all subsequent reports not later than two
months after the end of the reporting period.
6.    MAIF and the Association shall, by December 31, 1993, carry
out a comprehensive review of progress made in the implementation of
the Project, on the basis of a comprehensive report satisfactory to
the Association which shall be submitted to the Association not
later than sixty days prior to the review date.
Part A of the Project
7.    MAIF shall appoint an experienced veterinarian within DVSAI,
to manage this component of the Project under the overall direction
of the Commissioner of Veterinary Services. The component manager,
who shall report to the Project Coordinator through the
Commissioner, shall be assisted by an epidemiologist. The Chief
Research Officer at AHRC, who will be responsible for complementary
diagnostic support, shall be assisted by a laboratory technologist
who will work closely with the mobile units for control of epidemic
diseases.
Part B of the Project
8.    (a)   A senior entomologist within DTC shall be appointed by
MAIF to manage this Project component, under the overall respon-
sibility of the Commissioner of Tsetse Control. The manager, will
report to the Project Coordinator through the Commissioner of Tsetse
Control and shall be assisted by a tsetse control specialist.
      (b)   The procurement and use of insecticides required to
implement the tsetse control program, shall be carried out in
accordance with guidelines satisfactory to the Association.
Part C of the Project
9.    (a)   MAIF shall establish a Forage Development Unit to be
based at the AHRC in Entebbe and to be headed by a manager who shall
report to the Project Coordinator through the Commissioner of
Veterinary Services. He shall be assisted by a forage development
specialist and two senior production officers who shall be
responsible for training, seed production, and extension services.
      (b)   MAIF shall, with the assistance of the Faculty of
Agriculture of Makerere University, carry out a review of the seed
production scheme by September 30, 1993, and if the scheme is found
to be profitable, shall take all measures necessary to transfer the
seed packaging and distribution process to private operators by
September 30, 1994.
Page  12
      (c)   MAIF shall prepare and implement a program, satis-
factory to the Association, for the phasing out of MAIF's farms and
ranches not required to support its extension and research
activities.
Part D of the Project
10.   UVA shall be responsible for the implementation of this
component of the Project through an experienced veterinarian, who
shall report to the Project Coordinator through the Chairman of UVA.
UVA shall employ a firm of consultants to carry out the day-to-day
management of this component through a business management adviser,
with experience in privatization schemes, supported by a credit
specialist, a legal adviser and a training specialist. The
consultants shall, in consultation with the manager of the com-
ponent, develop criteria for selection and screening of applicants
for private practice, including qualifications satisfactory to UVA,
membership in UVA and successful completion of a retraining program
at Makerere University to update applicants' veterinary, business
and management skills.
11.   The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to ensure that
the Bank of Uganda shall establish and maintain a credit guarantee
scheme, satisfactory to the Association, whereby repayment of loans
made by Participating Banks under Part D.1 of the Project are
guaranteed.
12.   UVA and Participating Banks shall establish a credit com-
mittee consisting of executive committee members of UVA and credit
officers of the Participating Banks: (a) to review all loan
applications submitted by veterinarians who intend to start private
practice; (b) to determine the technical and financial viability of
the proposed practices; (c) to determine the amount and the terms
and conditions of the loan, which, unless otherwise agreed with the
Association shall (i) not exceed the Uganda Shillings equivalent of
$20,000; (ii) bear interest and other charges at the rate of 50% per
annum on the loan amount including an administrative fee of 2% per
annum on the loan amount which shall be payable to UVA and a credit
guarantee premium not exceeding 2-1/2% per annum on the loan amount
payable to the Bank of Uganda; and (iii) to have a repayment period
not exceeding ten years, including two years of grace.
13.   In order to assist UVA to establish a wholesale veterinary
cooperative to supply UVA's members with drugs and small equipment,
the Borrower shall, pursuant to Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement,
on-lend to UVA through a Participating Bank the Uganda Shillings
equivalent of $40,000, out of the proceeds of the Credit, at an
interest rate of 48% per annum, repayable in four years, including
two years of grace.
14.   The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to:
      (a)   discontinue its curative veterinary services as and when
private veterinary services become available in a particular area;
and
      (b)   sub-contract, through UVA, epidemic disease vaccina-
tions to private veterinarians whenever their services are
available.
15.   The Office of the Dean of the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine
at Makerere University shall establish a training unit consisting of
an administrator/veterinarian and a secretary, which shall report to
the manager of this component of the Project. The consultants
referred to in paragraph 10 above shall provide the Faculty of
Veterinary Medicine with necessary assistance on re-training and
course structure and content of the veterinary re-training program.
UVA and the training unit shall prepare and implement a detailed
work program, satisfactory to the Association, for the carrying out
of UVA's Project activities, and shall monitor progress in
implementation through the annual work program.
Page  13
Part E of the Project
16.   The Project Coordinator, under the overall direction of the
Permanent Secretary, MAIF, shall be responsible for overseeing the
implementation of the action program by December 31, 1990, with the
assistance of an organization and management specialist.
17.   In order to strengthen MAIF's accounting, internal control and
reporting system, MAIF shall, by December 31, 1990, establish and
submit to the Association, a management information system,
including an implementation schedule, satisfactory to the
Association.
                           SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   for withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested; and
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                  requests for deposits into the Special Account at
                  such intervals as the Association shall specify.
            (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
                  documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                  paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                  withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
                  the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                  shall have requested and as shall have been shown
                  by said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Page  14
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstand-
ing special commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Cate-
gories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify
by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to
the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the
Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
