Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-5384-LA
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF
SDR 32.1 MILLION (US$45 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
FOR A
HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
FEBRUARY 12, 1991
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY ELUIVALENTS
(as of June 1990)
Currency Unit     -    Kip Nationale (KN)
US$1.00     -     KN 710
MEASURES AND EOUIVALENTS
1 meter (m)                    -     3.2S08 feet (ft)
1 square meter (sq m)          -     10.7639 square feet (sq ft)
1 kilometer (km)                     0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (sq km)           0.3861 square mile (sq mi)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB               -    Asian Development Bank
ICB               -     International Competitive Bidding
IDA               -     International Development Association
IERR              -      Internal economic rate of return
IMF               -     International Monetary Fund
MCTPC              -    Ministry of Communication, Transport, Post
and Construction
MEFF              -    Ministry of Economy, Planning and Finance
NDF               -     Nordic Development Fund
NTS               -    National Transport Study
PDR                     People's Democratic Republic
PIP               -     Public Investment Program
SIDA              -     Swedish International Development Authority
SPC               -     State Planning Committee
TFYP              -     Third Five-Year Plan
UNDP               -    United Nations Development Programme
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:          The Lao People's Democratic Republic (Lao PDR)
Amount:            SDR 32.1 million (US$45 million equivalent)
Terms:             Standard, with 40 years maturity
Financing Plan:   Government                      US$ 2.6 million
Nordic Development Fund        US$ 5.0 million
IDA                            USS45.0 million
TOTAL                    US$52.6 million
Economic Rate
of Return:       17%
Staff Appraisal
Renort:         Report No. 9010-LA
M-aR:             IBRD No. 22322
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
FOR A HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
1.          The following memorarndum and recommendation on a proposed development
credit to the Lao People's Democratic Republic (Lao PDR) for SDR 32.1 million
(US$45 million equivalent) is submitted for approval.   Part I of the report
discusses Lao's development prospects and economic performance, and the Bank's
Group's assistance strategy. Part II describes the proposed credit.
PART I - COUNTRY POLICIES AND THE ASSOCIATION'S ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
2.          This part discusses Lao PDR's development problems and prospects, the
key reform priorities at the macroeconomic and sector levels, and the
Association's assistance strategy.   It draws upon a country economic report
entitled "Lao People's Democratic Republic: Issues in Public Economics" (No.
8532-LAO), which was distributed to the Executive Directors on August 10, 1990.
Additional information is available in the Policy Framework Paper, scheduled for
presentation to the Committee of the Whole in March 1991.
Background
3.          Recent Developments.  The Government of Lao PDR has continued its
economic reform efforts, begun in 1.985, aimed at broadening the economy's
exposure to market forces, opening up trade and foreign investment opportunities,
strengthening the role of the private sector, and improving macroeconomic
management. Its wide-ranging economic reforms include the decontrol of virtually
all producer and retail prices, elimination of consumer and other subsidies,
promulgation of a new foreign investment code, and unification of exchange rates.
The Government has been maintaining an official exchange rate broadly in line
with the parallel market rate.
4.          Despite initial setbacks due to severe drought in 1987-88 and a
rather slow supply response, the Government persevered with its reform efforts.
In mid-1989 it adopted a medium-term adjustment program that is being supported
by an IDA structural adjustment credit (SAC) of US$40 million, a three-year
International Monetary Fund (IMF) structural adjustment facility of SDR 20.51
million, and an Asian Development Bank (ADB) agriculture sector loan of US$20
million.   The main objectives of the medium-term program are to achieve an
average annual rate of real GDP growth of 5-6%; to reduce the rate of inflation
to that prevailing in trading partner countries in the convertible currency area
by 1992; and to make progress toward balance of payments viability.   The
structural adjustment assistance from the Association, the Fund and ADB forms
part of a longer-term strategy to support the Government in its reforms,
ultimately aimed at achieving a more broadly based, diversified economy.
5.          The resumption of normal weather and improved production incentives
in 1989 and 1990 have greatly benefitted agricultural output.  In particular,



-2-
rice production in 1989 reached an historically high level of 1.25 million tons.
However, the average rate of inflation also rose to about 50%, well in excess of
the Government's target of 35%. Although price increases abated considerably
during the second half of 1989 in response to the new harvest and, despite major
policy initiatives introduced at the outset of the program, including tax and
interest rate reforms and a tightening of credit policy, inflationary pressures
persisted. Nonetheless, GDP in 1990 is still projected to increase by about 7%
in real terms.
6.          In dealing with the external shocks and internal stresses that have
inevitably emerged given the broad scope of the current reform, the Government
has applied appropriate policies for the benefit of longer-term development.
These include: fiscal reforms to increase revenues to an estimated 10.9% of the
projected GDP in 1990 from the actual revenue of 9.5% of CDP in 1989; elimination
of price distortions and subsidies for public services; revision oL the interest
rate structure and efforts to maintain positive interest rates; and elimination
of the export tax on "strategic goods." Nevertheless, the country is faced with
difficulties in policy implementation, not only because of its weak
administrative capacity, but also as a result of its swift change to a market
economy. Therefore, there is a heavy reliance on technical assistance, being
provided by a number of international agencies, including the United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP), ADB, IMF and the Association.
7.          Institutional Reforms and the Third Five-Year Plan.   Since the
introduction of the economic reform program in 1985, the Government has been re-
examining and reorienting the structure of its central and technical ministries
and its relationship with local governments.  Prior to the reform, the State
Planning Committee (SPC) was the dominant development coordination agency. It
was a large organization employing about 300 persons with six vice chairmen in
charge of some 16 departments.   In late 1988 the SPC was abolished and the
planning functions were transferred to the Ministry of Finance, now called the
Ministry of Economy,  Planning and Finance  (MEPF).   The General  Planning
Department was given responsibility for the calculation of national accounts and
output targets, while the Capital Investment Planning Department became
responsible for screening, reviewing and estimating capital investment costs for
the annual plans as well as for reviewing and monitoring plan implementation.
8.          The present planning framework, though improved from the pre-1986
situation, is still overly reliant on a static long-term perspective. The Annual
Plan, conceived as the operational planning document providing the link between
planning and budgeting, is essentially a cumbersome annual budgetary exercise.
The investment part of the Plan is prepared without projections of recurrent
costs and does not provide sufficient assessments of progress relative to the
five-year targets which serve as the Plan's operational framework.   Further
reforms are envisaged to introduce flexibility into the system by planning on an
availability rather than on a needs basis. The Association, with UNDP technical
assistance funds, is currently assisting the Government in the process of
drafting a Third Five-Year Plan (TFYP) for 1991-96. This involves a radical
change in approach toward five-year planning by complementing the FYP with an
operational tool for allocating public resources on a medium-term basis, the
Public Investment Program (PIP). Over the longer term, it is expected that the



-3v
PIP will be upgraded into a full-fledged expenditure program, and the Govertunent
will develop its own capacity to conduct macroeconomic and policy analysis.
Plans for Future Development
9.          The Government, in its continuing effort to revitalize the country's
economy, plans to incorporate in its next five-year plan a set of policy actions
to help mobilize additional domestic resources to support its increased planned
investment.   Simplification of the tax system and improvement of the tax
administration, adjustment of public tariffs and user charges, and an improvement
in Government's financial assets management are all expected to generate
additional revenues. Additional public savings could be generated through the
privatization or restructuring of state enterprises and closer monitoring of
their  financial  performance.    Finally,  ongoing  financial  reforms  (e.g.,
restructuring of the banking system and adjustment of interest rates to a
positive level in real terms) will gradually encourage increased private
financial savings.
10.         Investment Priorities and Procedures.   In order to sustain the
current growth and support the projected expansion, efforts should be
concentrated on (a) developing effective sector strategies that strike the right
balance between direct means of intervention such as public investment and
indirect means such as the enabling framework; (b) designing cost-effective
overall proprams within indicative resource envelopes,  to implement sector
strategies; and (c) developing a consistent macro framework, as a context for the
sector strategies and programs.   The sector strategy statements can help to
achieve consistency between macroeconomic sector targets and the prospects for
individual sectors. Within each sector strategy, linkages should be established
to programs in other sectors.   These objectives would be achieved through
preparation of the TFYP (para. 7) complemented by a rolling multi-year PIP which
would comprise the Government's planned investment outlays over a given period.
The exercise is much more than a budgetary appropriation for capital outlays,
since it involves ranking and prioritizing projects according to specific
criteria and phasing outlays over the program period.
11.         Public  investment priority  during  the TFYP will  be  given  to
strengthening of the three key infrastructure sectors, i.e. telecommunications,
roads and electricity distribution, whereas much of the development of the
manufacturing and other productive sectors will be undertaken by the private
sector.   Agriculture will nevertheless remain the dominant sector for the
foreseeable future. In the past, rice self-sufficiency has been the primary goal
of the centrally-planned agricultural policy. However, under the reform program,
development of the agricultural sector depends largely on private enterprise,
whereby distribution of agricultural resources and the composition of
agricultural production will be market-determined. It is anticipated that this
will lead to substantial restructuring of rice production and diversification
into other crops as incomes increase and as internal and external trade
opportunities are improved through the provision of better transportation and
communications.   While the education and health sectors have been improved
substantially since the beginning of the new regime in 1975, more funds should
be allocated to the sectors which will in turn enhance the productivity of the



-4-
labor force. The detailed development strategy for each of these sectors and the
Association's role in the developmer.t process are described in paras. 19-24.
12.         Public Enterprise Reform.  The strategy for the coming period will
focus on a further disengagement of the Government from viable enterprises in
non-strategic sectors, closure of enterprises that are non-viable, and the
strengthening of those enterprises that remain in the Government's portfolio.
Consistent with a government statement in January 1990, the disengagement program
will be extended to all public enterprises outside the "strategic sector."  At
present, the Government, with IDA and ADB assistance, is reviewing its
privatization program and a survey is being made of potential enterprists for
divestiture.
13.         To strengthen the financial position of public enterprises retained
by the Government, efforts at cost rationalization will be supported by periodic
revisions  in  tariffs.      In  this  regard,  tariff  levels  for  domestic
telecommunication services were raised by about 100% as of January 1, 1991. For
electricity, the target for 1991 would be to raise the average tariff to at least
the price received on electricity exports to Thailand. The tariff levels set for
other major public utilities, such as water supply, would also be reviewed on a
regular basis to ensure cost recovery and adequate self-financing of investment.
14.         Budgetary  Policies.    In order  to expand  the public  sector's
contribution to national savings, as well as to moderate demand pressures in the
economy, a number of measures to be taken prior to, or in the context of, the
1991 budget would complement the 1989 tax reform. These include: introduction
of excise taxes on selected products, such as petroleum and luxury goods; further
streamlining of the turnover tax and import duties; imposition of a minimum
corporate tax (irrespective of profit level) and a simplified tax on small
businesses; and further extension of the tax withholding system.   Regarding
public expenditures, the Government is committed to make adequate resources
available to meet the maintenance needs of existing capital assets, guarantee an
adequate level of materials and supplies, and cover the recurrent costs of new
capital projects.  The Government is receiving technical assistance from the
Association and ADB to establish investment priorities for the Third Five-Year
Plan and strengthen investment programming procedures.
15.         Monetar-! Policy and Financial Reforms.  In order to constrain demand
pressures iL. tbh economy and to generate domestic financial savings, monetary
policies which aim to control annual credit programs would be drawn up and
quarterly credit ceilings established, including ceilings on public sector
credit.   In line with these limitations, appropriate and timely measures to
regulate the overall level of credit are to be effected by closely monitoring the
lending activities of central and commercial banks. To improve monetary control,
the Central Bank would consider initiating a system of reserve requirements and
a formal credit window by end-1990. In addition to reserve requirements, the
Central Bank would, if necessary, establish quantitative ceilings on commercial
bank credit. Interest rate policy would also be directed toward mobilization of
deposits, as well as containment and efficient allocation of credit by ensuring
positive real interest rates.



5
16.         External Sector Policies. External sector policies need to be guided
by the objectives of stimulating export production, providing incentives for
export diversification and foreign investment, and maintaining an adequate level
of international reserves. An appropriate exchange rate policy is critical to
achieve these objectives. As indicated above, the Government's aim is to reduce
aggregate demand pressures and lower inflation to avoid the need for frequent
depreciation  of  the kip.    The  present  exchange  system  is considered a
transitional arrangement, and the Government intends to review various options
for determination of the exchange rate and allocation of foreign exchange best
suited to the implementation of market-oriented policies. Arrangements are being
made for technical assistance from the IMF to help develop a new system. In the
interim, the present policy of a managed float will be continued. During this
period, the parallel market exchange rate, the competitiveness of exports,
monetary and price developments, and the level of foreign exchange reserves will
be used as principal indicators of the need for adjustment in the exchange rate
and/or in overall financial policies. To attract foreign currency transactions
through the official rather than the parallel market, the Government has been
keeping the official exchange rate within a 10% differential of the parallel
market rate.
IDA Operations
17.         The Association has played and will continue to play an important
role in the design and implementation of Lao PDR's economic reform program and
in the mobilization of the needed financial resources to support the program.
Policy Framework Papers, prepared annually by the Government, IDA and the IMF,
establish an appropriate policy umbrella for IDA adjustment and investment
operations. The objectives of the Association's country assistance strategy are
to: (a) support government efforts to move to a market economy while maintaining
macroeconomic stability; (b) assist in development of the physical capital needed
to expand production and exports; (c) support human resource development, both
for alleviating poverty and for increasing labor productivity; and (d) promote
a sustainable use of the country's natural resources. Both our lending program
and our economic and sector work program are geared toward these objectives.
Since 1986, when the Association resumed lending to Lao PDR, eight credits have
been made, totalling US$142 million (Schedule D). About 28% of IDA assistance
has been provided to support the economic reform program through a quick
disbursing adjustment operation which provides finance for the balance of
payments. In the investment projects, the main focus has been the rehabilitation
of essential infrastructure, with about 48% of IDA assistance going to the
energy, telecommunications and roads sectors, which were all badly damaged during
the war. About 14% went to agriculture (a sector with enormous potential for
economic growth) and 7% to industry. Direct investment in the education and
health sectors has thus far been low despite the importance of these sectors to
improving human resources for the country's development; however, more operations
are anticipated in the next few years.
18.         Future Country Lending O0erations. The overall level and pace of IDA
assistance to Lao PDR will take into account the progress made in implementation
of the reform program and the feasibility of specific operations. The planned
volume of lending for FY91-93 includes five operations (including the proposed
highway project) for a total amount of US$145 million equivalent. The primary



-6-
goal of t:; Association's country assistance strategy will be to broaden the
economic recovery initiated since the economic reform of 1985, by pursuing the
objectives described above.
19.         During FY91-93, it is likely that about 28% of total lending volume
to Lao PDR will continue to be in the form of fast-disbursing adjustment
operations in view of the need to maintain an appropriate level of resource
transfer in support of policy reform and growth. A planned Economic Adjustment
Credit would provide support for essential imports based upon continued
satisfactory implementation of the reform program. Criteria by which performance
would be judged include improvement in public expenditure management, including
issues of investment composition and adequacy of recurrent expenditure, civil
service pay and employment reformn, and restructuring/privatization of state
enterprises. While maintaining support for general economic adjustment, lending
will increasingly be focused on infrastructure rehabilitation, forestry
management and human resource development.   Ensuring adequate implemencation
capacity and sufficient provision for future recurrent expenditures will also be
critical considerations in the design of all projects.
20.         Specific issues in sectoral management will be addressed through the
orientation of IDA lending.   In the agricultural sector, proposed investment
operations aim to support increased and more efficient agricultural production
through provision of improved agricultural services such as extension, research,
credit, land management and titling, and basic rural infrastructure, particularly
marketing facilities. Lending would also support the Government's efforts in the
forestry sector to better manage and improve the utilization of forest resources.
The Government is placing itigh priority on discouraging the practice of shifting
agriculture and slash-and-burn practices, which are currently used on about 40%
of all agricultural land, streamlining commercial logging, and simultaneously
implementing a policy of maximizing regeneration and rehabilitation of the
degraded forests.   ConLplementing these policies,  the Government intends to
intensify and develop permanent agriculture in up- and low-land and other
appropriate areas, which should also decrease deforestation.
21.         In the transport sector the emphasis of IDA assistance is on
developing the backbone of a national network and rehabilitating feeder roads in
major agricultural areas. The Government is cooperating with the Association and
the UNDP in carrying out a National Transport Study which would serve as the
first transport master plan for further expansion of the network. The plan will
identify investment priorities and recommend the development of a network system
to provide access from industrial or agricultural surplus zones to domestic and
export markets. In this context, the Government is also reviewing the role of
user charges, which are currently very low, and considering selective increases,
particularly in vehicle license fees, to foster a more efficient use of the
network and provide resources for road maintenance. On the basis of this study
as well as a more specific maintenance study to be carried out under the proposed
Highway Improvement Project, the Government will adopt by end-1991 a program of
road maintenance and introduce new measures including increased user charges to
help fund this program. Starting from 1991, the Government will allocate a core
budgetary envelope for maintenance and will review the maintenance versus
investment allocation on an annual basis.



7   -
22.         The strategy in the industry sector is geared toward increased
production efficiency and export market development. Since 1985, this policy has
been reflected in a revamping of the incentive and regulatory framework for state
enterprises and the authorization of private sector participation in this sector.
A liberal Foreign Investment Code issued in mid-1988 has permitted the creation
of some joint venture and leasing arrangements with foreign partners. However,
as there is still a lack of familiarity with international practices in this
field, IDA and UNDP technical assistance has been arranged to strengthen foreign
investment promotion.
23.         In the energy sector, the Go-ernment's aim is twofold: developing
electricity production and distribution facilities and enhancing the efficiency
of its use.   The public investment program includes rural electrification
projects, new transmission lines, and the construction of a new hydroplant. The
dual nature of the Lao energy sector, as tL.th domestic infrastructure and
provider of the largest export commodity, makes its appropriate pricing crucial
to achieving an optimal allocation of available production between domestic
consumption and exports.   Under present electricity contracts, Thailand is
committed to buy any quantity that is not sold on the domestic market.   To
achieve this balance, domestic electricity prices, which were increased by about
75% in January 1990, will be adjusted in steps so as to cover the long-run
marginal cost of low-voltage production.
24.         Given the country's extremely high rates of illiteracy and infant
mortality, lending to the human resources sector will be geared toward
rehabilitating, improving quality and eventually expanding the coverage of basic
health and education services. The main focus of lending for education will be
on building local management capacity of the private and public sector, through
assistance to improve the quality of vocational technical education, upgrade the
effectiveness of higher education and strengthen the management and financing of
non-formal training activities. In the health sector, priority will be given to
reducing the high rates of infant mortality, child mortality, maternal mortality,
and fertility, and to increasing work output, labor productivity, and life
expectancy.  In order to achieve these objectives, the Government plans to: (a)
expand the program of immunizations to control the six vaccine-preventible
childhood diseases; (b) control dlarrheal disease through effective use of oral
dehydration therapy by mothers; (c) provide maternal and child health services
including birth spacing, growth monitoring, nutritional surveillance, and
promotion of breastfeeding; (d) control acute respiratory infection through
effective education of mothers in early recognition of pneumonia symptoms and the
availability of antitiotic therapy; and (e) control malaria through diagnostic
capability, communicy education and participation, and availability of drugs.
25.         Environment.    The  major environmental  issues  in Lao  PDR are
associated with the management of its forest resources. The Government is keenly
aware that deforestation due to encroachment, shifting cultivation and
unregulated logging is a serious environmental problem. A National Conference
on Forestry, held in May 1989, recognized that overexploitation of forest
resources had reached a stage where indiscriminate felling and burning of forests
had to cease and that the protection of forests needed to be placed at the
forefront of forestry and agricultural activities. The Conference set ambitious
targets for preservation and reforestation.   After a temporary ban on log



-8-
exports, the Government decided to rely on taxation and production quotas as
interim measures to regulate logging activities, pending the achievement of a
thorough policy review. The Government has now made substantial progress toward
the latter in the context of preparing a Tropical Forestry Action Plan which
defines a feasible approach to the issues of sustainable forestry exploitation,
taxation, pricing, land use, watershed management, and reforestation actions.
A draft report is currently being reviewed by the various parties concerned, and
a Round Table meeting with the Government is scheduled for early 1991. In regard
to wildlife protect,on, in October 1989, the Council of Ministers issued a decree
on the ptotection and conservation of aquatic and wild animals, and hunting and
fishing.
26.         CooReration with the IMF.  The Association has worked closely with
the IMF in designing and monitoring the reform program.   Since 1989,  the
Association and the Fund have annually carried out joint missions to develop with
the Government the three-year Policy Framework Papers.   There has also been
frequent cross-institution support, e.g., the Association has subcontracted to
the Fund a Tax and Customs Administration Study which is a UNDP-funded, IDA-
executed technical assistance program.
27.         Aid Coordination and Cofinancing.  IDA lending operations like those
for education and transport have attracted a large volume of cofinancing from
various donors active in those sectors. In addition, Association sector studies
in energy, transport, industry and population/health will facilitate improved aid
coordination by providing a policy framework and sector strategy which can be
drawn or. by other donors.   There has already been active participation by
specific multilateral and bilateral agencies in carrying out several of these
studies, and this type of cooperation is expected to continue in the future.
28.         Summary Assessment.  Lao PDR is in a period of rapid economic and
social evolution, largely precipitated by the economic restructuring under its
reform program.   Given the difficulties inevitably associated with economic
reform, together with the problem of institutional and management bottlenecks
constraining timely project implementation, a period of consolidation seems
warranted. Therefore, IDA's strategy for the next few years emphasizes portfolio
management, with particular attention devoted to supervision of ongoing
operations, and to training local staff in a number of basic project
implementation areas such as disbursements, procurement, accounting and auditing
and to continue deepening the policy dialogue at the sectoral level. New lending
operations are planned at the relatively rapid level of two projects or lending
of US$50 million equivalent e year. However, if external disturbances arise for
which balance-of-payment support is required, additional funds would be
allocated, provided that the economic reform is progressing satisfactorily. To
date, progress by the Government in carrying out the comprehensive set of
macroeconomic and sectoral reforms set out in the Policy Framework Papers has
been satisfactory. Nevertheless, it must be recognized that, given the magnitude
of existing  imbalances and the currently very low levels of production,
adjustment will be a long-term process. For the next decade at least the country
will continue to depend heavily on external assistance to finance imports that
are essential for restoring the capital structure and providing consumer goods
that are necessary complements to the reform of financial incentives.



-9-
PART II - THE CREDIT
29.               The proposed credit would be on standard IDA terms with 40
years maturity and would help finance a highway improvement project.   Parallel
cofinancing of US$5 million equivalent would be provided by the Nordic
Development Fund.
30.               Background.    The  transport system  in Lao  PDR  is still
rudimentary. Road transport is by far the dominant mode, carrying most freight
and passengers. Almost all external trade goes by road from Vientiane to Bangkok
via Thailand or to the port of Da Nang in Viet Nam via National Routes 9 and 13.
Route 13, the main north-south artery in Lao PDR, is also important to internal
transport and communications as it links the mountainous, Less developed north
to Vientiane and to the agricuWIturally-rich southern part of the country. At
present, the road is in very poor condition and not passable during the five-
month rainy season, when traffic must be diverted to the Mekong River.
31.               The condition of roads throughout Lao PDR is extremely poor.
Many roads were constructed more than 50 years ago and were not designed for the
heavy commercial vehicles now in use. A large number of key road sections are
consequently impassable during the rainy season and so degraded that maintenance
is no longer economic.   Maintenance in Lao PDR is in any case confined to
reconstruction; no routine maintenance system exists. The government budget has
only recently begun to distinguish between capital investments and recurrent
maintenance expenditures, and while a maintenance unit was recently created in
the Ministry of Communication, Transport, Post and Construction (MCTPC), the unit
is understaffed, lacks transport and equipment, and is still oriented toward
rehabilitation.   MCTPC's roads budget in 1990 totals about KN 14.8 billion,
including KN 2.17 billion for maintenance, a significant increase over the KN 414
million provided in 1989. While an allocation of KN 2 billion (US$2.88 million)
a year is considered adequate to meet normal national road maintenance
requirements, if a "catch-up" program for backlogged road improvements were
included, the annual requirement would be about KN 3.15 billion. The "catch-up"
works would require a fivc-year pre.'ram to reseal about 1,500 km of paved road
and bring 700 km of dirt track up to % maintainable standard. Increased revenues
for maintenance might be derived by selective increases in road user charges,
which are in some cases now comparatively low and lead to distortions in vehicle
use.
32.               One of the Government's chief priorities  for the roads
subsector is construction of Routes 9 and 13 to all-weather standard. This has
almost been accomplished: reconstruction of Route 9 has been completed with East
Bloc assistance, and the Vientiane-Namkading section of Route 13 is being
rehabilitated with Swedish assistance, with completion slated for 1995.  The
proposed project would cap off these efforts by rehabilitating the Namkading-Seno
section of Route 13 and the Seno-Savannakhet road (to the intersection with Route
9).  Objectives and investments for the next plan period (1991-95) are being
defined in the context of a National Transport Study (NTS), completed in December
1990. The NTS was undertaken by Government with technical assistance provided
by the Association and funding from UNDP.



- 10
33.               Project Objectives.  The proposed project would assist-the
Government to achieve its key subsector goal in the current Development Plan --
that is, to increase the efficiency of thie country's road network -- through the
rehabilitation of a priority section of the main north-south road artery (Route
13) and the restoration of road capacity lost through years of war and tneglect.
The project's road rehabilitation component is specifically aimed at improving
access to the agriculturally-rich southern part of the country, to the benefit
of the less well-endowed north, while also facilitating access to the sea via
Viet Nam.
34.               Rationale for IDA Involvement.  IDA involvement is justified
for two major reasons.  Since the key productive sectors of the Lao economy,
particularly agriculture, depend heavily on road transport for access to markets
and production inputs, improvement of the country's currently inadequate road
network is central to any effort to stimulate economic growth. The Association
can also provide valuable technical support in institution building, particularly
in areas such as maintenance planning and procedures. In addition, the project
is a logical follow-up to the Southern Transport Project (Credit 1846-LA), which
is improving the condition of Route 13 between Savannakhet and Pakse.  That
project will be completed by end-1992.
35.               Project  Description.    The  project  would  comprise:  (a)
rehabilitation and bituminous surfacing of the Namkading-Savannakhet road (266
km), including replacement of six bridges near collapse and rehabilitation of
another 40 bridges; (b) restoration of road capacity through (i) the
implementation of a road maintenance study for the establishment of an effective
maintenance system and medium-term maintenance program and (ii) to meet the
immediate needs of the network, the implementation of emergency spot improvements
on critical road sections by two maintenance brigades, with equipment, materials,
supplies and technical assistance provided under the project; (c) consultant
services and technical assistance for project coordination and implementation,
the preparation of future projects, and transport planning assistance (to follow
up on the NTS recommendations); and (d) degree courses and short-term training
for MCTPC staff.   The project has an estimated cost of US$52.6 million
equivalent, with a foreign exchange component of US$49.4 million (94%).
Implementation would be over a five-year period. A breakdown of costs and the
financing plan are shown in Schedule A. Amounts and methods of procurement and
of disbursement, and the disbursement schedule, are shown in Schedule B.  A
timetable of key project processing events and the status of the Association's
operations in Lao PDR are given in Schedules C and D, respectively. The country
strategy statement for Lao PDR is attached as Schedule E.   A map is also
attached. The Staff Appraisal Report, No. 9010-LA dated February 12, 1991, is
being distributed separately.
36.               Agreed Actions.  During negotiations, agreement was obtained
from Government on: (a) a budgetary allocation of about US$3.3 million to cover
road maintenance in 1991 and one quarter of the maintenance "catch-up" program,
with allocations in subsequent project years as agreed during annual reviews of
the MCTPC budget to be carried out by the Government and the Association by
September 30 of the prior government fiscal year; (b) quarterly release of the
MCTPC budget to ensure timely provision of maintenance funds; (c) by December 31,
1991, the introduction of measures, including increased road user charges, to



- 11 -
help fund increased maintenance expenditures; (d) timely replenishment of the
initial stock of fuel, spare parts and maintenance supplies provided under the
project to the maintenance brigades, in a manner satisfactory to the Association;
(e) establishment by July 1, 1991 of a Project Management Unit and a project
coordinating unit, with responsibilities and staffing acceptable to the
Association; and (f) joint Covernment-Association review of NTS sectoral policy
recommendations and other sectoral issues by December 31, 1991 and, thereafter,
annual discussions of implementation issues related to the NTS recommendations,
The proposed IDA credit would be cross-effective with a proposed Nordic
Development Fund credit for US$5 million for this project.
37.               Benefits.  Economic benefits are expected under the proposed
project from savings in vehicle operating costs related to rehabilitation -of the
project road. Assuming that traffic grows at a rate of 6% and 6.5% a year for
passenger and freight traffic, respectively, the internal economic rate of return
(IERR) of road construction is estimated at about 17%. Unquantified benefits
include time savings, generated traffic, traffic not diverted from road to river
during the rainy season, and improved driving conditions.   While it is not
possible to calculate a precise IERR for spot improvements to be carried out
under the project since the roads to be improved will be identified in the course
of project implementation, IERRs in the range of 20% to 40% are expected.
38.               Risks.  Potential risks to project implementation relate to
MCTPC's implementation capacity and, for maintenance, the lack of local
management staff. These risks would be minimized through the provision under the
project of a consultant to help coordinate project activities as well as
technical assistance to oversee rehabilitation and restoration activities.
Training would also be provided to develop local capabilities.   In addition,
implementation could be delayed by foreign contractors' inexperience in working
in Lao PDR. This risk would be mitigated by the selection of consultants for
supervision of project construction from the consultant team that designed the
project  road.   To ensure adequate maintenance of the completed  road,  a
maintenance study would be carried out under the project; furthermore, the
pavement structure of the improved road has been designed under conservative
assumptions to reduce the need for a high level of maintenance, for a design life
of 20 years.
39.               Environmental Impact.   The project is expected to have no
negative environmental or ecological effects. No major changes will be made in
the alignment of the Namkading-Savannakhet road, and the only additional land
needed would be for approaches to the six new bridges. This is not expected to
displace any houses. The road is in an area where the primary forest has already
been cut and the secondary growth is largely scrub and brush. Improvement of
drainage and bridges along the road will, in fact, improve environmental
conditions. The bituminous surfacing on the road will reduce the dust nuisance
during the dry season from the present gravel and earth surface. Measures will
be taken to avoid siltation resulting from runoff from construction sites, and
drainage will be designed to prevent downstream erosion.



- 12 -
40.               Recommendation. I am satisfied that the proposed credit would
comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the
Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
February 12, 1991



- 13 -
Schedule A
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Estimated Costs and Financing Plan
Local     Foreign       Ttal
- - - - (US$ million) - - -
Proiect Costs L_
Road rehabilitation              1.0        31.9         32.9
Restoration of road capacity    0.8          4.7          5.5
Consulting services, technical
assistance and training        O.7         2.9 9.6
Base Cost                   2.5        39.5        42.0
Physical contingencies           0.3         3.9         4.2
Price contingencies              0.4         6.0         64
Total Proiect Costs         3.2        49.4        52.
Financing Plan:
Government                       2.2         0.4         2.6
Nordic Development Fund            -         5.0         5.0
IDA                             1.0         44.0        45.0
Total                       1.1        49.4        5226
/a The project would be exempted from all taxes and duties.



- 14 -
Schedule B
Page 1
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Procurement Methods and Disbursements
Procurement Methods
Project Element                                ICB      Other        Total
- - - (US$ million) - - - -
Civil works                                     38.5         2.7       41.2
(36.6)       (2.2)     (38.8)
Equipment                                                    2.2        2.2
(0.2)      (0.2)
Restoration of road capacity                                 2.9         2.9
(2.7)      (2.7)
Consulting services, technical assistance        -           6.3        6.3
and training                                             (3.3)       (3.3)
Total                                        38.5        14.1       52.6
(36.6)       (8.4)     (45.0)
Notes:
(1)   All amounts include contingencies.
(2)   Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts to be financed by
the IDA credit.
(3)   Non-ICB procurement includes equipment (US$2.0 million equivalent)
and consulting services (US$3.0 million equivalent) to be financed
under the Nordic Development Fund (NDF) credit, following NDF
procurement procedures which restrict procurement to NDF member
countries (Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway and Sweden). The NDF
would administer this procurement.



- 15 -
Schedule B
Page 2
Disbursements
% of Expenditures
Categories               Credit Amount      to be financed
(US$ million)
Civil works                   38.8          95% of total expenditures
Equipment, materials           2.9          100% of foreign expenditures,
and vehicles                             100% of local expenditures.
(ex-factory cost), and
90% of local expenditures
Consulting services,           3.3          100% of total expenditures
technical assistance
and training
Total                      45.0
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA FY        12       19        1994     1995      1996     1997
-(US$ million) - - - - - - - - -
Annual         5.4      10.4      9.0       8.1      7.6      4.5
Cumulative     5.4      15.8     24.8     32.9      40.5    45.0



- 16 -
Schedule C
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
HIgHWAY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Timetab].e of Key Project Processing Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare:                One year
(b)  Prepared by:                          MCTPC and consultants
(c)  First IDA mission:                    September 1988
(d)  Appraisal mission departure:          May 1990
(e)  Negotiations:                         January 1991
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:        July 1991
(g)  List of relevant PCRs and PPARs:      None



- 17 -
Schedule D
Status of IDA Ogerations in Lao PDR /a
A. Statement of Development Credits
(As of September 30, 1990)
Credit      Fiscal      Borrower    Purpose            Amounts (US$ million)A
No.       Year                                         less cancellations
IDA       Undisbursed
Five IDA credits have been fully disbursed ^               53.05
1684 Le     1986        Lao PDR      Telecom. Rehab.        3.90       1.36
1826 /c     1987        Lao PDR      Power                 25.80      11.33
1846 a      1988        Lao PDR      Southern Transp.      14.10       6.30
1947 L      1989        Lao PDR      Ind'l Credit          10.00       7.97
2001  c     1989        Lao PDR      Nat'l Polytechnic      3.50       3.53
*2037 LX     1989        Lao PDR      Struc. Adj. Cr.       40.00      12.67
2079 /      1990        Lao PDR      Upland Ag. Devt.      20.20      20.72
2101 /c     1990        Lao PDR      Telecom II            24.50      26.58
Total                                               195.05      90.46
of which has been repaid                            0.47
Total Now Outstanding                               194.58
Total Undisbursed                                    90.46      90.46
Ln    The status of the projects listed in Part A are described in a separate
report on all Bank/IDA-financed projects in execution, which is updated
twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and
October 31.
/b    Agriculture Rehabilitation and Development, Cr.  760-LA,  FY78, US$8.2
million; Second Agriculture Rehabilitation and Development, Cr. 924-LA,
FY79, US$10.4 million; Third Agriculture Rehabilitation and Development,
Cr. 1021-IA, FY80, US$13.4 million; Agricultural Production Support, Cr.
1395-LA, FY83, US$6.2 million; and Nam Ngum Hydroelectric, Cr. 1197-LA,
FY82, US$15 million.
Lc    Principal  amounts  in US$  equivalent  at date  of negotiations,  and
undisbursed amounts in US$ equivalent are valued at exchange rate
applicable on the date of this statement.
*     SAL, SECAL or Program Loan.
B. Statement of IFC Investments
Lao PDR is not a member of IFC.



Ml IkA
LAO PEOPLE'S  $x                                                          
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC                                                   
HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT    _ 
t SO:; . ra< .. d t.?">^? 2 .ol .....~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..........  
. O ~~~Se ecte T?bS.                        . N- "'oel^a1#+r  1 J
/ Itwonz*^Ds_F,,3 ..-w?a1 ...<{
* P~~~~~~~~~~~~~-. ce tod sLpae   ....ne2-j <5/C 9t_n 
- 'r'e-n?' 5-z 8c>_-zsre5"t o3' J 
O~~OCAI KAM.jPUCHEAe                                 7   t~     t
,] F R zz ' *. ^:s ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0 tx e jF~~~kQ



