I)ocument of
The World Bank
FOR OFFI(IAl. I'SE ONIX
A<      ;    e                                    Report No. 901 0-LA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
FEBRUARY 12, 1991
Operations Division
lent II
lffice
estricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
ts contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQ[JIVALENTS
(as of June 1990)
Currency Unit            Kip Nationale (KN)
US$1.0')           KN 710
MEASUJRES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 meter (m)                     =     3.2808 feet (ft)
1 square meter (m 2)            =     10.7639 square feet (ft2)
1 kilometer (km)                =     0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (ki2)        =     0.3861 square mile (mi2)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB          -     Asian Development Bank
CDRI         -     Communications and Design Research Institute
CTPC         -     Commurnication, Transport, Post and Construction
ERR          -     Economic rate of return
ICB          -     International Competitive Bidding
IDA          -     International Development Association
ILO          -     International Labour Organization
MCTPC        -     Ministry of Communication, Transport, Post and
Construction
MEPF         -     Ministry of Economy, Planning and Finance
NDF          -     Nordic Development Fund
NEM          -     New Economic Mechanism
NTS          -     National Transport Study
PDR          -     People's Democratic Republic
PMU          -     Project Management Unit
RBCS         -     Road and Bridge Construction Society
RBMS         -     Road and Bridge Maintenance Society
SIDA         -     Swedish International Development Authority
UNDP         -     United Nations Development Programme
voc          -     Vehicle operating costs
vpd          -     Vehicles per day
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Le2 PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                Lao People's Democratic Republic (Lao PDR)
Amount:                  SDR 32.1 million (US$45 million equivalent)
Terms:                   Standard IDA, with a maturity of 40 years
Project Description:    The proposed project supports rehabilitation of a key
section of the country's main north-south road artery.
The project road from Namkading to Savannakhet (266 km)
forms part of the link between the agriculturally-rich
southern part of the country and the poorer, northern
provinces, and serves as a corridor for export-import
traffic. The road, which is the remaining section of
the Vientiane-Savannakhet road to be improved, is now
severely aeteriorated and passable only during the
seven-month dry season and even then with difficulty.
The proiect would also assist the Ministry of
Communication, Transport, Post and Construction (MCTPC)
to begin restoring the capacity of the road network by
supporting a study for the establishment of an effective
maintenance   system  as  well   as   emergency   spot
improvements of key road sections. Institutionally, the
project would help strengthen MCTPC's transport planning
capacity  and human  resources.    The  project  would
finance: (a) rehabilitation and bituminous surfacing of
the Namkading-Savannakhet road, including replacement of
six bridges and rehabilitation of 40 bridges; (b) the
provision of equipment, materials and supplies for spot
improvements;  (c)  technical  assistance  for  project
implementation, preparation rf the maintenance study and
future roads projects, and transport planning and policy
development; and (d) degree courses and short-term
trair,ing for MCTPC staff.
Benefits and Risks:      The project would assist Lao PDR to improve its internal
and external transport and communications as well as its
capacity to plan and maintain the country's road
network. The proposed road rehabilitation would support
other development programs in the country and provide a
reliable, all-weather transport link. The project's
economic benefits would accrue mainly from savings in
vehicle operating costs related to road rehabilitation.
Potential risks to project implementation relate to
MCTPC's   implementation   capacity   and,   for   road
restoration, the lack of local maintenance management
T his document has .a restricted distribution and mds be used h~ recipients only in the performance
oll their ofhtcial duties Its contents mra riol other'ss,e he disclosed without World Bank authorization



- ii -
staff.   These risks would be minimized through the
provision under the project of both a consultant to help
coordinate project activities and technical assistance
to help super se project road rehabilitation and
restoration works. Training would also be provided to
develop local capabilities. Inadequate maintenance of
the road after completion is also a risk, which would be
addressed by preparing a study for the establishment of
an effective maintenance system.
Estimated Cost:                               Local       Foreign       Total
- - - - (US$ million) - - - -
Road rehabilitation                             1.0          31.9        32.9
Restoration of roads                            0.8           4.7         5.5
Technical assistance and training               0.7           2.9         3.6
Base Cost /a                             2.5           39.5       42.0
Physical contingencies                          0.3           3.9         4.2
Price contingencies                             0.4           6.0         6.4
Total Project Cost                       3.2           49.4        52.6
Financing Plan:
Government                               2.2            0.4         2.6
IDA                                      1.0           44.0       45.0
Nordic Development Fund                     -           5.0         5.0
Total                                    3.2           49.4        52.6
Estimated
Disbursements:
IDA FY      1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997
(US$ million) -  - - - -
Annual             5.4   10.4   9.0   8.1   7.6   4.5
Cumulative         5.4   15.8  24.8  32.9  40.5  45.0
Economic Rate of
Return:                17% on the road rehabilitation component
Mai):                     IBRD No. 22322
La The project would be exempted from taxes and duties.



- iii -
IAO PEOPIE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
HICHWAY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Loan and Project Summary   . . . .   . . . . . .     . . . . . . .i
1. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.  Geographic and Economic Setting . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
B.  The Transport Sector   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   2
C.  Transport Planning and Objectives . . . . . . . . . . . .                    3
D.    Investments    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  3
E.  The Association's Role in the Sector   . . . . . . . . . .                   4
2. THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
A.  Network    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  5
B. Vehicle Fleet and Traffic.5
C.  The Road Transport Industry . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    6
D.  Highway Revenues and Expenditures . . . . . . . . . . . .                    7
E.  Organization and Staffing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  11
F.  Road Design and Construction   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 12
G.  Maintenance ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  13
H.  Road Safety ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  15
3. THE PROJECT
A.  Project Formulation ...  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  15
B.  Project Objectives   ...  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  15
C.  Rationale for IDA Involvement . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  16
D.  Project Description ...  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  16
E.  Project Cost   ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  19
F.  Financing ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  20
G.  Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  20
H.    Procurement    .    .    .    .  .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  21
I.  Disbursement   ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  22
J.  Auditing, Reporting, Monitoring and Supervision . . . . .                  23
K.  Environmental Impact  ...  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  24
4. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
A.  Benefits    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  24
B.  Economic Evaluation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  25
C.  Risks ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  27
5. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION   . . . . . . . . . . .                  27
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Lao
PDR in June 1990 and comprised M. Le Blanc (transport economist and task
manager), P. Long (transpo t engineer), J. Johnson (consultant economist), S.
Teravaninthorn (country officer) and P. Brereton-Miller (operations assistant).
The Peer Reviewers for the project were A. Faiz (transport engineer) and L.
Nordin (transport economist). The documents were reviewed by Praful Patel, Chief
AS2IN, and Gautam Kaji, Director AS2.



ANNEXES
1.   Motor Vehicle Statistics, 19/7-89
2.   The Road Transport Industry
3.   Existing and Proposed Road User Charges
4.   Geometric Design Standards for the Project Road
5.   Outline Terms of Reference:  The Maintenance Study
6.   Equipment to be Provided under the Project
7.   Outline Terms of Reference:  Project Coordinator and Technical Assistance
for Maintenance
8.   Outline Terms of Reference:  Transport Planner
9.   Details of Project Costs
10. Project Implementation Schedule
11. Estimated Disbursement Schedule
12. Economic Rate of Return
13. Documents Available in the Project File
CHART
1.   Organization of the Ministry of Communication, Transport, Post and
Construction
MAP
Highway Improvement Project (IBRD 22322)



I   Thle Transport Sector
A.  Ceograp)hic anld Ecotnomnic Settiin'
1.1          The Lao People's Democratic Republic (Lao PDR), a landlocked country
in Indochina, has all area of about 237,000 km2, extending over 1,700 km north to
south and from 100 to 400 km east to west. It is about two-anid-one half times
as large as Korea. Its population, however, is low at about 4 million, resulting
in an extremely low population density of about 16 persons per km2.  In addition
to the Mekong River, which flows through or borders the entire north-south length
of the country, there are about ten smaller rivers. Mountains cover about 80%
of the area of Lao PDR, with heights ranging from 200 m to 3,000 m. As a result
of this rugged terrain and long distances between settlements, internal and
external communications are difficult and costly.
1.2          Administratively, the country is divided into 17 provinces and 112
districts, but more than 60% of the population is concentrated in the provinces
bordering the Mekong -- Vientiane, Savannakhet, Champassak, Luang Prabang and
Khammouane.   About 85% of the population is rural, living in small villages.
Vientiane, the capital, has a population of only about 180,000, followed by the
towns of Savannakhet (60,000), Pakse (30,000) and Luang Prabang (22,000). Lao
PDR has common borders with Myanmar and China to the north, Cambodia to the
south, Viet Nam to the east, and Thailand to the west.
1.3          Lao PDR remains one of the poorest countries in the world, with a per
capita Gross National  Product  (GNP)  of US$180  in 1988.1'   The economy  is
dominated by agriculture and forestry, which in 1989 accounted for about 55% of
the Gross Domestic Product (GDP), employed about 75% of the labor force, and
constituted about 50% of the total value of exports, mostly timber and coffee.
This sector also provides the basis for agro-industries, such as sawmills, rice
mills and wood processing factories, and generates the greatest demand for
transport services. In addition to agriculture, the main resources are forests
and forest products, mineral deposits and hydroelectric power potential. The
country's  shortage  of  skilled  human  resources,  its  landlocked  position,
inadequate internal and external communications networks, and lack of know-how
and funding are major constraints to more extensive exploitation of these
resources.
1.4          In November 1986, the Government of Lao PDR introduced a New Economic
Mechanism (NEM), under which it committed itself to a significant liberalization
and opening of the economy. The NEM is intended to introduce new vigor into the
national economic performance which was stagnant during the first half of the
1980s.   It is considered an integral part of the Government's  development
strategy and reflects the recognition that controlled planning should give way
to a more flexible system of indicative planning and decentralized economic
management. Under the NEM, a number of important reforms have been undertaken,
notably (a) the unification of exchange rates and major devaluation of the
country's currency (the kip), (b) an almost complete elimination of price
controls, (c) a substantial liberalization of domestic and international trade,
See: Lao People's Democratic Republic:  Issues in Public Economics, World
Bank Report No. 8532-LAO, August 10, 1990.



2    -
(d) provision of increased managerial and financial autonomy to public sector
enterprises, and (e) encourageinenit of the private sector.  Thle reforms were
designed  to brinig about  greater  efficiency  and profitability  ini economic
enterprises by affordinp, tthem a much grea er degree of freedom of- action. GDP
growth, which averaged 6.4% a year during 1981-84, increased to about 9% in 1985,
about 7% in 1986, then declined to minus 7% in 1987 due Lo a decline in
agricultural production following a severe drought which also affected the
country in 1988.  GDP improved in 1989 to about 9% and is projected at about 7%
in real terms in 1990.
1.5         A Structural Adjustment Credit (Credit 2037-LA), approved in May
1989, is supporting the Government's efforts toward reform. The proposed highway
project would buttress efforts under an ongoing highway project (Cr. 1846-LA) to
respond to the significantly increased demand for transport brought on by
increasing economic activity under the NEM.
B. The Transport Sector
1.6         The country's still rudimentary transport system comprises about
13,400 km of roads, 1,190 km of navigable sections of the Mekong River including
three important river ports, a number of smaller provincial and municipal ports
on the Mekong and several smaller rivers, a small gasoline supply pipeline from
Viet Nam, one international airport, and some 16 smaller airports and airfields.
There are no railroads in the country but the feasibility of including a rail
link on the proposed Mekong River bridge at Vientiane to bring the railway from
Thailand into Lao PDR is being considered. The geographic coverage of the country
by the road and river systems (30 km/l,000 sq km) is very low by international
standards.
1.7         Road transport is the major mode of internal communication, carrying
about 90% of total freight ton-km and 85% of total passenger-km. River transport
carries about 10% of both freight ton-km and passenger-km. Domestic airfreight
is negligible while air transport carries 5% of passenger-km. The highway network
connects the main provincial centers, but the quality of roads is extremely poor
and many key road sections are impassable during the rainy season. Trade is
carried on two main arteries: Routes 9 and 13, comprising the main north-south
axis linking Vientiane-Savannakhet to the port of Da Nang in Viet Nam; and the
road link between Vientiane and the Mekong River crossing to Thailand.
1.8          During 1984-88, road freight and passenger transport increased at
an annual average rate of 5%, based on official data on fuel imports. Growth in
1986 seems to have been higher than average due to the easing of controls on
goods shipment, but droughts in 1987 and 1988 led to lower than average traffic
growth. Total transport volumes have been exceptionally low by international
standards. The number of passenger trips, for example, is less than three trips
per person per year, i.e., 1.5 return trips.  This is largely due to the poorly
developed transport system, with a shortage of both roads and vehicles.
Consequently, the present traffic volumes seem to be limited more by supply than
by demand, and trend extrapolation is probably not a reliTble method for
predicting future traffic volumes.



- 3 -
C,  Transport Planning ar.d Objectives
1.9         Transport planning and coordination are tne responsibilities of the
t;inistry of Economy, Planning and Finance (MEPF), in consultation with the
Ministry of Communication, Transport, Post and Construction (MCTPC). The latter
is responsible, among other things, for the development of national and important
provincial roads, river wharves and airports, and river, road and air transport.
Sector investments are planned in the context of overall five-year development
plans prepared by MEPF and annual development plans prepared by MCTPC.
1.10        The Government's transport development objectives as expressed in the
Second Five-Year Development Plan (1986-90) include restoration of vital sections
of the transport network and provision of improved transport services.   Road
development has been focused on (a) facilitating trade flows through completion
of an alternate east/west link (Route 9) from Savaninakhet to Viet Nam and the
port of Da Nang (finished in 1988);  (b) rehabilitating the north-south axis
(Route 13) from Luang Prabang to Pakse and other roads supporting agricultural
production;  (c)  rehabilitating  and  constructing  rural  access  roads  in
agricultural areas; and (d) improving the road maintenance capability of central
and provincial maintenance organizations. Several ports on the Mekong River were
also improved to handle increased cargo.
1.11        In preparation for the Third Plan period, Government undertook a
National Transport Study (NTS) to assist it in: determining priority investment
needs; defining a detailed investment, operation and maintenance program for
1991-95; formulating an outline development program for 1996-2000; formulating
efficient sector policies; and identifying projects for possible foreign
financing. The Study was completed in 1990 and was carried out by consultants
with funding from the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP); the
Association was executing agency. While specific objectives of the Third Plan
are not yet available, the focus of road development is expected to remain on
restoration of Route 13, rehabilitation and construction of rural access roads
in agricultural areas, and improvement of maintenance capabilities.   During
negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on a joint Government-
Association review by December 31, 1991 of NTS sectoral policy recommendations
and other sectoral issues and, thereafter, annual discussions of implementation
issues related to the NTS recommendations.
D. Investments
1.12        Estimated government transport expenditures during 1986-89 and the
budget  for  1990  are  shown  in  Table  1.1.    The  table  does  not  include
administration -osts (estimated at about 5% of total expenditures) or
expenditures on local roads (probably very small) and civil aviation (which until
recently was the responsibility of the Ministry of Defense).



- 4 -
Table 1.1: TRANSPORT EXPENDITURES, 1986-90
(KN million, current prices)
Actual                  Budget
1986    1987    1988    1989        1990
Roads                                  4,198   4,542 14,l150/a  14,154      14,838
Ports                                       6     174   1,332   2,823           53
Total                               4.204   4.716  15J482  16,917        22.811
% foreign aid and loansLb                  57      61       79      12          87
% of total government expenditures        41       41       44     34L-       n.a.
la    Increased allocation for roads due to the provision of funds by several
bilateral/multilateral agencies for project financing.
lb    Primarily from the Asian Development Bank (ADB), the Swedish International
Developr  t Authority (SIDA), and IDA.
MC    Actual expenditures may be higher since expenditt'res exceeded budgetary
allocations in 1986-88, although largely due tc construction of Route 9.
Source:     National Transport Study,  Interim Report I, September 1989, and
MCTPC.
E. The Association's Role in the Sector
1.13        The  Association's  general  strategy  in  Lao  PDR  is  to  support
Government's commitment to improve management of the economy.  IDA assistance
therefore  focuses  on-  (a)  policy  formulation  and  implementation  through
structural adjustment measures; (b) support of the industrial enterprise sector;
(c) economic integration, including removal of transport bottlenecks; (d) export
development; and (e) human resources development. The proposed project would
support these last three objectives by including: rehabilitation of a critically
important section of Route 13 -- serving external trade as well as agriculture
and facilitating the movement of agricultural products from surplus (southern)
to deficit (northern) areas; restoration of road capacity through emergency spot
improvements on key roads, a study for the establishment of an effective
maintenance system and increased budgetary allocations for road maintenance; and
training of MCTPC staff.
1.14        The proposed project would be the Association's second operation in
the sector. The Southern Transport Project (Cr. 1846-LA, approved in October
1987) is assisting the Governrment to: carry out a program of needed repairs and
maintenance on about 270 km of Route 13 in Savannakhet, Saravane and Champassak
Provinces; strengthen the maintenance capability of the local authorities in all
three provinces; and complete studies for future road development. The project
is about 50% complete and progressing satisfactorily. Credit closing is expected
at end-1992, rather than end-1991 as originally planned, due to Government's



initial unfamiliarity with IDA procedures and consequent delays in credit
effectiveness and selection of consultants.   As noted above (para. 1.11), the
Association has also been executing agency for the National Transport Study.
which recoamended policies and investments for efficient sector development,
2. THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
A. Network
2.1         The country's road network, totalling some 13,400 km, comprises 3,385
km of national roads, about 6,000 km of provincial roads and about 4,000 km of
district  roads.    National  roads  are  those  used  by  international  and
interprovincial traffic and carry the bulk of the traffic; provincial roads
provide the main links to the national network within each province; and district
roads facilitate intervillage communications, farm-to-market access, and natural
resource development.   Most provincial and distr'ct roads are only tracks,
without foundacion or drainage facilities.
2.2         About half (some 1,600 km) of the national road network is paved,
with gravel roads making up most of the balance. Cf the paved roads, only about
25% have two lanes.  While the national and provincial roads are adequate in
terms of coverage, by providing connections to all important centers and border
crossings, the condition of most roads is poor and in urgent need of improvement.
A survey of sample roads carried out by consultants in 1988 indicated that only
10% of the national roads were in good condition. The condition of the network
shows the effects of war, lack of financial resources and lack of road
maintenance equipment. Many roads in Lao PDR were constructed more than 50 years
ago and were not designed for the heavy commercial vehicles now in use. A large
n-umber of key road sections are consequently impassable during the five-month
rainy season (and passable in the dry season only with great difficulty) and so
degraded that maintenance is no longer economic. Even newer roads deteriorate
quickly, and about half of the roads completed since 1980 are now in only fair
condition.
2.3         The spine of the road system is national Route 13 (1,360 km), linking
Pak Mong in the north w-th Khong in the south and passing through the major
urbanized areas of Luang Prabang, Vientiane, Savannakhet and Pakse. Most of this
important link is being or will be restored to all-weather standard by 1995, but
the section between Namkading and Savannakhet has reverted to an earth track
which becomes impassable for motor vehicles during the rainy season, when traffic
is diverted to the river.   The proposed project would rehabilitate this key
section of the road network.
B. Vehicle Fleet and Traffic
2.4         Data  on  the  country's  vehicle  fleet  have  only  recently  been
incorporated into a central vehicle register, which is a cumulative register that
does not account for scrapped vehicles. As of December 31, 1989, 78,750 motor
vehicles were registered in Lao PDR, including 25,414 light vehicles (cars, jeeps
and pickups), 6,159 trucks and buses, and 47,177 motorcycles (Annex 1). Since
then, with the continued opening up of the economy, the fleet has grown rapidly.



- 6 -
As of July 1990, there were about 10,300 trucks and buses, almost 59,000
motorcycles, but about the same number of ligh. vehicles. Almost all passenger
cars and about 70% of motorcycles are registered in Vientiane Prefecture; most
are privately owned. The number of vehicles has been growixng rapidly at aLmost
18% a year during 1985-89, a significant increese over the average 10% a year
growth during 1980-45. While light and heavy vehicles both increased by almost
13% a year during 1985-89, motorcycles increased by about 22% a year during the
period. About two thirds of the total truck fleet is owned by the Central and
Provincial Governments.
2.5         WhiLe no systematic traffic counts have been carried out, recent
feasibility studies prepared by consultants provide some Indications of traffic
volumes oal sections of the road network. Traffic volumes on national routes 9 and
13 have varied between 200 and 300 vehicles per day (vpd), of which about 85%
comprised trucks carrying supplies between Lao PDR and Viet Nam. Similar traffic
levels are typical on other national roads, with the exception of those in the
outskirts of Vientiane where traffic may reach 2,000 vpd.
2.6         On January 1, 1990, axle loads were limited to 10 tons for a single
axle and 13 tons for a tandem axle. Previously, axle loads were not limited.
The maximum gross weight for traffic on national roads was limited to 14 tons for
2-axle vehicles and 20.5 tons for 3-axle vehicles. Additional rules are applied
to urban areas and to vehicles with special loads. At present, overloading is not
a serious problem due to the poor condit4on of the roads and bridges. However,
as roads are improved and heavier trucks are imported, the Government will need
to take steps to prevent overloading and establish an enforcement mechanism.
including traffic and vehicle dimension regulations. The ongoing Nlational
Transport Study is addressing th's issue.
C. The Road Transport Industry
2.7         Transport  services  are provided by the  federal  and provincial
governments and by the private sector. Four state transport enterprises with a
total of 585 vehicles carry general cargo and fuel products between provinces and
between Lao PDR and the port of Da Nang in Viet Nam. The provincial transport
enterprises and private operators provide freight and passenger services within
each province. Since the liberalization of the road transport industry in 1986,
the private sector's share of road passenger transport increased from about 35%
to about 45% in 1988. For goods transport, however, the share of the private
sector has remained relatively insignificant at 10% to 12%, in part because
government enterprises are often the largest purchasers of transport services and
they tend to engage one of the public transport enterprises. In addition, Lao
trucks may carry traffic to but not from Thailand. Details of the road transport
industry are given in Annex 2.
2.8         Each transport enterprise operates its own workshop for service and
minor repairs of its vehicle fleet. Major repairs are carried out at government
workshops in Vientiane, Luang Prabang, Pakse and Savannakhet, which have been
assisted under an IDA-supported agricultural project (Cr. 1021-LA) and are now
relatively well-equipped to handle most requirements. However, some provincial
workshops, particularly those in the smaller and more remote provinces, are
grossly inadequate, and -ll provincial workshops are constrained by a lack of



- 7 -
equipment, power, and spare parts as well as mechanics lacking adequate training
and experience.   Few of the provinces carry out preventive maintenance on a
systematic basis.   To begin to improve maintenance standards of the vehicle
fleet, Government is allowing the provinc s to retain foreign exchange earned to
purchase spare parts and maintain decentralized spare parts inventories.
2.9          The NTS indicates that truck utilization in Lao PDR is very low.
Before 1989, about 90% of the truck fleet had two axles, with an average load
capacity of about 6 tons. Since 1989, however, imports of three-axle trucks have
been significant. Currently, the average load capacity of a two-axle truck is
6.8 tons with a load factor of about 45%  to 50%.   Reasons  for such  low
utilization include the high age of the fleet, the lack of spare parts and repair
facilities, the poor roads and seasonal road closures, the low load capacity of
bridges, and the use of trucks to transport materials such as fuel, forestry
products and construction materials, which normally results in an empty backhaul.
About 20% of all trucks are privately-owned; these are newer and larger, with an
average load capacity of 8.4 tons. As roads and bridges are gradually improved,
there should be a marked increase in truck load factors.
2.10         Trucking rates are currently estimated to average KN 30-40 per ton-km
as negotiated between shipper and transporter. Fares for passenger transport are
typically in the range of KN 5-10 per passenger-km, depending on road conditions.
With these charges, the state transport enterprises show small nominal profits
according to the government accounting system (which fails to consider the
devaluation of the kip), but significant losses according to conventional
accounting.   Since there is no evidence of overstaffing or mismanagement of
inputs in the public companies, their poor financial performance seems to be due
to (a) their obligation to provide uneconomic, socially-justified services not
provided by the private sector and (b) their low truck utilization rate and high
vehicle operating costs owing to an aging fleet, the faulty guidance provided by
the accounting system21 and, recently, increased competition from the private
sector. Therefore, although the public enterprises probably need to raise their
rates by a third, they may be unable to do so because of the competitive
situation.   The private sector,  on the other hand,  seems to be making an
acceptable return, presumably due to their lower overhead costs,
D. Highway Revenues and Expenditures
The Roads Budget: Investment and Maintenance
2.11         MCTPC's roads expenditures totaled about KN 14.2 million in 1989 and
are budgeted at KN 14.8 billion in 1990 (see Table 2.1). The 1990 commitment for
road maintenance is KN 2.17 billion, a substantial increase from the KN 414
million allocated in 1989. While an allocation of KN 2 billion (US$2.88 million)
a year is currently considered adequate to meet normal national road network
maintenance requirements, if "catch-up" programs for back-logged road
improvements are included, the annual requirement would be on the order of KN
3.15 billion (US$4.4 million) as shown in Table 2.2. The "catch-up" works would
2/    A new conventional accounting system is being tested but will not be fully
introduced for several years.



co" sist of a five-year program to reseal perhaps 1,500 km of paved road and bring
100 km of earth track up to a maintainable standard.
Table 2,1:  ROAD EXPENDITURES, 1986-90
(KN mnillion)
Actual Expenditures         Budget
Activity                                    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990
National road construction                 3,907   4,113  13,335  13,607   12,180
National road maintenance                    166     223      520     414    2,170
Provincial road construction /a                8      18       30      {       (
Provincial road maintenance                   90     160      230      (95     (351
Survey and design                             27      28       35       38      137
Total                               4.198   4.542  14.150  14.154   14.838
Of which foreign assistance (%)               57      59       77       87       80
/a    Estimated here at about 10% of total outlays for provincial roads (local
resources only).
bource: NTS Interim Report 1, September 1989 and MCTPC data.
Table 2.2: ANNUIAL MAINTENANCE COSTS FOR NATIONAL ROADS
US$ '000/yr        Kip million/yr /b
Annual Maintenance /a
Roads                            2,834.00                  2,012.14
Bridges                             50.58                     35.91
Backlog Program
Resealing                          150.00                    106.50
Track Improvement                1,400.00                    994.00
Total per year for
5-year program                      4,434.58                  3,148.53
/a Routine and periodic maintenance for 2,500 km of the paved and
gravel portion of the network only.
b Assuming 710 kip to the U.S. dollar.
Source: MCTPC, Preliminary estimates, National Transport Study Team,
June 1, 1990.
2.12     To ensure  the adequacy of maintenance allocations  in the future,
agreement was reached during negotiations that in 1991 Government would provide
a budgetary allocation of about US$3.3 million for road maintenance in 1991 and



- 9 -
one quarter of the "catch up" program, with allocations In subsequent project
years as agreed by the Covernment and the Association during annual reviews of
the MCTPC budget, including reviews of the road maintenance versus investmnernt
allocation, to be carried out by September 30 of the prior government fiscal
year. Since thie timeliness of maintenance budgetary releases has also been a
problem, with allocations scheduled for January not made until the start of the
rainy season in June, when maintenance works cannot be carried out, agreement was
reached with the Government on the quarterly release of the MCTPC budget.
Road Revenues
2.13     Revenues  from  the  roads  subsector  are  collected by  the  Central,
Provincial and District Governments. At the central level, government collects
a sales tax on fuel (5% on diesel, 15% on regular gasoline and 7% on oil and
lubricants), import duties of 20% on spare parts and tires, and import duties on
vehicles (50% on cars, 15% on pick-ups, 5% on buses, 2% on trucks and 15-20% on
motorcycles). Provinces collect a share of the import duties and vehicle
registration fees. Districts collect annual license fees. Total estimated
revenues from these sources in 1989 are given in Table 2.3. Prior to January 1,
1989, the Government taxed only private vehicle owners, who paid nominal taxes
on vehicle imports, fuel, and spare parts as well as annual license fees; since
then, an ad valorem tax on fuel has been introduced and road sector taxes apply
to both civil government as well as private vehicles.
Table 2,3: TAX CONTRIBUTION OF ROAD USERS, 1989
US$ million        Percent
Central Government
-  Diesel tax                         0.45               5
-  Gasoline tax                       1.53             18
-  Tax on oils and lubricants         0.12               1
-  Import duty on vehicles            2.60             30
-  Import duty on spare parts         3.90             45
Subtotal                       8.60              99
Provincial Government
-  Registration fees                  0.02              0
Districts
- License fees                        0.09              1
Total              8.71             100
Source: National Transport Study, Interim Report, September 1989.



1() -
2. 14        Recciiiiiiended Cha:nles. Whiile import duty rates were raised In 1989 and
further changes have been proposed by MC(TPC for approval by MEPF, roadl user
charges in Lao PD)R are still relatively low compared to those of other coulntries.
Thiis  fact,  together  witth  the  need  to  increase  budgetarv  allocations  for
maintenance, indicates the advisability of raising selected road user charges.
2.15         The proposed 15% import duty on diesel, for example, could be raised
further to 25%.  This would reduce the subsidy flo%sing to heavier vehicles and
increase the revenue contribution of this vehicle class in line with the greater
road damage it causes. On the other hand, the 50% import duty proposed by MCTPL.
on the heaviest class of truck, in contrast to the 30% on mediun (6 to 10 ton)
trucks, may be counter-productive in diverting fleet renewals and consequently
heavier loads away from multi-axle and tandem trailer configurations, vehicle
types which are less destructive to road surfaces than overloaded two- and three-
axle single-unit trucks,   It is suggested that the proposed import duties on
spare parts, including tires and trailers, be in the order of 15% or, at most,
equal to the general commodity tariff rate.   The relatively high rates now
proposed by MCTPC, particularly for cars, may encourage unsafe maintenance
practices or use of substandard parts and tires.   Details of existing and
suggested road user charges are given in Annex 3. During negotiations, agreement
was reached with the Government on the introduction by December 31, 1991 of
measures, including increased road user charges, to help fund increased
maintenance  expenditures.         The  measures  introduced  would  reflect  NTS
recommendations.
2.16         Revenue Estimates. Assuming that vehicle growth in the early 1990s
follows the 1985-87 trend, the number of vehicles using the highway system by
1992 could range between 85,000 to 110,000 units or, excluding motorcycles,
between 32,000 and 38,000 vehicles. When MCTPC's proposed import duty rates are
applied against the 1992 fleet additions, the revenue yield to the Central
Government could  be  expected  to more  than  double.    By  1992,  sector  tax
collections could approximate 80% to 90% of the roads budget, assuming a 6%
annual increase in budgetary allocations.  The major source of revenue under
existing ani proposed import duty schedules would be vehicle import duties.
Estimates of total revenue do not appear sensitive to alternative assumptions on
the amount of diesel consumed on public roads. Using the lower estimated vehicle
fleet base of 85,000 vehicles for 1992, forecast revenue with the MCTPC proposal
is in the order of US$19.1 million or US$18.1 million when counting only 60% of
diesel as road consumption (see Annex 3, page 3).
Provincial Road System
2.17         The provincial road network totals about 6,000 km, of which 2,000 km
are paved or gravel. Assuming 50% of the average national system maintenance
cost and applying this unit cost of US$415 per kilometer to the 2,000 km, a sum
in the order of US$0.9 million would be required annually. This is not counting
backlog  or earth  road  improvement costs.   With  the  proposed  increases  in
registration and licensing fees (Annex 3), revenues accruing to provincial and
municipal governments would be in the order of US$0.4 million by 1992, slightly
less than half of the annual maintenance requirement. The proposed increases
should be introduced as soon as possible to strengthen the financial base of the
local governments. Further increases, particularly for heavier vehicle classes,



. 11 -
should also be considered.  This set of fees should cover at least the variable,
usage-related portion (an estimated 50%) of system maintenance.
E. Organization and Staffing
2.18        The transport sector is organized into three administrative levels:
MCTPC  is  responsible  for  the  administration,  planning,  construction  and
maintenance of national roads; Provincial Communication, Transport, Post and
Construction (CTPC) Departments are responsible for all activities related to
provincial and local roads, except maintenance of local roads which is handled
by the District CTPC Departments.   All three levels have associated state
enterprises, 44 in the case of MCTPC. The Provincial CTPC Departments are under
the jurisdiction of both the respective provincial governors and MCTPC, and
receive technical guidance and support from the latter. All externally-assisted
road projects, including those for provincial roads, are administered by MCTPC.
Due to an acute lack of funds at the provincial and district levels, the related
roads organizations are not effectively functional.
2.19        MCTPC   is   organized   into   ten   departments   for   equipment,
administration, personnel, planning and finance, communication, transport, civil
aviation,  construction,  international  relations,  and  post,  telephone  and
telegraph,  with  the various  departments  under  five Vice  Ministers.    The
organization of MCTPC is shown in Chart 1.
2.20        For highways, the Vice Minister for Economic Planning has a planning
unit responsible for statistics and planning to 1-, 5-, and 15-year horizons as
well as a budgeting unit for the Ministry's 44 enterprises, and for liaison with
foreign organizations.    Under  the Vice Minister  for Communications  are a
Technical Control Division to carry out feasibility studies and control road
construction and maintenance; a Project Management Committee to supervise road
construction projects; a Maintenance Division to plan and control maintenance;
and the Communications and Design Research Institute (CDRI) responsible for
surveys, materials studies and technical control during construction. One of the
objectives of the ongoing National Transport Study is to identify measures to
strengthen the efficient functioning of agencies involved in transport.
2.21        Most units in MCTPC have a shortage of trained technical staff and
managers, and this will become difficult as the workload grows. The shortage of
engineers is particularly severe -- there were only about 40 in 1986, who were
trained abroad. The mixture of educational systems represented and the different
methods and standards used by the engineers presents a problem when staff work
together.   A local Polytechnic Institute, established in 1984, graduated its
first class of 25 engineers in 1989/90, and this is expected to begin to relieve
some of the current constraints. The Ministry also provides some training at its
Road Training Center, which, within the limits of its budget, provides adequate
theoretical training to middle management. One of the major objectives of the
NTS was the production of a training plan for MCTPC, for which bilateral support
will be sought. The proposed project would begin to address the Ministry's need
for trained personnel by financing short courses for existing staff and four-year
degree training in both engineering and economics.



- 12 -
F. Road Design and Construction
2.22        The CDRI is responsible for designing locally-financed roads.  While
a set of design standards was proposed in 1984 in order to discourage the
tendency of different donors to use the standards of their home countries, the
standards proposed were not sufficiently comprehensive for detailed design.
Hence, the multiplicity of design standards continues. Development of new design
standards will be financed by the Government of Sweden during 1991-95.
2.23        Most road construction at the national level is carried out by nine
Road and Bridge Construction Societies (RBCS), which are enterprises under the
MCTPC.   Each RBCS is named according to the route number of the road it is
working on. Seven of these are associated with foreign-financed projects and one
is working on Route 8, a locally-financed road to the Viet Nam border. Another
enterprise is working on a labor-based construction project being assisted by the
United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the International Labour
Organization (ILO). The numbers and condition of the equipment used in the state
enterprises vary widely. The use of many different brands of equipment, from a
number of different countries, creates problems in repairs and the stocking of
spare parts.
2.24        Since 1975, all road construction in Lao PDR, including that financed
by foreign donors, has been carried out by the state enterprises. Most of this
work has consisted of rehabilitating or reconstructing roads, following existing
alignments.   The system used is a combination of force account and contract
procedures, in that the RBCS is paid unit prices for work accomplished, but the
unit prices are fixed by the Ministry. The Ministry also supplies fuel and
materials and rents the enterprises their equipment; the latter are respo..sible
for paying labor wages. Under the externally-funded projects, RBCSs are supplied
with new equipment, spare parts, operating budgets, and expatriate technical
assistance. The RBCS system has been used to execute urgently needed projects to
re-establish road communication in the country in the absence of any domestic or
foreign construction industry.   However,  the longer-term future of the RBCS
system, which is linked to the country's evolving political system, has not yet
been decided.  A purely contractual system would appear preferable since the
current practice of integrating project management with control of execution of
works blurs the distinction between the owner and executing agency and leads to
inefficiencies.     In  future,  major  construction  should  be  executed  by
international contractors, and, so long as the RBCS system is retained, it should
evolve toward an arm's-length relationship between owner and contractor.
2.25         International  contracting and procurement  through  international
competitive bidding will, in fact, be used for the proposed IDA-assisted project
and for construction of one section of Route 13N from Vang Vieng to Luang
Prabang, with financing from the Asian Development Bank (ADB).  This stretch
traverses a mountainous area, and the scale of works required is beyond the
RBCS's capability.
2.26        Private sector capacity for road construction is still very limited.
Private contractors exist in the building trade and at least two are reported to
have some capability in constructing urban roads. With the recent changes in
economic policy, the private contractors may find an increasing market.



- 13 -
G. Maintenance
2.27        Mainiternanice of the  road system  is currently  inadequate,  being
constrained by a limited budget (para. 2.12), a weak organizational system, lack
of trained staff and equipment, and poor planning. These issues and the ,neasures
being taken to address them are discussed below.
2.28        Organization.   Maintenance of the national  road network is the
overall responsibility of the Maintenance Division in MCTPC's Department of
Communications.  Actual works are contracted out to national and provincial road
maintenance units, which are state enterprises. The little work done on local
roads is executed by village labor.
2.29        The  Maintenance  Division  is charged with  planning,  budgeting,
contracting, supervising and setting standards for road maintenance.  However,
the recently created Division is understaffed and lacks sufficient resources and
reliable data to carry out its tasks. The Division currently has a staff of ten,
only seven of whom have engineering training, as well as nine supervisors to
control and monitor the work of the contracted enterprises. In view of these
constraints, the Division is now responsible only for locally-funded maintenance,
while externally-funded maintenance projects are managed by the Department's
Construction Management Division. The intention is, however, that the Maintenance
Division will eventually become responsible for all maintenance of roads and
bridges countrywide.
2.30         In 1989, there were nine state enterprises and ten provincial or
municipal enterprises implementing locally-funded road and bridge maintenance by
contract with the MCTPC Maintenance Division. The Road and Bridge Maintenance
Societies (RBMSs) responsible for maintenance were previously restricted to
specific provinces but are now gaining more autonomy in where they operate. On
the basis of experience with the Bank-assisted Southern Transport Project, the
quality of RBMS work is satisfactory. However, like the RBCSs, the RBMSs are
theoretically contractor units but in practice do force account work at fixed
unit prices. Since unit prices are not regularly adjusted and apply countrywide,
while the cost of some inputs like fuel varies within the country, the unit
prices may be substantially below real costs. Some enterprises therefore have to
accept prices that do not cover their costs. More important, the real cost of
maintenance is not calculated, and economic and efficiency considerations are
ignored.
2.31       National roads constructed with external financing have so far been
maintained by the RBCS that constructed them.  However, the larger RBCSs now
operate on a national scale and may be transferred away from the road in
question.  While an RBCS or RBMS is theoretically contracted to maintain each
national road,  the current system does not function in practice.   A road
maintenance study included in the proposed project would assess this situation
and make recommendations for the establishment of an effective maintenance system
for the longer term.
2.32        Staffing and Training.  An increased number of experienced and well-
trained personnel are needed at all levels of the maintenance system. Management
skills particularly need to be developed to handle the increased maintenance



- 14 -
needs of the expanded paved road network.  Training in maintenance methods also
needs to be provided to ensure consistent quality in the works carried out.
2.33        Equipment.  The state maintenance enterprises rent their equipment
from MCTPC.  The heavy equipment is generally old, outmoded, and easily broken.
Spare parts may take a year to obtain, and equipment availability is consequently
low.  The supply of small equipment for tasks like repairing paved roads is
insufficient. The lack of adequate equipment, including that for testing, affects
the quality of the works carried out.
2.34        Maintenance Management.  The need for recurrent maintenance has only
recently been recognized by the Lao PDR Government, which began to distinguish
between capital improvements and recurrent maintenance in its budgets only a few
years ago.   Planning of maintenance is currently carried out by the central
authorities and is oriented towards periodic maintenance, really rehabilitation,
since most roads have deteriorated beyond a maintainable condition. The system
consists of an inventory of the need for treatment on each road, made just after
the end of the rainy season.   The resulting quantities of work are then
multiplied by unit prices to give a total budget requirement, which is submitted
to the Ministry of Economy, Planning and Finance.   Since the funds actually
allocated to the central and provincial authorities have covered only a portion
of needs, the program of works has had to be adjusted. Now, however, with the
growing paved road network and the generally increased transport needs
accompanying the country's development, a recurrent maintenance system and
routine maintenance "culture" need to be developed. This can be expected to take
many years.
2.35      Current and Proposed Assistance.  The Covernment is now attempting to
improve maintenance of the road network and has received bilateral support for
this purpose. However, the efforts made to date have been somewhat weak, due to
the lack of a coherent maintenance policy, with clearly stated priorities,
metthods, management systems, methods and levels of financing, etc. While the NTS
has provided general recommendations regarding maintenance, a more thorough
analysis of the existing situation and detailed recommendations on a maintenance
strategy and program of works  are needed.   These will be provided by a
maintenance study included in the proposed project. As an interim maintenance
measure, the project would also help finance emergency spot improvements to
critical road sections. To ensure coordination between the NTS and maintenance
activities under the proposed project, the Government and the Association would
discuss a program of appropriate actions to follow up on NTS recommendations on
road maintenance.
2.36         IDA assistance would complement that of ADB and SIDA.  The ADB is
already financing a program of maintenance on specific roads in individual
provinces and the establishment of a bridge maintenance management system. SIDA
has agreed to finance: (a) a road maintenance expert to assist the Maintenance
Division during 1991-92 to implement the Study's proposals, (b) a maintenance
training expert during 1993-95, (c) a maintenance equipment expert in 1991, and
(d) a road maintenance supervisor and equipment for a pilot maintenance project
to develop appropriate maintenance methods, test an area approach to maintenance
and provide on-the-job training.  In time, these and similar future efforts are
expected to assist the Government in establishing a countrywide maintenance



- 15 -
syiterm and  In developing  local  capabilities  in planning  and  implem.-nting
mainteniance programs.
Hi. Road Safety
2.37        Road safety  is an issue mainly  in large cities  like Vientiane
Municipality, Luanlg Prabang, Savannakhet and Champassak, where the recent growth
in motorized traffic accompanying economic liberalization has led to increased
accident, injury and fatality rates.  The growing accident rate has been traced
to a nunber  of  factors  including:  the  lack  of  familiarity  with  traffic
conventions of either motorcycle/bicycle drivers or pedestrians; conflicts
between motor vehicles and slower-moving nonmotorized traffic on major routes;
vehicle overloading;  lack of signs,  pavement and directional markings,  and
channelization as well as the separation of motor and nonmotorized traffic; and
mechanical problems of the aging fleet. To begin to address the problems, the
Government has established a Road Safety Committee with representatives from
relevant government ministries, Vientiane Prefecture and the provincial
governments to work toward coordination of education and training programs for
drivers and school children. In addition, a .oad safety pilot project to provide
advisory services and selected remedial measures in Vientiane Municipality has
been agreed with SIDA.
3. THE PROJECT
A. Project Formulation
3.1         The Government of Lao PDR first inquired about the possibility of
obtaining IDA assistance in financing construction of the Namkading-Savannakhet
road in 1981. Feasibility and detailed design studies for the road were being
carried out at that time by consultants engaged by the Association, with UNDP
financing. However, by the time the studies were almost completed, the security
situation in the project area had deteriorated and the Association decided that
further pursuit of the project was not feasible under the prevailing conditions.
The Government continued to express interest in constructing the road, which is
now the main missing link in Route 13 South, the country's crucial north-south
transport artery, and in 1988, when conditions in the area had improved, the
original feasibility and design studies were updated by consultants financed
under the ongoing IDA-supported Southern Transport Project (Credit 1846-LA). The
proposed project was subsequently preappraised in January/February 1990 and
appraised in May/June 1990.
B. Project Objectives
3.2         The proposed project would support the key subsector goal in the
Government's current Development Plan -- that is, to increase the efficiency of
the country's road network -- through the rehabilitation of a priority section
of the main north-south road artery (Route 13) and the restoration of road
capacity lost through years of war and neglect. The project's road rehabilitation
component is specifically aimed at improving access to the agriculturally-rich
southern part of the country, which would particularly benefit the less well-
endowed north, while also facilitating access to the sea via Viet Nam. Under the
proposed road restoration component, emergency spot improvements would be carried



- 16 -
out on key road sect iorns to address   ransport nefds in t Ihie short t erm and, for
the longer term, a study would he carried out for t he est abI i sIint it of an
effective maintenance organization countrywide.
C. Rationale for IDA Involvement
3.3         IDA involvement in the project is justified for two major reasons.
Since the key productive sectors of the Lao economy, particularly agriculture,
depend heavily on road transport for access to markets and prodluctioTn inputs,
improvement of the country's currently inadequate road network is central to any
effort to stimulate economic growth. The Association can also provide valuable
technical support in institution building, particularly in areas such as
maintenance planning and procedures. In addition, the project is important in
facilitating the flow of goods to the poorer northern provinces and constitutes
a logical follow-up to the ongoing Southern Transport Project which is improving
the condition of Route 13 between Savannakhet and Pakse.
D. Project Description
3.4         The proposed project would provide the following over a five-year
period:
(a)   rehabilitation and bituminous surfacing,  to be carried out under
contract, of a 233-km section of Route 13S from Namkading to Seno,
including rehabilitation of 40 bridges and replacement of 6 bridges,
as well as 33 km of old Route 9 from Seno io Savannakhet;
(b)   restoration of road capacity through (i) the procurement of road
maintenance equipment, materials and supplies, including fuel, spare
parts, etc., for emergency spot improvements to be carried out by
two maintenance brigades and (ii) the provision of technical
assistance for supervision of the brigades and the implementation of
a study to recommend a long-range road maintenance strategy and to
develop a medium-term maintenance program;
(c)   technical assistance to MCTPC; and
(d)   funding for MCTPC staff training.
Road Rehabilitation
3.5         Route 13 is the sole road linking the southern part of Lao PDR with
the central region around Vientiane and points to the north. The road section
proposed for improvement under the project, along with the Vientiane-Namkading
section now being rehabilitated with Swedish assistance, would provide a year-
round, all-weather link between the country's capital and the agriculturally-
important south. The current road, constructed in the 1950s with a short section
built to a light standard with bituminous surfacing, is now severely
deteriorated. Long stretches of the road have reverted to track, and the road is
passable only during half the year in the dry season, and even then with
difficulty. The road requires reshaping, including raising the formation level
where necessary to keep the road from being flooded, sub-base and base courses,



- 17 -
and bituminous surtace treatment.  The road formation would be 9 meters wide,
with a 6-meter double bituminous surface treated pavement, and 1.5-meter slngle
bituminous surface treated shoulders on each side.  01d Route 9 is the link from
Route 13 to the city of Savannakhet, and was not improved during the recent
upgrading of Route 9, which followed a new alignment for this section to the port
of Kengkabao; this road stretch would also be reconstructed to the standards
described above,  Details of thie road design are given in Annex 4.
3.6         There are 46 bridges on the project road; all are one-lane, mostly
old steel or temporary Bailey-type bridges in poor condition.   Six are near
collapse. Replacement of these six bridges with permpanent, two-lane structures
would be carried out under the proposed project.  The remaining 40 bridges would
be rehabilitated under the project, with parts and materials procured under the
project and works contracted out to local road and bridge construction societies,
which are competent to carry out work of this type.   The bridges would be
reconstructed later when financing becomes available.
3.7         Construction would be carried out following international competitive
bidding and using international contractcrs. A consulting firm would be employed
to supervise reconstruction of Route 13, including rehabilitation of 40 bridges
and replacement of six bridges. To avoid divided responsibility, the Government
has requested that the consulting firm which prepared feasibility studies and
designs for this road be engaged to supervise construction. These consultants
were selected using a shortlist process and financed under the Southern Transport
Project.
Restoration of Road Capacity
3.8         The MCTPC  currently has very  limited capacity  to restore  the
country's badly deteriorated road network and will likely require many years to
develop the capabilities to do so. The Ministry therefore requires immediate
assistance in making emergency repairs to key sections of the network while
simultaneously beginning the long-term process of establishing an effective road
maintenance capability. The proposed project would provide this assistance by
financing, first, a road maintenance study to (a) recommend a long-range strategy
for efficient and cost-effective road maintenance and (b) develop a medium-term
program for maintenance improvement, including manpower development and training
programs. The proposed study is expected to lay the basis for possible future
assistance to road maintenance by external lenders. Outline terms of reference
for the study are given in Annex 5.
3.9         Second, the project would address the immediate needs of the network
by financing equipment, operating costs and technical assistance for two RBMSs,
which would carry out spot improvements on key road sections throughout the
country. A list of equipment to be provided under the project is given in Annex
6. The technical assistance to the brigades would comprise one expert for four
years to assist in defining a program of spot improvements on priority roads and
providing on-the-job training to maintenance supervisors.  A second technical
expert would assist the MCTPC Directorate responsible for maintenance of the
national  road  network  in,  among  other  things,  defining  its  maintenance
objectives, preparing budgetary requests and monitoring the implementation of
works. Terms of reference for the technical experts are given in Annex 7. The



- 18 -
two RBMSs and the locations of their work will be selected on the basis of
recommendations  of  the  techinical  experts  and  agreed  with  MCTPC  during
implemr.itation.   Thie use of RBMSs to carry out spot improvements as needed over
a loosely defined area has already proven successful under the ongoing Southern
Transport  PrG,ject.     During negotiations,  agreement was  reached wit}  the
Government that replenishment of the initial stock of fuel, spare parts and other
maintenance supplies provided under the project to the road maintenance brigades
would be timely and in a manner satisfactory to the Association.  Replenishment
would be  sed on the accomplishment of performance targets to be established by
project t. i mainternance consultants.
Technical Assistance and Training
3.10        Proiect Support.  A consultant would be engaged under the project to
assist  the  Project Management Unit  in coordinating project  implementation
para. 3.17) and, as mentioned above, consultants would be engaged to supervise
road reconstruction. The project would also finance consultants to carry out
feasibility studies and designs for the preparation of future projects in the
roads subsector, as identified by the NTS.
3.11        Transport Planning.  A consultant would be engaged for two years
under the project to provide technical assistance to MC1PC in transport planning.
This is intended to ensure that the systems, procedures and counterpart training
introduced by consultants during the last two years in the course of implementing
the NTS can be tested, refined and consolidated.   It is recommended that a
consultant from the NTS team already in place be engaged for this purpose.
Financing during the interim period between the disbanding of the NTS team at
end-1990 and project start-up in June 1991 would be provided from savings under
the ongoing Southern Transport Project. Outline terms of reference for project
consultants are given in Annexes 7 and 8.
3.12        Training.  Lao PDR faces a critical shortage of trained manpower in
all areas.  In the transport sector, the need is most pressing for engineers and
economists to formulate appropriate policies and plan and implement investments.
The proposed project would help in this regard by including funds for both degree
programs abroad and short-term training of current staff. About US$105,000 would
be provided for five bachelor's de"^ees in civil engineering and two in
economics. A notional amount of about US$30,000 would also be allocated under
the project for short-term training and visits abroad, which would be identified
in the course of project implementation.
Status of Project Preparation
3.13        Designs for the rehabilitation of the Namkading-Savannakhet road were
prepared by consultants financed under the ongoing Southern Transport Project
(Cr. 1846-LA), who also carried out the prequalification exercise. Tenders for
this work are planned for early 1991, with bids expected to be received by May
1991.   The consultants who carried out these designs are expected to be
reappointed to supervise works, including rehabilitation of the 40 bridges to be
carried out by RBMSs. The project coordinator would be recruited immediately
after presentation of the proposed project to the Board and, until credit
effectiveness, would be financed out of savings under the Southern Transport



- 19 -
Project. Project technical assistance would be engaged Immediately after loan
effectiveness. Tender documents for maintenance equipment to be provided under
the project are being prepared by consultants financed under the Southern
Transport Project, and bids will be called in early 1991.
E. Project Cost
3.14          The project would have  an estimated total  cost  of about KN 37.4
billion (US$52.6 million equivalent), including foreign exchange of US$49.4
million or about 94% of total costs. Base costs have been updated to ead-1990
prices. Physical contingencies average 10% of the base costs of- all project
components.   Since most of the project cost would be in foreign exchange, price
contir.gencies for both local and foreign costs have been calculated assuming an
average annual inflation rate of 3.6% during 1991-96. Price contingencies are
equal to abouc 14% of base costs plus physical contingencies.   Based on Lao PDR
legislation, the import of goods and services under the project will be exempt
from taxes and duties. Estimated costs are given in detail in Annex 9 and are
summarized in Table 3.1.
Table 3.1: COST ESTIMATES
Local  Foreign    Total  Local  Foreign   Total    Foreign
- - - (KN million) - - -    - - - (USS I000) - - -  as %
of total
Road rehabilitation
Road reconstruction              393  19,214    19,607    552  27,062   27,614         98
Rehabilitation of 40 bridges     322   1,289    1,611    454   1,815   2,269           80
Replacement of 6 bridges          43   2,119    2,162      61   2,985   3, C S        98
Subtotal                         758  22.622    23.380  1.067  31.862  32.92           97
Restoration of Road Capacity
Equipment                         65   1,242    1,307      92   1,749    1,841         95
Operating costs                  284   1,136    1,420    400   1,600   2,000           80
Technical assistance             236     946    1,182    333   1,332   1,665          80
Subtotal                         585   3.324    3.909    825   4.681    5.506         85
Technical Assistance and Training
Project support                  443   1,772    2,215    624   2,496   3,120          80
Policy development                51      204      255     72      288     360        80
Fellowships                               75        75      -      105     105        100
Short courses                      -      21        21      -       30      30        100
Subtotal                         494   2.072    2.566    696   2.919   3.615          81
Total Base Cost                 1.837  28.018   29.855  2.588  39.462  42.050          94
Physical contingencies           184   2,802    2,986    259   3,946   4,205          94
Price contingencies              269   4,271    4,540    379   6,016   6,395          94
Total Project Cost              2.290  35.091    37.381  3.225  49.424  52.649         94
3.15          Cost  estimates  for  the  Namkading-Savannakhet  road,   including
rehabilitation of 40 bridges and replacement of another six, average about
US$124,000/km and are based on consulting engineers' estimates. Estimates of



- 20 -
mainteTlance unit operating costs, including manpower, fuel, oil, lubricants,
equipment maintenance, repairs and construction materials, are based on ,lnlalyses
by  consultants,  records  of  the  MCTPC  maintenance  unit  and  the  ontg-1ng
Savanniakhet-Pakse road rehabilitatirn.  The costs for road maintenance equiumeiit
and spare parts and mechanical work. iop equipment and tools are based on reeDnt
deliveries of equipmnent to Lao PDR as well as MCTPC's and consultants' estimatos.
Technical assistance costs, totalling about US$5.1 million, cover 248 staff-
months of foreign consultant services plus contract supervision. The unit cost
of consultanmt services is based on prevailing prices.
F. Financing
3.16        The  proposed  IDA  credit  of  SDR  32.1  million  (US$45  million
equivalent) will cover 86% of the total project cost, including 91% of foreign
costs.  In addition, the Covernment has requested the Nordic Development Fund
(NDF) for a credit of US$5 million equivalent to finance technical assistance and
training costs.  Parallel cofinancing under the NDF credit would be provided on
the same terms and conditions as the proposed IDA credit, with the majer
exception that disbursement of the credit by the Nordic Investment Bank would be
restricted to Nordic Fund member countries (Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway and
Sweden).   The proposed NDF and IDA credits would be cross-effective.   The
Government would provide about US$2.6 million equivalent to cover the remaining
local costs. Project financing arrangements are summarized in Table 3.2.
Table 3.2: PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million)
Financing Source                      Amount
Government of Lao PDR                  2.6
IDA                                   45.0
Nordic Development Fund                5.0
Total                                 52.6
G. Implementation
3.17        The  MCTPC  would  have   overall   responsibility   for  project
implementation.   Day-to-day management of rehabilitation of the Namkading-
Savannakhet road would be handled by a Project Management Unit (PMU) to be
established at Namkading. The PMU would be staffed by an MCTPC engineer, a
deputy, an accountant and support staff. Overall project administration would
be assisted by a Project Coordinator based in Vientiane, who would be responsible
for coordinating, planning and monitoring project activities, procuring project
inputs and services, organizing project-supported training, and carrying out
project reporting and accounting. During negotiations, agreement was reached
with the Government that the PM1U and the project coordinating unit would be
established by July 1, 1991, with responsibilities and staffing acceptable to the



- 2 1 -
A ssociat ion.  A counterpart Project Manager would also be in place by July 1,
1.991.   For  the supervlsion of construction,  the PMU would be assisted by
consulting engineers from the same firm that carried out designs for the road.
3.18         Implementation of the road capacity restoration component would be
the respornsibility of MCTPC's Director of Maintenance, with the assistance of the
project coordinator and the consultants to the maintenance brigades.   On-site
spot improvements to restore road capacity would be carried out by two RBMSs
whice-, would be strengthened under the project through the provision of equipment
and techlnical assistance.  The RBMSs would each be responsible for carrying out
about 150 km of spot improvements per year in various provinces to be selected
by the project maintenance consultants.
3.19         According  to  the  proposed  implementation  schedule  (Annex  10),
rehabilitation of the Namkading-Savannakhet road will begin in November 1991 and
take about five years to complete. Maintenance works under the project would
begin in 1992 and be carried out over four years. The project is expected to be
completed by December 31, 1996.
H. Procurement
3.20         Project procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 3.3.  Civil
works for improvement of the Namkading-Savannakhet road and reconstruction of six
bridges on the road, estimated to cost about US$38.5 million equivalent, will be
procured on the basis of International Competitive Bidding (ICB) in accordance
with the Association's Guidelines.  Procurement documents for rehabilitation of
the Namkading-Savannakhet road were completed under the ongoing Southern
Transport Project, have been reviewed by the Association, and receipt of bids is
expected by May 1991.  Works would be divided into two packages: one for the
Namkading-Thakhek road (150 km) and the other for the Thakhek-Savannakhet road
(115 km). All ICB procurement documents will be subject to prior review by the
Association.
3.21         Rehabilitation of 40 bridges on the project road as well as spot
improvements under the maintenance component would be carried out by RBMSs. For
bridge rehabilitation, Bailey bridge components would be procured through
international shopping, and materials such as fuel, cement, oil and lubricants
would be procured by MCTPC through local sources.   Miscellaneous  items of
equipment in packages estimated to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent per
package will be procured by prudent shopping after receipt of at least three
quotations; the total amount of these purchases will not exceed US$310,000
equivalent.   Materials for RBMS maintenance operations, such as timber, fuel,
oil, lubricants, and other day-to-day requirements, estimated to cost about
US$2.9 million equivalent will be procured from local suppliers at Government-
approved prices.
3.22         Consulting services for transport planning and the preparation of
future projects will be procured in accordance with the Association's Guidelines
for the use of consultants, under terms of reference acceptable to the
Association. However, to ensure continuity and familiarity with the situation
in the sector, the transport planner would be selected from the consultant team



- 22 -
2 23        NDF Iinaricing and procurement procedures would be used for the
purchase of major road maintenance equipment and initial spares for the RBMS
b)riga(des and recruitment of the project coordinator and two maintenance
cllsult.anits.  Under these procedures, procurement would be restricted to Nordic
Fund member countries (Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway and Sweden), and the NDF
would manage the related procurement arrangements.  Documents  or the procurement
of road maintenance equipment will be prepared by consultants engaged under tile
SSouthern Transport Project.
Table 3.3:  IPROJECT PROCUREMENT PlAN  /a
(US$ million)
Procurement Method
P'roject Element                         ICB    OtherZc         Total
Civil works
Road and bridge reconstruction        38.5         -            38.5
(36.6)Zb                 (36.6)
Bridge rehabilitation                  -          2.7           2.7
(2.2)        (2.2)
Equipment                                             2.2           2.2
(0.2)        (0.2)
Restoration of road capacity               -          2.9           2.9
(Materials, supplies and fuel)                       (2.7)         (2.7)
Consulting services and training           -          6.3           6.3
(3.3)        (3.3)
Total                                  38.5       14.1          52.6
(36.6)      (8.4)        (45.0)
Za    Includes contingencies.
Zb    Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts to be financed by the
IDA credit.
/c    Includes  procurement  of  equipment  (US$2.0  million  equivalent)  and
consultant services (US$3.0 million equivalent) under the NDF credit,
using NDF procedures which restrict procurement to NDF member countries.
I. Disbursements
3.24        Disbursement of the proposed credit will be made on the following
basis:
(a)   95% of the total cost of civil works;
(b)   for equipment, materials and vehicles, 100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 90% of local
expenditures; and



- 23 -
(c)   10(0  of tot al expcnd(litures for technical a.;;i;t ;oee  trai iiir, ;o,
coI1';uI t Int s' services.
3.?25       Ful   documnett at iot  would  be  required  to  support  wit hdrawa I
applications for all consultarit- services and all civil works,  eqUiplliilt laI(i
mate rial contracts above US$5()0,000 equivalent.  Dishurseineents for civil work'.,
equipment anid material conitracts less than US$50,000 would be made oni the ha;;i!;
of Statements of Expen(diture (SOEs).  The documentation for SOE expenditur(e;
WOuld c)i   prepared untder thet sup-rvi si on of the Project Coor-dinator, ret a i ied b
MCTPC, and made available f'or review by IDA supervision missions.
3.26        To facilitate disbursements under the project, a Specia' Account with
an authorized a]location of US$1 million would be establishied at the Bank of Lao
PDR, which is the central bank.  The account would be used for expenditur-es of
less than US$100,000 equivalent, both foreign and local, under all categories,
All otther expenditures above US$100,000 would be submitted directly to IDA for
payment. Applications for replenishment would be submitted quarterly or when the
amounts withdrawn equal 50% of the initial deposit, whichever comes first.
3.27        A schedule of estimated disbursements under the proposed credit and
the disbursement profiles for both previous projects in Lao PDR and previous
Regional transport projects are shown in Annex 11. Disbursement of the proposed
credit is expected to be more rapid than that of previous projects in Lao PDR in
view of measures included in the project to ensure timely implementation, i.e.,
a consultant would act as Project Coordinator and the main project component
would be carried out by an international contractor, under the supervision of an
external consultant.  With these precautions, credit disbursement is expected to
be similar to the profile for previous transport projects in the Region. The
closing date of the credit will be June 30, 1997.
J.  Auditing. Reporting, Monitoring and Supervision
3.28        The MCTPC will establish and maintain separate accounts for all
expenditures under the project. During negotiations, agreement was reached with
the Government that these accounts will be audited annually in accordance with
sound auditing standards by the Accounting Department of the Ministry of Economy,
Planning and Finance.   These audits will cover (a) project accounts, (b) the
Special Account, and (c) Statements of Expenditure. SOE audits will contain a
separate opinion as to whether the disbursements made under the SOEs were used
for the purpose for which they were intended under the project.  These audits
will be furnished to the Association within six months of the end of each
government fiscal year.
3.29        The  MCTPC  will  submit  quarterly  progress  reports  on  project
implementation, based on the project implementation schedule.  The MCTPC will
also submit part two of a Project Completion Report to the Association within
four months of the credit closing date.  These arrangements were confirmed with
MCTPC during negotiations.
3.30        Project supervision by the Association will be coordinated through
a Supervision Plan, which would be agreed during the project launching mission
scheduled immediately following Board approval  of the credit.    IDA field



- 24x -
sup,-rvision woul Id re(uire a total of about 40 staff -wee ks duriAng t he life  of
the  project , witti inor   f or    requent  supervision  duringi' t le  eal 1 v years  of
iinpl ementat ion. Supervision wotuld be carried out maiitly by a t ratisport engineer,
assisted on occas;ion by a training specialist and a transport economlist.
K.  Environmental Impact
3.31        The  project  is expected  to have  no negative  envirotmettal  or-
ecological  impact.   No major changes will be made in thie alignment of the
Namkading-Savannakhet road, and thie only additional land needed would be for the
approachies to the six new bridges.  This is not expected to displace any houses.
The road is in an area where the primary forest has already been cut and the
secondary growth is largely scrub and brush. Improvement of drainage and bridges
along the road should, in fact, improve environmental conditions.  The bituminous
surfacing on the road will reduce the dust nuisance during the dry season from
the present gravel and earth surface. Measures will be taken to avoid siltation
resulting from run-off from construction sites, and drainage will be designed to
prevent downstream erosion. Higher speeds and increased traffic can, however,
be expected to result in an increase in traffic accidents. While no actions are
proposed to address the potential increase in accidents, the Government is aware
of this problem and is attempting to address it in Vientiane Prefecture (para.
2.37).
4. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
A. Benefits
4.1         Rehabilitation under the project of the Namkading-Savannakhet section
of Route 13, the country's main north-south artery, will facilitate flows of both
export-import traffic and the important agricultural traffic moving north from
the country's southern provinces. The proposed road rehabilitation will also
support other development programs in the country, enable lower-cost distribution
of goods and movement of people within the central region and between the
no-thern and southerr. parts of Lao PDR and, more important, provide a reliable
ear-round, all-weather link for the movement of goods and passengers.   The
project road would therefore assist the Government of Lao PDR to develop its
currently inadequate transport infrastructure and to meet some of its objectives
regarding regional development, integration of the geographically large but
sparsely populated country, and promotion of exports.
4.2         The road restoration component is also expected to lower the cost of
transporting goods and passengers, besides developing local maintenance
capabilities and strengthening MCTPC's maintenance planning and management
abilities.



- 25 -
B. Economic Evaluation
Rehabilitation of the Namkading-Savannakhet Road
4.3          Present and Future Traffic.  Present traffic levels on the project
road are low; June 1989 counts indicated average daily traffic in the order of
250 vehicles on the Namkading-Thakhek-Kengkabao sections and slightly over 300
vehicles per day on the Seno-Savannakhet section.   Such low counts on the
country's major spine route can be attributed to poor road conditions,  an
undeveloped  feeder network system and a limited vehicle  fleet.    Economic
constraints on travel may also be reflected.  For the purposes of the economic
analysis of the proposed road rehabilitation, traffic is expected to grow at 6%
to 6.5% a year. This is considered conservative in view of indications that the
Lao economy will open further and that liberalization of trade, commerce and
foreign investment coupled with the free movement of passengers and goods will
have a significant impact on traffic growth. Surplus agricultural production in
the southern provinces and upgrading of the network connections feeding Route 13
could also significantly increase demand during the latter part of the next
decade, as could increased availability of spare parts and fuel as well as
unconstrained vehicle fleet growth. Details of traffic growth calculations are
provided in the Project File.
4.4         Because of the poor conditions of the existing road and the small
vehicle fleet available for transport, considerable potential also exists for the
generation of traffic in reaction to both reduced transport costs and increased
seasonal reliability. Based on NTS estimates for other national road improvement
projects, increments of 20% and 50% of opening year freight and passenger
traffic, respectively, could occur. The latter rates of generated traffic are
consequently used in the following analysis.
4.5         Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis.  The project road consists
of three sections totaling 266 km; works to be carried out under the project
include rehabilitation of the formation, drainage, bituminous paving, replacement
of six bridges and mirimum repair of the remaining 40 bridges.   Assuming a
baseline traffic growth rate of 6% and 6.5% a year for passenger and freight
traffic, respectively, the _.tendant vehicle operating cost savings over a 20-
year period would yield an economic rate of return (ERR) of about 17%. The ERRs
for the individual road sections are estimated at about 17% for the Namkading-
Thakhek (150 km) and Thakhek-Kengkabao (88 km) sections and about 30% for the
Seno-Savannakhet section (28 km). The baseline growth rate is consistent with
traffic growth trends emerging from the National Transport Study, but excludes
consideration of additional benefits from generated traffic or time and cost
savings from potential diversions from river transport.
4.6          If generated traffic potential equivalent to 20% and 50% increments
of opening-year freight and passenger traffic, respectively, is assumed to occur
and one half of the benefits of this potential traffic is included, the ERR for
the entire project road increases only marginally, to about 18%. The ERR would
also show no significant change if savings related to potentially divertable
river traffic are taken into account. Diversion potential is estimated to be on
the order of 10,000 tons and 15,000 passengers per year, with net savings on the



- 26 -
order of US$2/ton antid 'S$2.40/p1)assenger.  If both generated and diverted iraffic
benef it  a are incliuded, the ERR would still be only 18%.
4./          Senisitivity tests indicate that a 15% increase in costs and 15%
decrease in benief its would reduce the base case ERR from 17% to 14%.   A 50%
decrease in the expected traffic growth rates (to 3% for passenger traffic and
3.5% for freight traffic) would also result in an ERR of about 14%, which is
still acceptable. Annual cost and benefits streams are shown in Annex 12 by road
section together with the results of sensitivity tests.  The ERRs for the various
scenlarios are summar-ized below in Table 4.1.
Table 4.1: PROJECT ROAD - SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
ERR by Road Section (%)
Namkading-  Thakhek-    Seno-            Total
Thakhek      Kengkabao   Savannakhet   Road
(150 km)    (88 km)       (28 km)        (266 km)
1. Base case                    17           18           30              17
2. Benefits reduced by 15%                                                16
3. Cost increased by 15%                                                  16
4. Combination of 2 & 3                                                   14
5. 50% lower traffic
growth rate                                                         14
6. Base case plus
generated traffic                                                   18
7. Base case plus
diverted river traffic                                             17
8. Base case plus generated
and diverted traffic                                               18
Road Restoration Component
4.8          The project's support of emergency spot improvements to key road
sections, including procurement of basic road maintenance and mechanical workshop
equipment, funding of incremental operating costs for two maintenance brigades,
and the provision of supervisory and technical assistance, is expected to result
in significant savings in vehicle operating costs (voc). Given a target of 150
km/brigade/year for the carrying out of spot improvements to the road surface,
alignment and drainage, voc savings of 30% to 50% as well as improved all-weather
accessibility should be achieved. Assuming purchase of equipment in the initial
project years and achievement of the majority of benefits in the year following
maintenance improvements, ERRs in the range of 20% to 40% can be expected. This
is based on a medium-range estimate of voc savings of US$0.13/vehicle-km, average
daily traffic of 100 vehicles, and zero to 50% of normal benefits achieved during
the second season after improvement. Higher traffic levels and rates of annual
traffic growth above 6.5% or greater unit savings (potentially UJS$0.18/vehicle-



- 27 -
km) would produce correspondingly higher returns. Details of these calculat ions
are provided in the Project File.
C. Risks
4.9          Potential  risks  to  project  Implementation  relate  to  MCTPC's
implementation capacity and, for maintenance, the lack of local maintenance
management staff.  These risks would be minimized through the provision under the
project of both a consultant to help coordinate project activities and technlical
assistance to help supervise rehabilitation and restoration activities. Trainin,g
will also be provided to develop local capabilities. In addition, implementation
could be delayed due to foreign contractors, inexperience in working in Lao PDR.
This risk would be mitigated by the selection of consultants for supervision of
project construction from among the consultant team that designed the project
road.  Inadequate maintenance of the road after completion is also a risk, which
would be addressed by preparing a study for the establishment of an effective
maintenance system. In addition, the pavement structure of the improved road has
been designed under conservative assumptions to reduce the need for a high level
of maintenance, for a design life of 20 years. Resurfacing of the road would be
required during this period. If traffic greatly exceeds the estimate used for
the pavement design, then a strengthening overlay will be applied as appropriate,
following monitoring of the surface condition.
5. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.1          During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on the
following:
(a)   joint Government-Association review by December 31, 1991 of NTS
sectoral policy recommendations and other sectoral issues and,
thereafter, annual discussions of implementation issues related to
the NTS recommendations (para. 1.11);
(b)   regarding road maintenance:
(i)   Government's provision of a budgetary allocation for road
maintenance of about US$3.3 million in 1991, with allocations
in subsequent project years as agreed by the Government and
the Association during annual reviews of the MCTPC budget,
including reviews of the road maintenance versus investment
allocation, to be carried out by September 30 of the prior
government fiscal year (para. 2.12);
(ii)  quarterly release of the MCTPC budget (para. 2.12);
(iii) by December 31, 1991, the introduction of measures, including
increased road user charges, to help fund increased
maintenance expenditures (para. 2.15);



- 28 -
(iv)  timely replenishment of the initial stock of fuel, spare parts
and other supplies provided under the project to the road
maintenance brigades, in a manner satisfactory to the
Association (para. 3.9); and
(c)   establishment by July 1, 1991 of the Project Management Unit and the
project coordinating unit, with responsibilities and staffing
acceptable to the Association (para. 3.17).
5.2          The proposed IDA credit would be cross-effective with the proposed
Nordic Development Fund credit of US$5 million equivalent for the proposed
project (para. 3.16).
5.3          Subject to the above agreements and condition, the proposed project
is suitable for an IDA credit of SDR 32.1 million (US$45 million equivalent) on
standard terms, with a maturity of 40 years, to the Lao People's Democratic
Republic.



- 29 -                         ANNEX 1
Page 1
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
HIG(;HWAY IM PROV EM EN  PROJECT
Motor Vehicle Statistics, 1977-1989''
A. Motor Vehicles
Light             Hieavy           Motor-
Year                Vehicles2/        Vehicles3/         cycles           Total
1977                 10,112             1,791             9,271           21,174
1979                 10,890             2,535            10,297           23,722
1980                 11,308             2,889            11,096           25,293
1981                 11,452             3,115            14,205           28,772
1982                 12,176             3,306            15,300           30,782
1983                 14,235             3,505            17,615           35,355
1984                 14,894             3,616            19,243           37,753
1985                 15,655             3,815            21,396           40,866
1986                 16,844             4,027            24,233           45,104
1987                 17,798             4,353            27,858           50,009
1988                 20,218             5,133            36,290           61,641
1989                 25,414             6,159            47,177           78,750
B.  Fleet Composition (Percent)
1977                      48                 8               44              100
1985                      38                 9                53             100
1989                      32                 8                60             100
C.  Annual Growth (Percent)
1977-1989                8.0              10.8             14.5             11.6
1980-1985                6.7               5.7             14.0             10.1
1985-1989               12.9              12.7             21.9             17.8
Source: MCTPC
1/    Excluding military vehicles and construction equipment.  No deduction
for scrapped vehicles is made in the figures, but an estimated 75% of
vehicles registered in 1988 were operational.
2/  Cars, pickups and jeeps for both passenger and goods transportation.
3/  Buses and trucks.



- 30 -
ANNEX 2
Pagle 1
lAO PEOPLE'S DEM(CRATIC REPUI'PIIC
HIGHl'W4AY IMPROVEMENT PRO,J CT
The Road Tran!;port Indlst_ry
].    Itinder the New Economic Management System, the Government removed tariff
rerulations onl road transport in June 1987 and other price controls in early
l (18.  These changes  effectively deregulated  the sector.   Previously,  the
artificiallv low prices of inputs like fuel caused such inputs and, in turn,
tranisp(rt activities to be allocated quantitatively.  Entry into the market is
ot, however, entirely free as private companies must either be members of a
tr.ire:port association or in Joint venture with the Government.  While entirely
private transport companies are, in practice, not yet allowed, this may change
in the future since Resolution No. 17/CM of March 16, 1990, "Resolution on the
change in ownership of state enterprises to other forms of ownership," paves the
way for the sale of state enterprises.
2     Structure of the Industry.  The Lao transport industry has two types of
fi rms:   transport operators  and freight forwarders. The  former are purely
operators, marketing their services within the country, while the latter are
mainly involved as agents in international transport,  customs clearance and
international moving operations.
3.    Transport  Operators.  Six  different  types  of businesses  provide  road
transport  for-hire  services:    national,  provincial  and  district  public
enterprises, transport associations, mixed companies and own-account operators.
Despite overlapping, the various types of operators tend to concentrate on
specific  services.    The  national  enterprises  are  primarily  engaged  in
international transport to and from Viet Nam, the transport of goods between
provinices, and the long-distance transport of fuel products.   The provincial
transport companies, including the transport associations, focus on intra-
provincial and inter-regional transport, but are to some extent also involved in
long-distance and international transport. There are no regulatory constraints
on where the various companies may operate, but the market structure is not
really competitive since shippers in the public sector will often use only state-
owned operators.
4.    The four national enterprises for the transport of goods have a total fleet
of about 515 vehicles and operate under the direct supervision of the Ministry
of Communication, Transport, Post and Construction (MCTPC). Each province and
Vientiane Prefecture also has a road transport enterprise for goods. Both
national and provincial state enterprises have a separate legal status and are
financially autonomous.   They are allowed to reduce expenditures and increase
their charges in order to make a profit, but must still submit and meet detailed
Thi. annex is based on the May 1990 draft of "A Report on the Road Transport Industry in Laos" prepared
by Nits Bruzetius for the Nationat Transport Study.



- 31 -
ANNI:X 2
Pal"e 2
annual plans and budgets as well as outline five-and ten-year plans.   The state
eniterprises must pay back to the central or provincial governments the capital
injected when they were established,  but no interest  is charged.   Various
districts also have onie or two trucks for their own use and for hire.
5.    All private operators are expected to belong to transport associations
licensed and supervised by the provinces. Countrywide, there are 16 associations,
including six In Vientiane Prefecture. Each association has approximately 15 to
55 fee-paying members. While memnbers belong to associations in their home
provinces, they may operate countrywide. Each member normally owns and operates
one   truck.   Transport   associations   essentially   function   as  marketing
organlizations, negotiating traffic and tariffs and allocating work among members.
All working procedures, including indicative tariff levels, are subject to the
consent of the members. Associations are nonprofit organizations, and surpluses
are used for social security and insurance purposes or are given to charity.
6.    Mixed companies have only recently been allowed, and few have been set up
to date. A mixed company is licensed by a department or ministry. The private
party involved must be Lao. The chief accountant of the venture is appointed by
the public entity, and other management staff are elected by stockholders and
approved by the state. Own-account operators are usually part of other state
enterprises, where they are often organized as separate units with a large degree
of operating independence. Most fall under the Ministries of Industry, Commerce,
and Agriculture and Vientiane Prefecture. Own-account operators are estimated
to carry one quarter of all commercial traffic, in terms of the volume.
7.    The Truck Fleet.    Public enterprises have predominantly Soviet-made
vehicles, more than five years old, with an average load capacity above eight
tons. The vehicles of transport associations are more varied in terms of makes,
age and loading capacity, although overall they tend to be more than ten years
old, of Japanese origin, with an 8.4-ton loading capacity. Public vehicles are
both two-and three-axle trucks, while private trucks are mostly two-axle. Road
conditions do not permit the use of trailers at present. The fleet has grown by
about 6-7% during the past decade, and at end-1989 included some 4,400 trucks,
of which about 30% were controlled by public transport operators, and 35% each
were controlled by public own-account operators and private operators,
respectively.
8.    Freight Forwarding Companies.  The three freight forwarding companies are
all based in Vientiane. Two are mixed companies: Societe Mixte des Transports
(SMT), established in early 1990, and Lao Transit, established in 1988.  The
third, Lao Freight Forwarder (LFF), is a national enterprise established in late
1987. LFF primarily handles international traffic to and from the port of Da
Nang in Viet Nam, where it has a de facto monopoly. The other companies are
mainly involved in traffic to and from Thailand. All three companies have few
trucks and consequently subcontract with transport operators.
9.    Taxation.   Transport companies pay two types of taxes:  (a) a business
turnover tax of 3% of a company's turnover, and (b) a company income tax (profits



- 32 -
ANNE X 2
1',ige 3
t,tx) of 45% of net profits2l paid by legal persons, i.e., publie enterprises aind
nixed companiies, or a profits tax on physical persons paid by transport comnpany
members which ranges from 10% to 55%, depending of the size of profit.  Compariies
also pay road user taxes, including fuel taxes, license fees on vehicles and
registration fees.  The taxes of state enterprises and mixed companies licensed
by central government ministries are paid to the central governiment, while all
companies licensed by the provinces or Vientiane Prefecture pay their taxes to
thie local government unit.  The data available indicate that the taxes generated
by road transport are very low, primarily due to under-recording of the actual
work done by both the private and public sectors as well as the poor financial
performance of public enterprises.
10.   Operational Performance.   Limited data available on the industry and
interviews with individual companies indicate that overall performance, in terms
of the annual utilization of a vehicle measured in kilometers and the load factor
is poor, particularly for public enterprises.   The trucks of Auto Transport
Company No. 1 (a national enterprise), for example, had utilization rates of
24,000 km in 1988 and 17,000 km in 1989, with load factors of 47% and 46%,
respectively. Given that the national enterprises mainly provide long-distance
service (each trip averages about 300-450 km) which can normally attain a higher
load factor due to back loads, this performance is inadequate.  In part, the
relatively low load factor is due to the uneven traffic flow through Da Nang,
with more traffic to Lao PDR than from it. Furthermore, Lao trucks may carry
traffic to but not from Thailand.   The low utilization rate is due to two
factors: (a) the low availability rate, i.e., the number of days in a year that
a truck is in service, of only about 55%, when a more normal availability of 75%
to 80% would result in an annual utilization of 30,000 km rather than 20,000 km,
and (b) the short distance covered each day that a truck is in service -- about
100 km corresponding to a speed of less than 15 km/h for an eight-hour working
day.   The performance of the provincial services seems to be even lower.
While published data on private operators indicate similarly low levels of
performance, interviews with these operators suggest a truck utilization rate of
about 35,000 km a year over medium distances.
11.   Financial Performance.  The financial performance of the private sector is
unknown, but the fact that they survive and that the sector is growing,
presumably due to the easing of regulatory restrictions, seems to indicate that
they are making an acceptable return. In Vientiane Prefecture, for example, the
number of additional private trucks and buses registered each year averaged 15
during 1981-88, but 200 in 1989 (although also due to tighter control of
registration). In Savannakhet, the vehicle fleet controlled by the provincial
transport association rose from 56 units in 1987 to 184 units in April 1990.
2/    Net profit is after deduction of recurrent costs, repayment of obligations to the state, repayment of
bank loans with interest, and depreciation charges as well as the turnover tax, social security fees
for employees and provisions for bad debts and future costs, but before the setting aside of funds for
capital replacement, price stabilization and bonus payment.



- 33 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4
12.   Interpreting the financial performance of public enterprises Is complicated
by their required use of the government accounting system, which tends to
overestimate profits by, among other things, not taking into account the
devaluation of the kip. To illustrate, the net profit of Auto Transport Company
No. 2 in 1989 was 6.3% according to the government accounting system but -11.8%
accorditng to conventional accounting. A new conventional accounting system is
being tested but will not be fully introduced for several years.
13.   Since there is no evidence of overstaffing or mismanagement of inputs in
the public companies - - some companies even use incentive schemes to increase the
use of resources and cut costs, their poor performance seems to be due to their
low truck utilization rate, the faulty guidance provided by their management
information systems, and, very recently, increased competition from the private
sector as a result of policy reforms.  Thus, although the public enterprises
probably need tc raise their present average rates by one third, from KN 30-40
per ton-km to KN 40-50, they seem to be unable to do so because of the
competitive situation.
14.   The public companies also have high levels of overdue accounts, reflecting
their dependence on shippers in the public sector who normally do not pay on
time. In contrast, the private sector requires payment within one week of the
completed task. As a consequence, the public enterprises generally have very low
bank balances. This, combined with the companies' practice of lending customers
funds which are supposed to be set aside for future expansion or other purposes,
has put the companies at imminent risk of very serious liquidity problems if
competition from the private sector continues to intensify.
15.   Problems.  The major issues in the road transport industry include:
-     Institutional  Structure of the Industry.   The current  institutional
structure was expected to facilitate both planning and tax collection, but
neither objective is being attained: the current taxation system can be
easily bypassed by not reporting business and the planning done by the
public sector is not effective due to low targets and a lack of penalties
for underachievement of targets. Since the goals of the existing structure
are not being met, alternative arrangements may be in order.
Public Enterprises.   Although the public enterprises are attempting to
streamline operations by selling trucks that do not match requirements,
with the intention of buying new trucks using still unidentified
financing, they have not improved their operational efficiency, which is
more related to the current low tariff levels. If the public transport
enterprises are unable to raise finance for new vehicles, which seems
probable, current developments will soon cause them to be phased out over
time.  The issue is thus whether gradual closure should be encouraged,
whether other forms of disinvestment of the public enterprises should be
undertaken, or alternatively, whether the public enterprises should be
restructured.



- 34 -
ANN EX 2
Page 5
Mixed Companies.  Since the ministr-y providing part of the mixed company's
capital also licenises the company's establishmenit, the competing ioles of
regulator and inivestor may cause the miniistry concerned to overlook the
interests of thie public at large.
Transport  Associations.    While  many  associations  would  probably  be
dissolved if current regulations were repealed, the associations could
continue to play a valuable role by providing low-cost marketing services
that ailow the country to draw on the skills of small-scale operators. To
do this, however, they would need to be organized differently, provide a
broader range of services, and be able to raise and manage their own
capital, which is currently not allowed. The regulations may have to be
changed to transform the associations into profit-making companies, with
their members as stockholders.
Taxation. Most small companies do not keep accounts and fail to comply
with the somewhat confusing guidelines on taxation. Either the current
system should be enforced or the taxation rules changed.
Insurance.   Only one general  insurance company now exists  to insure
transport within Lao PDR.  If the private sector is allowed to expand its
role in road haulage, insurance businesses serving the transport sector
will need to be expanded.



ANNEX 3
-  35  -                                          Page  I
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Existinz and Proposed Road User Charges
Central Governent Taxes: Import Duty (X of cif value)
te Type                                         1990 Rate (1)      MCTPC Proposal (2)   Appraisal Proposal
<12 passenger                   5                   15                         20
12-24 pass.                     5                   20                         20
24-40                           5                   20                         20
>40 pass.                       S                   20                         20
s                3-6 Tonne                       2                   20                         25
6-10 Tonne                      2                   30                         25
10-20 Tonne                     2                   50                         25
ps/jeeps         <3 Tonne                       15                   25                         25
<1200 cc                       50                   70                         70
1200 cc +                      50                  100                        100
cycles          <125 cc                        15                   20                         20
>125 cc                        20                   40                         40
'cle                                             5                   40                          40
ers                                             10
parts & tires
Cars                           20                   50                      15-20
Motor cycles                   10                   20                      15 20
Other veh.               5-10-20                    20                      15 20
& Lubricants    Super petrol                    20                   35                         35
Reg. petrol                    15                   25                         25
diesel                          5                   15                         25
Propane/butane                 10
Lub oil & grease                7                   17                         17
Cooking oil                     5
mport and turnover tax rates per Decree 47, 26.6.89. (Source: Ministry of Finance)
Ks proposed by Ministry of Communications, Transport, Post & Censtruction, March, 1990.
evied on cif cost + import duty



Lit PAW;. Ro4 UarQ Charg  ..-Li   t  aas
Central Goverririient laxe5                               ProvAncial & Municlpal Ruad Uber (harges l) ip)
Import Duty (?. (If v41 )  Turnover    New Veh Pegistratiun   Veh Inspection Fee     Drivirv I icenve Fee     Annuial VeI LI le 5se
Vethicle Type                    1990 Pate(1) P0o() (2)  Tax MO)3)  1989/N0 (I) Prop (2)  1969/90(11  Prop (2)  1989/90(l)  Prouj (2)  19b9/90(               Pi>cp (2)
6j-.es          1'2 pdssenger         5           (5          6           440        4000        210         1000        500         5000         1200          4000
12 24 pass          5           20          6           710006000              210         1000        75,0       I(00o0       I0x0l          600
24-40                5          2C0         6            710       8000         210        bOt)o       "20         10000       200')           ')00
'40 pass            5           20          6           /10        10000       210         I0(0        1120       1 000        200)0         I5 00
lr-it            5 6 lOrune           2           20          6            lo0       6000        210        10(>         75i,       IOO          2400           .t)OO
t - I0 unle          2          30                       710        (0000       210        (000 /Ot)               WOW 140 )l
10 20 rojifie       2           50          6           710        12000       210        (000         75o        10000        24((
Pi, I,jps/jeeps  <S oluiie            15          25          I0           (40       4000        210         1000        S0O         5000        1200
I '00 z c           50          70          15          440        4000         210        1000        500          00o0        60t           .b(KJ
1200e  *           S0          (00          lb          440       4'000        210       1000         S(0          OO        IhloO           2)00
rilworcyedes       1251(              15          2t          t0          200        1000                    2003 30                 (000 N'20                   500
> 25 cc             20          40          10          200        1000         2-o                    330         bo O         2ut0           S00
Triyf le                              5           40          t0          200        2000         -          500                    2000          300           1bOO
(rdalers                              10                      t
Spare parts & tires
Cars                20          bO          (0
Motor cycles        IO          20          (0
Ott,er veth       S- 0-20       20          10
fuel & tubrcarnts Super petrol        20          35          3
Reg pet( ul          15         25          3
diesel               5          15          3
Propane/tbitane     l(                      3
Lub oil & grease     7          17          3
Cool ing oil        5                       3
() Imfnuport and turnover tax rate% per Decree 47. 26 6 89 (Suur ce tMinistry of Finance)
(21 As proposed by flnistlay of Comn,unicatiots, Transport. Post & Construction. Mlarct, 1990
(3) Levied on Ot if cost + iinport duty
tD 



LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Central Government Estimated 1992 Revenues
(Low Estimated Vehicle Fleet)
Assuning 95% Dieset For Road Use (MCTPC Estimate Base)
Existing        Proposed           Proposed              Existing       Proposed           Proposed
Vehicles:                             (Smill)         (Smilt)        (Kip biLl.)               (Smill)        (Smi L)       (Kip bill.)
Import Duties                         5.63            11.29               8.02                  8.52          19.47             13.82
Fuel:
Import Duties                         3.16             7.84               5.57                  3.16           7.84              5.57
Total (S mill)                           8.79            19.13                                   11.68          27.31
Total (kip biLlion)                      6.24            13.58                                    8.29          19.39                                             l
Assuinng 60X Diesel For Road Use (MCTPC Estimate Base)
Existing        Proposed           Proposed              Existing       Proposed           Proposed
Vehicles:                             (Smill)          (SMilt)      (Kip bill.)                (SmiLl)        (Smill)       (Kip bill.)
Import Duties                         5.63            11.29               8.02                  8.52          19.47             13.82
Fuel:
Import Duties                         2.90             6.80               4.83                  2.90           6.80              4.83
Total (S mill)                           8.53            18.09                                   11.42          26.27
Total (kip billion)                      6.06            12.84                                    8.11           18.65
_ 



- 38 -                            N 4
-38-                   ~~~~~ANNEX 4
Page 1
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Geometric Design Standards of the Project Road
Existing Lao geometric design standards are out of date, and the various
standards used for recent projects tend to be those used in the design
consultant's country of origin.   Detailed design standards will be developed
under a Swedish Road Sector Support Project during 1991-95, and will be employed
for spot improvements to be carried out under the maintenance component of the
proposed project. However, since design of the Namkading-Savannakhet road had
to be carried out before development of the new design standards, the design
criteria employed were based on policies being defined by the National Transport
Study. The existing road, which would essentially be upgraded under the project,
was probably designed about 50 years ago and has the long tangents and short
curves typical of road designs in that era. Relocation of the alignment was kept
to a minimum for economic and environmental reasons. The design criteria used
are as follows.
Design Speed
Ruling design speed: 80 kph in flat terrain and 65 kph in rolling terrain
Minimum design speed: 65 kph in flat terrain and 50 kph in rolling terrain
cross Section
Carriageway:                 6.0 m
Shoulder:                    1.5 m
Shoulder near village:       2.0 m
Crossfall
Carriage way (double bituminous surface treatment):          3%
Shoulder (single bituminous surface treatment):              4%
Minimum Radius of Horizontal Curves
Design Speed (kph)                  80           65          50
Desirable minimum                         250          170          100
Absolute Minimum                          230          150           90
Maximum Longitudinal Grade
Ruling gradient:             3.3%
Exceptional gradient:        6.7%
Minimum Longitudinal Gradient:        1 in 300



- 39 -                        ANNEX 4
Page 2
Minimum Radius of Vertical Curve
Crest curve:  sight distance criteria (m)
Speed       Condition                       Grade change (%)
(kph)                    2.0          3.5        3.0      4.0   5.0   6.0 up
80           Passing     23,000 for all
Stopping      2,000 for all
65           Passing     10,000       12,000 for remainder
Stopping      2,000 for all
50           Passing       2,000      3,500      5,000   6,000 for remainder
Stopping      2,000 for all
Sag Curve - Passenger Comfort Criteria
For all speeds
Desirable minimum:        3,000 m
Absolute minimum:         2,000 m



ANNEX 5
Page 1
IAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBI.lC
HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Outline Terms of Reference: The Proposed Maintenance Study
1.           Background.  Maintenance of the road system in Lao PDR is far from
sufficient to uphold even the present low standard of the '- isting road network.
In the past, the chief reason for the inadequate level ol maintenance was the
woefully low budgetary allocation for maintenance, which covered only about 10%
of estimated requirements. The Government significantly increased its funding
for maintenance in 1990 and is expected to continue providing adequate amounts,
which will be required in the Credit Agreement for the proposed IDA-assisted
Highway Improvement Project. Nevertheless, other serious problems exist which
will continue to constrain maintenance unless corrected, the most obvious of
which are:
(a)   the lack of a coherent maintenance policy,  with clearly stated
priorities, methods, management systems, methods and levels of
financing, etc. , and based on realistic objectives for the short and
long terms;
(b)   institutional constraints of various types affecting such activities
as the supply of spare parts to provincial workshops; and
(c)   the  shortage  of skilled and experienced  staff  at all  levels,
particularly in the provinces; and
(d)   the lack of reliable data for planning, budgeting and monitoring
maintenance at the central level.
2.          While the problems affecting road maintenance were examined under the
National Transport Study, completed in December 1990, the resources available
under that study were only sufficient to define the main aspects of the problem
and to indicate general solutions. The Maintenance Study to be carried out under
the proposed project would build upon the NTS findings, to recommend a detailed
maintenance strategy and program for the country. The Study's recommendations
would also reflect the experience being gained under several foreign-assisted
maintenance efforts, including activities funded by the Asian Development Bank
in three southern provinces and (in the near future) three northern provinces of
Lao PDR as well as the findings of a Swedish-funded expert assisting maintenance
staff at the Ministry of Communication, Transport, Post and Construction.
3.          Objectives.  The objectives of the Maintenance Study would be:
(a)   To recommend a long-range strategy for efficient and cost-effective
road maintenance; and



- 41 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2
(b)   To  develop  a medium-term  maintenance  improvement  program  for
immediate implementation.
Scope. The experts engaged for the study would:
(a)   Review the existing maintenance situation in the country, including
the condition of roads and maintenance equipment, and development
of a simple road inventory and inventory of equipment, stotes,
workshops, etc.;
(b)   Review and evaluate the road maintenance organization and system and
make recommendations for an effective maintenance organization suited
to the needs of the country;
(c)   Review the programming and budgeting system for road maintenance
operations and recommend appropriate changes and/or reforms to the
existing system;
(d)   Review the results of previous studies and maintenance initiatives;
(e)   Evaluate alternative national maintenance policies, for application
by district maintenance engineers;
(f)   Develop simple pavement management and maintenance management systems
for district engineers, including a system of simple performance
audits;
(g)   Evaluate  alternative  scenarios  for the future of the existing
maintenance system implemented by the Road and Bridge Maintenance
Societies and the opportunities for privatization of road maintenance
activities, use of labor-based technologies, and separation of
planning from execution through the use of private contractors;
(h)   Recommend manpower development and training programs required for
road maintenance; and
(i)   Develop a medium-term road maintenance improvement program, including
a comprehensive program of works and funding requirements.
Staffing. The study team would consist of:
(a)   A highway engineer as the team leader (9 months) and
(b)   An equipment engineer (4 months)
Timing. The study is expected to take 9 months to complete.



- 42 -                             ANNEX  6
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Eguipment to be Provided under the Project
Equipment per Brigade                  Number  Unit Price  Total Cost
(US$)        (US$)
Bulldozer                                    1      87,000       87,000
Grader                                       1      66,000       66,000
Loader                                       1      69,000       69,000
Vibrating roller                             1      42,000       42,000
Ped. roller                                  1       5,700         5,700
Dump truck                                   6      31,000      186,000
Pick-up                                      2      16,000        32,000
Fuel trailer                                 1      14,000       14,000
Water tanker                                 1      37,000        37,000
Tamper                                       1       1,200         1,200
Flatbed truck with crane                     1      35,000       35,000
Workshop trailer                             1      63,000       63,000
Lube trailer                                 1      14,000       14,000
Air compressor                               1      16,000        16,000
Generator                                    1       8,000         8,000
Low-bed tractor and trailer                  1      65,000       65,000
Motorcycle                                   3       2,000         6,000
Miscellaneous                                1      20,000        20.000
Total per brigade        856,900
Total two brigades   1,713,800
Spare parts              306,760
GRAND TOTAL            1.840.560



- 43' -
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 2
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Outline Terms of Reference: Proiect Coordination and Road Restoration
Background
1.          The Government of Lao PDR is undertaking a Highway Improvement
Project, which includes the reconstruction and bituminous surfacing of Highway
13S from Namkading to Savannakhet, institutional development of the Road
Maintenance Division of the Ministry of Communication, Transport, Post and
Construction (MCTPC), a program of spot improvements, technical assistance and
training, and studies for the preparation of future projects. The assignments
described here involve (a) the coordination of all project components and (b) the
provision of technical assistance to the Maintenance Division.
Objectives
2.          The objectives of these assignments are:
(a)   For the Project Coordinator,  to assist MCTPC to coordinate the
Highway Improvement Project in accordance with IDA rules and
guidelines; and
(b)   For consultants assisting the Maintenance Division, to assist in the
institutional development of the Maintenance Division of MCTPC, to
develop emergency road restoration interventions, to help define
maintenance objectives and prepare budgetary requests, and to
execute a program of spot improvements.
Scope of Work
3.          Project Coordination.   The consultant will be responsible for
advising the various divisions of MCTPC on all aspects of project execution.
While another consulting firm would be appointed to supervise the execution of
contracts for the construction of the Namkading-Savannakhet road, the consultant
will be responsible for overall project coordination, including:
Planning and scheduling of project activities
Project monitoring and control
Providing advice on and review of the preparation of bid
documents for equipment as well as evaluation and award of
contracts
Project accounting and submission of withdrawal
applications to IDA
Assisting with the organization of the program of
fellowships and short courses
Preparing consolidated quarterly reports
Preparing a project completion report



- 44 -                        ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 2
4.          Road Restoration.  Two consultants will be engaged, one to work with
the headquarters Maintenance Division of MCTPC and another to work with the
Regional and Provincial engineering offices executing spot improvements on
national highways. The consultant at headquarters will coordinate his/her work
with that of an expert provided to the Maintenance Division during 1991-92 with
financing from the Swedish International Development Authority. The consultants
will:
Develop a planning and policy system at the central level to
evaluate and set maintenance standards, funding levels and
fundin- allocations.
Apply the policy so developed at the regional level through a
rudimentary pa--ment management system,  to develop annual
maintenance programs for each region.
Develop a program of spot improvements on selected roads to
render the roads trafficable, advise the Road and Bridge
Maintenance Societies (RBMSs) responsible for these works on
the execution of the program, and monitor execution.
Establish criteria for use of operating funds by spot
improvement crews as a basis for replenishment of these funds
from the IDA credit.
Staffing
5.          Consultants  staff  would  be  required  to  have  the  following
qualifications and experience:
(a)   Project Coordinator
A senior highway engineer with at least 15 years of experience, some
in southeast Asia, of proven manageriel ability, with experience in
directing major civil engineering works and/or highway agencies,
including project financed by the World Bank Group.
(b)   Maintenance Advisors
Two senior highway engineers with at least 15 and 10 years
professional experience, respectively, including significant time in
a highway maintenance organization and experience in developing
countries.



- 45 -
ANNEX 8
P  age- 1
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
HIG1IWAY IMPROVEMENT PROJ EcT
Outline Terms of Reference:  Transport Planner
Background and Justification
1.    The main tasks of the consulta,it team that undertook the National Transport
Study (NTS) were to develop investment programs for the transport sector for the
years 1991-95 (in detail) and 1996-2000 (in outline), to review and make
recommendations on transport policies, and to propose such operational
improvements as needed to increase the economic efficiency of the transport
system.   The work of the consultants was completed with the Final Report in
December 1990.
2.    However, this report, although comprehensive, cannot serve as a blueprint
for the long-range development of the transport sector. Transport needs and the
viability of transport sector investments are intimately linked with the
country's rapidly evolving economy, the actions of neighboring countries and
those of different donors and lending agencies. The validity of recommendations
beyond a general policy level is therefore bound to be limited to perhaps one or
a few years only.   Transport forecasts will have to be updated,  investment
opportunities re-examined, operational strategies reviewed, etc. , all on the
basis of close and continuous monitoring of actual developments. Hence, the NTS
Final Report is more a strategic plan than a master plan, considering alternative
scenarios for future developments, and with emphasis more on policies, methods
and decision making criteria than on inflexible long-range plans.
3.    Considering this, another important task for the NTS was to develop the
methods and skills needed for continued transport sector monitoring and planning
by the Ministry of Communication, Transport, Post and Construction (MCTPC).
However, even though this task was given high priority, it could not be completed
in the time-frame available. The economic concepts introduced were new, as were
the methods for data collection, the traffic forecasting techniques, the use of
computers, the language and terminology, etc.
4.    The present capabilities of MCTPC to undertake continued transport sector
moLnitoring and planning are very limited due to a serious shortage of qualified
and experienced staff and a lack of relevant, reliable data. Rolling intermediate
and long-range investment plans do not exist as instruments and fixed five-year
plans, although prepared, become obsolete within at most a few years. Prior to
the NTS, there were no traffic counts for most of the national road network, no
systematic information on the characteristics of existing roads (or even which
roads actually exist), no monitoring of actual costs for different road
construction and maintenance activities,  etc.   Any data that were regularly
collected (e.g. , on planned or ongoing projects or the performance of transport



- 4L5 -                            ANNEX 8
Page 2
enterprises) were not easily available and rarely in a format suited to tranisport
planning.  A great deal of data were compiled systematically by the NTS team for
easy monitoring,  updating and planning.    Without  frequient  monitoring  and
updating, however, the databases will quickly become obsolete.
5.    The lack of effective instruments for monitoring, project evaluation and
planninlg has created a situation in which investmenit projects may be selected
more by individual donors/lending agencies, assisted by foreign consultanits, than
by MCTPC.  This makes it difficult to implement a cotnsistent and comprehensive
investment policy (as well as standards, maintenance policies, etc.) in line with
Government objectives, and to select investment projects in the order of their
overall priorities.  Projects have been considered individually rather than as
part of a system, resulting in a loss of economic efficiency.
Proposed Activity
6.    To overcome  the problem of insufficient capabilities  for monitoring,
project evaluation and planning at MCTPC, it is proposed that: (a) the local
counterpart staff who participated in the NTS, and who gained experience from the
different methods and techniques, shall continue to work together as a unit
(tentatively called the Central Planning Unit, or CPU) after the completion of
the NTS, and (b) one international specialist in transport planning and the
monitoring of transport data, preferably from the team that worked on the NTS,
shall be seconded to the CPU for a period of two years to intensify the training
of the local staff and to assist with its work as needed.
7.    The proper place of the proposed CPU within MCTPC was studied in the NTS
in the context of a review of the whole organization, but Government has as yet
made no decision on this. The exact tasks to be undertaken by the CPU must to
some extent depend on its place in the organization of MCTr-, but should at least
include the following:
(a)   compile and make available such data on the transport system -
infrastructure as well as traffic, for all modes - and such socio-
economic data, etc. as will be needed for a continued updating of
traffic forecasts and of medium- and long-term transport sector
investment programs.;
(b)   undertake annual revisions of long-range traffic forecasts for all
modes of transport, and of rolling medium- and long-term investment
programs;
(c)   continue the development of such methods and techniques, including
computerized database techniques, as will be needed for the above
tasks;
(d)   advise the Minister and the Vice-Ministers as requested regarding
(for example) transport sector policies and investment proposals;
and



Page 3
(e)   oi;sist MC'lPC in adt,ising, other Miniistries, foreign constltanlts,
(loto r and(l I eId i ii, ageti i e , et c . regar d!i ng  da ti a and pIanting
parameters re 1 evaIIt to t he t ranspo r t sect or
8.     During at least the next few years, the CPU may also be able to assist with
a IIumhber of ot her tasks emanatintg from t he NTS, such as the preparation of Terms
of Reference for (lifferent studies, the preparation of proposed new rules and
regulatioLns, the inoniitoring, of consultants, etc.
9.    Thle local staff who -,cticipated in the NIS included three qualified
engineers/economists, plus one interpreter and 2-3 administrative staff (computer
operators).  At the completion of the training program, this staff has become
familiar with most of the tasks proposed to be undertaken by the CPU.  After some
additionial training, it will be well suited to continue with these tasks, which
are estimated to require a staff of about the present size. The role of the
proposed foreign consultant should essentially be to supplement the training and
the development of methods already started during the NTS, in order to secure the
continued success of the tasks of the CPU.
Implementation
10.   The proposed assignment would commence immediately after the expected
completion of the NTS in December 1990. A delay could mean that the present
local planning staff will be reassigned for other tasks, that the data library
and computer systems may be scattered, and that the momentum built up during the
NTS will be lost. If the present local staff is maintained, it is estimated that
about 24 months of such assistance by one Transport Planner/Economist now working
on the NTS will be sufficient. The Terms of Reference for this consultant should
at least include the following tasks:
(a)   develop appropriate methods for the continued collection of such
data as will be needed for annual updates of national, multi-modal
traffic forecasts and of investment programs, considering the
present and expected future capabilities of MCTPC and other
organizations involved;
(b)   develop  appropriate  computer-based  methods  for  storing  and
retrieving such data, to enable its use by the proposed CPU as well
as for other possible applications within MCTPC;
(c)   develop appropriate methods for annual updates of national, multi-
modal traffic forecasts and of investment programs, to be undertaken
by CPU;
(d)   design and implement a one-year supplementary training program for
the staff of the CPU to enable this staff to carry out the tasks as
described; and
(e)   advise and assist MCTPC as may be requested regarding other issues
in connection with implementation of recommendations by NTS.



Page 4
The  t liti li rg, program   ;hIoumld  hewid,L     f urimal  t raiiiling  in  t ransport. economics,
trmin:port plaimellin   , coImputcr based  neth1ode;, etc  , as well as hands-on experience
withl  tthe  spec i ic  lmkt buods  for  data  moio  torii o,  traffic  forecasts,  project
eva luat ioll, etc  , to be used ili t le work of the CI'U.  Somle of the training could
be open  to )t 1 imiti.d t(umbl)er of pa Ft ic i pimt s from  otther parts of MCTPC.



LAO PDR
TRANSPORT IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Dats,led Cost Table
(USS -000)
------------------------------- ----------------------- I---------------------- -------------------                                ---------------------- ---------------------- I----------------                           - --------------- -- --
TOTAL             I      'EAR 1- 1911                   YEAR 2    1992               YEAR 3    1993                YEAR 4    1994        1      YEAR 5    995                  'EAR 6    1996       1
----------------------- I---------------------- ---------------------- ---------------------- ---------------------- 1 --------------------- ---- -------
I          COW JNENT                     I LDCAL  FORFIGN  TOTAL  I LDr-AL  FOREICN  TOTALI LOCAL  FOREICN    TOTALI LDCAL  FOREICN    TDTALI LOCAL    FOREIQN    TOTALI LDCAL    FOREICN    TOTALl LOCAL  FORF'CN    ',-'AL
I------------------------------- ----------------------- ---------------------- ---------------------- ---------------------- ----------------------------- ---------------                                                                   ---------
11. NAWADIM-SAVWWOET ROAD
Cont,ect I
IA R004
Recon.t-ct.on                     1   268   14,112   14,400  1    43    2.117  2.160                43    2.117  2,160            49    2.399  2.448  1    49    2,399  2.448  1              49    2,399  2.448  1         55    2.681  2. 7.m
Res I ; Gims.t                    I     is       711       m    1       2       107      109          2       107      109         2        121      1231        2       121       123  1      2       122      1231         3       135      138
C D  St,.ctr"                     1     12       564       $96  1       2        76       78          2       102      104         3        127      1301        3       127       130  1      2         76       781        2        76        7e
App.,ton.-c-                      1      4       203       207 1        0         0        0          0         0        0         0          0        01        0          0        0  1      2       102      104I         2        C12     104I
Sbbotal 1A                    1   319   15,610   is. 9n   1        47    2.300  2.347 1         47    2,325  2,372  1         54    2,647  2.701 1          54    2.647  2.701 1          56    2.690  2.753  1         61   2.994  3 05b
Bl'ido"
as"  cmt                                58    2. W3    2. SW   I        9       425      434          9      425      434  1      10       482      491         10       4E12     491 1       10       482      49,1        .11      SW       549
Ls..ch i .9 9;,49,                       3       152       156          0        23       23          3       129     132  1       0          0        0         0          0        0  1      0          0        01        0          0        0
1          S"tt.1 le                           81   2, "15   3,046             9       448      457         11       664      566  1      10       482      4911        10       482      491 1       10      482       4911        11      5-M       54q
IC S-to 1.0talleti
I       Nob; I i 20t; on                 I     2B    1.391    1,419            4       209      2131        24    1,182   1,206            0         0        0          0         0        0  1       0         (I       01        0          0        0
I          Subtotal IC                   1    26    1.391    1.419 1           4       209      2131    24    I,Ia2   1,206                0         0        0          0         0        0  1       0         0        01         0         0        0
Toul Contract I                          408   19.9a    20. n4 I    80    2,966  3.016  I    E13    4,062  4,146                     94    3.128  3.192  1         64    3.128  3.192  1         66    3,179  3.2"   1         72    a, &32   3.604
I   Cont,sct 2
I    2A Road
Roconstruction                        179    S. M       8,961 1    27    1.317   1,344  1    36    1.756   1,792                  36    1.756   1,792  1        45    2.196  2,240  1         36    1.758   1.792  1         0          0        0
Rea, I i g.-t                            2       102       104 1        0        is       16          0        20       21         0        20        211         1       25        26  1      0        20        211        0          0        0
C. D. St,uct.,es                  1      7       335       342  1       1        so       51          1        67       se          1        67       es         2        84        65  I       1        57       esI        0          0        0
App.rt*mmmc*,*                    1      3       132       135 1        0         0        0          0         0        0         0          0        0          1        40       40  1      2         92       941        0          0        01
Subtotel 2A                       1   191    9,351   9,542  1          29    1.383   1.411 1        38    1, "4   I.Sel           38    1,844   2.081           48    2. S"    2.392  1       40    1.936   1.976  1         0          0        0i
04ob; I i ist; on                 I     is       721       725  1       2       107      1091        12       $04     616          0          0        0         0          0        0  1      0          0        0         0          0        0
1                              1                            1                                                                                         1                             1
Total Contract 2                  1   206   10.061  10,257  1    30    2,489   2. M                 SO    2, "S  2,498            se    1.8"    1.881 1         48    2,344  2.392  1         40    1,936   1.979  1         0          0        01          IC
I   Contract 3
1    Rohebil;tata, 9649"                 1   484    1.815    2.269 1   im              w        6011   136           w        681       136       "a        6811       45        182      227  1       0         0        0i        0          0        0
I     Corstruct;on Spe---on    1   344    1,376    1,720  1                   17        69       se         aa       SW       413        83       330       4131       Ss       261       327 1      58       234       292i       38
I     Totol Contract 3                   1   796    3,191   3,989  1   153             M        7671   219           875   1.093        219       875   1.093         ill       "S        554  1     se       234       2921       38        152      log
TOTAL                             11.422  33,238  34,649 1   2"              S.0159  5.303  1   362    7,384  7,738              320    5,847  6.167           222    5,916  6, M    1   163    6.349  5.5,.2  i   110    3.684  3.794  1
12. MAINT9WACE
I   Techn;cbl sonistance                 1   200    1.152    1,440  1         14        Be       72  1      72       288      Soo        72       288       3601       72       280       SAO  I     Be       230       290          0         0        0
I   EQUiPMWht                                  92    1,749    1,842            0         0        0  1    46         874      m          "        874       9201        0          0        0  t      0          0        0         0          0        0
I   Op*retifte Cmats                          400    2.800    2,000            0         0        0  1      40       ISO      200       I.-O      490       GM        120       4W        600  1   120        480      600          0          C        0
TO-TAL MAINTElGANM                  1   790    4.502   5,291             14        se        72  1   258    1.322   1. 481D 1   238    1,642   1.800             192        768      960  1   178         710      sea          0         0        0
13. TRAINIM AND T.A.
I   Fe I lowa',ips                       I      0       105       106  1       0          0        0  1      0        33       13  1       0        20       261         0        26       26          0        26       261        0         13       131
1   Short Co.,m"                         I      0        3D         so I       0         0        0  1       0        10       10  I       0        10       10I        0         20       10  I       0         0        01        0          0        0;
Coo'd.-st-.9 cor"It.-t              I   IOD        7m         goo  I     is         66       82  1    33        232      164  1      33       131      164         33       131      264  1      33       131      1641       33        232      1641
Plann;nq Unit                       1     72       288       360  1       0          0        0  1     72       M        360          0         0        0          0         0        0  1       0         0        0I         0         0        0i
Me.nt. Orgo"ilation Stdy                  45       iso        22b         0          0        0  1    23         90      213         23        90      123          0         0        0  1       0         0        01         0         0        01
1   TOTAL TItAINDO                            297    2.323    1. SW   I       is        65       82  1   127         W2       659  1     65       26?       3121    33           le?      200 1      33        157      1901       33        1 44     1771
f
14. STUDIES FOR FUnJW   PROJWM   I   100                40D       500          0          0        0  1    so        200      2W   I    so        200       2501         0         0        0  1       0         0        01        0          0        0
I  Total booo cost CUSS  '000)    12,5W    39,402  42,050  1   275    5,182   5,457                       687    9,438 20.125           663    7. "S  8,610  1   447    0.861  7.29a  1   373    8.217  6.590  i   143    3,828   3.970  1
Phys. Cont.                               259    3,946    4,205  1    27           SM        so   I     so       O"    1,033  1       se       795      8611        45       "S       730 1       37       m        6591        14       383      397i
Pr;ce Cana.                               379    6.016    6,395 1          16       294      3091       65       898      961 1       92    1,096   2,100  1        82    1.250         1,W2  1   86    1,422   1. 507  1       39    2,058         1, M    I
iTaTAL F-ROJECT COST CUSS)               13.225  49,424  52,649 1   318    6,994  8,312  1   021  11,278 12, O"   1   821    9,837 20,8W   1   573    8.786   9,360  1   496    8.260  8,756                                      196    5.269   5.465  1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



LAO PDR
HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Comrponents/urters                     2  3  4         1  2    3  4      1  2  3    4       1234               1
Namkading-Savannakhet Road
Sidding                      *****
Bid analysis and award
Construction
Contract I                                *** t***************** ****************** *****************f .*****
Contract 2                                ***  **************** ***************** r***************** *****
Bridge Rehabilitation
Procurement of materials                    *** **************
Construction                                *** ****************, *****.**********  *****************i ****
Road Restoration
Procurement of equipment                        ***************** *****************
Technical assistance                        ** *****************  ***************   *****************1 *****
Operations                                      *****************  ****************  *****************
Fellowships                                                   *****************************************  *****
Short Courses                                       ***************** *****************  *****************
Technical Assistance
Project Coordinator                         *** * -******************  *****************l *****
Transport Planning
Studies for future projects                      ***************** t***************
____________________________________________________________________ _____________________________________  ____________________________________ I_____________________________________    ____________________________________    __________l



- 51 -
ANNEX 11
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
Disbursement                        Disbursement Profiles (%)
IDA fiscal year         in semester       Cumulative        Regional    Lao PDR
and semester ending   US$ million   US$ million   %    Transport  All Sectors
1992
December 31, 1991            0.2            0.2      0.4            2            0
June 30, 1992                5.2             5.4       12           7            3
1993
December 31, 1992            5.4            11.2      25          20             6
June 30, 1993                4.6            15.8      35           38           14
1994
December 31, 1993            4.5           20.3       45           56           22
June 30, 1994                4.5            24.8       55         67            30
1995
December 31, 1994            4.1           28.9       64           77           46
June 30, 1995                4.0            32.9      73          87            54
1996
December 31, 1995            4.0           36.9       82          95            60
June 30, 1996                3.6           40.5       90         100            65
1997
December 31, 1996            3.2           43.7       97                        74
June 30, 1997                1.3           45.0      100                        78
1998
December 31, 1997                                                               86
June 30, 1998                                                                   94
1999
December 31, 1998                                                               98
June 30, 1999                                                                  100
Loan Closing: June 30, 1997



-  52                                      ANNEX 12
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Economnic Rate of Return:  Road Rehabilitation Component
(USS' 000)
Investment      Maintenan,ce            VOC                     Net
Year          Cost        Cost Savings           Savings             Benefits
1991        5,469                                                      (5,469)
1992        6,235                                                      (6,235)
1993        7,902                                                      (7,902)
1994        7,369                                                      (7,369)
1995        2,664                    81              1,091             (1,492)
1996                                 81              1,161              1,242
1997                             3,386               5,186              8,572
1998                                 81              5,519              5,600
1999                                 81              5,873              5,954
2000                              3,386              6,250              9,636
2001                                 81              6,651              6,733
2002                             (4,375)              7,079             2,704
2003                              3,386               7,533            10,919
2!')4                                81              8,017              8,098
2005                                 81              8,532              8,613
2006                              3,386              9,080             12,468
2007                                 81              9,663              9,744
2008                                 81              10,283            10,364
2009                              3,386              10,944            14,330
2010                             (4,375)             11,647             7,272
2011                                 81              12,395            12,476
2012                              3,386             13,191             16,577
2013                                 81             14,038             14,111
2014                                 81             14,840             15,021
2015                              3,386             15,900             19,286
2016       (1,721)                   46             12,890             14,657
2017       (4,208)                                                      4,208



- 53 -
ANNEX 13
Page I
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Documents Available in the Project File
Desig,n of Namkadirig-Savannakhet Road, Consulting Engineering Services (India)
Private Limited, Draft Final Report, May 1990.
National Transport Study, Interim Report 1 (September 1989), Interim Report 2
(January 1990), Interim Report 3 (April 1990), SWECO.
Report on the Road Transport Industry in Laos, Third Draft, NTS, Nils Bruzelius,
May 1990.
Draft Report on Road Maintenance, NTS, Ulf Wallin, May 1990.
Labour-based Road Works in the Lao PDR:   Project Review and Proposals for a
Future Programme, Kirit Vaidya, ILO, March 1990.



LAO P.D.R.
HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Ministry of Communication, Transport, Post and Construction
Organization Chart
|  hgn,ster 
Vice Mntster           Vice Mirister                        Vice Mirister                               Vice Minister                Vic MiAister
Consuctton             sTranport                          Economic Plannrig                            Commuricatson             Peas and Clvi Aviation
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I F >
Personnel         Adnrrinlstration    Contstruclon           Transport         Intemnational         Planning           Eu                         Pa P|st. Teleohore
Aelailons          & Finance          &                      CoatRecas              AviaCion            t   ooaphi
I ConstrtJctlon  |    pLao Trans,oon |                         |   RBCE       L   2  Roac S Bnc9e   |                              T
Genr  ranLand & Rerlv                             Planning             Materna1                   ra Tateo
TransporV                                                     Supplies              ControlPn
Architecture  Ica                                                                  eil                   P'oietPann  n                           ecmir
Construction          r ansponeIe_ c                                                                     anagernMn
Corntrol                                                                       ReitainComnmi cneeri
Enterprlse                                                       &                Maintenanc            Aipr                  PTT
Prc.t1                                                                                                                   Eerpnse
Auto Transport
Constructon          Enterprise                                                                                            LaC AviaEntn pnse
Enterpulse No.1         No.2                                                                                                 Entincs                ScRool
Transponrt                                                         E
Construction     SeUirvteh'd                                                                       o      o
EnterpiNeo.o Enep ls           _Ne4| RC                                                  1          odN 
Construction         Transport                                                                           E r     Ise
Enterprise No.3       Enterpolse          Lao-Soviet                                                    Roacd No  3N
Repair
Workshop No. 1
Construction         En?te=pls                                                      R1E                  ntip3
Enterprise No.4         NO.3              [                                            33Rao2
Lao-Soviet         Auto Trasprt                                                                       Constrcton
Workshop            Enterpis                                                       I~EEtrse
No.2                No.4            Lao4                                                            Road No 8
Frientdship                           E           Ii~
Workshop
River raspr            No.14                                                       Cons,;ruction
Scoo of     EnepieEtrr
eNo.1                                                                           Road No 2
Comm unctons
and Transoort



[A  X                                  11<, -n  :~~~~
LJ2'<" '.OA
DfeEv)O  ATiC Rfp 11'C        /     
HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT  
0        r--    " . 
t   .  .               ,, 1-Sa                     >
.   +       &       H.,@    ~~~~~~~J



