Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 17218
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2218-LA)
DECEMBER 1, 1997
Transport Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit         =       Kip
US$ 1.0                       Kip 711 (Jan.1992)
Kip 726 (Oct. 1994)
Kip 925 (Sept. 1995)
Kip 944 (Jan. 1997)
Kip 1080 (June 1997)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                               US System
I meter (m)                  =       3.2808 feet (ft)
I square meter (m2)          =       10.764 square feet (sq.ft)
I kilometer (km)             =       0.6214 mile (mi)
I square kilometer (km2)     =       0.3861 square mile (sq.mi)
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
DCA            =      Development Credit Agreement
DCTPC          =      Department of Communication, Transport, Post and Construction
ERR            =      Economic Rate of Return
HIP            =      Highway Improvement Project
ICB            =      International Competitive Bidding
ICR            =      Implementation Completion Report
IDA            =      International Development Association
MCTPC          =      Ministry of Communication, Transport, Post and Construction
MOF            =      Ministry of Finance
NDF            =      Nordic Development Fund
NPV            =      Net Present Value
NTS                   National Transport Study
PCU            =      Project Coordination Unit
RAD            =      Road Administration Division
RBMS           =      Road and Bridge Maintenance Societies
RMMD           =      Road Maintenance and Management Division
RUC                   Road User Charges
SAR            =      Staff Appraisal Report
SHIP           =      Second Highway Improvement Project
STP                   Southern Transport Project
TA             =      Technical Assistance
THIP          =       Third Highway Improvement Project
TPU            =      Transport Planning Unit
UNDP                  United Nations Development Program
VOC            =      Vehicle Operating Costs
Vice President                       :        Jean-Michel Severino, EAP
Country Director                      :       Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, EACSM
Sector Manager                       :        Jeffrey S. Gutman, EASTR
Task Manager                                  Denis Robitaille, EASTR



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2218-LA)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE                                                                              i
EVALUATION SUMMARY                                                                  ii
PART I:   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.    Statement/Evaluation of Objectives                                      1
B.    Achievement of Objectives                                               3
C.    Major Factors Affecting the Project                                    6
D.    Project Sustainability                                                 7
E.    Association Performance                                                 8
F.    Borrower Performance                                                   9
G.    Assessment of Outcome                                                  10
H.    Future Operations                                                      11
I.    Key Lessons Learned                                                    11
PART II: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1:      Summary of Assessments                                         14
Table 2:     Related Bank Loans/Credits                                      15
Table 3:     Project Time Table                                              16
Table 4:     Cumulative Credit Disbursements                                 16
Table 5:     Key Indicators for Project Implementation                       17
Table 6:     Key Indicators for Project Operation                            17
Table 7:      Studies Included in Project                                    18
Table 8A:    Project Costs                                                   19
Table 8B:    Project Financing                                               19
Table 9:     Economic Costs and Benefits                                    20
Table 10:     Status of Legal Covenants                                     21
Table 1:    Compliance with Operational Manual Statements                  22
Table 12:    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs                                   22
Table 13:    Bank Resources: Missions                                       23
APPENDICES
A:            Mission's Aide-Memoire                                         24
B:           Borrower's Contribution to the ICR                             29
C:           Map (IBRD 22322)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perfonnance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (PDR)
HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2218-LA)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Highway
Improvement Project (HIP) in Lao PDR for which Credit 2218-LA in the amount of SDR
32.10 million (US$45 million equivalent) was approved on May 22, 1991, and made
effective on July 19, 1991.
The credit was closed on June 30, 1997, as originally scheduled. It was fully
disbursed and the final disbursement took place on September 30, 1997. Co-financing for
the project was provided by the Nordic Development Fund (NDF) in an amount of SDR
4.0 million (US$5 million equivalent).
The ICR was prepared by Subhash Seth, Consultant Highway Engineer (AFTT1),
and reviewed by Denis Robitaille, Task Manager (EASTR), and Jeffrey Gutman, Sector
Manager, Transport Sector Unit (EASTR). The Borrower and the co-financier provided
comments that are available in the project files.
Preparation of the ICR was initiated during IDA's final supervision/completion
mission conducted in May 1997. It is based on material in the project files. The
Borrower contributed to preparation of the ICR by preparing its own evaluation of the
project's execution and initial preparation, and commenting on the draft ICR. The co-
financier, NDF, provided its comments on the draft ICR and also carried out an
evaluation of its financed components. Both documents, comments on the draft ICR and
the NDF evaluation report dated November 1996, are available in the project files.



ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (PDR)
HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2218-LA)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    Lao PDR is a poor, landlocked, mountainous and sparsely-populated country (4.9
million in 1995). Its level of economic and social development is among the lowest in
the world, with a per capita income of US$350 per year (1995). Much of the country's
basic infrastructure has been destroyed by wars and lack of consistent maintenance,
resulting in poor physical integration of the country's 16 provinces. IDA began its
involvement in the transport sector of Lao PDR in 1987, with the financing of the
Southern Transport Project (STP). The STP carried out major repairs and maintenance of
National Route 13 South (NR 13S) in traversing three provinces, and strengthened the
maintenance capacity of the three provincial state-owned Road and Bridge Maintenance
Societies (RBMS). The STP substantially achieved its overall objectives and the credit
was closed as scheduled on December 31, 1994. The Highway Improvement Project
(HIP), second in the series of projects intended to consolidate efforts initiated in STP,
focused on: (a) rehabilitating priority sections of the country's crucial north-south
transport artery; (b) building a capacity to restore the badly deteriorated road network;
and (c) strengthening transport planning, maintenance management and institutional
building of the Ministry of Communication, Transport, Post and Construction (MCTPC).
Project Objectives and Description
2.    The project's overall goal was to support the key subsector goal of the
Government's Third Five-Year Development Plan (1991-95) to increase the efficiency of
the country's road network. To attain this goal, the project's objectives were to
rehabilitate a priority section of the main north-south road artery and to restore road
capacity lost through years of war and neglect. To achieve these objectives the project
comprised the following components: (a) rehabilitation of a 266km section of the
Namkading-Savannakhet road, including the replacement of six bridges and rehabilitation
of 40 bridges; (b) restoration of road capacity through implementation of emergency spot
improvements on critical road sections by force account maintenance units, provision of
maintenance equipment and technical assistance (TA) services for works supervision, on-
the-job training and completion of a road maintenance study; (c) TA services for project
coordination and implementation, and transport planning; and (d) training for MCTPC
staff.



3.    The project's objectives were appropriate, realistic, and relevant for the transport
sector of Lao PDR and consistent with the Government's strategy. The strategy included
restoration of vital links of the transport network and provision of improved transport
services. The project aimed to contribute to the completion of the country's most
important road link.
Implementation Experience and Results
4.    The project successfully achieved its principal objectives. It helped reduce
vehicle operating costs, provide access to social services, and facilitate export/import and
transit traffic: all conducive to economic growth. The project's 'first objective of
rehabilitating a priority section of the main north-south road artery was partly yet
satisfactorily achieved. Out of the scheduled 266 km of national roads to be rehabilitated
to a bituminous surface, 212.5 km were completed satisfactorily using the credit proceeds
(para 24). The restoration of the road capacity, the second objective, was carried out
within the originally established targets despite delays in the procurement of heavy
maintenance equipment. Emergency repairs to key sections of the network were carried
out while a sound basis for the development of an effective maintenance capability was
established. The institutional strengthening component was mostly achieved. The
performance of TA in project coordination and in road maintenance management was
satisfactory while TA effectiveness in transport planning was partly successful. The
financially minor training component, comprising fellowships and short-term courses,
was partly successful. The long-term program comprising fellowships was carried out
favorably while seminar short-term courses for MCTPC staff were carried out but
substantially delayed for about three years.
6.    The project encountered cost increases during the rehabilitation of the
Namkading-Savannakhet Road, mainly due to: higher ICB bids than expected (+US$6.2
million), essential engineering design modifications (US$9.9 million), and approved
additional works (US$3.5 million). Because the credit proceeds were insufficient to
cover these cost increases, the Government requested IDA to use funds from the ongoing
Second Highway Improvement Project (SHIP). IDA management agreed with the
Government's proposal since SHIP is a continuation of HIP and shares its key objectives,
including the rehabilitation of selected sections of RN 13S. Consequently, the SHIP
Development Credit Agreement (DCA) was amended on February 29, 1996, to reallocate
SDR 9 million from its existing categories of expenditure to a newly-created category to
cover costs corresponding to the rehabilitation of about 70 km of RN 13S between
Namkading and Savannakhet.
7.    The benefits derived from the completion of the road rehabilitafion are substantial.
They include travel time reduction (from two days to five hours), transportation cost
savings, and road safety enhancement. Further, the long-term sustainability of the
physical works is likely since the Government has shown a strong commitment to
planning and implementation of its road maintenance program which both SHIP and the
Third Highway Improvement Project (THIP) contributed to. IDA performance was



iv
satisfactory in identification and preparation phases. During project implementation, the
IDA-Borrower relationship was positive and productive, and as a result two follow-on
projects, SHIP and THIP, are currently under implementation. Further, IDA performance
in supervision was satisfactory in both quantity and quality. The Borrower demonstrated
a strong commitment to the preparation and implementation of the project, and the
project was completed by its originally scheduled closing date June 30, 1997.
8.    Given the successful implementation results of the project's components, the
overall assessment of the project outcome is rated satisfactory. The final ERR of 23% of
the road rehabilitation component is about 6% higher than the appraisal estimates despite
cost overruns and a reduced benefit period of 1.5 years (para 32). The average daily
traffic measured in May 1997 is 1517 vehicles (839 motorcycles, 121 three wheels
motorcycles, 303 light vehicles, 178 trucks and 69 buses) is far above the appraisal
estimate. MCTPC has made the necessary arrangements--including technical planning
and budgetary provisions--for carrying out maintenance of completed roads, assisted by
the IDA-financed two follow-on projects.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
9. Key lessons learned:
a) Careful attention must be paid to detailed engineering design and to realistic cost
estimates.
b) For an efficient and effective maintenance management system, the planning,
budgeting implementation and evaluation must be integrated, and responsibilities
clearly defined for MCTPC headquarters and for regional offices, provincial and
district level administrations.
c) To increase the effectiveness of technical assistance assignments and the transfer
of skills to local nationals, consultants should prepare and implement a Skill
Transfer Action Plan, and the Government should assign appropriate counterpart
staff at the beginning of the project and avoid tumover.
d) Considering the local institutional constraints, the development of a modem and
efficient maintenance organization will take much longer than normally
anticipated, therefore expectations under any individual project must be realistic.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (PDR)
HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2218-LA)
PART 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
Background
I.    Lao People's Democratic Republic (Lao PDR) is a poor, landlocked, mountainous and
sparsely populated (4.9 million in 1995) country. Its level of economic and social development is
among the lowest in the world, with a per capita income of US$350 per year (1995). Much of the
country's basic infrastructure has been destroyed by wars and lack of regular maintenance,
resulting in poor physical integration of the country's 16 provinces. Agriculture activities
generate 54% of the country's GDP and employ 80% of the labor force. There is currently no
railway. Road transport is the major mode of internal communication, carrying about 90% of the
total freight ton-km and 85% of total passenger-km. River transport carries about 10% of both
freight ton-km and passenger-km. Domestic air fright is negligible while air transport carries
only 5% of passenger-km. The highway network connects the main provincial centers, however,
the quality of roads is extremely poor and many key road sections are impassable during the rainy
season.
2.    IDA's involvement in the transport sector of Lao PDR began in 1987, with the financing
of the Southern Transport Project (STP). The STP aimed to carry out major repairs and
maintenance of NR 13S in traversing three provinces, and to strengthen the maintenance capacity
of the three provincial state-owned Road and Bridge Maintenance Societies (RBMS). The STP
substantially achieved its overall objectives and the Highway Improvement Project (HIP) was
second in a series of projects aimed at supporting the key subsector goal of increasing the
efficiency of the country's road network.
Statement of Objectives
3.    The objective of HIP as stated in the February 1991 Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) was to
support the key subsector goal in the Govermment's Development Plan of that time, i.e., to
increase the efficiency of the country's road network through the rehabilitation of a priority
section of the main north-south road artery and the restoration of the road capacity lost through
years of war and neglect. The project's road rehabilitation component was specifically aimed to
contribute to the rehabilitation of the most important road link in the country. Under the project
road restoration component, emergency spot improvements were carried out on key road sections
to address short-term transport needs, and for the longer term a study was carried out for the
establishment of an effective countrywide maintenance organization.
4.    To achieve these objectives the project consisted of the following components:



2
a) rehabilitation and bituminous surfacing of a 233-km section of NR 13S between
Namkading and Seno, including the rehabilitation of 40 bridges and replacement of
six bridges near collapse, and the 33-km section of NR 9 from Seno to Savannakhet.
b) restoration of road capacity through the procurement of road maintenance equipment,
materials and supplies for emergency spot improvements to be carried out by
maintenance brigades, and the provision of TA to recommend a long-range road
maintenance strategy and to develop a medium-term maintenance program (NDF-
financed).
c) technical assistance to MCTPC for project implementation (NDF-financed) and
transport planning; and
d) degree courses and short-term training for MCTPC staff.
Evaluation of Objectives
5.    All project objectives were appropriate, realistic, and relevant for the transport sector of
Lao PDR. The objectives were consistent with the Government's strategy which included
restoration of vital links of the transport network and provision of improved transport services.
The objective of reducing overall transport costs was consistent with the IDA country assistance
strategy for the development of the transport sector. The project placed emphasis on the
following: (a) provision of a basic all-weather road network linking the various provinces to the
capital to allow for the channeling of food production from surplus areas to deficit areas, (b)
rehabilitation and construction of access roads, and (c) strengthening of road maintenance
capabilities of central and provincial maintenance organizations. The project also addressed the
shortage of trained manpower by providing scholarships for national staff to study economics and
engineering abroad, and laid the foundation for the establishment of a systematic approach to
maintenance planning and implementation.
6.    The project's objectives and its components, carefully tailored to the country's needs, did
not require major revisions during the course of their implementation; however, the road
rehabilitation component was modified slightly in the following respects:
a) The length of road rehabilitated using the credit proceeds is 212.5 km compared to
the appraisal estimate of 266 km. Two ICB contracts initiated under the project
resulted in rehabilitating 276.51 km divided as follows: Namkading to Thakhek under
contract-I; and 124.44 km from Thakhek to Savannakhet under contract-II. The
construction of the total length, 276.5 km, was completed in April 1997. However,
because of insufficient funds under the credit, only 212.5 km were financed under
HIP and the remaining 64 km were financed using funds of the ongoing Second
Highway Improvement Project (SHIP) (para 24).
b) In the original design it was proposed to construct the shoulders with sub-base
material. However, the only sub-base material available on site was non-permeable
Original 266 kan plus Thakhet bypass section and another section of RN 13S which was not originally
scheduled for rehabilitation but was located within the project limits and severely damaged.



3
and unsuitable. Consequently, it was agreed to follow road engineer experts' advice
to use base course material for the shoulders. This design modification, which
brought about a cost increase, ensured proper drainage essential for long-term
viability of the structure.
c) For safety reasons the bridges' width was increased from the proposed 6.5 meters to
7 meters.
d) For safety reasons, a bypass of the town Thakhek was constructed to direct traffic
away from the center of town.
e) The minimum size of concrete pipes was increased from 0.6 to 1.0 meter to improve
the road's drainage system.
B. Achievement of Objectives
7.    The project design was appropriate for achieving all agreed objectives, though some
objectives were substantially achieved while others were partially achieved. An overview of the
achievement of objectives is presented below under the following headings: (i) physical
objectives, (ii) institutional development, (iii) sector policies, (iv) macroeconomic policies, (v)
private sector development, (vi) environmental objectives, and (vii) social objectives. Other
objectives, namely, financial objectives, public sector management, gender concerns and poverty
reduction, were not applicable under the project.
Physical Objectives
8.    Road Rehabilitation: National Road 13, the spine of the National Route system, links
Luang Prabhang in the north with Khong in the south and passes through the major urban areas
of Vientiane, Bolikhamsai, Khammouane, Savannakhet, Saravane and Champassak provinces.
Recognizing the importance of this road the Government decided to undertake an improvement
program in segments. The segment Namkading-Savannakhet was selected for improvement
under HIP since its existing condition was grossly inadequate to cope with growing traffic
demands.
9.    Its rehabilitation was partly yet satisfactorily achieved. The total length rehabilitated and
improved to all-weather bituminous standards under the two ICB contracts was 212.5 km,
compared to the 266 km appraisal estimate (para 6a). On the project road, there were 46 one-lane
temporary steel bridges in poor condition, and six near collapse. Reconstruction of these six
dilapidated bridges to permanent, high-level, two-lane structures with adequate protection and
cross-drainage was a substantial achievement under contract-I. The quality of these works
observed during the ICR mission was satisfactory. The road is now passable throughout the year
and travel time from Namkading to Savannakhet has been substantially reduced from two days to
five hours.
10.   The planned emergency repairs to the remaining 40 bridges were excluded from the
project since the Japanese International Cooperation Agency (JICA) agreed to the Government's
request to finance their reconstruction with similar standards used for the six rehabilitated bridges
under the project. Final completion of these bridges is expected by the end of 1998.



4
11.   While the road rehabilitation works were in progress, the restoration of road capacity
component succeeded to keep traffic running smoothly on NR 13S. Although there were
significant delays in the procurement of new equipment needed for the restoration of the road
capacity component (para 26), old equipment of state enterprises was used to keep this
component progressing in the interim, and the output of the maintenance works carried out by the
two brigades was found satisfactory.
Institutional Development Objectives
12.   The institutional development objectives were mostly achieved since all planned
activities were not as successful as expected. A brief description of various institutional activities
covered under the sub-component of TA and training is given below:
13.   Technical Assistance: TA to MCTPC for project implementation and the development of
a road maintenance capacity was effective. NDF-financed TA for project implementation was
satisfactory by contributing to smooth coordination, planning, and monitoring of project
activities, procuring project inputs and services, and carrying out project reporting and
accounting. The performance of the PCU was especially beneficial to the project in terms of
design modification, problem identification, and recommendations of remedial measures both to
the MCTPC and IDA. NDF-financed TA for road maintenance was also effective. Its main
activities consisted of a maintenance study and a spot improvement program. The maintenance
study provided both a nationwide picture of the road and road transport situation prevailing at the
time as well as a sound basis for the planning and policy system to be used for future works of
the Road Administration Division (RAD), previously the Road Maintenance and Management
Division (RMMD). It has developed a program for spot improvement on select roads with the
objective of rendering all national roads passable for traffic throughout the year by the turn of the
century. The program, with appropriate revisions, has been used for implementation since the
issue of the final report on the maintenance study in October 1993. Further, the maintenance
study has contributed to the successful reorganization of the RMMD to the current RAD. The
spot improvement program implementation contributed to essential improvements of the main
roads and an increase in the capability of both MCTPC staff and the local maintenance units and
contractors. TA in this field also helped establish standard contract procedures for small works.
TA for transport planning was less successful. The HIP provided a good framework for
formulating policy, transport planning and programming. However, benefits were limited by a
lack of absorptive capacity.
14.   Training: Training activities designed to alleviate the critical shortage of trained staff in
all areas were agreed upon during negotiations. It comprised both long-term bachelor's degree
courses abroad for seven staff members (five in engineering, two in economics) as well as short-
term training courses and seminars. The long-term fellowships program was immediately
implemented. After receiving language training, in 1993, the students began their studies in
Thailand and are scheduled to complete their degrees in 1998. As the funds in question were
small, IDA and the Government agreed to finance the portion of the fellowship program executed
after the project closing date with SHIP funds. Out of seven students only one abandoned for
personal reasons. All agreed by contracts to exclusivity of their services to MCTPC at the end of
their studies. The short-term training program results were not as encouraging as expected on
account of the Ministry's of Finance (MOF) reluctance to use credit proceeds to finance the
training program for MCTPC staff, developed with SIDA assistance and the Manpower



5
Organization Development Division of the MCTPC. It was only in 1996, after heavy persuasion
by IDA missions and MCTPC, that MOF ultimately authorized expenditures incurred for the
training program.
15.   The overall project rating is satisfactory as adequate progress has been achieved under all
project components except the mariginal short-term training component.
Sector Policies
16.   Transport Planning Unit: The HRP provided a good framework for formulating policy,
transport planning and programming, determining priority investment needs, defining a detailed
investment and maintenance program for the Third Five-Year Development Plan (1991-95), and
outlining the Fourth Five-Year Development Plan (1996-2000). The project intended to
strengthen the institutional capacity of the MCTPC in transport planning to ensure the system
procedures recommended by the NTS before the start of the HIP could be tested, refined and
consolidated. The project succeeded to upgrade the NTS unit to Transport Planning Unit (TPU),
however, transport planning was found to be less effective mainly due to a lack of absorptive
capacity.
Macroeconomic Policies
17.   A credit covenant required the Government to implement road user charges (RUCs)
which are satisfactory to IDA. Accordingly, during the project period the Government increased
the RUCs, which are currently sufficient to cover the maintenance cost of its network. However,
an increasing share of vehicles and fuel sales escape taxes. In addition, the Government
experiences difficulties collecting all revenues due to a lack of resources in the Customs and
Taxation Department of MOF.
Private Sector Development
18.   The maintenance study provided very useful recommendations for private sector
development as follows: (a) to design appropriate strategies and privatization procedures for
road maintenance works; and (b) to improve payment procedures for contractors, suppliers, and
consultants. IDA has been integral in advising and assisting MCTPC to establish flexible local
contracting procedures until overall strategies for private sector involvement to develop the local
road construction industry are agreed upon and implemented. Currently, MCTPC shows a
complete commitment to privatization, reflected in its policy to privatize all state-owned
enterprises in the road sub-sector by end-1997. In addition, for FY97/98, the Government
intends to use competitive bidding for all construction and routine and periodic maintenance
works.
Environmental Objectives
19.   Given that the road rehabilitation and maintenance works were carried out within the
existing road rights-of-way, the project had no significant negative environmental or ecological
impacts. National guidelines to reduce environmental effects of the road construction were
applied under the project.



6
Other Social Objectives
20.   MCTPC requested that IDA agree to a realignment of the project road to serve as a
bypass to the city of Thakhek. The new alignment required displacement of 15 residences. The
residents favored the realigmnent since their land would become more valuable once on a
frontage on the bypass. The residents signed memorandums of understanding with the provincial
Governor's office regarding the relocation and the new road's right-of-way.  MCTPC
compensated the land owners according to IDA resettlement guidelines.
C.    Major Factors Affecting the Project
21.   Factors not Generally Subject to Government Control: (a) higher bids than expected
under the two major ICB contracts, (b) working season for construction of roads and bridges
limited to the months of October to May, and (c) flooding associated with unusual rainy seasons.
22.   Factors Generally Subject to Government Control: Due to budget constraints, the
Government did not succeed to provide its counterpart funds for the maintenance activities as
agreed. However, during FY94/95 and FY95/96, the government increased its allocation by
50%.
23.   Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control: (a) slow authorization of
expenditures for the agreed short-term training program by MOF; (b) delay in paying the 5%
share of the advance payment to the contractor, one reason for the contractor's slow progress;
and (c) lack of qualified staff resulting in a low transfer of skills from TA services.
24.   Cost Changes: The project encountered cost increases under the rehabilitation of the
Namkading-Savannakhet road component. The increases were mainly due to higher ICB bids
than expected (+US$6.2 million), essential engineering design modifications (US$9.9 million),
and approved additional works (US$3.5 million). Because the credit proceeds were insufficient
to cover these cost increases, the Government requested IDA to use funds from the ongoing
Second Highway Improvement Project (SHIP). IDA management agreed with the Government's
proposal since SHIP is a continuation of HIP and shares its key objectives, including the
rehabilitation of selected sections of RN 13S. Consequently, SHIP Development Credit
Agreement (DCA) was amended on February 29, 1996, to reallocate SDR 9 million from its
existing categories of expenditure to a newly-created category to cover costs corresponding to the
rehabilitation of about 70 km of RN 13S between Namkading and Savannakhet.
25.   Implementation Delays: The road rehabilitation components under contracts I and II
were delayed about nine months and 19 months, respectively. The main reason for these delays
was improper site management on the part of the contractor, which resulted in a shortage of
technical staff, low production of crushed materials, and lack of construction equipment.
Progress was slow at the start, gained momentum in the middle, became slow again and improved
markedly at the close. The repeated follow-up by the IDA supervision missions with MCTPC,
consultants and contractors contributed significantly to completion of the road rehabilitation
works by the credit closing date and saved the project from further delays. Otherwise, the
country would have incurred more costs, namely, through the loss of the important economic
benefits generated by the improvement of the road. Furthermore, the contractor encountered
unexpected difficulties in the execution of a foundation for bridge number 20 for which the



7
completion date was extended to March 1997. To solve the foundation problems, MCTPC, the
contractor and IDA agreed to build bridge number 20 with a new design based on 1.5-meter
handyman bored piles, and since the revised design cost US$1.46 million compared to the
original cost of US$2.2 million, the revised design proved more economical. This new design
was carried out under a lump sum contract.
26.   The restoration of the capacity component was delayed by the late arrival of NDF-
financed road maintenance equipment. This component consisted of four sub-components: (a)
procurement of road maintenance equipment, material and supplies for emergency spot
improvements to be carried out by two maintenance brigades; (b) provision of technical
assistance for supervision of the brigades; (c) implementation of the maintenance study
recommending a long-term road maintenance strategy and development of a medium-term
maintenance program. The procurement of the road maintenance equipment was delayed by
Nordic suppliers' failure to respond to tenders on a timely basis. The Government proposed ICB,
but since NDF funds are only eligible for Nordic Competitive Bidding, NDF could not accept
such proposal. According to NDF's General Procurement Guidelines, additional proposals were
thus solicited from Nordic suppliers. Meanwhile, spot improvement works were carried out
using existing state enterprises and old equipment. However, the NDF-financed sub-component
of the maintenance study was well-executed, well-timed, and provided sound bases for the
preparation of a maintenance program under HIP and the institutional development component of
SHIP.
27.   The implementation of the TA component was also delayed about ten months. The first
contracts for the recruitment of one project coordinator and two senior highway engineers for the
restoration of road capacity component, scheduled for October 1991, actually was awarded in
August 1992. The program of short-term training courses and seminars for MCTPC staff was
substantially delayed for about three years, since the MOF was reluctant to authorize the
necessary expenditures.
D. Project Sustainability
28.   The benefits derived from the completion of the road rehabilitation of the NR 13 from
Namkading to Savannakhet are substantial.  They include reduced travel time, reduced
transportation costs, and enhanced road safety. In addition, the long-term sustainability of
physical works is likely since the Government continues to show strong commitment to the
planning and implementation of the road maintenance program under SHIP and THIP. The TA
was intended to strengthen the maintenance management; however, the organization and
management of maintenance activities still is not fully adequate for three main reasons. First, a
lack of qualified and experienced staff has constrained the development of an efficient road
maintenance management system. As a consequence, budgeting, planning, contracting, and
supervising functions are still rudimentary. Second, the Government had not ranked maintenance
activities as high priority in the past, as reflected in the low-level funding. Third, the local
construction industry is constrained by a lack of adequate and modern equipment, funds and
qualified staff. However, these limiting factors were well known during project preparation;
therefore, it was already recognized that results will take much longer than normally expected.
29.   RAD was established during HIP and assigned to the communication department of
MCTPC to manage the maintenance of the national network. Recently MCTPC has readjusted its
position and provided RAD with the responsibility to plan, budget, monitor and set standards,



8
leaving the contracting and supervision responsibilities to the provincial Departments of
Communication Transport, Post and Construction (DCTPC). Despite a lack of sufficient
financial, technical and institutional resources to carry out maintenance tasks, all maintenance
organization levels have experienced improvement over the last five years.  The Lao
Government, the Bank and other development partners have recognized the need for an improved
maintenance management system, and foreign and local funding has substantially increased the
maintenance budget in recent years. As the improvement of transport infrastructures has become
the Government's top priority, MCTPC, DCTPC, with Bank and NDF participation through the
implementation of THIP, is expected to improve its maintenance management system; therefore,
the sustainability of the project can be rated as likely.
E. Association Performance
30.   Identification: The Government first inquired about the possibility of obtaining IDA
assistance to finance construction of the Namkading-Savannakhet road in 1981. Feasibility and
detailed design studies for the road were carried out at that time by consultants managed by IDA
under UNDP financing. However, by the time the studies were almost complete, the security
situation in the project area deteriorated and IDA decided that further pursuit of the project was
not feasible. The Government continued to express interest in constructing the road and in 1988,
when the conditions in the area improved, the original feasibility studies were updated by
consultants financed under the previous IDA-supported STP. The project design was consistent
with the Government's development priorities and IDA's assistance strategy for the country. The
selected stretch on NR 13S was integral to the country's economic development, passing through
the heart of the country linking north to south. IDA's performance in project identification was
satisfactory since it focused on the country's need and on a well-integrated program for road
upgrading, modernization, rehabilitation and maintenance.
31.   Preparation: Consultants financed by STP prepared the detailed engineering design and
bidding documents, and carried out the prequalification exercise for civil works under contracts I
and II. Tender documents, including detailed specifications for the road maintenance equipment
to be provided under HIP, were also prepared by the STP-financed consultants.  IDA
performance during project preparation, particularly while dealing with the Government, NDF,
and the consultants, was satisfactory in its ability to provide a good framework for preparing
detailed costs, a financing plan, and implementation arrangements for all project components.
32.   Appraisal: The Bank thoroughly reviewed the project reports prepared by consultants
during the appraisal stage, and adequately estimated project costs and the implementation period,
though both estimates were modified substantially for the civil works component. During the
appraisal mission the cost of the project road was estimated at US$43.374 million, excluding
contingencies, but prior to negotiations the project team decided to reduce the cost to US$32.929
million, excluding contingencies, based on international price adjustment factors applicable at
that time. The cost adjustment did not take place, and as a result, the project faced a serious
financial gap, for which the Government requested IDA management to supply additional
financing (para 20). The component of road capacity was appropriately designed to provide for
equipment, technical assistance and operating costs necessary to carry out spot improvement
works. Due to the scattered type of work, a physical target could not be agreed upon prior to
negotiations. It was indicated clearly in the SAR (para 3.18) that the two RMBSs would be
responsible for about 150 km of spot improvement works per year, which would be selected on
the basis of technical experts' recommendations during project implementation. The appraisal



9
team correctly recognized the three key risks: (a) weak implementation capacity, (b) inadequate
maintenance management, and (c) delay in road rehabilitation works implementation caused by
foreign contractors' inexperience in working in Lao PDR. All three risks were appropriately
minimized by designing a TA component comprising the following: (a) appointment of a
consultant to coordinate project activities; (b) provision of equipment, technical and operational
support to carry out spot improvement works and a maintenance program; and (c) selection of
consultants, from the consultant team that designed the project road, to supervise the road
rehabilitation component. No specific indicators to monitor and evaluate the project performance
were designed since no such practice existed at that time. However, the agreed physical targets
for the civil works at appraisal were found adequate to assess the project performance and to
evaluate the impact of project objectives. Overall, the Bank's performance in the appraisal of all
project components can be rated as satisfactory.
33.   Supervision: The Bank supervision was professional, objective, and based on a solid
understanding of the Borrower's institutional capabilities and the Bank's policies and procedures.
During project implementation, the Bank-Borrower relationship was effective and productive.
Progress of project implementation was reported adequately. The implementation problems were
identified correctly, assessed adequately and were reported appropriately in the performance
ratings of supervision form 590. Most of the credit covenants were enforced and remedies
exercised. Sufficient advice was given to the implementing agencies and responses were more
than adequate. The timing of supervision missions was appropriate and the time spent in the field
was sufficient. On the whole the Bank's performance in supervision was satisfactory in both
quality and quantity on account of the following key reasons:
a) Progress of each major civil contract was very slow on account of mismanagement
by the contractor. All IDA supervision missions, in conjunction with the MCTPC,
detailed and reviewed the achievements, assessed key problems, and agreed to time-
based action plans for the next steps, failing which it would have not been possible
to complete both contracts by the credit closing date.
b) Though MOF failed to authorize the expenditures for the training program at the
beginning, the supervision missions were instrumental in convincing MOF of the
benefits of this program, and it ultimately received MOF approval.
c) Since the project was the first large contract in Lao PDR, IDA was required to
review several design changes in the structures of the road pavement and bridges.
34.   IDA has been quick to discuss matters with other Bank specialists and provided all the
needed technical and legal advice on time to MCTPC. The FY97 project supervision by IDA was
recently rated highly satisfactory by the Quality Assurance Group (QAG).
F.    Borrower Performance
35.   Preparation: The project's main components of road rehabilitation and restoration of
road capacity were prepared with the support of consultants. Despite institutional weakness and
low proficiency with Bank procedures, overall, Borrower performance in reviewing the project
proposal's technical, economical and implementation arrangements was satisfactory. The
Borrower identified the project objectives, consistent with the Government's transport
development objectives as expressed in the Second Five-Year Development Plan (1986-90),



10
which included restoration of vital sections of the transport network and provision of the
improved transport services.  The Borrower demonstrated a strong commitment to the
preparation of the TA and training components, particularly to the establishment of a project
coordinating unit, strengthening of the RBMS maintenance management, and the need to remedy
the shortage of technical manpower--all consistent with the MCTPC needs at that time.
36.   Implementation:  MCTPC, with TA from Project Coordination Unit (PCU), was
responsible for overall project implementation; however, day-to-day management of the
rehabilitation of NR 13S was assigned to the Project Management Unit (PMU), established at
Namkading, while day-to-day management of the road capacity restoration component was the
responsibility of the head of the Road Administration Division (RAD), formerly the Road
Maintenance and Management Division (RMMD). The PCU, based in Vientiane, was
responsible for coordinating, planning, and monitoring project activities; procuring project inputs
and services; organizing project-supported training; and carrying out project reporting and
accounting. The performance of the PCU was very beneficial to the project in terms of design
modification, problem identification, and recommendations of remedial measures both to the
MCTPC and IDA. However, the short-term training program was not effective due to substantial
delays in MOF approval of the training program. However, the Government's counterpart
funding was timely and the implementing agencies showed adequate commitment to complying
with the major credit covenants. The Borrower complied with IDA procurement and
disbursement guidelines, and an audit was carried out in accordance with the National Auditing
guidelines, which were found acceptable to IDA. Overall, the Borrower performance during
implementation can be rated as satisfactory.
G.    Assessment of Outcome
37.   The project achieved the majority of its objectives despite delays and cost increases
(Table 1).  Other than significantly reducing transportation costs on the Namkading -
Savannakhet section, the rehabilitation works implemented under the project also greatly
contributed to good-riding quality and reduced travel time (para 8). The quality of civil works, in
general, was satisfactory. The road restoration capacity helped to implement spot improvement
programs and to keep traffic running smoothly on several important road sections. The outcome
of the Maintenance Study proved very beneficial in identifying road investment opportunities and
updating road inventories. Given the satifactory outcomes of the civil works component and
institutional development program, the overall assessment of the project outcome is rated
satisfactory.
38.   Economic Reevaluation: Table 9 summarizes the economic reevaluation and sensitivity
analysis performed for the road rehabilitation component. Based on final construction costs and
most probable estimates of annually recurring maintenance costs and periodic intervention costs,
investments made on three sections of the project road produced ERRs of 23%, 17% and 34%,
compared with earlier estimates of 17%, 18% and 30%, respectively. The road rehabilitation
component shows an overall ERR of 23%, compared with the appraisal estimate of 17%. The
computed ERRs underestimate the full benefits of the project as they do not include benefits
created by increased traffic safety, quality of service, savings in travel time and convenience to
road users on the improved facilities--all substantial outcomes of the road project rehabilitation
program. The average daily traffic measured in May 97 is 1517 vehicles (839 motorcycles, 121
three wheels motorcycles, 303 light vehicles, 178 trucks and 69 buses) is far above the appraisal



11
estimate of about 400 vehicles. The existing traffic levels, obtained through traffic count surveys
and projected traffic growth rates provided in the consultant's report, have been taken into
account for the computation of benefits. The main benefit of the road improvement considered in
the analysis is the savings in vehicle operating costs (VOC). The unit VOC savings were
computed using "with project" and "without project" scenarios with HDM Manager at 1997
prices. The analysis period is through 2015, extending the benefit period over 18.5 years
beginning June 1997, compared with the 20-year period considered at appraisal. The final ERR
upon project completion of 23% is satisfactory and is, in fact, about 6% higher than the appraisal
estimates. Ultimate beneficiaries of the completed projects are the road users who come from a
wide range of sectors and income groups.
HL    Future Operations
39.   Since the majority of the civil works covered under HIP included road rehabilitation, spot
improvement and deferred maintenance on existing national and provincial roads, no formal plan
of operation was established. However, to ensure routine and periodic maintenance of the
improved roads, MCTPC is currently implementing the two IDA-financed SHIP and THIP,
which include, among others, substantial components on road maintenance and capacity building.
The road maintenance component under THIP includes: (i) a slice of the four-year periodic
maintenance program which includes about 600 km of high priority roads; (ii) a four-year
program of incremental routine maintenance of the core network to be financed by the local
budget, and (iii) TA for the organization and management of MCTPC's road maintenance
program. This also would include measures to develop and sustain the capabilities of MCTPC
and its regional and provincial organizations (RAD, DCTPCs) to plan, budget, implement, and
supervise road maintenance works, enhance the use of a Bridge Management System and
implement a simple Pavement Management System. Given that MCTPC has made necessary
arrangements, including technical planning and budgetary provisions, to carry out the road
maintenance of completed roads, and IDA has two follow-on projects, there is no need for a
specific future plan of operation for HIP.
40.   Basic performance indicators needed for the operational phase of the project, including
an international roughness index, classified traffic counts, road condition surveys, axle-load
surveys, computerized analysis of road accidents, would be monitored by MCTPC to serve the
following purposes: (a) preparation of a maintenance program, (b) improvement of road safety,
and (c) lowering VOC. Given that MCTPC, with the support of THIP, would have adequate
technical, financial, and institutional arrangements, future operations of the project are expected
to be efficient and effective. This would not preclude a follow-up of the maintenance program
for all the HIP project roads by IDA future supervision missions under its on-going SHIP and
THIP.
L Key Lessons Learned
41.   The key lessons learned from the implementation experience of the HIP are as follows:
a) Careful attention must be paid to project design, realistic cost estimates, and adequate
and timely budget allocations for counterpart funding.



12
b) For an efficient and effective maintenance management system, planning, budgeting,
implementation and evaluation must be integrated and' responsibilities clearly defined
by MCTPC headquarters down to regional offices, provincial and district level
administrations.
c) To increase the effectiveness of technical assistance assignments and the transfer of
skills to local nationals, consultants should prepare and- implement a Skill Transfer
Action Plan and Government should assign appropriate counterpart staff at the
beginning of the project and avoid turnover.
d) Considering the local institutional constraints, the development of a modern and
efficient maintenance organization will take much longer than normally anticipated,
therefore expectations under any individual project must be realistic.



13
PART II
Statistical Information
Page No.
Table 1:     Summary of Assessments                                   14
Table 2:     Related Bank Loans/Credits                               15
Table 3:     Project Time Table                                      16
Table 4:     Cumulative Credit Disbursements                          16
Table 5:     Key Indicators for Project Implementation                17
Table 6:     Key Indicators for Project Operation                     17
Table 7:     Studies Included in Project                              18
Table 8A:    Project Costs                                            19
Table 8B:    Project Financing                                        19
Table 9:      Economic Costs and Benefits                             20
Table 10:     Status of Legal Covenants                              21
Table 11:    Compliance with Operational Manual Statements           22
Table 12:    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs                            22
Table 13:    Bank Resources: Missions                                23



14
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives        Substantial       Partial        Negligible       Not applicable
Macro Policies                      E               a                E                 0
Sector Policies                     f               jgj              [                 [
Financial Objectives                f               [                f
Institutional Development           0               E                E                 E
Physical Objectives                 0               E                E                 E
Poverty Reduction                   E               E                E                  0
Gender Issues                       5               Q                E                  0
Other Social Objectives             Q               E                E                  0
Environmental Objectives            E               E                E                  0
Public Sector Management            n               0                E                 E
Private Sector Development          E                0               E                 E
B. Project Sustainabilitv              Likely                  Unlikely                  Uncertain
0                         01                        El
C. Bank Performance                Higly sfactr               Satisfactory               Deficient
Identification                      E]                       El                        E
Preparation Assistance               n                        0                        El
Appraisal                            n                                                 E
Supervision                         E                         0                        E
D. Borrower Performance                    Highly satisfactorv  Satisfactory   Deficient
Preparation                                   El             0               El
Implementation                               E ]                             E
Covenant Compliance                          E                0              E
E. Assessment of Outcome           Highly satisfactory Safato       Unsatisftry  Highly unsatisfactor
El              0El                                El



15
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Year of
Loan/Credit Title                     Purpose                       Approval      Status
Preceding operations
1. Southern Transport   To: (a)carry out repairs and maintenance of Highway  1987  Completed in
Project (Credit 1846-  13 in the provinces of Savanakhet, Saravanne and         1994
LA)                 Champassak; (b)strengthen maintenance capacity of
the three provincial Road and Bridge Maintenance
Societies; and (c) complete studies for future transport
development
Following Operations,
1. Upland Agriculture    Support a) upland crop production, b) rehabilitation of  1990  Ongoing
Development Project  existing irrigation schemes, c) feeder road
(credit 2079-LA)    rehabilitation and maintenance, and d) technical
assistance and training for institutional strengthening.
2. Luang Namtha Project Support of rural infrastructure including roads, water  1994  Ongoing
(Credit 2579-LA)    supply, and institutional strengthening of provincial
planning and management
3. Second Highway     Increase efficiency of Laos road network through   1994     Ongoing
Improvement Project  road improvements and strengthening institutional
(Credit 2606-LA)    capabilities to plan, maintain etc.
4. Third Highway       To: (a)reduce transport costs through the upgrading  1997  Ongoing
Improvement Project  of a southern leg of Road No. 13 and the construction
(Credit 2943-LA)    of Road no. A-1; (b)improve institutional capacity
and effectiveness in managing construction and
maintenance activities at the central and provincial
levels; and (c) introduce routine and periodic
maintenance of roads by contract using competitive
bidding procedures.



16
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle             Date Planned           Date Actual
Identification                       December 1988            December 1988
Preparation                          August 1989              October 22-29, 1989
Appraisal                             February 4-11, 1990     May 27- June 7, 1990
Negotiations                         January 1991             Jan 14-16, 1991
Board Presentation                    March 1991              March 21, 1991
Signing                              May 22, 1991             May 22, 1991
Effectiveness                         July 1991               October 7, 1991
Project Completion                    December 31, 1996       April 30, 1997
Credit Closing                       June 30, 1997            June 30, 1997
Table 4: Cumulative Credit Disbursements: Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95    FY96    FY97             FY97
Appraisal          5.4      15.8      24.8     32.9      40.5     45.0      45.0
Estimates
Actual             6.4       9.4      17.2     25.9      41.3    46.21    46.22*
Actual as % of      14       21        38       58        92       103      103*
loan amount
Final disbursement on September 16, 1997
*Highei than Loan amount due to favorable exchange rate between SDR and US$ during project
life.



17
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Estimated          Actual
I      Key Implementation Indicator in
SAR/President's Report
Not Applicable
II     Modified Indicators
Not Applicable
III    Other Indicators
1. Rehabilitation of Road                           266 km            212.5 km
2. Rehabilitation of Bridges                         40                 40*
3. Replacement of Bridges                             6                 6
4. Fellowship and Short-term training courses         7                  6**
* During project implementation, JICA agreed to finance the complete rehabilitation of the 40 bridges
planned to receive maintenance repairs under the project.
** Out of seven selected for long-term bachelor's degree courses, one abandoned for personal reasons.
Currently, four are still studying in Thailand and are expected to complete their studies in 1998.



18
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
I. Key Operating Indicators in
SAR/President's Report                    Estimated                      Actual
Not Applicable
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study       Purpose as defined at appraisal/   Status                  Impact of study
redefined
Road           1. To recommend a policy and a   Study commenced   The study has been very useful in
Maintenance      long-range strategy for     on 02/23/93 and    developing maintenance strategy, and
Study            efficient and cost effective  was completed in    provided for the following:
road maintenance;           09/93.
1. an essential tool, i.e., a planning and
2. To assess the long-term                          policy system for the RAD for the
maintenance needs and the                         future economic work and technical
financial requirements; and                       planning of the maintenance activities
on the Lao road network;
3. To prepare a detailed proposal
for the implementation of the                 2. a basis for formulation of the
Maintenance Fund proposed                         maintenance programs for the follow
by the National Transport                         on project to be financed by IDA and
Study.                                            other donor agencies;
3. an action plan for establishment of a
maintenance fund for financing of
road maintenance needs;
4. Recommendation for contracting
procedures used at that time, building
capacity of the local contracting
industry, the availability of the
equipment and the opportunities for
privatization of the road construction
industry; and
5. An overview of the actual length and
standards of the National Roads and
Provincial Roads in Lao PDR with
appropriate maps, tables and
graphics;



19
Table 8A: Project Costs
(US$ million)
Appraisal Estiinates         Actual/Latest Estimates
Items                   Local   Foreign    Total    Local    Foreign        Total
Costs    Costs               Costs      Costs
Road rehabilitation
Road reconstruction including 6 bridges  0.613    30.047    30.660  4.864      37.278     42.132
Rehabilitation of 40 bridges          0.454     1.815     2.269     0.005       0.101      0.106
Operating costs (95%)                  0.00      0.00     0.000     0.032       0.615      0.647
Subtotal                               1.067    31.862    32.929    4.891      37.994     42.885
Restoration of Road Capacity
Equipment                             0.092     1.749      1.841    0.000       3.243      3.243
Operating Costs (95%)                 0.400     1.600     2.000     0.054       0.850      0.944
TA + Maintenance Study                0.533     1.332     0.665     0.000       1.625      1.625
Subtotal                              0.825     4.681     5.506     0.094       5.718      5.812
Technical Assistance and Training
Project support
Supervision of work            0.344     1.376     1.720     0.000       3.302      3.302
Project coordinator            0.180     0.720    0.9090     0.000       1.235      1.235
Studies for SHIP               0.100     0.400     0.500     0.000       0.125      0.125
Policy development TA to TPU          0.072     0.288     0.360     0.000       0.631      0.631
Fellowships                                     0.105     0.105     0.000       0.186      0.186
Short courses                                   0.030     0.030     0.000       0.036      0.036
Subtotal                              0.656     2.919     3.615    0.000        5.515      5.515
Total Base Cost                       2.588    39.462    42.050    4.985       49.227     53.837
Contingencies
Physical                              0.259     3.945     4.205                            0.000
Price                                 0.379     6.016     6.395                            0.000
Total Project Cost                        3.220    49.424    52.650    4.985      49.227     54.212
Table 8B: Project Financing
(US$ million)
Appraisal Estimates                  Actual/Latest estimate
Source       Local       Foreign      Total      Local       Foreign         Total
Costs       Costs                  Costs        Costs
IDA                0.576      44.424    48.000        2.760        43.463    46.223*
NDF                0.000       5.000      5.000       0.000          5.764     5.764*
Government         2.649       0.000      2.649       2.225         0.000     2.225
Total              3.225      49.424    52.649        4.985        49.227    54.212
*Higher than Loan amount due to favorable exchange rate SDR-US$



20
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
(A) Economic Re-Evaluation Results For Individual Road Sections
Road-Section       Length (km)   ERR at Appraisal      ERR at Project Completion
Nam-Tlkk               155             17%                      23.11%
Tkk-Seno               88              18%                      17.74%
Seno-S'khet            28              30                      34.71%
[Total Project                         17%                      23.36%
(B) Sensitivity Analysis Results For ERR at Project Completion
No. Case                          Section-I    Section-2    Section-3   Project Roads
I  Base case                      23.11        17.74       34.71        23.36
2   Benefitreducedby 15%           20.59       15.70        31.54        20.89
3   Cost increased by 15%          20.93       15.97        31.97        21.22
4   Combination of 2 and 3         18.57       14.04        29.00        18.90
5   Base case + Generated traffic  28.83       22.32        42.52       29.03
6   5 above + Residual value       28.86       22.57        42.53        29.05
7   Base case - Motorcycle VOC     19.10       14.87        29.42        19.43
8   50% lower traffic growth       13.97        9.94        23.62        14.29
Section 1: Namkading - Thakhek, Section 2: Thakhek - Seno, Section 3: Seno -Savanakhet



21
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Section             Covenant Description          Status                  Comments
A-1V, 4.01(a)  Maintain accounts.                      C     MCTPC maintains accounts
A-IV, 4.01(b)  Audit accounts and furnish audit        C     MOF carries out audit as agreed in the DCA.
Satisfactory audits provided on time.
S.4, (a)      By December 31, 1991, review NTS         C     Discussed with Transport Planning Unit
recommendations
S.4, (b)(i)   Timely allocation for FY91 in such      CP    The Government spent US$2.2 million in FY91-
amount as shall be equivalent to not less      92 for maintenance activities
than US$3,300,000.00
S.4, 4 (b) (ii)   Maintenance budget for following years,  CP    Due to budget constraints, the Government
releases agreed with IDA                       allocated about 50% of maintenance funds
needed to carry out maintenance activities. From
FY94-96, the Government increase annual
allocation but did not succeed to meet all needs.
Discussion were held with each mission on this
matter and new covenants have been introduced
regarding maintenance budget in follow up
projects
S.4, 4(c)     September 30 each year, discuss with IDA  C    Discussion on this matter is carried out with
adequacy of following year's budget for        every mission.
maintenance and investment
S.4, 4(d)     By December 31, 1991, implement road     C     The Government has effectively increased the
user charges satisfactory to IDA               Road User Charges (RUCs). Currently, RUCs
are theoretically sufficient to cover the
maintenance cost of its network. However, an
increasing share of vehicles and fuel escape
taxes. In addition, the Government faces great
difficulties in collecting all revenues due to a
lack of resources in the Customs and Taxation
Departments of MOF.
S.4, 4(e)     Replenish initial stocks of POL, parts and  C  Activity completed.
maintenance supplies.
S.4, 4(f)     By July 1, 1991, establish PMU           C     The Project Management Unit has been
established and maintained since the beginning
of project activities.
Key = Not applicable; NC = Not complied; C = Complied; CP = Complied Partially



22
Table 12: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement Number and Title          Describe and comment on lack of compliance
There was no significant lack of  compliance with Bank's operational manual Statements
Table 13: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Project Stage               Staffweeks               Dollars (US 000)
Preparation                          29.2                       83.1
Appraisal                            19.8                       65.2
Negotiation/Board                     7.7                       25.8
Supervision                          57.5                      143.5
ICR                                   6.0                       25.1
Total                    120.2                       342.7



23
Table 14: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Stage of       Month  No. of  Days in  Specialized  Implemen   Develop-               Types of problems
project cycle    /year   staff   field     skills     tation     ment
represented    status   impact
Through         5/90     5       11       HE, TE
appraisal                              I
Appraisal      08/90      1       3        Proc.
through Board                            Specialist,
approval       09/90     1        3         TE
Board Approval  06/91     1       3         TE
through
effectiveness
Supervision 1    08/91   1       15        HE
Supervision 2    02/92                                                   (1) IDA provided no objection to extend base
course over whole width. (2) Delay in
submitting nominations for degree courses
Supervision 3    10/92   2        8       HE,TE         S         S       Special account not opened
Supervision 4    10/93   2        11      HE,TE         S         S       (a) Government very slow in paying 5% share of
advance payment; (b) weak in developing
training program.
Supervision 5    03/94   2       18       HE,TE        S          S      Progress very slow on average: contractor has
achieved 3.83 km /mo. in contract I and 3.50
km/mo. in contract 2-far less than present
requirement of 5.5 km/mo. and 7 kin/mo.,
respectively
Supervision 6    06/94   2        3        HE,E         S         S      (I) Payments to state enterprise involved in spot
improvement program follow lengthy
procedures within MCTPC for approval. (2)
MOF did not agree with use of funds on training,
and mission rated training progress 4 because
MOF does not want to use funds for this
purpose.
Supervision 7    11/94   3        7      HE, TE(2)      S         S      (a) Contractor staff poorly motivated; (b)
I____________ ______           _______ __________                         disbursement under spot improvement very low
Supervision 8    05/95   2       16       TE,HE        S          S      Most recent progress decreased due to inability
of contractor to maintain sufficient number of
staff. MOF refused authorization of training
funds.
Supervision 9    11/95   2        8       TE, HE        S         S      After numerous representations MOF is now
willing to utilize funds provided for short-term
training courses.
Supervision 10   02/96   2       14       HE, TE        S         S      Restoration of capacity component significantly
delayed due to very late procurement of NDF-
financed road maintenance equipment.
Supervision 11   05/96   2       20       HE., TS       S         S      Project Financial shortfall resolved by amending
agreement of HIP and SHIP.
Supervision 12   02/97   1        8        HE           S         S      All major works to be completed by 04/30/97
-before credit closing date 06/30/97
ICR mission    05/97     3        7     TS, HE. (2)  - S                  Handing over ceremony held on 04/18 taking
I____________  I_____  I_____  I______  I_________  I_______  I________   over certificate  signed  on  04/29/97.
S=Satisfactory, E=Economist, HE=Highway Engineer, TE=Transport Economist, TS=Transport Specialist



24                             Appendix A
LAO P.D.R.
HIGHWAY IM1PROVEMENT PROJECT-EHIP (CREDIT 2218-LA)
THID HIGHWAY EMPROVEMEENT PROJECT (CREDIT 2943-LA)
AIDE MEMOIR
ICR-SUPERVSION MASSION MAY 1997
INORQDUCTlON
1.    An International Development Association (IDA) mission comprising Messrs.
Alain Labeau (Transport Specialist), Subhash Seth (Highway Engineer), and Denis
Robitaille (Highway Engineer) visited Lao PDR from May 4 to May 12, 1997, to: (i)
carry out an Implementation Completion Report (ICR) mission for the Highway
Improvement Project (HIP); (ii) supervise the Second Highway Improvement Project
(SHIP); and (iii) expedite starting activities for the recently approved Third Highway
Improvement Project (THIP). The main purpose of the mission was to review the
progress being made in implementing and preparing activities under the above-mentioned
projects and to assist the Ministry of Communication, Transport, Post and Construction
(MCTPC) in resolving outstanding issues.
2.    During its stay, the mission carried out a field visit in Bolikhamxai, Khamouane
and Savannakhet Provinces in order to: (i) inspect the works carried out by the contractor
CTIETCC on Roads No.13 and No.9 between Namkading and Savannakhet under
Contracts No. 1 and No.2 (HIP); (ii) review the progress being made by the SOE
contractor SRBCC in the construction of Road Nos. 11 and 13 in Savannakhet (SHIP);
and (iii) to inspect part of Road No. 13 from Ban Lak 35 (THIP).
3.   In general, the mission is satisfied with the implementation progress of activities
under these projects. This Aide Memoire records the findings of the mission, the views
expressed on these by the Government and agreements reached which are subject to IDA
management's review and confirmation. A summary of main task to be accomplished by
all involved parties is provided under Attachment 1. The mission would like to express
its appreciation for the courtesy and cooperation extended to it by all the agencies,
organizations and personnel met. Copies of this Aide-Memoire have been provided to all
interested parties.



Appendix A
25
HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT - HIP - (Credit 2218-LA)
4.    Project Status - Closing Date. The mission reminded MCTPC that the credit
closing date of June 30, 1997 will remain unchanged, and all activities must be completed
before this date in order to be eligible for expenditure.
Implkpetation CornWetin Reprt (ICR
5.    GOL's ICR. The mission reminded MCTPC that in accordance with the
"General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements", GOL has to
prepare its own final evaluation report on HIP by October 1, 1997. If the report is longer
fhan 10 pages, GOL is encouraged to prepare a summary. The evaluation
report/summary will be attached unedited to the ICR and will include:
a) an assessment of the project objectives, design, implementation, and operation
experience;
b) an evaluation of the borrower's own performance during the evolution and
implementation of the project, with special emphasis on lessons learned; and
c) an evaluation of the performance of the IDA and any other co-financiers
during the evolution and the implementation of the project, including the
effectiveness of the cooperation between the Borrower, IDA, and the co-
financier, with special emphasis on lessons learned.
6.    Economic Re-Evaluation of HIP Road Rehabilitation Component. The
mission requested MCTPC to prepare an economic re-evaluation of the road
rehabilitation component with the support of the supervising consultants and send it to
IDA for comments by June 15, 1997. The supervising consultants have provided the
services of a transport economist who will collect all the data from the field and other
government agencies and will submit a report to MCTPC. The mission requested that the
economic re-evaluation be carried out for the whole road rehabilitation component as
well as for its three sections individually, so that the analysis could be compared with the
economic evaluation carried out at the time of project appraisal. PCU agreed to provide
all needed economic data available to the economist.
7.    GOL's Contribution to IDA's ICR. The mission provided the copy of ICR
guidelines. In order to complete/compare with information collected during the mission,
PCU agreed to send to IDA by May 31, 1997, the following information: (a) statistical
tables 5, 6, 7, 8A, 8B and 9 ;(b) key points relating to major factors affecting the project;
(c) the reasons for cost changes and other changes in the project scope/design, physical
quantities, base unit costs and cost of engineer estimate on the basis of which bids were
invited in 1991; (d) inadequacy regarding price contingencies, if any, and changes in the
exchange rates, (e) the reasons for implementation delay, if any, in the procurement of
civil works, equipment and consulting services; (f) project sustainability; (g) sector



26                             Appendix A
specific data including road expenditures, budget allocation for road and bridge
construction/ maintenance, and road user charges fiscal year 94/95 and 95/96.
8.    Final Cost of Road Rehabilitation. The mission was informed by the
supervising consultants that the final cost of both contracts on Road No.13 and Road
No.9 would be available by May 31, 1997. Therefore, the mission requested PCU to
update all the figures and send them to IDA by June 30, 1997. It is expected that on
completion of works, the final amount would be approximately US$56.00 million,
compared with the contract award of US$44.68 million. There are several reasons for the
cost increase of US$11.32 million, which is comprised of: (a) US$3.950 million due to
change in design duly approved (crushed stone base course under the shoulders,
replacement of old culverts and the bridge No.20 at Nam Hay); (b) US$1.12 million due
to increase in the scope of works duly approved by all involved parties (length increase of
NR 13 for 10 kIn, NR 12 for 1 km, and Thakhek bypass for 0.5 kin); (c) US$5.85 million
on account of price escalation; and (d) US$0.40 million due to minor variations orders.
9.    Future Operation: The plan for the project's future operation is very important
to its success. The mission requested PCU to prepare an operation plan and send it to
IDA for review by July 31, 1997. The mission provided to PCU the guidelines for its
preparation which mainly includes the following: (a) the appropriate technical, financial
and institutional arrangements to ensure effective project operation; (b) list of
performance indicators by which the project can be monitored and evaluated in the future;
and c) a monitoring evaluation system, if in place.
Civil Works- Contract Nos. I and 2- (Namkading-Savannakhet Road. 266 km)
10.   Hand Over. Following the substantial completion of both contracts, a handing
over ceremony attended by dignitaries of Governments of Lao PDR, India and China was
held on April 18, 1997. The supervising consultant prepared the Hand Over Inspection
Certificate dated April 29, 1997 transferring the responsibility of the maintenance of the
road to the Government of Lao PDR. Part of the contractor's one-year Defect Liability
Period, correction and few remaining works have been identified and will be carried out
by the contractor by May 31, 1997 (lined drain, protection works, cleaning, road signs
and guards posts) and by November 1, 1997 (reconstruction of a 1 km stretch, ref.:
para.l l item (iii)). The supervising consultant will prepare the Final Payment Certificate
by May 31, 1997.
11.  Issues. (i) Road Marking  As planned, quotations were requested from two local
enterprises to carry out road marking on the total rehabilitated length of Road No.13 and
Road No.9. Since HIP Credit funds are all spent or committed, it was proposed that SHIP
Credit funds (Schedule 1, Category 4) finance road marking. However, due to budget
limitations, it was decided that only the centerline would be painted. During mission's
stay, MCTPC provided its recommendation for contract award and requested IDA's no
objection. The mission will review the proposal upon its return to headquarters and



27                           Appendix A
transmit IDA's comments by May 31, 1997. (ii) Sgfetv Design - Namkading Sub-
&andard Curve. As agreed during the last mission, speed bumps built in the curve on the
south bank of the Namkading river have been replaced by additional strips of bituminous
surface treatment (sound-warning device). (iii). Dprions and UndulationsAs agreed,
the supervising consultant investigate causes of depressions and undulations on pre-
identified road stretches. Based on DCP tests, the supervising consultants requested the
contractor to rebuilt a total of 1,190 m over 4 different stretches. Three stretches for 190
m have already been rebuilt. For the remaining 1 km stretch (Km 90+000), it was agreed
that it would be preferable to wait for the beginning of the next dry season (October
1997) before proceeding. (iv) lope ProtecLian. The consultant noticed that the contracts
do not include protection works on some high embankment slopes and suggested that
vetiver grass be used to avoid important erosion. The mission requested that the
supervising consultant prepare by May 31, 1997, an inventory of the problematic slopes
accompanied by a detailed cost estimate to MCTPC for future consideration.
12. Bridge Construction Progress. All bridges have been completed. The mission
was informed that the claim raised by the contractor due to additional depth of pile
foundation has been settled.



28                              Appendix A
SUMMARY OF MAIN TASKS TO BE ACCOMPLISHED
Highway Improvement Project (Credit 2218-LA)
Activitie                    Action TakenBy    Deadliis
GOL's ICR (para.5)                             MOF & MCTPC  Oct. 1, 97
(DOC, PCU)
Draft Economic Re-Evaluation Report of the Road  CES            June 15, 97
Rehabilitation Component (para.6)
Information for IDA's ICR (para.7)             PCU              May 31, 97
Cost changes update (para.8)                   PCU              June 30, 97
Future Operation Plan (para.9)                 PCU              July 31, 97
Draft ICR to the GOL and NDF for comments      IDA              Nov.01, 97
Final ICR                                      IDA              Dec. 31, 97
Final Payment Certificate for Contracts No.1 and No.2  CES, PCU  May 31, 97
(para. 10)
Road Marking, review of MCTPC's proposal (par.l 1)  IDA         May 31, 97
Rebuilt 1 km stretch on Road No.13 (para.1 1)  CTIETCC          Oct. 97
Details on Slope Protection (para. 11)         CES              May 31, 97
Second Highway Improvement Project (Credit 2606-LA)
Activit                      Action TakenBy   Deadline
Request IDA's no-objection on MCTPC's          PCU              May 20, 97
recommendation of award for Contract No.3 (para. 14)
Monthly cash journal review (para. 15)         PCU              May 15,97
Provision of remaining Monthly cash journal (para.15) SRBCC     May 31, 97
Develop Bridge Management System (para.17)     RAD              Dec. 31, 97
Third Highway Improvement Project (Credit 2943-LA)
Activitie                    Action Taken By   D&adlin
Reply to MOF's signature request (para.21)     IDA              May 15, 97
Ministerial approval of road numbering and      MCTPC           May 31, 97
referencing systems and numbering of national roads
(para.22)
Set up committee for Pre-Qualification evaluation  MCTPC        July 1, 97
applications (para.23 (i), 1)
Submit Penriodic Maintenance Program (para.23 (ii))   RAD       May 31, 97
Submit Routine Maintenance Program (para.23 (ii))    RAD        July 1, 97
Implementation plan for Transport Study (para.24)  Polytechnic  June 1, 97



29                         Appendix B
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
Peace Independence Democracy Unity Prosperity
MINISTRY OF COMMIUNICATION TRANSPORT                   DRAFT
POST AND CONSTRUCTION                      No.    .     MCTPC
HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Credit 2218-LA
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT



30                                 Appendix B
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.    Assessment of the project objectives
The project objectives were:
l.    Rehabilitation and bituminous surfacing of the Namkading-Savannakhet road (266km),
including replacement of six bridges and the rehabilitation of 40 bailey bridges along this
road.
2.    Heavy equipment to be provided under the project by NDF to strengthen and improve the
institutional capacity for road maintenance in Lao PDR. Restoration of road capacity
through a spot improvement program in critical road sections to be carried out by two
RBMSs with the provision of equipment and technical assistance.
3.    Technical assistance (TA):
a.     To Transport Planning Unit to follow up the NTS and the preparation of future
projects.
b.    To MCTPC to coordinate the project implementation, Project coordinator under
NDF
c.     Maintenance Consultants under NDF Credit
d.    Training for MCTPC staff.
All the project objectives were appropriate and consistent with the Government's policy. The
project was successful in achieving its principal objectives:
a.    The rehabilitation of a priority section of the main North-South road artery (RN 13) was
achieved. The road rehabilitation length increased by 10 km, the design of shoulders was
improved to provide more strength, a new by-pass to the city of Thakhek was added and
junctions along the road were improved.
The Civil works were carried out under 2 contracts with the same contractor, and suffered
delay because of i) improper site management and ii) additional works. The repeated
follow up by IDA Mission, MCTPC, and Consultants contributed to complete the road
rehabilitation by the Credit closing date.
The project encountered financing problems with a shortfall of about US$ 21.1 million,
shares are, Government US$ 1.0 million and IDA US$ 18.6 million for Civil Works and
US$ 1.5 million for Consultant services and Fellowships.
This shortfall was mainly due to 4 main factors:
i)    Higher bid prices for road construction of US$ 6.2 million due to inaccurate
evaluation of the contract's estimate amounts,
ii)    Design modification US$ 9.9 million for major improvement of the road design
to improve the road quality and its life expectancy ( shoulders built with crushed



31                              Appendix B
stone material as used for base course, drainage concrete pipes increased from
0.6 to 1.0 meter,
iii)    Additional works US$ 3.5 million at the government request for two additional
stretches, Thakek by-pass and Naxay-Seno,
iv)    US$ 1.5 million for consultancy services and training
To cover the financial gap, the Government requested and IDA agreed to amend the
Credit Agreement as follow:
i)    An Amendment under HIP was issued to reallocate funds between the different
categories giving:
. SDR 28.10 million for category 1, Civil Work
. SDR 0.55 million for category 2, Small equipment and road restoration
. SDR 2.7 million for category 3, Technical assistance
. SDR 0.75 million for category 4, Un-allocated.
ii)    An Amendment under SHIP was also issued reallocating SDR 9.0 million from
the existing categories to create a new category 4 "Road rehabilitation" under
SHIP to finance the remaining gap of the Civil Work contracts.
b.    Road restoration capacity
There was some delay in providing the heavy equipment due to the time taken for
approving and carrying through the procurement and commissioning procedures. This has
contributed to the slow initial progress of the spot improvement works.
The cost of the heavy equipment was greater than scheduled due to the advantageous
change in exchange rate for SDR, the total NDF budget component has not been
exhausted, allowing an extension of the project coordinator services until end 1997.
c.    Institutional Development objectives
The institutional objectives were achieved satisfactory. The Technical Assistance to
MCTPC for Project implementation, Transport planning, and Road maintenance capacity
was very effective.
The work of the Project Coordinator provided under NDF component has been carried
out satisfactory. His considerable work load has included duties in running the project
which was not directly related to his Terms of Reference and MCTPC recognize to have
spent to much time to appoint a suitable counterpart.
The services of the Maintenance advisors provided under NDF component have been
carried out in an acceptable manner. The assistance of only 2 maintenance advisors, with
the whole country as project area, has put a high project workload on these 2 advisors: the
main effort has been concentrated on Spot improvement works. The effort put into
training counterparts, MCTPC staff and contractor in spot improvement works carried out
seems to have been satisfactory. More output may have been expected in the
establishment of a Pavement Management System.



32                                 Appendix B
The maintenance study procured a comprehensive and acceptable report for planning and
policy system to be used for the future works of the Road Administration Division and
has also contributed to the successful reorganization of the RAD.
B.    Borrower's own performance.
1.    Civil work implementation
MCTPC established a Project Mlanagement Unit, based-partly (75%) in Thakek and
(25%) in Vientiane for the day to day management and working as MCTPC's
representative on site, their efforts were concentrated more in project administration than
in technical aspects. For the technical matters on the job training, MCTPC has appointed
4 persons working as counterpart of the Consultant's supervision team and gained a great
experience in the work quality requirements.
The key lesson learned on this aspect is that MCTPC must paid careful attention to
Project design, cost estimates, and contract documents in order to avoid overrun costs due
mainly to additional works not included in the detailed design engineering study.
2.    Road restoration capacity
According to the recommendations of the Maintenance study MCTPC has reorganized
his Maintenance division called now Road Administration Division (RAD).
Road work in Lao PDR was until now comprising construction, rehabilitation, and spot
improvement, systematic maintenance such as routine and periodic maintenance was
virtually non existing because the road network was in such a poor state than nearly all
funds available have been used for opening up the network and making road as possible
trafficable.
The key lesson learned is that it is important to establish a systematic maintenance
mechanism for the country network in implementing routine and periodic maintenance
program. It is also important to develop the contracting industry in order to make sure
that these will be qualified organizations to execute the maintenance work.
Upon completion of this project a network of road maintenance system was established
with MCTPC at the central level responsible for the planning of the budget for
maintenance and DCTPC in the provinces are responsible for irnplementation of the
maintenance works (Decentralization).
Important Technical assistance input is required in order to successfully introduce
maintenance management procedures. Training of local Enterprises is required in the
technical aspects of maintenance work and in the commercial aspects of running a
contracting enterprise.
3.    Institutional Development
The short term training program was not effective as planned due to substantial delays in
approval of training program .Now MCTPC has utilized the funds for short-term training,



33                              Appendix B
in the English language, technical workshops, etc. which are very helpful to upgrade the
capabilities of MCTPC's staff.
The fellowships program has been spent in full, 4 students in economics and 3 students in
engineering were nominated and are now scheduled to complete their degree in 1998
except for one of them who renounced for private reasons.
The key lesson learned is the importance of the training component and for this reason
the budget allocated for this component increased by 2 times in the SHIP and further in
the THIP.
It had been a learning process for MCTPC in term of taking over ownership in the project
implementation. Now MCTPC take the program approach instead of project approach in the
coordination with different Donors in the road sector.
C     Bank and co-financiers' performance
IDA performance during the project preparation, appraisal, and supervision was very
professional, objectively oriented with a good understanding of the Borrower's institutional
capabilities.
D.    Comments on thle Bank staff s draft ICR
Not available.
E.    Statistical information.
Herewith, copy of the Table 8A, Project Costs and Table 8B, Project financing sent to IDA by
May 29,1997.
Vientiane,       * UY 1997
...-F  F                                      .MOF         MCTPC
-----                                  .~~~~~~~-^-- .,  3,;
Bounlith KHENNAVONG
vice Minister of Finance



Appendix B
34
Table 8A: Project Costs
(US$ million)
Aopraisal estimates             Actual/latest Estimates
Local     Foreign                Local      Foreign
Items                          Costs      Costs      Total      Costs       Costs      Total
Road rehabilitation
Road reconstruction including                    0.613      30.047     30.660      4.854     37.130     41.984
6 Bridges
Rehabilitation of 40 Bridges                     0.454       1.815      2.269      0.005      0.101      0.106
Operating costs (95%)                            0.000      0.000       0.000      0.032      0.615      0.647
Subtotal                                         1.067      31.862     32.929      4.891     37.846     42.737
Restoration of Road capacitiy
Equipment                                        0.092       1.749      1.841      0.000      3.243      3.243
Operating costs (90%)                            0.400       1.600      2.000      0.094      0.850      0.944
Technical Assistance+Maint. study                0.333       1.332      1.665      0.000      1.625      1.625
Subtotal                                         0.825      4.681       5.506      0.094      5.718      5.812
Technical Assistance and Training
Project support
Supervision                            0.344      1.376       1.720      0.000      3.302      3.302
Project coordinator                    0.180      0.720      0.900       0.000      1.235      1.235
Studies for SHIP                       0.100      0.400      0.500       0.000      0.125      0.125
Policy development
TA to TPU                              0.072      0.288       0.360      0.000      0.631      0.631
Fellowships                                                  0.105      0.105      0.000      0.186      0.186
Short Courses                                               0.030       0.030      0.000      0.036      0.036
Subtotal                                         0.696       2.919      3.615      0.000      5.515      5.S15
Total Base Cost                                  2.588      39.462     42.050      4.985     49.079     54.064
Contingencies
Physical                                         0.259      3.946       4.205                            0.000
Price                                            0.379      6.016       6.395                            0.000
Total Project Cost                                       3.226     49.424     52.650       4.986     49.079     54.064



Appendix B
Table 88: Project Costs
(US$ million)
Appraisal estimates              Actual/latest Estimates
Local     Foreign                 Local      Foreign
Items                          Costs       Costs       Total      Costs   |  Costs        Total
IOA                                                       0.576      44.424     45.000       2.755     43.320      46.075
NOF                                                       0.000       5.000      5.000       0.000      5.759       5.759
Goyernment                                                2.649       0.000      2.649       2.230      0.000       2.230
Tctal                                                     3.225      49.424     52.649       4.985     49.079      64.064



I



MAP SECTION



I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



IBRD 22322
104'                CM                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~CHINA
><  \   CHINA   7          v                                       104'                       | MYANR
22~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
VI E-r NAPEOLEM
REE
THAILAND~~~~~~~~~~~MF NMENIN
;.g jF Ej 1591
-    200 - 500  ~~~    ~   S    Previous Projed                  \                   5        i 21 l          >500
Elevtios i Metrs:Roa NetionlRke; uer                                                           i     t                      i  P      t< 
<200~E Propi osed Projersctr 
1~~~~~~~~~~~kLtEE O0                              P50e Natona            l ad
thom$undl5mSus5Dy   Naiional CapiftTahWdlsvlfotd            Pavvedn Provin0e50100Roadsi
FnacecrpD fo.Teenoinroinces Badtoundaries        Uwosasod npo    d Prvic Road.s-ido                                                                      1.  tr
imply,o~~~~nt-euofhWrkonantenmtional Bondaries            rporatisnayure t__  :,-t t  
~14'                                                             |        DEMOCRATIC ICAMAPUCHE                                              K                                       4
FEBRUARZY 1991



