Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2218 LA
                   (Highway Improvement Project)
                              between
                 LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated May 22, 1991
                                              CREDIT NUMBER 2218 LA
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated May 22, 1991, between LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC
REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
      (B)   the Borrower intends to contract from the Nordic
Development Fund (NDF) a credit (the NDF Credit) in an amount
equivalent to five million dollars ($5,000,000) to assist in
financing Part C of the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement (the NDF Credit Agreement) to be entered into
between the Borrower and NDF; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the  context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Bank of Lao PDR" means the central bank of the Borrower
established pursuant to the State Banking Act dated November 27,
1990;
      (b)   "MCTPC" means the Ministry of Communications, Transport,
Posts and Construction of the Borrower;
      (c)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (d)   "NTS" means the National Transport Study currently under
preparation under LAO/85/020, a project financed by the United
Nations Development Programme with the Bank acting as executing
agency;
      (e)   "PMU" means the Project Management Unit to be
established pursuant to Schedule 4 hereof; and
      (f)   "Fiscal Year" and "FY" mean January 1 to December 31.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to thirty two million one hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 32,100,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain a special deposit account in dollars at Bank of
Lao PDR on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1997 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Page  3
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above.  The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semi-annually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each March 15 and September 15
commencing September 15, 2001 and ending March 15, 2031. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on March 15,
2011 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
      (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, engineering, environmental and financial practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
Page  4
services and other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Association;
           (ii)    furnish to the Association, as soon as
                   available, but in any case not later than six
                   months after the end of each such year, a
                   certified copy of the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Association shall have reasonably
                   requested; and
          (iii)    furnish to the Association such other
                   information concerning said records, accounts
                   and the audit thereof as the Association shall
                   from time to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;
           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the fiscal
                   year in which the last withdrawal from the
                   Credit Account or payment out of the Special
                   Account was made, all records (contracts,
                   orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                   documents) evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)    enable the Association's representatives to
                   examine such records; and
           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
Page  5
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   The NDF Credit Agreement shall have failed to become
effective by July 1, 1991, or such later date as the Association may
agree; provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph
shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Association that adequate funds for the Project are available to
the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent
with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
      (b)   (i)    Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
                   (A)   The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                         proceeds of any loan, credit or grant made
                         to the Borrower for the financing of the
                         Project shall have been suspended,
                         cancelled or terminated in whole or in
                         part, pursuant to the terms thereof, or
                   (B)   any such loan or credit shall have become
                         due and payable prior to the agreed
                         maturity thereof.
           (ii)    Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                   apply if the Borrower establishes to the
                   satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such
                   suspension, cancellation, termination or
                   prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
                   Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
                   such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the
                   Project are available to the Borrower from other
                   sources on terms and conditions consistent with
                   the obligations of the Borrower under this
                   Agreement.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely that all conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of the NDF Credit Agreement have been fulfilled, other
than those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement.
      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of Economy, Planning and Finance of
the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Minister of Economy, Planning and Finance
Page  6
            Ministry of Economy, Planning and Finance
            Vientiane
            Lao People's Democratic Republic
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   MINFINANCE                 4491 VTE
                   Vientiane
      For the Association:
            International Development
              Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                         LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
                         By /s/ Linthong Phetsavan
                                         Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         By /s/ Guatam S. Kaji
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                                Credit              % of
                               Allocated        Expenditures
                             (Expressed in          to be
      Category              SDR Equivalent)       Financed
(1)   Civil works              22,300,000       95%
(2)   Equipment,                1,500,000       100% of foreign
      materials and                             expenditures,
      vehicles                                  100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory cost)
                                                and 90% of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally
Page  7
(3)   Technical                 1,900,000       100% of foreign
      assistance,                               expenditures and
      training and                              100% of local
      consultants'                              expenditures
      services
(4)   Unallocated               6,400,000
                               __________
      TOTAL                    32,100,000
                               ===========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to improve the efficiency of
the Borrower's road network.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Road Rehabilitation
1.    Rehabilitation and bituminous surfacing of about 233 km of
Route 13 S, from Namkading to Seno, including construction of 6
bridges, and about 33 km of old Route 9 from Seno to Savannakhet.
2.    Rehabilitation of 40 bridges located on Route 13 S, from
Namkading to Seno, and on Route 9 from Seno to Savannakhet.
Part B:     Restoration of Road Capacity
      Carrying out emergency spot improvements on key sections of
the national road network.
Part C:     Technical Assistance and Training
1.    Provision of technical assistance to (i) PMU in the area of
project implementation; and (ii) MCTPC in the areas of transport
planning, road maintenance improvement and future project studies.
2.    Training of MCTPC staff.
                   *               *               *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1996.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
      Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
Page  8
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Lao People's
Democratic Republic may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55
and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2
thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Miscellaneous items of equipment in packages estimated to cost
the equivalent of less than $50,000 each and up to an aggregate
amount of $310,000 may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
2.    Miscellaneous items of construction materials estimated to
cost the equivalent of about $2,600,000 may be procured from local
suppliers at Government-approved prices.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to all contracts to be awarded under Part
A of this Schedule, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.  Where payments for
such contracts are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies
of the contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant
to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior
to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in
respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has
authorized withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
Page  9
                      Implementation Program
      The Borrower shall:
      (a)   not later than December 31, 1991, carry out, in
consultation with the Association, a review of the NTS sectoral
policy recommendations and other sectoral issues, and shall,
thereafter, annually exchange views with the Association on
implementation issues related to the said recommendations;
      (b)   without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01
of this Agreement, and for purposes of ensuring adequate funding for
future road maintenance needs, take all necessary measures to make
(i) a timely budgetary allocation for FY91 in such amount as shall
be equivalent to not less than $3,300,000; and (ii) for the
following fiscal years, such rateable quarterly releases of
budgetary allocations as shall be agreed with the Association;
      (c)   not later than September 30 of each fiscal year, hold
discussions with the Association in connection with the Borrower's
roads budget with a view to ensuring, for each following fiscal
year, the adequacy of the maintenance and investment allocations
provided for in the said budget;
      (d)   not later than December 31, 1991, adopt, and thereafter
implement, such measures as may be satisfactory to the Association,
including, without limitation, increasing the road user charges, to
help fund the anticipated increase in the Borrower's road
maintenance expenditures;
      (e)   take all necessary measures to timely replenish, in a
manner satisfactory to the Association, the initial stock of fuel,
spare parts and maintenance supplies to be procured by the Borrower
under the Project; and
      (f)   not later than July 1, 1991, cause to be established at
the MCTPC the PMU as well as a project coordinating unit with
responsibilities and staffing acceptable to the Association.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2)
and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
Page  10
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   requests for deposits into the Special Account
                   at such intervals as the Association shall
                   specify.
           (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   the documents and other evidence required
                   pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                   payment or payments in respect of which
                   replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
                   such request, the Association shall, on behalf
                   of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
                   Account and deposit into the Special Account
                   such amount as the Borrower shall have requested
                   and as shall have been shown by said documents
                   and other evidence to have been paid out of the
                   Special Account for eligible expenditures.
      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to
the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the
Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
Page  11
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
