                                              Documentof
                                          The World Bank
                                        For Official Use Only

                                                                              ReportNo: 31023VN




                               PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                 ONA

                                        PROPOSEDCREDIT

                            INTHEAMOUNT OFSDR 67.8 MILLION
                                (USD 105 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                               TO THE

                              SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFVIETNAM

                                               FOR THE

          SECONDPAYMENT SYSTEMAND BANKMODERNIZATIONPROJECT


                                           February 8,2005




  Poverty Reductionand Economic Management Unit
  East Asia and Pacific Regional Office

  This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
I performanceof their   official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
  Bankauthorization.

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       (Exchange Rate Effective January 6, 2005)

                           Currency Unit = Vietnamese Dong
                                 1VND     = US$0.00006
                               US$ 1.00   = VND 15,780.00

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                               January 1  -  December 31


                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BIDV        Bank for Investment and Development o f Vietnam
BTA         Bilateral Trade Agreement
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
CBS         Core Banking Solutions
CB          Commercial Banks
 CPRGS      Comprehensive Poverty Reduction and Growth Strategy
IBPS        Inter-Bank Payment System
IncomBank   Industrial and Commercial Bank of Vietnam
ITDB        Informatics Technology Department o f SBV
JSB         Joint-stock Commercial Bank
M C B       Vietnam Maritime Joint Stock Commercial Bank
MIS         Management Information System
MOF         Ministry ofFinance
NPSC        National Payment System Center
PHRD        Policy and HumanResources Development
PTU         Project Implementation Unit
P M U       Project Management Unit
PPC         Payment Processing Center
PSBM        Payment System and Bank Modernization Project
SBV         State Bank o f Vietnam
SOCB        State OwnedCommercial Banks
SOE         State Owned Enterprise
VBARD       Vietnam Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development
VND         Vietnamese Dong
WTO         World Trade Organization


                           Vice President: Jemal-ud-din Kassum (EAPVP)
              Country ManagedDirector:     Klaus Rohland (EACVF)
      Chief Economist and Sector Director  Homi Kharas (EASPR)
                         Sector Manager:   Khalid A. Mirza (EASFP)
                       Task Team Leader:   Xiaofeng Hua (EASFP)

                                                                                        FOR0IWICLA.LUSEONLY                                                     r
                 Vietnam: Second PaymentSystemandBank ModernizationProject

                                                                CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                                       Page

      A.  STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE                                             .................................................................   1
        1.  Country and sector issues....................................................................................................                 1
        2.  Rationale for Bank involvement.........................................................................................                       3
        3.  Higherlevel objectives to which the project contributes....................................................                                   3

      B.   PROJECT DESCRIPTION                      .................................................................................................     4
        1.  T_.endinc+.+ament                  ..................................................................................................... 4
        2.  Program objective and phases.............................................................................................                     4
        3.  Project development objective and key indicators..............................................................                                4
        4.  Project components .............................................................................................................              4
        5.  Lessons learned and reflected in the project design............................................................                               6
        6.  Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ..............................................................                              7

      C .  IMPLEMENTATION                  ..........................................................................................................     8
        1.  Partnership arrangements ....................................................................................................                 8
        2. Institutional and implementation arrangements..................................................................                                8
        3.  Monitoring and evaluation o f outcomesiresults..................................................................                              9
        4.  Sustainability.....................................................................................................................
                 . . .                                                                                                                                   10
        5.  Critical risks and possible controversial aspects...............................................................                             I O
        6.  Loadcredit conditions and covenants...............................................................................                           12

      D .  APPR4ISAL SUMMARY                       .................................................................................................     13
         1. Economic and financial analysis.......................................................................................                       13
        2.  Technical...........................................................................................................................         13
        3.  Fiduciary ........................................................................................................................... 14
        4.  Social.................................................................................................................................      15
         5.  Environment...................................................................................................................... 15
        6.   Safeguard policies .............................................................................................................            15
         7.  Policy exceptions and readiness........................................................................................                     15

      Annex 1: Country and Sector or ProgramBackground                                        .........................................................  16
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
                                                                .
without WorId Bank authorization                        .

Annex 2: Major Related Projects Financedby the Bank and/or other Agencies                                                     .................21
Annex 3: Results Framework and Monitoring                     .........................................................................      23

Annex 4: Detailed Project Description           ......................................................................................        27

Annex 5: Project Costs................................................................................................................        31

Annex 7: FinancialManagement and DisbursementArrangements                                              .....................................  33

Annex 8: Procurement  ................................................................................................................        40

Annex 9: Economicand Financial Analysis                 ..............................................................................        45

Annex 10: SafeguardPolicy Issues          ............................................................................................        50

Annex 11:Project Preparation and Supervision                     ......................................................................       51

Annex 12: Documentsinthe Project File               ..................................................................................        53

Annex 13: Statementof Loans and Credits                  ..............................................................................       54

Annex 14: Country at a Glance      ..................................................................................................         56

Annex 15: Map VNM33511        .......................................................................................................         58

                                         VIETNAM

           SECOND PAYMENTSYSTEMAND BANK MODERNIZATIONPROJECT

                              PROJECTAPPRAISALDOCUMENT

                                  EASTASIA AND PACIFIC

                                            EASFP

Date: January 31,2005                           TeamLeader: XiaofengHua
CountryDirector: KlausRohland                   Sectors: Banking(78%); Paymentsystem(22%)
Sector MangedDirector:HomiKharas                Themes: Other financial andprivatesector
                                                development(P)
ProjectID: PO82627
LendingInstrument: Specific InvestmentLoan
                                    Project FinancingData
[ILoan [XICredit [ ]Grant [ ]Guarantee               [ ] Other:




                 Source                         Local            Foreign            Total
BORROWEWRECIPIENT                                  7.00              0.00               7.00
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT                          0.00            105.00             105.00
ASSOCIATION
FinancingGap                                       0.00              0.00               0.00
Total:                                              7.00           105.00             112.00
Borrower: SocialistRepublic of Vietnam




FY            2006    2007       2008    2009      2010
Annual       15.75    36.75     26.25    15.75     10.50
Cumulative   15.75    52.50     78.75    94.50    105.00

Does the project include any critical risks rated"substantial" or "high"?
Re$ PAD C.5                                                                                [ ]Yes [XINO

Does the project meet the Regional criteria for readiness for implementation? Re$
PAD D.7                                                                                    [XIYes [ ] N o
Project development objective Re$ PAD B.2, TeclzizicalAnnex 3

The Project's Development Objectives are to assist Vietnam's banking sector to (i) the demands o f
                                                                                     meet
the economy for fast, reliable and safe payment services, (ii) broaden access to finance to facilitate the
achievement o f the government's poverty reductiontargets, and (iii)   improve the operations o f the
participating banks through the expansion o f the IBPS and the CBS.
Project description[one-sentence surnmavy of each coinponent] Re$ PAD B.3.a, Teclznical Annex 4

The Project has two components: Component 1, Expansiono f Inter-Bank Payment System and
Component 2, Expansion o f Banking Operational System.
Which safeguard policies are triggered, ifany? Re$ PAD D.6, TeclzlzicalAizizex 10
None
Significant, non-standard conditions, if any, for:
Re$ PAD C.7
Board presentation:
None

Loanicredit effectiveness:
None

Covenants applicable to project implementation:
None

A. STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE

1. Country and sector issues

The Vietnamese banking sector reform has come a long way since its beginninginthe late
1980s. The reform process began ineamest in2001 and the reform agenda has been based on a
comprehensive multi-year reformprogram. The objectives o fthis program are: (i)          strengthening
the regulatory, supervisory and institutional framework; (ii)  diversifying the financial sector; (iii)
enhancing financial sector transparency and accountability; (iv) improving the financial
performance o f the banking system; and (v) creating incentives for banks to operate ina more
commercially-oriented framework based on institutional restructuring.

Important changes have been accomplished both inthe structure, the regulation and the
operations o f the banks, thus moving the banking sector towards a modus operandi that more
closely resembles domestic banking sectors inother emergingmarkets and newly industrialized
economies. Over the past decade, the four largest State Owned Commercial Banks (SOCBs)
have evolved from specialized policy lendingvehicles to state-owned banks that are expected to
operate on a more commercialbasis by intermediating domestic savings to various segments of
the economy and by providing other neededbanking services, bothto the Vietnamese people and
companies. The four largest SOCBs, which account for 73 percent o f all credit to the economy,
continue to implement their restructuring plans aimed at transforming them into more
commercially oriented institutions, including improvements to credit policies and procedures,
accounting practices, information systems, products and services, and capital. InJune 2003, the
SBV announced its intention to equitize two o f the five SOCBs, one o fwhich i s scheduled to
have the participation o f a strategic foreign investor.' The consolidation o f the Joint-stock
Banks (JSBs) has progressed and some o f the JSBs have posted strong growth and performance,
despite the small size o f their operations inthe marketplace. The environment inwhich banks
operate has improved with the removal o f interest rate ceilings (inprinciple), and officials in
SOCBs have been instructed to disregard political requests for directed credit. The SBV has
promulgated numerous regulations on reorganizing bank supervision, gradually leveling the
playing field for foreign banks, and reclassifying all non-performing loans (NPLs) inthe four
SOCBs. Beyond these measures, a credit information center was set up in 1999, and a registry
for secured credit transactions in2002, both o f which may help to improve access to finance.

Despite these positive changes, overall progress inimplementing the reform agenda has been
mixed, and Vietnam still has a long road ahead to comply with intemational standards o f best
practice and to meet the coming challenges o f financial sector liberation under the US-Vietnam
Bilateral Trade Agreement (BTA) and the forthcoming WTO accession. The current speed o f
reform may be too protracted to meet the challenges resulting from the rapid opening o f the
financial sector to foreign participation inthe context o f BTA and WTO membership. These
liberalization commitments will provide potentially serious competitive threats to the SOCBs
and to the regulationo f the financial sector. Once the sector i s fully liberalized, foreign banks
and other service providers (e.g., insurance companies) would have a competitive edge through
better product and service offerings. An immediate result o f this could be that the SOCBs will
be left with weak portfolios and potentially large fiscal liabilities for the govemment inthe

' Theseare MeikonHousing Bank and VietcomBank.


                                                   1

future. These problems could be exacerbated by weak regulation and supervision o f the sector
and a continued concentration o f financial operations inthe banking sector due to limited growth
incapitalmarkets.

The SBV recognizedthe immediate threat that these challenges pose to the future growth and
stability o f the banking system and developed a "Plan for the Intemational Economic Integration
of the Banking Sector" inmid-2003 to address the core development needs through 2010.2 One
of the key areas o f reform ofthis Plan i s the implementation o f appropriate banking systems
infrastructure and the completion o f what was started under the comprehensive program
developed in 1995 to develop a modem banking sector. The program aimed to improve boththe
banking systems and payment services inthe economy inorder to reduce float, speed up
circulation o f funds and increase efficiency o f funds transmission while, at the same time,
providing convenience, service, and safety to users. The development o f the national inter-bank
payment clearing and settlement system to handle inter-and intra-provincial inter-bank payments
(Inter-Bank Payment System- IBPS) was a primary focus o f this program. The program also
had an important secondary focus on introducing modern, automated systems within the largest
banks inthe market. These new systems were designedto strengthenand restructure the
operations and management of the banking sector through the implementation o f core banking,
management information and accounting systems, new products and services and centralization
o f the information within the largest banks.

The first phase o fthe modemizationprogram, supported by the Payment System and Bank
Modernization (PSBM) project of The World Bank (Bank), was successfully completed in2003,
Under the project an intemationally compatible IT platform was established. On the foundation
o f this platform, a modem IBPS and two modem Core Banking Operational and Management
Control Solutions (CBS) were introduced on a pilot basis. The IBPS has vastly improved the
payment services inthe economy by reducing float, accelerating circulation o f funds and
increasing efficiency o f funds transmission, while providing convenience and service to users.
The system has also contributed to the solution o f cash shortages that had existed for years inthe
economy. The share o f cash intotal liquidity i s declining, at 22.0 percent in2003 compared with
22.6 percent in2002 and 23.7 percent in2001. The new electronic payment services available
from the pilot IBPS have been readily accepted by the commercial banks (CBs), with many
banks originally not included inthe pilot project now having online connections and making
active use o f the system. However, the capacity and throughput needs o f the systemhave far
exceeded the original targets, and there i s an urgent needto expand the system.

The modem banking operational solutions have strengthenedthe institutional capabilities o f the
participating banks (accounting for over 73 percent o fthe banking system credit) under the first
project, as they have centralized the banks' core businesses and stimulated initiatives to improve
internal procedures, structure, management and customer services. The new systems have also
brought about changes inbanking regulations and operations as well as banking staff quality in
all aspects o fbanking activities. The basic managerial structure o f each o f the commercial banks
has started to change inorder to take full advantage o fthe new systems. A substantial problem
now facing the participating banks i s that they are currently operating two completely different
systems: the new centralized system supported by modem technologies, and the decentralized

'Decisiono  f the Government o f the SBV Yo. 663, June 26,2003.


                                                       2

legacy systems based on the older manual methods. The risks and costs associated with this type
o f dual operation are highnot only for these banks, but for the whole banking sector, given the
market share that i s attributable to these banks, unless the new systems are rolled out to all the
branches ina relatively short time. Inaddition, the market demand i s increasing for non-cash-
based payment instrumentsandproducts, and service delivery channels as Vietnam's economy
further develops.

The PSBM 2 project, designed to build directly upon the original PSBMproject, i s a response to
these urgent needs from (i)   the SBV to increase the capacity o f IBPS processing centers to
continue operating and expanding the outreach o f the payment systems ina fast, reliable, and
safe manner; and (ii) participating CBs to complete the roll out o f their new systems to
                        the
minimize the possible operational problems and costs o frunningtwo different systems in
parallel through their branch networks, and to add new functions to these systems to meet the
increased demand for new products and services.

2. Rationale for Bank involvement

The Bank is uniquelyplacedto continue assisting the Government with the expansion o f these
systems under the PSBM 2 project. The Bank has the experience and proven record insuch
projects and i s well equippedto deal with the variety o fpolicy, design and implementationissues
involved. It can provide objective "best practice" advice, thereby ensuring that key strategic and
policy issues that need to be addressed for the overall implementation o f such systems are fully
addressed. The outputs o f the project are largely public goods, and require heavy capital
investmentinimported goods. At present, the government and the government-ownedbanks do
not yet have adequate access to low-cost and longer-term funding denominatedinhard currency.
Therefore, the government considers financing the cost o f PSBM 2 with IDA resources as an
appropriate course o f action. No other donors are providing assistance inthis regard.

3. Higher level objectives to which the project contributes

The SBV's goal i s to give all banks and branches access to the IBPS system and expand the new
 CBS systems at the CBs beyond the pilot programs. This will ensure that Vietnam's integration
with the international market takes place with a robust banking sector infrastructure that can
 sustain rapid economic growth and further private sector development. PSBM 2 will contribute
to the achievement o f these objectives by addressing the needs for IBPS andbanking system
 expansion.

 The latest Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Vietnam (Report No. 24621-VN) indicates that
 the establishment o f a sound market-based financial intermediation system inVietnam remains
perhaps the most difficult technical challenge facing Vietnam's policy makers, and an important
part o f the Bank Group's activities. While PSBM 2 was not originally included inthe CAS, it
 was added, at the request o f the Government, inthe CAS Progress Report (Report No. 27659-
 VN), dated January 22, 2004. PSBM2 is fully consistent with the Bank's broader financial
 sector strategy that i s being pursued through analytical work, policy dialogue, lending operations
 and technical assistance.




                                                    3

B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION

1. Lendinginstrument

As a continuationo fthe first PSBMproject andinline with the CAS progress report, PSBM2
will be a Specific Investment Loan (SIL). International Development Association (IDA)
financing will account for about 94 percent o f the total project cost o fUS$112 million. The
proposed IDA credit o f US$105 million will be made to the Socialist Republic o f Viet Nam at
IDA'Sstandard terms for 40 years including 10years o fgrace on repayment o fprincipal. The
standard commitment fee o fnot to exceed 0.50 percent and a service charge o f 0.75 percent will
apply. The SBV, on behalf o f the Socialist Republic o f Vietnam, will be the primary
implementingagency. Part o fthe proceeds ofthe IDA credit (76 percent) will be on-lent bythe
govemment to the participating CBs inU S dollar-denominated subsidiary loans. The Subsidiary
Loan Agreements (SLA) which set out the on-lending terms and conditions and its
implementation arrangements, satisfactory to IDA, will be concludedbetweenthe Ministry o f
Finance (MOF) and each o f the participatingbanks.

2. Programobjectiveand phases

NIA

3. Projectdevelopmentobjectiveand key indicators

The ultimate objective o fPSBM 2 is to continue assisting the govemment andthe banks intheir
efforts to modernize the financial sector through further development o f the financial sector
infrastructure to support (i)
                            economic growth, and (ii)    achievement o f the poverty reduction
targets set out inthe govemment's Comprehensive Poverty Reduction and Growth Strategy
(CPRGS). The specific Project Development Objectives (PDO) are to assist Vietnam's banking
sector to (i)meet the demand o f the economy for fast, reliable and safe payment services, (ii)
broaden access to finance to facilitate the achievement o f the govemment's poverty reduction
targets, and (iii)
                 improve the operations o f the participating banks through expansions o f the
IBPS and the CBS.

Theoverall project outcome indicators for the purpose o fmonitoring and evaluating the progress
toward the achievement o fthe PDOs are: (i)    steady increase o fthe number o f financial
institutions/bank branches connected to the IBPS and the new banking systems; (ii)     steady
increase o fthe transaction volume and value processed by the IBPS and the CBS; (iii)    continuing
highlevel ofperformanceo fthe expanded systems interms o f speed, certainty, reliability and
convenience; (iv) continuous growth inthe use o f non-cash payment instruments and widened
range o fbanking products and services; and (v) improved financial accounting and operational
reporting inthe participating banks.

4. Projectcomponents

PSBM 2 i s built squarely on the foundation laid by the first PSBM. To fulfill the development
objectives, the PSBM 2 project i s organized around two main components: (i)      Inter-Bank
Payment System (IBPS) Expansion; and (ii)     Core Banking Solutions (CBS) Expansion. Project
implementation i s expected to be completed by December 2009 and the project will be closed on


                                                  4

June 30, 2010. The total project cost i s estimated at US$112 million, and IDA funding i s
US$105 million equivalent. Retroactive financing will be available for eligible expenses o f
goods and consulting services that may be incurred after January 1,2005 up to Credit
effectiveness.

Component 1,IBPSExpansion (IDA Credit allocation o f US$ 25.2 million). The IBPS i s a
centralized single-current-account-based, inter-bank clearing and settlement systemmanaged by
the SBV. Underthe first PSBMproject, a pilot IBPS system was established, which i s
composed o f the National Payment System Center (NPSC), its back-up center and five regional
Payment Processing Centers (PPC). The pilot system has provided the core functionality o f the
IBPS, but the transaction volume and value handledby the pilot IBPS have far exceeded the
original targets. The situation calls for an immediate expansion o f the system. Originally, the
SBV plannedto address the capacityproblemby adding 11PPCs throughout the country. Given
the recent improvement intelecommunication access and quality inVietnam, the central bank
has decided to focus on the upgrading and expansion o fthe existing national and regional centers
under PSBM 2. This i s inline with the international trend wherein inter-bank payment systems
are increasingly centralized for better efficiency, enhanced reliability and reduced cost. The
main activities o f Component 1 are (i)  upgrading hardware and installing new software to expand
processing capability and strengtheninterconnection, system, and physical security; (ii)
consultant support of project implementation such as advisory services on the requiredlegal and
regulatory environment; and (iii)  staff training. The component's target group i s the central
bank, the banking industry, and the customers o f the banks and other future financial institution
participants. The indirect beneficiaries include the government's Treasury, Customs, and the
financial markets, as the expanded IBPS will provide faster and more reliable payment services
to these institutions.

Component 2, CBSExpansion (IDA Credit allocation o fUS$ 79.8 million). Underthe first
PSBM project, the participating banks have adopted international standard core banking
solutions, which centralize accounting and control functions with respect to customer files,
deposit and loan, general ledger and financial control, trade finance, and other commercial bank
core businesses. But the application o f solutions i s limitedto the head office and a few pilot
branches. There i s an urgent need to rollout the solutions to mitigate the highoperational risk o f
runningtwo parallel, but completely different systems, and to enhance the systemandphysical
security o f the new facilities. To further strengthen operational efficiency and risk management,
new modules such as financial management and MIS are required. The banks are also under
increased market pressure to provide new products and services through new delivery channels
(e.g. internet and telephone banking). Underthe component, new hardware and application
software will be acquired for the purpose o f systems rollout and expansion. Experienced
consultants will be engaged to provide project implementation support. Another main activity o f
Component 2 i s staff training. The component's immediate target group i s the four participating
banks (three o f the country's largest SOCBs, and one JCB). However, since these banks account
for over 66 percent of the banking sector assets, the whole banking system, as well as the public,
are the ultimate beneficiaries.

Components outputs and outcomes. The installation, testing, acceptance and operation of the
expanded systems are the main outputs o f the two components. Component 1i s expected to
bringabout the following outcomes: enhanced speed, certainty, reliability, security, and


                                                   5

convenience o f the payment transactions handledby the IBPS system. Under Component 2, the
outcomes include increased use o fnon-cash payment instrumentsand new service delivery
channels inthe economy, as well as availability o f timely and reliable information for senior
level bank management on the institution-wide financial position and operational performance.
Ifsuccessfully implemented, thesecomponents will contribute to the development ofan
appropriate banking system infrastructure and the strengtheningo f commercial bank operations,
which are among the main sector issues addressed inthe govemment's "Plan for the
Intemational Economic Integration o f the Banking Sector."

Fullproject descriptions by component are contained inAnnex 4. Detailedproject cost and
financing plans are presented inAnnex 5.

5. Lessonslearnedand reflectedin the project design

The most relevant project is the first Payment SystemandBank Modemization (PSBM) project
from which lessons leamed are reflected inthe designo f PSBM 2. These lessons are
summarized below. Detailed discussion o f the lessons i s presentedinthe first project's
Implementation Completion Report (ICR, Report No. 27635).

The main lessons leamed and reflected regarding the project scope and implementation duration


               The introduction o fthe underlyingsystems requiredtimely and consistent legal
               and regulatory support to underpinthe new financial services and related
               procedures, control and reporting. Parallel legal developments and implementing
               regulatory measures regarding electronic transactions and records must be
               maintained to ensure that the courts recognize and accept electronic records as
               evidentiary material inthe settlement o f any disputes.

               Nationally important systems such as the IBPS and the CBS necessitate a
               minimumset o foperational security andbusiness continuity provisions, which
               include a back-up system plus strict adherence to individual access and usage
               rights to all and any components o fthe systems to assure the integrity o fthe
               systemand to preventmisuse.

               The provision o f adequate time and resources are important to ensure that the
               required fundamental changes in attitudes and behaviors at all levels are matched
               properly with the time required for procurement and implementation o fnew
               facilities.

 The main lessons leamed and reflectedregarding project implementation arrangements are:

        (a)    Havingthe SBV as the executing agency for the first PSBM allowed for its
               successful completion. The SBV plays a pivotal role inthe Vietnamese banking
               sector as nominal ownerlmanager o f the SOCBs, and as the regulator and
               supervisor o f the sector. Although the SBV should be removed from the
               ownedmanager role inthe SOCBs, the SBV will still act as the supervisor o f the



                                                6

             banks and thus, the retentiono f SBV as the chief executing agency o fPSBM 2 i s
             essential.

             The establishment and existence of a competent Project ManagementUnit (PMU)
              at SBV and Project Implementing Units(PIU) at participatingbanks has been
              instrumental inproject success and will be retained for PSBM 2.

              Close supervision by the Bank's task team after overcoming the early delays by
              reassigning the primary entity responsible for the whole project implementation
              ensuredthat the project's implementation stayed on track. Ongoing dialogue and
              coordination will be maintained betweenthe Bank and the SBV P M U during all
             procurement and implementation stages.

              Clear guidance i s required to help the project implementingentities define
              differentstages o f completion within the project, especially with respect to the
              definition o f acceptance o f vendor deliverables. Appropriate definitions of
              acceptance will be attached as an annex to the commercial contracts to be entered
              into between the recipients and the vendors.

              Clearer SBV/MOF payment processing procedures and guidelines are needed for
              timely payments by the project implementingentities for goods and service
              suppliers per contract terms. The SBV and the participating banks have agreed to
              adopt a set of processing procedures and service standards inthe form o f a
              Memorandum o fUnderstanding (MOU).

6. Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection

The following two basic altemative approaches to the scope and content o fPSBM 2 havebeen
considered: (i)
              "do not provide further assistance," and (ii) "provide increased assistance to meet
all known needs beyond the scope o f this repeater project." Each o f these i s briefly discussed
below:

       (a)    No Assistance: The pilot implementation undertaken under the first PSBM
              project has shown that the parallel emphasis on capacity building, structural
              reform, modem procedures and banking practices has been successful and
              supported the practical introduction o f a modem payments system and associated
              modern banking systems. The sought after benefits associated with the expansion
              and national roll-out o f the new systems must take place as a matter o f urgency to
              both achieve national coverage and to avoid the excessive costs associated with
              operating outdated legacy systems inparallel with new pilot systems. Thus, the
              SBV and the participating banks must undertake the expansion and rollout phase.
              This phase represents a major investmentfor eachbank and this demand for
              investment occurs simultaneously with the banks' attempts to introduce more
              stringentlossprovisioning and loan write-offs, as well as targeting increased
              profitability to boost capitalization. PSBM 2 assists these overall reform efforts,
              avoids adverse balance sheet impacts for the banks, and ensures that tangible
              business benefits accrue to the customers o f the banks.



                                                 7

        (b)    More Assistance: Having a larger, more inclusive PSBM 2 was another option,
               especially with respect to the number o f participating financial institutions (more
               SOCBs, JSBs, etc.), which are keen to receive assistance. Nevertheless, this
               option has beenrejected because a larger, more inclusive project would take much
               longer to prepare (than a repeater project), and the SBV and the CBs that
               participated inthe first project could not afford to wait that long to upgrade their
                systems, continue the roll-out, and ensure that customer benefits are made
                available on a timely basis.

C. IMPLEMENTATION

1. Partnershiparrangements

NIA

2. Institutionaland implementationarrangements

Institutional armngements. The project will be implemented by five project implementing
entities. The Informatics Technology Department (ITDB) o f the SBV will implement
Component 1, and the four participating banks, namely the Bank for Investment and
Development ofVietnam (BIDV), the Industrial and Commercial Bank o f Vietnam
(IncomBank), the Maritime Joint-stock Commercial Bank (MCB), and the Vietnam Bank o f
Agriculture and Rural Development (VBARD), will be responsible for the implementation o f
Component 2. These CBs participated and successfully completed their components under the
first project. Overall management o f the project i s entrusted to the ITDB/SBV, which acted as
the PMU from 1998 to 2003 under the first PSBMproject. The ITDBwill be responsible for
covering all aspects o f the project's financial management arrangements, including accounting,
internal controls, financial reporting, audit, and management o f special account. Each o f the
participating CBs will be responsible for the implementationand financial management o ftheir
respective component and will retain the existing Project Implementing Unit (PIU) within their
organizations. The PIUs will identify technical requirements,select contractors and consultants,
and supervisecontract implementation for the rollout and expansion o f their new operational
systems. They will also ensure that financial management arrangements and procurement
processes are done inaccordance with the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) and World
Bank's policies and procedures on financial management and procurement.

Financial management arrangements. The project financial management review was carried out
inNovember 2003 andupdateda year later. The reviews found that thisproject metthe
minimumrequirements o fthe Bank's OP/BP10.02,but the financial management arrangements
and processes o f the ITDBhave some weaknesses which need to be addressed. As a result, the
ITDBISBVhas adopted an actionplan for strengthening project financial management, mainly in
the areas o f accountingprocedures and supporting systems, financial reporting and staffing.
With the fulfillment o fthe actionplan as detailed inAnnex 7, the project will meet IDA
minimumrequirements on financial management. The PMUwill prepare annual financial
statements inaccordance with International Public Sector Accounting Standards (IPSAS) and
quarterly FMRsin a format agreed upon with the Bank and submit them for the Bank team's
review. The project accounts will be subject to normal internal audit procedures o f SBV and the



                                                   8

CBs. Extemal audit o f the project's financial statements will be carried out annually in
accordance with International Standards on Auditingby an independent accounting firm. The
audit will be carried out inaccordance with terms o freference satisfactory to IDA.

Flow of funds and disbursement arrangements. Part o fthe IDA Credit proceeds (US$25.2
million equivalent) will finance the SBV part o f the project (Component 1). The rest o f the
Credit proceeds (US$79.8 million equivalent) will be made available via an on-lending
mechanism from the government to the four participating CBs. A Subsidiary Loan Agreement
between the M O F and each o f the CBs, acceptable to IDA, will be put inplace. Counterpart
fundinginterms o fin-kindcontributions andadditional cash resources to finance those eligible
expenditures that are not covered by the IDA credit i s to be provided by each o f the participating
CBs and the SBV for the components they implement, respectively. The project will use the
traditional disbursement arrangements acceptable to IDA, inaccordance with government
procedures on disbursement o f official technical assistance. Disbursement will bemade against
applications of withdrawal for direct payment and replenishment o fthe Special Account (SA).
Replenishment o f the SA will be on the basis o f Statement o f Expendituresand Summary Sheet.
A special account (SA) inU S Dollars will beopened ina commercialbankbythe Borrower's
central bank, on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. The initial allocation o f SA and its
authorized allocation are set at US$2 million.

Procurement arrangements. Procurement for the project will be carried out inaccordance with
the World Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRDLoans and IDA Credits" dated May
2004; and "Guidelines: Selection and Employment o f Consultants by World Bank Borrowers"
dated May 2004, and the provisions stipulated inthe Development Credit Agreement (DCA).
Procurement under the project will be carried out by the P M U and the PIUs. An assessment o f
the procurement capacity o f the project implementing entities carried out inMarch 2004 found
that all the project implementingentities are fully functional and staffed adequately with
technical experts on banking and IT, with considerable procurement experience gained through 5
years o f implementation o f the successfully completed first PSBM project. The key issues and
risks conceming the procurement for implementation o f the project identified are mainly related
to the capacity o f the implementing entities incommercial contract management and supervision.
The corrective measures which have been agreed upon are: (1) to use input from original system
contractors for the preparation o f specifications for major and complex ICB contracts for which
compatibility and integration with the existing system i s an issue; (2) to use independent
consultants to review or prepare specifications, and use their services indirect purchase
negotiations, bid evaluations and contract supervision.

Details o f the institutional and implementation arrangements are presented inAnnex 6-8.

3. Monitoring and evaluation of outcomes/results

Results indicators. To monitor and evaluate the achievement o f the outcomes and results, a
results monitoring timetable (Annex 3) has been developed usingthe following measurable
indicators where appropriate: (i)  Increase inthe number o fbranches connected to the systems,
and (ii) Percentage increase inthe volume and value o f transactions handledby the IBPS and the
CBS.




                                                   9

Monitoring and evaluation arrangements. The SBV's P M U and the banks' Plus will be
responsible for collecting these data, and evaluatingproject implementation status on a regular
basis. The PMUi s expected to sendthe monitoring and evaluation report to the Bank task team
on a semi-annual basis, no later than January 31and July 31o f the subsequent half-year. In
addition to a status check vis-a-vis the indicators, the semi-annual progress report will document
implementation progress on all aspects o f the project, and list main problems requiringprompt
resolution. The Bank task team will review these reports and communicate ina timely manner
with the P M Uregardingthe issues raised. It will report project implementation status inthe
Bank's supervision reporting system, and conduct at least two supervision missions a year.

Mid-term review. To facilitate the assessment o f project effectiveness during implementation,
the Bank and the government will carry out ajoint mid-term review no later than the middle o f
the third year o fproject implementation. The mid-term review will take stock o fprogress
towards achieving the project objectives and outcomes, assess the market demand for payments
and banking services, update project implementationplans and results monitoring indicators if
necessary, andprovide guidance for the successful completion of project implementation. The
Bank task team will submit a project Implementation CompletionReport (ICR) to the Board
within six months ofthe closing date o fthe project, which will include the evaluationby the
project implementing entities.

4. Sustainability

The overall project sustainability is likely, as it is built on a solid foundation of the first project.
Because o f the identifiable and proven benefits brought about by the pilot systems inthe
development o f a sound financial sector infrastructure and the modernization o f the banking
sector, the repeater project to scale up the developmental gains has received wide support within
the government. The strong interest demonstrated by other Vietnamese banks not covered by the
project to participate inthe IBPS, and inthe proposed Financial Sector Modernization and
Information System project (FSMIS) i s another critical factor to the project's sustainability (see
Section 5 for detail).

The sustainability o fPSBM 2 is also assuredby the strong ownership o fthe project on the part of
the SBV and the participatingbanks. Both the SBV and the participatingbanks have allocated
their own funds for systemupgrades and/or rollout duringthe transitionperiodbefore the
implementation o f PSBM 2 i s initiated, inorder to ensure the smooth operation o f the systems.

Theproject sustainability is further supported by the government's multi-year financial sector
reform program, which highlights the need for continuing development o f an internationally
compatible payments system and the modernization o f the banking industry. The government
remains committed to this program.

5. Critical risks and possible controversial aspects

No major risks have been identified that could endanger the achievement o f the developmental
objectives o fPSBM 2. It is, however, important to note that the project might put non-
participating financial institutions at a disadvantage vis-a-vis the participating banks, and
therefore, weaken the developmental effectiveness o f the project. However, the viable banks



                                                    10

within the sector are already makingtheir own investments inmodemizing operations andmay
partner with intemational banks inthe near future. Inaddition, over 20 JSBs havejoined hands
with information technology (IT) solution providers to set up a shareholding company inorder to
produce banking software for their respective banks. Interms o f connectivity andbank reporting
systems, discussions are underway with the SBV regarding an additional Bank financial sector
investment lending operation, the FSMIS loan, which aims at providing assistance for SBV
modemization and bank reporting system strengthening.

Inthe first PSBMproject, there were some difficulties and delays inbringingthe IBPS to
operation due to the required steps that needed to be undertaken inthe banking regulatory
framework to assure the legal basis for the system. Potential risk for delay inthe implementation
of PSBM 2 may also come from the need to make additional changes to the legal and regulatory
framework under which banks operate. This has been noted inthe Implementation Completion
Report (ICR) for the first project and both the PHRD Grant provided by the Japanese
govemment for the preparation o f PSBM 2 and the project fund activities supporting the review
and revision o f the relevant laws and regulations. Another modest risk to successful project
implementationcan be found inthe need to enhance the PMU and PIUS'capacity with regard to
commercial contract management. The designo f PSBM 2 has taken this capacity buildingneed
into consideration through the agreed corrective measures mentioned inSection C.2.


                Risk                            RiskMitigationMeasures                RiskRatingwith
                                                                                        Mitigation

                                        1                                            I
Toproject developmental objectives:

Other financial institutionsnot          The viable financial institutionsnot
covered by the project might be put      covered under PSBM 2 are making
at a disadvantage.                       investments with their own resources and
                                         may partner with international banks.
                                         Discussions were held with the government        Modest
                                         regarding the need for a thirdbank
                                         modernizationproject to assist these FIs.



 To component results:

(1) Pace of change inlegal and           Consultants services have been (under the
regulatory framework on electronic       PHRD Grant), and will continue to be
transactions and records i s slow to     provided under the project to the SBV to         Modest
support the operation of the             review the existing laws and regulations
expanded systems.                        and recommend on the revisions.

(25 Relatively weak capacity o f         Corrective measures have been agreed with
P M U and PIUs to manage                 the SBV and the participating banks to
procurement process and                  enhance the capacity (see Section (2.2).         Modest

commercial contract.

Overall riskrating:                                                                       Modest




                                                      11

6. Loadcredit conditions and covenants

Effectiveness conditions. The following actions have to be completed by Credit effectiveness:

        The MOF and at least three o fthe participating CBs have signed the Subsidiary Loan
        Agreements.
        The SBV and the four participatingbanks have appointed 6 project accountants, two.for
        the PMU and one for eachPlU; andhave provided training to these accountants.
        The SBV and the four participatingbanks have signedthe Memorandum o f
        Understanding on payments processing procedures and services standards.
        The PMUand the PIUs have adopted the FinancialManagement Manual acceptable to
        the World Bank.
        The SBV has adopted the improved accounting software used by the PMUsatisfactory to
        the Bank.
        The SBV and the four participatingbanks have selected procurement/contract
        management consultants.

Financial covenants. The financial reporting requirements are presented below:


    0   The SBV shall send for Bank team's review the annual audit report o f the project
        accounts by an independent auditor satisfactory to the Bank no later than six months after
        the closing date o f the fiscal year.
    0   The SBV shall send for Bank team's review the Quarterly Financial MonitoringReport
        (FMR) inan agreed format no later than 45 days after the closing date o fthe reporting
        quarter.
    0   The participating banks shall send their annual audited financial statements to the World
        Bank for review no later than six months after the closing date o f the fiscal year.

    Other covenants. The following covenants have been agreed to inorder to facilitate project
    monitoring and evaluation:


    0   The SBV shall send the semi-annual project monitoring and evaluationreport to the Bank
        for review no later than January 31and July 31 o f each year.
    0   The SBV and the four participating banks shalljoin the Bank to carry out a mid-term
        review o fproject implementationno later than two and half years after the Credit
        effectiveness.
    0   The SBV and the participatingbanks shall contribute to the preparation o f the ICR and
        provide their own written evaluations after the closure o f the project.
    0




                                                 12

D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY

1. Economic and financial analysis

The project benefits cannot be easily quantified inconventional terms, mainlybecause cost
accounting has yet to be widely adopted inVietnam's banking sector. However, there i s
extensive empirical evidence showing that the economy benefits substantially from an efficient
banking infrastructure. Centralizedpayment and banking systems substantially improve
provision o f services to businesses and households, increase confidence inbanks, and hence help
to deepen financial intermediationand stimulate private sector growth. The benefits o f these
types o f investments are already taking root inVietnam with the successful completion o f the
first PSBM project including improvement o f (i)    payment services through a more reliable,
convenient and efficient, centralized clearing and settlement system; (ii)    monetary policy
execution as uncertainties inthe distribution o f float are reduced; (iii) CB's operational
efficiency with centralized customer files and accounting systems; (iv) CB's fund mobilization
through new service delivery channels; and (v) fight against money laundering and criminal
activity thanks to centralized, automated systems. All these developments promote economic
activities with obvious benefits to the business sector and the general public.

Based on the growth o f the pilot systems, the SBV and the participating banks have estimated
that the transactions to be handledby the expanded IBPS and CBSs may increase by an average
o f 25-35 percent inthe next five years duringthe implementationperiod o f PSBM 2. The design
o f the system expansions has taken into consideration this growth.

2. Technical

The technologies and architectural designfeatures usedinthe pilot implementationsboth for the
Inter-Bank Payments System component and for the Commercial Banking System components
installed in each o f the participating commercial banks are based on the use o f modem open
system concepts. Inparticular, the application systemsoftware solutions are independent o fboth
the data processing and data communication architectures. These philosophies are also
embedded and preserved inthe service rollout and application system enhancement features that
will be acquired and implementedduringthe PSBM 2 project. The envisaged solutions will
provide modem financial sector infrastructures that are modular and scalable indesign, and thus
can support additional future application system enhancements and capacity increases over time
without difficulty. The solutions envisaged also reflect the need for system security, data
integrity, business continuity, and service level availability similar to that embedded infinancial
systems inadvanced economies, thus assuring highlevels o f user confidence inthe Vietnamese
banking systems. Also, based on an analysis of the specific hardware, telecommunications, and
application systems that are to be acquired, it is evident that appropriate attention has been given
to the need for cost effectiveness ina manner that i s consistent with the needs for future
flexibility. Based also on a discussion o f the business plans, it i s anticipated that the envisaged
technical solutions will satisfy the critical banking services needs o fthe project participants for at
least a five-year period. However, as there i s always uncertainty as to the rates at which service
usage will increase, i t would be prudent to undertake a reassessmento f the specifics o f these
needs at the time o f the mid-termreview.




                                                   13

The designo f the payments infrastructure components continues to be inline with best practices
and the BIS standards for payment and settlement systems. Implementingall components o f the
payments system inthis second phase on a national basis i s still a challenge for the SBV.
However, SBV has built up its technical expertise through the first PSBMproject to manage
these programs and will supplement its staff with international experts. It continues to receive
technical advice from the international financial institutions (IFI).

Insummary, from a technicalperspective there areno substantial project risks other than those
experienced intypical complex software based initiatives. Most o f these risks stem from overly
ambitious implementation speed expectations and can be mitigated through close project
management o fproject scope, schedule and cost.

3. Fiduciary

The reviews o fthe project's financial management capacity conclude that the financial
management risk i s average. The SBV and the participating banks selected to address the
identifiedmain weaknesses with respect to the accounting system, financial reporting and
staffing, have adopted a time-bound action plan. The reviews conclude that the project will meet
IDA'Sminimumrequirements on financial management with the fulfillment ofthe actionplan.
Given the need to enhance the project's financial management capacity, the project
implementingentities have agreed to adopt the actions bynegotiations or Credit effectiveness.
The accounting and financial reporting requirementso fthe project have also taken into
consideration this capacity buildingneed. Detailed requirementson staffing, accounting
principles and procedure, reporting and monitoring and audit arrangements are provided in
Annex 7.

 The review o fthe project's procurement capacity found that all the project implementing entities
 are fully functional and staffed adequately with technical experts on banking and IT with
 considerable procurement experience gained through 5 years o f implementation o f the
 successfully completed first PSBM project. The overall project risk for procurement i s rated as
 average. The key issues and risks identified concerningthe procurement for implementationo f
 the project are mainly related to the capacity o f the implementingentities to (i)negotiate direct
 purchase o f goods from the technological vendors under the first project, (ii)prepare
  specifications for new hardware and software to be procured through International Competitive
 Bidding(ICB), and (iii)   evaluate bids and supervise contract implementation. To address these
 weaknesses, a set o f corrective measures have been agreed upon and incorporated into the
 project design (See Section C.5 and Annex 8). The selection o f procurement consultants by the
  P M U and at least three PIUs i s a condition for Credit effectiveness.

 Inadditionto the regular monitoring and interactions, supervisionmissionswill becarried out at
 least twice a year. Supervision o fproject financial management will be undertaken on a risk-
based approach at least twice a year. The procurement supervision will be conducted every 12
months. To further facilitate project monitoring and evaluation, a BanWGovemment joint review
 (mid-term review) within the third year o fproject implementation will be carried out to take
 stock o f progress toward achieving the developmental objectives, assess market demand for
payment and banking services, update the project implementationplans and monitoring
 indicators, and provide guidance for the rest o f the project implementation period.


                                                    14

4. Social

While difficult to measure, there are obvious social benefits through improved access to financial
services for the population ingeneral, and specific economic impact on the consumption capacity
o fthe average Vietnamese, who will have better access to basic banking services such as ATMs,
direct deposits, and internet banking. Based on the available information, the project i s not
expected to have negative social impact.

5. Environment

NIA

6. Safeguard policies

  Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                                             Yes                     N o
  Environniental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                                               [I                      [XI
  Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                                           [I                      [XI
  Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                               [I                      [XI
  Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, being revised as OP 4.11)                                 El                      [XI
  Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                                   [ I                     [XI
  Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20, beingrevised as OP 4.10)                                   [I                      [XI
  Forests (OPIBP 4.36)                                                                    [I                       [XI
  Safety o f Dams (OPIBP 4.37)                                                            [I                       [XI
  Projects inDisputedAreas (OPIBPIGP 7.60)*                                               [ I                      [XI
  Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                                     [I                       [XI

7. Policy exceptions and readiness

The PSBM 2 project requires no exception to Bank policies.

The project has met the following readiness for implementation criteria:

     (a) Fiduciary arrangements have been agreed upon and will be inplace by effectiveness.
     (b) Project staff and consultants have beenmobilized.
     (c) Counterpart funds have beenbudgeted and are available.
     (d) Results monitoring arrangements have been spelled out and agreed upon.
     (e) Disclosure requirements have been met.

Tender documents for the first year's procurement will be prepared and approved around Credit
effectiveness.




* By supporting theproposed project, the Batik does riot iriteiid to prejudice tliefirzal deterrnirzatiori of theparties' claiiizs011 the
disputed areas



                                                                 15

Annex 1:Country and Sector or ProgramBackground
Vietnam's economy doubled insize during the last decade, while its poverty rate was halved.
The gross domestic product (GDP) per capita expanded by around 6 percent per year on average
over that period, inspite o f the East Asian crisis. The growth rate o f GDP was 7.2 percent in
2003. It i s expected to be similar or higher in2004. Exports are growing by 15 to 20 percent per
year invalue terms, and ForeignDirect Investment(FDI) inflows by 10percent per year.
Savings rate rose six-fold, to around 25 percent o f GDP, with private investment accounting for
an increasingly large share o f total capital accumulation. Meanwhile, the poverty headcount fell
from 58 percent in 1993 to 37 percent in 1998 and to 29 percent in2002. The decline inpoverty
was widespread, as the increase ininequality has been modest so far. Social indicators improved
markedly, positioning Vietnam well to attain key MillenniumDevelopment Goals (MDGs). The
last decade was thus characterized by undeniable progress inthe lives o f the Vietnamese
population.

As with the overall economic progress, the Vietnamese banking sector has come a longway
since the reform program began inthe late 1980s. The reform process began inearnest in2001,
so the process has not been underway for a long period, and the reform agenda has beenbased on
a comprehensive multi-year reform program. The objectives o f this program were: (i)
strengthening the regulatory, supervisory and institutional frameworks; (ii)     diversifying the
financial sector; (iii)
                      enhancing financial sector transparency and accountability; (iv) improving
the financial performance of the banking system; and (v) creating incentives for banks to operate
inamore commercially-oriented basis basedoninstitutional restructuring.

Important changes have beenaccomplished both inthe structure, the regulation and the
operations o f the banks, thus moving the banking sector toward a modus operandi that more
closely resembles domestic banking sectors inother emergingmarkets and newly industrialized
economies. Over the past decade, the four large State Owned Commercial Banks (SOCBs) have
evolved from specialized policy lendingvehicles to state-owned banks that are expected to
operate on a more commercial basis by intermediating domestic savings to various segments o f
the economy and by providing other needed banking services, both to Vietnamese individuals
and companies. The SOCBs continue to implementtheir restructuring plans aimed at
transforming them into more commercially-orientedinstitutions, including improvements to
credit policies and procedures, accounting practices, information systems, products and services,
and capital. InJune 2003, the SBV announced its intentions to equitize two o f the five SOCBs,
one o f which i s scheduled to have the participation o f a strategic foreign i n ~ e s t o r .The
                                                                                               ~
consolidation o f the Joint Stock Banks (JSBs) has progressed and some o f the JSB sector has
posted strong growth and performance, despite the small size o f their operations inthe
marketplace. The environment inwhich banks operate has improved with the removal o f interest
rate ceilings (inprinciple) and with officials inSOCBs instructedto disregard political requests
for directed credit. The SBV has promulgated numerous regulations on reorganizingbank
supervision, gradually leveling the playing field for foreign banks, and reclassifying all non-
performing loans (NPLs) inthe four SOCBs. Beyond these measures, a credit information center
was set up in 1999, and a registry for secured credit transactions in2002, both o f which may
improve access to finance.


3 See footnote 1.


                                                   16

These improvements have been reflected inthe rising level o f formal financial intermediation in
the country. Confidence inthe banking system has grown rapidly, as evidenced by the rapid
growth indeposits from 43 percent o f GDP in2000 to 56 percent in2003. Inaddition, credit to
the economy has grown at a similarly rapidpace at a rate o f over 20 percent per annum and
credit to the State Owned Enterprise (SOE) sector has fallen substantially.

Despite these seemingly positive developments, there are signs that the dramatic increase in
lendinghas not beenmatchedby a commensurate enhancement to the systems, accounting
standards and corporate governance structures to enable sound risk management. The rise inthe
level o fNon-Performing Loans, as can be seen inthe table below, i s a key indicator o f these
problems. Inaddition, another worrying sign i s that the market share o f the SOCBs o f over 73
percent by credit has not fluctuated much despite increasingcompetition from JSBs and foreign
banks, as well as a declining SOE sector (dueto privatizations).

Key Banking Sector indicators                         12000          I2001           12002         1 2003




Notes: Figures on Non-performing Loans (NPLs) are based on the International Accounting Standards (IAS) audits
of thefour largest SOCBs in 2001, and on IAS audits of two SOCBs and AtaSfprojections in 2002. Estimatedjgures
are indicated with an aterisk. NPL resolution is with reference to identified NPLs of VND 21.3 trillion at end-
2000.
Source: World Bank and International Monetaiy Fund (IMF) staff estimates based on datafrom SBV, Price
Waterhouse-Coopers, and Ernst & Young.

Overall progress inimplementingthe reform agenda has been mixed and Vietnam still has a long
road ahead to obtain international standards o fbest practice and to meet the coming challenges
o f financial sector liberalization under the U.S.-Vietnam Bilateral Trade Agreement (BTA) and
the forthcoming WTO accession. The current trajectory o f reform will be too protractedto meet
the rapid opening o f the financial sector to foreign participation inthe context o f B T A and WTO
membership. These liberalization commitments will provide potentially serious competitive
threats to the SOCBs and to the regulation o fthe financial sector. Once the sector is fully
liberalized, foreign banks and other service providers (Le., insurance) may quickly take the most
attractive clients inthe market through better product and service offerings. An immediate result
o f this could be that the state financial institutions will be left with weak portfolios and
potentially large fiscal liabilities for the Government inthe future. These problems could be
exacerbated by weak regulation and supervision o f the sector and a continued concentrationo f
finance inthe banking sector due to limited growth incapital markets.

The foremost reform challenge area has beeninthe slow transformation o fthe state financial
institutions. The governance o f SOCBs i s deficient, as are their operational, credit appraisal and
riskmanagement procedures, and their level oftechnology. These banks retainclose business



                                                         17

linkswith SOEs, suggesting their failure to adapt their customer baseto changing ownership
structures inthe economy. Most o f these management and operational weaknesses also apply to
the Development Assistance Fund(DAF) and the Vietnam Bank for Social Policies (VBSP) and
even with the re-channeling o f directed credit through these institutions; the SOCBs are still open
to pressures for politically preferredlending, especially inprovincial branches. Meanwhile, NPL
resolution i s stalled, which i s probably due to the lack o f a clear coherent strategy. At a deeper
level, the resolution o f uncollateralizedloans requires decisions about the future o f the
delinquent State Owned Enterprises (SOEs), which the SOCBs are inno position to make.
Despite the limited progress on the structural reform o f the banks, SOCBs have received about
VND 10.9 trillion incapital injections, which is an invitation for further waste, and will neither
insulate depositors nor induce prudent behavior at the banks. The SOCBs must have greater
autonomy o f operations, either through the improvement o f the corporate governance structures
or the equitization process, but such autonomy will make it more difficult to ensure the safety
and soundness o f their operations.

The weak regulation and supervision o f the banking sector has further delayed the transformation
o f the state financial institutions. The SBV acts on behalf o f the State as the owner o f the
SOCBs and the SBV exerts this role through the management o f the SOCB operations. This
management is conducted indirectly through the regulation o f virtually all operational decisions
and inmany ways; this management role serves as a surrogate method o fbank supervision. The
SBV role inthe SOCBs represents a dual weakness o f the regulatory framework and supervision
capacities, both o f which pose increasingly greater risks to systemic development if
improvements are not made soon. These limitations o f the legal and regulatory framework, and
o f existing supervisory capacity, also implythat the risk o f financial failures among JSBs and
perhaps insurance firms cannot be adequately contained. With increased liberalization and the
likely growth inthe share o f private intermediaries, the risk o f failures bybanks and insurance
companies i s bound to increase. How to control the risks to the depositors, to the deposit
protection fund, and (implicitly) to the fiscal authorities i s a challenge that has not yet found an
adequate response inVietnam.

The SBV has recognizedthe immediate threat that these challenges pose to the future growth and
stability o f the banking system and developed a "Plan for the International Economic Integration
o f the Banking Sector" inmid-2003 to address the core developmentalneeds to 2010.4 This plan
identifies the following core challenges on an institutional basis to be reformed by the end o f
2005.

Summary of the SBV International Integration Plan to 2005

                                                                State Owned                                ~      ~




               GeneralIssues          State Bank of Vietnam     CommercialBanks           Other Financial
                                      W V )                     (SOCBs)                   Institutions
               Inadequate legal       Weak supervisory          Lack o f competitive and  Inefficiencies inthe
               and regulatory         capacities,               modern products,          Joint Stock Banks
  Problems     policies for           organizational            services, management and  (JSBs), People's
               international          structures, and           operational practices.    Credit Funds (PCFs),
               competition and        information                                         specialized credit


  Decision of the Governor o f the State Bank o f Vietnam No. 663, June 26, 2003.


                                                         18

              new financial          iechnologies.                                         nstitutions, and non-
              markets.                                                                     lank financial
                                                                                           nstitutions.
              Amend,                     Reformthe                 Further implement           Continue
              supplement,                supervision and           restructuring plans,        restructuring o f
              revise and                 evaluation                and NPLs resolution         JSBs, including
              eliminate legal            mechanism o f             Eliminate subsidies          debt resolution,
              documents and              banks, including          for operations               increasing capital,

              policies                   credit risk and           Continue to develop          consolidation

              unsuitable with            CAMELS', based            modernpayment and            Complete the
                                         on international                                       reorganization o f
              integration                                          M I S systems
                                         standards                                              the Credit
              commitments, to                                      Fully Implement IAS
                                         Complete the              Develop credit               Cooperative Fund
              gradually                  development o f a         procedures                   (CCF) and
              complete the               modern payments           Improve the                  develop more
              legal framework            system                    management,                  robust regulations
               for the banking           Develop a modern          staffing, and                for PCFs
              sector to be               financial                 operations                   Assess the
 Projected    consistent with            information system        Develop new services         efficiency o f
  Reforms     bilateral and              (MIS)                     Issue a plan to              specialized credit

              multilateral               Continue to bring         equitize one SOCB            institutions

               commitments.              auditing regime                                        (Development
                                         into line with                                         Assistance Fund
                                         international                                          Vietnam Postal
                                         standards                                               Savings
                                         Buildthe stock                                          Corporation,
                                         exchange and inter-                                     Vietnam Bank for
                                         bank monetary                                           Social Policies,
                                                                                                 etc.)
                                                                                                 Amendlegal
                                                                                                 framework for
                                                                                                 Yon-Bank
                                                                                                 Financial
                                                                                                 Institutions

Source: State Bank of Vietnam, Decision of the Governor of     7 State Bank of Vietnam on the Plan on International
Integration of the Banking Sector., No. 663/Q$-NHNN,June 26, 2003.

As can be seen from the table above, one o fthe key areas o freform is the implementation o f an
appropriate banking system infrastructure. Before basic computer-assisted processing
procedures were introduced inVietnam inthe early 1990s,most payments were executed
manually through SBV's municipal and provincial branches through the country. While these
procedures helpedimprove the level o f services, much more was needed to improve the design,
development and installation o f a comprehensive, effective and efficient national payment
processing system. Inaddition, the majority o f banks only had rudimentary systems inplace to
support the rapidly growing demands for finance within the economy.

Inresponse to this situation, the Government in1995 developed a comprehensive program
supported by the World Bank to develop a modern banking sector. The program was aimed at
improving both the banking systems and payment services inthe economy inorder to reduce


 Capital, Assets, Management, Equity, Liabilities and Sensitivity (CAMELS)


                                                         19

float, speed up circulation o f funds and increase efficiency o f funds transmission while, at the
same time, providing convenience, service, and safety to users. The development o f the national
inter-Bank payment clearing and settlement systemto handle inter- and intra-provincial inter-
bank payments (Inter-Bank Payment System-IBPS)were a primary focus o f this program. The
program also had an important secondary focus on introducing modern systems within the
largest banks inthe market-the SOCBs. These new systems were designedto strengthenthe
operations and management o f the banks through the implementationo f core banking,
management information and accounting systems, new products and services by the banks, and
centralization o f the information within the banks.

The first phase o f the modernizationprogram, supported by the Payment Systemand Bank
Modernization (PSBM) project o f the World Bank, was completed in2003 and was highly
successful, after overcoming early delays inproject implementation. The new electronic
payment services available from the IBPS have been readily accepted by the commercial banks
(CBs), with many banks not included inthe pilot project now having online connections and
making active use o f the system. The capacity and throughput o f the systemhas been far
exceeded, when we compare the original targets against its current usage as shown inthe Annex
4 table.

The four largest SOCBs and two JSBs have successfully completed the design andpilot
implementationo f their new banking systems. The new systems have strengthenedthe
institutional capabilities o f these banks and stimulated initiatives to improve their own internal
procedures, structure, management and customer services. They also brought about changes in
bankingregulations and operations as well as banking staff quality inall aspects o fbanking
activities. However, this has resulted inthe operation o f two different systems during the
transition period: the new IT-supported system and the manual method of bookkeeping, which
cannot be replaced overnight. The risks and costs associated with this type o f dual operation are
high, unless the new systems are rolled out to all the branches ina relatively short time. In
addition, market demand i s increasing for non-cash-based payment instrumentsand service-
deliveringchannels, as Vietnam's economy further develops.

The PSBM 2 project, designedto build directly upon the original PSBMproject, i s a response to
these new challenges.




                                                  20

Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bank and/or other Agencies


The Payment System and Bank Modemization (PSBM) 2 project, designedto builddirectly upon
the original PSBMproject, i s a response to: the urgent need from (i)   the SBV to increase the
capacity o f IBPS processing centers to continue operating the system ina fast and safe manner;
and (ii) the participating CBs to complete the roll out o f their new systems to minimize the
possible operational problems and costs o f runningtwo different systems inparallel through their
branch networks, and to add new functions to the systems to meet the increased demand for new
products and services.

The Bank is uniquelyplaced to continue assisting the Government with the expansion o f these
systems under the proposedproject. The Bank has the experience andproven record in such
projects and i s well equippedto deal with the variety o fpolicy, designand implementation issues
involved. It can provide objective "best practice" advice, thereby ensuringthat key strategic and
policy issues that need to be addressed for the overall implementation o f such systems are fully
addressed. PSBM 2 i s fully consistent with the Bank's broader financial sector strategy that i s
beingpursued through analyticalwork, policy dialogue, lending operations and technical
assistance. Furthermore, it complements ongoing initiatives by other donors active infinancial
sector reform.

N o other bilateral or multilateral agencies are involved inthe provision o f technical assistance
for the development o f payment systems inVietnam. The only exception could be assistance
provided by the French Development Agency (Agence Francaise de Developpement, or AFD)
under their institutional and financial support loanprovidedto the Vietnam Bank for Agriculture
and Rural Development (VBARD). The AFD assistance will provide financial support at
VBARD, but it is not relatedto payment system. Other agencies are providing Technical
Assistance (TA) to the SBV for reforming its operations and supervisory capacities, as well as
T A to the CBs for the implementation o f their restructuring plans, and are seen as a strong
complement to the development o f their payment and banking systems. By keepingthe major
bilateral and multilateral agencies engaged and informed during the regular meetingso f the
Financial Sector Donor Working Group (inwhich the Bank has the leading coordinating role),
duplication o fprojects i s avoided and TA i s better targeted to the needs o f the country and inline
with a clear and agreed upon strategy. The table below provides an indication o fthe assistance
projects o fbilateral and multilateral donors that are ongoing or have been completed inareas
directly related to bank restructuring and SBV reform.

                                                                         Latest Supervision
             Sector Issue                      Project                     (PSR) Ratings
                                                                    (Bank-financed projects only)
                                                                  Implementation       Development
                                                                   Progress(IP)       Objective (DO)



                                          Payment System and
 BankingSystemModernization               Bank Modernization             S                  S
                                             (completed)
 Poverty reduction, governance and             PRSC 1
 xonomic management- includingpublic         (completed)                 S                  S



                                                   21

                                                                            Latest Supervision
             Sector Issue                        Project                      (PSR) Ratings
                                                                       (Bank-financet xojects only)
financial management

Poverty reduction, governance and
economic management-including public              PRSC 2                                       S
financial management                           (Completed)


                                             Public Financial
Financial management                       Management Reform                                   S
                                                 (ongoing)

Poverty reduction, governance and                 PRSC 3
economic management-including public             (planned)
financial management


    OTHER DEVELOPMENTAGElCIES

                                          AFD France: Support for
Bank restructuring                        implementation o f ICB
                                            Restructuring Plan


Bank restructuring                        Netherlands: Twinning
                                           arsangement for V C B

                                               AFD France:

Bank restructuring                            Institutionaland
                                           financial support for
                                                  VBARD

State Bank o f Vietnam                     CIDA: Supervisory,
                                          regulatory and banking
                                             services (planned)


Financial Intermediation                  ADB: SecondFinancial
                                           Sector Program Loan


Financial Intermediation                  AFD: Second Financial
                                                Sector Loan

Financial Intermediation                   ADB: TA for capacity
                                             building non-bank
                                           financial institutions
IPiDO Ratings: H S (Highly Satisfactory), Satisfactory), U(Unsatisj tory), HU(Highly L atisfactory




                                                       22

Annex 3: ResultsFrameworkand Monitoring


ResultsFramework


             PDO                     Project Outcome Indicators         Use o f Project Outcome
                                                                              Information
  Expand the IBPS system to       (i)Steadyincreaseofthe                Semi-annual
  meet the demand o f the            number o f financial               Implementation Progress
  economy for fast, reliable          institutionsibank branches        Report by SBV.
  and safe payment services.          connected to the IBPS and         Semi-annual Project Status
  Expand the IBPS and the             the CBS.                          Reports by WB team.
  CBS to broaden access to       (ii)Steadyincreaseofthe                Year 3 mid-termreview
  finance to facilitate the           transaction volume and            jointly by SBV,
  achievement o f the                 value processed by the IBPS       participating banks and WB.
  govemment's poverty                 and the CBS.                      Final evaluation and
  reduction targets.            ,iii)Continuinghighlevelof              assessment o f the project in
  Enhance the CBS to improve          performance o f the               ICR after the project's
  the operational efficiency o f      expanded systems interms          closure by WB team with
  the participating banks.            o f speed, certainty,             substantive inputsfrom
                                      reliability and convenience.       SBV and project
                                 :iv) Continuous growth o fthe          implementingentities.
                                      use o f non-cash payment
                                      instruments and widened
                                      range o f bankingproducts
                                      and services.
                                 (v) Improved financial
                                      accounting and operational
                                      reporting inthe participating
                                      banks.



    Intermediate Outcomes        Intermediate Outcome Indicators      Use of Intermediate Outcome
                                                                               Monitoring
Component One:                   Component One:                     Component One:
  Enhanced speed, certainty,      (i)Progressinproject               (a) Regular monitoring and
  reliability, security and           implementationper the              assessment o f project
  convenience o f the payment         contracts for supply o f goods     implementation under the
  transactions handled by the         and services.                      component by SBV.
  IBPS system.                   (ii)Completionandresultreport       (b) Semi-annual
0 Improved laws and                   o f training activities.           ImplementationProgress
  regulations on electronic      ,...
                                 \ni) Percentage increase o f            Report by SBV.
  transactions and records.           additional coverage o f the    (c) Semi-annual Project Status
                                      IBPS interms o f number o f        Reports by WB team.
                                      institutions.                  (d) Year 3 mid-term review
                                 [iv) Percentage increase inthe          SBV and WB.
                                      volume and value o f           (e) ICR by WB team with SBV
                                      transactions handledby the         inputs.
                                      IBPS.



                                                  23

ComponentTwo:                  ComponentTwo:                     Component Two:
0 Adoption of centralized       (i)Progressinproject              (a) Regular monitoring and
  banking system throughout         implementationper the             assessment o fproject
  the participating banks          contracts for supply o f goods     implementationunder the
0 Increased use of non-cash        and services.                      component by participating
  payment instruments and      (ii)Completionandresultreport          banks.
  new service delivery              o f training activities.      (b) Semi-annual
  channels inthe economy.      iii)Percentageincreaseinthe            ImplementationProgress
0 Timely and reliable              number ofbranches using            Report by SBV.
  information to top bank           the new systems.              (c) Semi-annual Project Status
  management on operations,    :iv) Percentage increase inthe         Reports by WB team.
  risk exposures and financial     volume and value o f           (d) Year 3 mid-term review by
  performance.                     transactions handled by the         participatingbanks and
                                   new systems.                        WB.
                               (v) Frequency and coverage of       (e) ICR by WB team with
                                   management information              inputs fromparticipating
                                   reDorts.                            banks.




                                                24

          2    2
         f:    f:




     2    2
     fi   f:




          2
          f:




          s    s
           IA   2




           s     s  c



           0         c
           N    0W  6c -u




E
c
E
e
a
I
!
C
E

b
E
;
f

 i  i
 fi  fi




 ?s
 fi i
     fi




    i
 fi
 ?s
     fi




          os-
           W




4

           s-m
           N

Annex 4: DetailedProjectDescription
Background. The foundation o fthe Second Payment Systemand Bank Modernization Project
(PSBM2) is the first PSBMproject, under which a centralized Inter-Bank Payment System
(IBPS) and two centralized Banking Operational Solutions (CBS) have been introduced on a
pilot basis.

The IBPS has vastly improved the payment services inthe economy by reducing float (from up to
30 days inmid-1995 to less than 24 hours today), accelerating circulation o f funds and increasing
efficiency o f funds transmission, while providing convenience and service to users. The project
also contributed to the solution for the cash shortage that had existed for years inthe economy.
The share o f cash intotal liquidity i s declining, at 22.0 percent in2003 compared with 22.6
percent in2002 and 23.7 percent in2001.

Inaddition, the most important contribution ofthe systemto the Vietnam's bankingsector is the
provision o f an I T platform that i s compatible to international standards. The modern
technological infrastructure, including the payment technology on automation and modernization,
not only improved the operational efficiency o fthe banking sector and its services, but also
upgraded the technical understanding and expertise o fbanking staff. With management o f more
efficient, timely, and accurate information, IT has significantly influenced institutional reform as
well as reform inbankingmanagement and supervision.

However, as the table below shows, the capacity and throughput needs o f the systemhave far
exceeded the original targets and there i s an urgent need to expand the IBPS capacity and
coverage.

                     ITEM                    ORIGINALTARGET                  CURREXT
      Average transaction volume                    4,500                     10,000
      Peak transaction volume                       8,000                     12,000
     Numberofparticipating banks                        7                         51
      No. ofparticipating branches                   150                        190


The participatingbanks o f the first project, including the four largest SOCBs andtwo JSBs, have
successfully completedthe design and pilot implementation o f their new banking systems. These
banking solutions have strengthened the institutional capabilities o fthese banks and stimulated
initiatives to improve their own internal procedures, structure, management and customer
services. It also brought about changes inbanking regulations and operations as well as banking
staff quality inall aspects o fbanking activities. For the CBs' management, the new system has
improved its operations, and increased the number o f bankingproducts and services for the
benefit o f current customers, as well as to attract new ones. Furthermore, the new system
provides a more accurate picture of core operations on a daily basis for timely decision-making.
The basic managerial structure o f each o f the commercial banks has started to change inorder to
take full advantage o f the new systems. Pilot branchmanagers can now focus on activities to
expand their customer base and the range of services, while spendingless time on reporting and
data management. Inresponse to these changes, the institutional capabilities o f participating
banks have been strengthenedwith many initiatives to improve internal management o f banking
activities, including inparticular the introduction o f risk management intheir portfolios.


                                                    27

However, this has resulted inthe operation o f two different systems, the new centralized
operations system and the decentralized legacy system. The risks and costs associated with this
type o f dual operation are high, unless the new systems are rolled out to all the branches ina
relatively short time. Inaddition, market demand i s increasing for non-cash-based payment
instruments and service delivering channels, as Vietnam's economy further develops.

Project scope and objectives. The PSBM2 project, designed to build directly upon the original
PSBMproject, i s a response to the urgent need from (i) SBV to increase the capacity o f IBPS
                                                          the
processing centers to continue operating the systemina fast, reliable, and safe manner and (ii)
the participating CBs to complete the roll out o f their new systems to minimize the possible
operational problems and costs o frunningtwo different systems inparallel through their branch
networks, and to add new functions to the systems to meet the increased demand for new
products and services.

The ultimate objective o f PSBM 2 i s to continue assisting the government and the banks intheir
efforts to modemize the financial sector through further development o f the financial sector
infrastructure to support (i) sector development and economic growth, and (ii)
                             private
achievement o f the poverty reduction targets set out inthe government's Comprehensive Poverty
Reduction and Growth Strategy (CPRGS). The specific Project Development Objectives are to
(i) theIBPSsystemtomeetthedemandoftheeconomyforfast,reliableandsafe
   enhance
payment services, (ii)  broaden access to finance to facilitate the achievement o f the government's
poverty reduction targets, and (iii) improve the operations o f the participating banks to
strengthen Vietnam's banking sector.

The overall project outcome indicators for the purpose o f monitoring and evaluatingprogress
toward achievement o f the PDOs are: (i)   steady increase o f the number o f financial
institutiondbank branches connected to the IBPS and the CBS; (ii) increase o f the
                                                                      steady
transaction volume and value processed by the IBPS and the CBS; (iii)      continuing high
performance o f the expanded systems interms o f speed, certainty, reliability and convenience;
(iv) continuous growth inthe use o fnon-cash payment instrumentsand widenedrange o f
banking products and services; and (v) improved financial accounting and operational reporting
inthe participatingbanks.

To fulfill the development objectives, the PSBM2 project i s organized around two main
components: (i)   Inter-Bank Payment System (IBPS) Expansion; and (ii)      Banking Operational
Solutions (CBS) Expansion. The main investment activities are acquirement o f imported
hardware, software, services on systemintegration and project implementation support, and
training. Counterpart fundingwill be provided by the SBV and the participating banks inthe
form o f in-kind contribution and additional cash resources for the portion o f the eligible cost o f
local goods that the Bank usually does not finance. The project implementation i s expected to be
completed by December 31,2009, and the project i s to be closed on June 30,2010.

Component 1, IBPS Expansion. The IBPS i s a centralized single account inter-bank clearing
and settlement system managed by the SBV. Under the first PSBMproject, a pilot IBPS system
has been established which i s composed o f the National Payment System Center (NPSC), its
back-up center and five regional Payment Processing Centers (PPC). The pilot systemhas


                                                 28

provided the core functionality o f the IBPS, but the transaction volume and value handledby the
pilot IBPS have far exceeded the original targets. The situation calls for an immediate expansion
o f the system. Originally, the SBV planned to address the capacity problem by adding 11PPCs
throughout the country. Giventhe recent improvement intelecommunication access and quality
inVietnam, the centralbank hasdecidedto focus onupgradingand expansion ofthe existing
national and regional centers under PSBM2. This i s inline with the intemational trend wherein
inter-bank payment systems are increasingly centralized for better efficiency, enhanced
reliability and reduced cost. The main activities o f Component 1 are (i) upgrading hardware and
installing new software to expand processing capability and strengthen interconnection and
system and physical security; (ii) consultant support o f project implementation such as advisory
services on the requiredlegal and regulatory environment and project implementation support;
and (iii) staff training, workshops and knowledge transfer. The component's target group i s the
central bank, the banking industryand their customers, and the future FIparticipants and their
clients. The indirect beneficiaries include the government's Treasury, Customs, and the financial
markets, as the expanded IBPS will provide faster and more reliable payment services to these
institutions.

The project implementingentity under Component 1is the Informatics Technology Department
(ITDB) o f the SBV. The project team under the first PSBM project will be maintained and
enhanced per the recommendations o fthe Bank's financial management capacity assessment.
As a result o fthe Bank's procurement capacityreview, a procurement consultant will be engaged
to support the management o fprocurement and contract negotiations process.

Component2, CBS Expansion. Under the first PSBMproject, the participatingbanks have
adopted intemational standard core banking solutions, which centralize accounting and control
functions with respect to customer files, deposit and loan, general ledger and financial control,
trade finance, and other commercialbank core businesses. But the applicationo f the solutions i s
limitedto the head office and a few pilot branches. There is an urgentneedto roll out the
solutions to mitigate the highoperationalrisk o frunningtwo parallel, but completely different,
systems, and to enhance the system and physical security o f the new facilities. To further
strengthen operational efficiency and risk management, new modules such as financial
management and MIS are required. The banks are also under increased market pressure to
provide new products and services through new delivery channels like the internet and telephone
banking. Under the component, new hardware and application software will be acquired for the
purpose of systems rollout and expansion. Experienced consultants will be engaged to provide
project implementation support. Another main activity o f Component 2 i s staff training and
workshops for technology transfer and knowledge sharing. The component's immediate target
group is the four participating banks (three o f the country's largest SOCBs, and one JCB).
However, since these banks account for over 66 percent o f the banking sector assets, the whole
banking system as well as the public are the eventual beneficiaries.

The project implementing entities o f Component 2 include the Bank for Investment and
Development o f Vietnam (BIDV), the Industrial and Commercial Bank o f Vietnam
(IncomBank), the Maritime Joint-stock Commercial Bank (MCB), and the Vietnam Bank o f
Agriculture and Rural Development (VBARD). These banks participated inthe first PSBM
project, and have agreed to maintain and strengthen the existing PrUs inaccordance with the



                                                  29

Bank's financial management capacity assessment. The banks will also work with procurement
consultants to better manage the procurement and contract management process.

Total cost and financing plan: The total project cost is estimated at USSll2 million, out o f
which the proposed IDA Credit would finance US$l05 million. Component 1's total cost i s
estimated at US$26.43 million, and the IDA Credit allocation for the component i s US$25.2
million, or 95 percent o f the component's total cost. Component 2's cost is estimated at
US$85.57 million, and IDA financing accounts for about 92 percent inan amount o fUS$79.8
million. To facilitate a smooth beginningo fproject implementation, a retroactive financing
mechanism will be available under the proposed Credit. The expenses that are eligible for this
financing mechanism should be incurred for goods and consultant services that are procured in
compliance with the procurement policies and procedures specified inthe Development Credit
Agreement after January 1,2005 up to the Credit effectiveness. The total amount o f expenses
eligible for retroactive financing should not exceed US$600,000.




                                                 30

Annex 5: Project Costs
                                                                   Local
     Project Cost By Component and/or Activity                      U S         Foreign            Total

                                                                  $million  U S $million U S $million

    Component 1. IBPS Expansion                                   1,225,000    23,400,000        24,655,000
    Component 2. Banking System Expansion                         4,129,000    78,109,000        82,238,000
    Systems

    Total Baseline Cost                                           5,354,000  101,539,000        106,893,000
     Physical Contingencies                                               --               --              --
     Price Contingencies                                          2,6 19,000    3,49 1,000         5,137,000
    Total Project Costs'                                          1,646,000  105,000,000        112,000,000

    Total Financing Required                                      7,000,000  105,000,000        112,000,000
'Identifiable taxes and duties are US$19.7 million, and the total project cost, net o f taxes, is US$93.3 million.
Therefore, the share of project cost net o f taxes is 83 percent.




                                                             31

Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements

The institutional arrangement under the first PSBMproject will be maintained. However, the
numbero fthe project implementingentities has beenreduced from seven to five. The
VietcomBank and the EximBank have decided to mobilize funding on their own for the system
rollout and expansion. Under PSBM 2 the Informatics Technology Department o f the State
Bank o f Vietnam (ITDB) will continue to be responsible for the implementationo f Component
1, IBPS Expansion, and the following four participatingbanks will be incharge o fthe
implementation o f Component 2, CBS Expansion: Bank` o f Investmentand Development o f
Vietnam (BIDV), Industryand Commercial Bank (IncomBank), Maritime Joint-stock
Commercial Bank (MCB), and Vietnam Bank o f Agriculture and Rural Development (VBARD).

The overall management o fthe project is entrusted to ITDB/SBV, which will continue acting as
the Project Management Unit (PMU). Inaddition to its responsibility for the implementation o f
Component 1, ITDBwill monitor and evaluate project implementationunder Component 2. The
PMUis expected to ensure that the participatingbanks follow World Bank policies and
procedures throughout the procurement process. The financial management system for the
whole project will continue to be placed inand operated by ITDB. The centralbank
department's responsibilities under PSBM 2 cover all aspects o f the project's financial
management arrangements, including accounting, internal control, financial reporting, audit, and
management o f special account. Inaddition, the P M U will coordinate with the Ministry o f
Finance on issues related to payments to vendors and consultants, and/or reimbursement o f the
participating banks. Another important function o f ITDB i s to coordinate with the Bank's task
team and support the supervisionmissions. To support the function o f the PMU, the proposed
Credit will finance the incremental operating costs incurredby the PMUfor the purpose o f the
project management, such as the additional communications and office supply expenses.

Each o f the participating CBs will be responsible for the implementation and financial
management o f their respective component. The existing Project Implementing Unit (PIU) at
these banks shall be retained. The PIUs will identify technical requirements, select contractors
and consultants, and supervise contract implementation for the rollout, enhancement and
expansion o f the banking operational systems. They will also ensure that financial management
and procurement are done inaccordance with the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) and
World Bank's policies and procedures on financial management and procurement. Inaddition,
the PIUs are responsible for providing the Bank's team with the requiredaudited annual financial
statements, and other documents related to the project upon request on a timelybasis.

The arrangements for project implementation, financial management and procurement are
included inthe Project Implementation Manual (PIM), which also include a project
implementation timetable. The PIMi s available inthe project files and at the offices o f
ITDB/SBV. The P M Uand PIUs will update the procurementplans andthe project
implementation timetable every year. The P M U shall provide the Bank's task team on a semi-
annual basis an Implementation Progress Report regardingthe status o f project implementation,
including the progress toward achieving the project's development objectives and intermediate
outcomes on an annual basis, as well as actions adoptedheededto address main problems.




                                                 32

Annex 7: FinancialManagementand DisbursementArrangements
SUMMARY OF THE FINANCIAL           MANAGEMENT      ASSESSMENT

A financial management review and analysis ofthe Second Payment System and Bank
ModernizationProject (PSBM2), which was conducted inNovember 2003 and updated in
November 2004, concluded that this project meets the minimumrequirements o f the Bank's
OP/BP10.02. The implementing agency will be the Informatics Technology Department (ITDB)
o f the State Bank o fVietnam (SBV) and the project activities will be carried out by the ITDB
and four commercial banks. PSBM2 will adopt the traditional disbursement method with a
special account maintained by the SBV for IDA credit funds, and separate counterpart bank
accounts at the SBV and the commercial banks (CBs) for government contributions. The project
will produce quarterly financial monitoring reports and annual financial statements consolidated
for all financial activities o f the project. The annual financial statements will be audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and inaccordance with International Standards o f
Auditingand terms o freference acceptable to the Association


COUNTRY     ISSUES

The International Development Association (IDA) conducted a Country Financial Accountability
Assessment (CFAA) o f Vietnam in2001, which provides a diagnosis of the country's financial
management environment. The CFAA helpsthe Government o f Vietnam and IDA to, among
other things, assess and manage the risk that public funds might be used for unintendedpurposes
and identify the key risks, capacity gaps and constraints to progress inthis area. An action plan
to address the key findings o f the CFAA has been agreed upon with the Government o f Vietnam.

Key findings o fthe CFAA that are relevant to financial management o fthe project are the
following: (a) management reports for effective decision-making are not widely used; (b) the
requirementso fpublic expenditure accounting are very comprehensive and detailed, compliance
with the requirements is challenging for all unitsparticularly at the lower levels; (c) accounting
staff focus on more easily accomplishedrequirements like mechanical verification o fpayments
and receipts; and (d) the regular and efficient monitoring o f state budget information for effective
use o f public funds at times i s not carried out ina timely manner.

The CFAA also reports "the current budget arrangement inVietnam suffers from a lack o f
transparency for achievement o f objectives." The conclusion o f the assessment i s that there i s a
certain degree o f fiduciary risk inthe use o fpublic resources, although overall the fiduciary risk
for this project i s manageable with the steps that will be taken under the financial management
plan.
IMPLEMENTATION        ARRANGEMENT

Overall management o f PSBM 2 i s entrusted to the ITDBo fthe SBV, which will act as the
Project Management Unit (PMU). The ITDB i s specifically responsible for implementing
Component 1, Inter-Bank Payment System Expansion, and will supervise the implementation o f
Component 2, Commercial Banking Systems Expansion, which will be implementedby four
CBs, namely BIDV, VBARD, Incombank and MCB. A Project ImplementingUnit (PIU) will be



                                                    33

set up at each o f the CBs, and they will be responsible for implementing Component 2 at their
own bank.

The financial management systemfor PSBM 2 will continue to be operated by the ITDB.
ITDB's functions cover all aspects o fthe project's financial management arrangements,
including accounting, internal control, financial reporting, audit, and management o f special
account. The PIU o f each CB will prepare their own budget, and these will be consolidated by
the ITDB. Each PIU will maintain its own accounts and record for project management
purposes, including payment-tracking arrangements showing date o f invoice's receipt, dates of
payment approval by the commercial bank and by ITDB and the date o f payment to
contractors/suppliers. A similar systemwill be inplace inITDB for its own component and
monitoring claims submitted by the CBs.

An on-lending agreement will be signedbetweenthe government and each CB for the IDAcredit
associated with Component 2. It i s recommended that a memorandumo f understanding, setting
out the key financial responsibilities and processes o f the project and agreed processing and
service standards, be developed and agreed upon between the ITDB and the CBs.

Risk Analysis and Mitigating Measures

Most o fPSBM 2's activities will be implementedvia large contracts across a number o f
provinces, which were not covered by the first project. The fiduciary risks associated with the
project therefore will be mitigated by an effective contract monitoring systeminwhich payments
are monitored against individual contracts/contractors. Inaddition, ITDBwill review and
approve claims before payment i s made under Component 2. Other measures include clear
documentation o f financial management procedures and responsibilities funds flow, accounting
and reporting requirements, and key internal controls such as segregation o f duties, regular
reconciliations, application o fproper delegations, controlled access to modifying data inthe
financial systems.

STRENGTHS AND WEAKNESSES

The ITDBmanaged the first phase o f the project from 1998 to 2003 and i s familiar with the
Bank's disbursementprocedures. Audits o fthe first project over the last 3 years show no
significant internal control issues.

The financial management arrangements and processes o f the ITDBhave some weaknesses,
which need to be addressed. The first PSBMproject did not have a Financial Management
 Manual, although some general guidelines on accounting from the SBV were available. Also,
 the accounting software o f ITDBwas not usedto capture all the transactions o f the project and
 an Excel spreadsheet was used to prepare the financial statements, with inputs from ITDB's
 computerized accounting system and the CBs. It i s noted that the flow o f information from CBs
 to the ITDB was not always timely. Under PSBM 2, the memorandum o f understanding
between SBV and the four commercial banks and the project financial management manual will
 set out the framework, including the form, format and timing o f the information that SBV and
 the commercial banks will communicate to address this issue.




                                                  34

Underthe first PSBMproject the ITDBwas not requiredto prepare and submit Financial
MonitoringReports (FMRs) on a quarterly basis and therefore i s not familiar with this IDA
requirement. Maintaining the contract register and the monitoring o fpayments against contract
were done manually, which required an additional effort o fthe project accountant that may not
be necessary when the contract register together with suitable contract monitoring reporting i s
incorporated into the accounting software.

All identifiedweaknesses inrelationto the accountingsoftware, accountingand reporting
procedures, FMRs and Financial Management Manual, staffing have been discussed with the
ITDBand are addressedinthe Financial Management Action Plan.
STAFFING

The ITDB will ensure that the ChiefAccountant o fITDB from the first phase o fthe project will
continue to work with the second phase o f the project. Inaddition, another accountant dedicated
to the second phase o f the project will be identified and appointed. The project management will
ensure that this accountant has a strong accountingbackground and experience. Each
commercial bank will appoint an accountant, with qualifications and experience acceptable to the
Bank, to work on the financial management aspect o f the project.
ACCOUETINGPOLICIESAND PROCEDURES

PSBM 2 will use accounting policies and procedures acceptable to IDA. For reporting purposes,
IntemationalPublic Sector Accounting Standards (IPSAS) should be usedby the project. PSBM
2 will rely on the current accounting and reporting system and intemal controls o f ITDB andwill
modify them as necessary to comply with the development credit agreement and the Bank's
policies, guidelines and procedures on Financial Management.
REPORTING MONITORING
             AND

The P M Uwill prepare annual financial statements inaccordance with IPSAS and submit its
audited accounts to IDA no later than six months after the closing date o f the financial year/
period. The annual financial statements will analyze income by sources o f fund and expenditure
by categories o f expenditure, project components and sources o f fund inrelation to financial
budgets. Inaddition, an analysis o f income and expenditure by each bank will be included inthe
notes to the financial statements.

Inaddition to the annual accounts, theproject will prepare quarterly FMRsina format agreed
upon by IDA and submit them to the Bank no later than 45 days after the closing date o f the
reporting quarter. The format o f the FMRi s tailored for monitoring purposes o f the project
management and IDA and will be made available to the auditors as required.
AUDITARRANGEMENTS

Internal Audit

 The project will be subject to normal intemal audit procedures o f SBV and the CBs. The
 findings from intemal audits will be shared with the project management, the extemal auditors
 and IDA.



                                                   35

External Audit
The project's financial statements will be audited annually inaccordance with International
Standards on Auditing by an independent accounting firm. The audit will be carried out in
accordance with terms o f reference satisfactory to IDA. The Auditor shall be appointed within 6
months from the first disbursement. The auditors' report will be submittedto IDA no later than
six months after the close o f the previous fiscal year. The auditor together with the financial
statements audit report will also provide a management letter addressing internal control
weaknesses of implementation agencies. Auditing fees may be financed by the credit.

Flow of Funds

The flow o f funds is summarized as follows:




Notes:
- _ _ _ -F-     Fundflow

__+             Document flow


    0    Contractors/consultants/sewice providers submit invoice and other documents concerned
         to ITDB (1) or to CBs (PIU) (2) dependingon the component o f the project for which the
         supply o f goods and/or services i s contracted;
    0    CBs review the invoice and verify its accuracy and validity against the contract or
         purchase order and the certification o f goods/services received and submit payment
         request to ITDB (3) for review and approval;
    0    ITDBreviews the payment request (4) and thenreturns to the commercial bank (4);
    0    Payment from counterpart fund i s made from CBs (5) or ITDB (6) dependingon the
         component o f the project from which it i s paid;
    0    The IDA share o f eligible expenditure i s paid from the special account by ITDB (7);



                                                   36

   e   ITDB submit withdrawal applications together with required supporting documents (if
       any) to the Ministry o f Finance (MOF) for review and approval (8);
   e   The withdrawal application is approved by MOF (9), and then returnedto ITDB for
        submitting to the Bank for credit disbursement (10); and
    e  Disbursementis made from the Bank to the special account (11)or directly to
        contractors/consultants/servicesuppliers dependingon type o f withdrawal application
        (SOE-based SA replenishment or direct payment).


DISBURSEMENT     ARRANGEMENTS

The project will use the traditional disbursement arrangements acceptable to IDA, inaccordance
with government procedures on disbursemento f official technical assistance. Disbursement will
be made against applications o fwithdrawal for direct payment and replenishment o f the Special
Account (SA). Replenishmento f the SA will be on the basis o f SOEs and Summary Sheet. The
applications o f withdrawal, for both direct payment and replenishment o f SA, will be made by
the ITDB, the special account holder, inaccordance with IDA procedures.


Use of Statement of Expenditure

Expenditures for (a) goods under contracts costing less than US$lOO,OOO equivalent each; (b)
consultants' services provided by firms under contracts costing less than US$lOO,OOO equivalent
each; (c) consultants' services provided by individuals under contracts costing less than
US$50,000 equivalent each; and (d) training and incremental operating costs, will bepaid from
the SA and detailed in SOE-supported withdrawal applications for replenishment o f SA.
Withdrawal applications for expenditure exceeding the SOE thresholds specified above are
subject to direct payment and will be supported by full documentation and signed contracts.
Supporting documentation for statement o f expenditures would be retainedby the ITDB andby
individual CBs for review by IDA missions and the project's external independentauditor.

Special account

A special account (SA) inU S Dollars will be opened ina commercial bank bythe Borrower's
central bank, on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. The bank inwhich the SA i s opened
should be able to produce monthly bank statements and make them available to the project ina
timely manner. The initial allocation o f SA and its authorized allocation are set at US$2 million.
Payment from SA is to be made for IDA'Sshare o f the project's eligible expenditures, in
accordance with the Development Credit Agreement and World Bank's guidelines.
Replenishmento f the SA will be made on the basis o f Statements o f Expenditure, supported by
appropriate documentation, and submittedto IDA together with the withdrawal applications, at
least every 2 months or when the balance o f the SA i s lower than 70 percent o f its authorized
allocation, whichever comes first.




                                                 37

FINANCIAL      MANAGEMENT         ACTIONPLAN


                            Action                              Responsibility  Date of completion
Identify and select 6 accounting staff for the project at ITDB
and CBs with qualifications acceptable to I D A .                ITDBiCBs        By negotiation

Appoint accounting staff for the project at ITDB and CBs
with qualifications acceptable to IDA.                           ITDBiCBs        By effectiveness

Draft a Memorandumo f Understanding setting out the
financial processes and service standards between the ITDB        SBViCBs        By negotiation
and the commercial banks
Sign Memorandum o f Understanding between SBV and the
commercialbanks.                                                  SBVi CBs       By effectiveness

Draft an on-lending agreement between the government and
each commercial bank, satisfactory to IDA.                      SBVI MOF iCBs    By negotiation

Sign an on-lending agreement between the government and
each commercial bank.                                           SBVi MOF iCBs    By effectiveness

Improve accounting software o f the ITDB to capture all
project expenditure inan integrated system including
contract registers, payments against individual contracts, and
payments from counterpart fund by CBs. Improve reporting
function o f the software to analyze expenditure by both             ITDB        By effectiveness
source o f fund and expense category, and facilitate
preparation o f SOE by transactions and source o f fund
satisfactory to IDA.
Agree on the content and format o f FMR                              ITDB         By negotiation
Finalize draft project financial management manual.                  ITDB         By negotiation
Adopt project financial management manual acceptable to
IDA by ITDBand CBs.                                               ITDBiCBs       By effectiveness

Provide training o f project accountants                             ITDB        By effectiveness
Appoint auditors                                                     ITDB         6 months after
                                                                                   effectiveness


SUPERVISION PLAN

Supervision o fproject financial management will be perfonned on a risk-based approach at least
twice a year. The supervision will review the project's financial management system, including
butnot limited to operation o f Special Account, SOEs, internal controls, reporting and follow up
o f audit findings and previous supervision mission findings. IDA'Sfinancial management
specialist will conduct the financial management supervision.




                                                            38

 DisbursementCategoryby            Project
 Comnonent                    cost              CreditAllocation




   Training and Workshops        263,000          250,000
 SUBTOTAL                     16,203,000        15,400,000
 I ncomBank
   Goods                      17,076,000        16,300,000
   Consultant services            52,000            50,000
   Training and Workshops         84,000            80,000
 SUBTOTAL                     17.212.000        16.430.000
1MCB                         1                 I                  I
   Goods                       2,443,000          2,330,000
   Consultant services           526,000            500,000
   Training and Workshops         42,000             40,000
 SUBTOTAL                      3.01 1.000         2.870.000
 VBARD
   Goods                      48,066,000         44,100,000
   Consultant services         1,000,000            950,000
   Training and Workshops         83,000             50,000
 SUBTOTAL                     49,149,000         45,100,000
 TotalProjectCost & IDA       112,000,000       105,000,000
 funding




                                         39

Annex 8: Procurement
A. General

Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out inaccordance with the World Bank's
"Guidelines: Procurement UnderIBRDLoans and IDA Credits" dated May 2004; and
"Guidelines: Selection and Employment o f Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated May
2004, and the provisions stipulated inthe Legal Agreement. The general description o f various
items under different expenditure categories i s described below. For each contract to be financed
by the Credit, the differentprocurement methods and consultant selection methods, estimated
costs, prior review requirements and time frame are agreed uponbetweenthe Borrower andthe
Bank inthe Procurement Plan. The Procurement Planwill be updated at least annually, or as
requiredto reflect the actual project implementation needs and improvements ininstitutional
capacity.

Background: Underthe first Bank-fundedPayment System and Banking ModernizationProject
(Cr. 27850-VN) which closed inDecember 2003, a single-current-account national Inter-Bank
Payment System (IBPS), and two core banking software and hardware solutions were procured
by the State Bank o f Vietnam and 6 commercial banks through ICBprocedures usingthe Bank's
2-stage IT biddingdocuments. The ICB process resulted in7 contracts being awarded to 2
suppliers (3 core banking contracts with Silver-Lake and 4 IBPS and core banking contracts with
Hyundai). These solutions were only for a limited number o fpilot sites. Buildingupon the
current successful pilot operations o f the IBPS and the core banking solutions ineach o f the
participating commercial banks, the objective o f the proposed second project i s to expand the
existing IBPS, enhance and roll out the entire suite o f core banking solutions within the
participating commercial banks located throughout the country, fill the gaps insoftware coverage
and hardware capacity that were not included inthe pilot, and improve banking services by
adding new delivery channels.

ProcurementofWorks: No procurementofworks is expected under this project.

Procurementof Goods: Goods procured under this project would include hardware, software,
and communication and facility security equipment. The procurement will be done using the
Bank's SBD for all ICB and National SBD agreed upon with the Bank. More specifically, the
goods to be procured are listed below.

IBPS Software: This will include synchronizedsoftware solutions, database, middleware, and
application software integration and implementation support.

Core BankingSoftware: This will include additional software licenses, implementation
support, and enhancement and post implementation maintenance & support services for the
existing core banking systems to make the services available at a large number o f additional
locations throughout the country.

New BankingSoftware: This will include new banking applications that can be added to the
existing core banking systems, since the systems are based on an open architecture, new service
delivery channels such as intemet banking and call centers, and implementation support.



                                                 40

Processing Hardware such as servers, telecommunications equipment, PCs, security devices,
ATM and POS machines which are required to (i)      upgrade the current IBPS and CBS technical
infrastructure; and (ii)provide better services to IBPS users and commercial banks customers.

A very important consideration is aproper integration o fthe various new components to be
procured under the new project with the original systems to ensure that the final product i s a
complete operational system, as a lack o f integrationwould create serious coordination and
responsibility risks.

Direct contracting o f the software and related services therefore i s a viable method to address the
integration and responsibility issues since the procurement o f a number o f goods involves
enhancement and extensions o f the existing software. Standardization o f the core banking
software i s imperative, as the software requiredat the additional branches mustbe identical to
that already installed at other branches, and especially compatible with that installed at the
central processing centers. The existing solution, i.e. the systems installed during the initial
pilots, have proven to be suitable. However, software licenses and installation support services
mustbe acquired to support the rollout. The use o fsimilar core banking software from other
suppliers would result incompatibility problems and would require multiple software packages
to be supported at the central processing site, as well as additional interface software to integrate
the systems into a cohesive whole. It i s clearly not a desirable approach to equip a bank's
branches with different core banking software, as i t would betremendously costly as well as
technically difficult. All DC contracts are subject to the Bank's prior review.

International CompetitiveBidding (`CB) procedures and standard documents shall be used for
goods estimated at a cost o f more than US$lOO,OOO equivalent per contract. This method i s
expected to be usedto procure goods such as security enhancement systems, disaster recovery
systems, licenses for new systemproducts such as new modules for banking application, servers,
ATM and POS systempackages including software (POS and ATM module,) and hardware
 (Automatic Teller Machines and Point o f Sale machines), a credit card management system,
 communications equipment etc., which represent the bulk o f goods procurement. The possibility
 o f grouping all hardware and similar equipment for all participating banks into a couple o f large
 contracts was assessed. However, the possible benefit from an economy o f scale would be
 outweighed by the complexity o f Government accountingrequirements, since each bank would
be treated as an independent"project owner" with a separate budget, procurement and
 accounting. The possibility o f using original system suppliers (Silver-Lake and Hyundai) to act
 as procurement agents for the PMUand PIUs for procurement o fhardware was also assessed.
 However, it would be difficult for these suppliers to bear all the risks associated with the
 procurement process. Inaddition, inthis case, the vendors o f major hardware o fthe existing
 system would be excluded from competition because o fpotential conflicts o f interest incase the
 vendor was involved earlier inpreparation o f the hardware procurement. Any ICB contract with
 a value above US$lOO,OOO i s subject to the Bank's prior review.

 National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures (incorporating the improvements listed inthe
 DCA) and sample procurement documents agreed with the Bank would be used for procurement
 of goods estimated to cost less than US$lOO,OOO but more than US$20,000 per contract. The



                                                  41

first N C B contract without regardto contract value i s subject to the Bank's prior review. All
other N C B contracts are subject to the Bank's post review.

Shopping procedures in accordance with Articles 3.5 o f the Guidelines would beusedto procure
goods such as fire extinguishers, estimated to cost less than US$20,000 per contract. The first
shopping contract without regardto contract value i s subject to the Bank's prior review. All
other shopping contracts are subject to Bank's post review.

Procurementof non-consultingservices: No procurement o fnon-consultingservices is
expected under the project.

Selection of Consultants: Consulting services include procurement and implementation
assistance, legal framework consultancy, contract supervision, quality assurance and training.
No procurement o f consulting services composed entirely o f national consultants i s expected
under the project.

Quality and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) procedure and standard documents would be used for
major consulting services estimated to cost more than US$lOO,OOO equivalent per contract.
Short lists o f consultants for services estimated to cost less than US$200,000 equivalent per
contract may be composed entirelyo fnational consultants inaccordance with the provisions o f
paragraph 2.7 o f the Consultant Guidelines. Any QCBS contract with a value over US$lOO,OOO
i s subject to the Bank's prior review.

Consultant QualiJication (CQS) ConsultingServices estimated to cost less than US$lOO,OOO per
contract may be procured through CQS procedure. Any CQS contract with a value over
US$lOO,OOO i s subject to the Bank's prior review.

Individual Consultants (IC): Consulting services meetingthe conditions specified inparagraph
5.1, SectionV o f the Consultant Guidelines would be procured in accordance with procedures
specified inparagraphs 5.2 through 5.4 o f the same section. Any I C contract with a value over
USS50,OOO i s subject to the Bank's prior review.

OperatingCosts: Operating costs would cover incremental costs o fthe PMUat the ITDB/SBV,
which are related to project implementation activities including office supplies and
communications.

Others: Inaddition to training incorporatedinmajor goods and services contracts, a number of
separate workshops and training courses both in-country and overseas will be carried out in
accordance with agreed procedures based on training programs with detailed itemized budgets
approved by the Bank. The training programs shall provide the objectives, criteria for selection
o fparticipants, venue and/or institute selected, period o f activity and estimated cost.
Expenditures incurred under these activities will generally be claimed under SOEs.

The procurement procedures and SBDs to be used for each procurement method, as well as
model contracts for goods procured, are presented inthe Project ImplementationManual.




                                                   42

B. Assessment of the agency's capacity to implement procurement

Procurement activities will be carried out by the following 5 project implementingentities; each
has maintained a separate Project Management Unit (PMU for ITDB/SBV) or Project
ImplementingUnit (PIU for the participating banks), and will beresponsible for their respective
component:

        1. Informatics Technology Department o f the State Bank o f Vietnam (ITDBBBV)
       2. Vietnam Bank for Investment and Development (BIDV)
       3. Vietnam Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (VBARD)
       4. Vietnam Bank for Commerce and Industry (INCOMBANK)
        5. Vietnam Maritime Bank (MARITIMEBANK)

The staffing o fthe PMUand the PIUs and their respective procurement unitsare shown inthe
following table:

   Project implementing entities     Staffing o f Project Unit    1Staffing o f Procurement Section
ITDBiSBV                                        10                                 5
BIDV                                            20                                 10
VBARD                                           20                                 10
INCOMBANK                                       30                                 8
MCB                                             30                                 5

Nguyen Chien Thang, Sr. Procurement Specialist (EAPCO) carried out an assessment of the
capacity o f the implementingentities to implement procurement actions for the project on March
8-15, 2004. The assessment found that the P M U and all the PIUs are fully functional and staffed
adequately with technical experts on banking and IT with considerable procurement experience
gained through 5 years' implementation o f the recently and successfully completed first phase
project. The assessment reviewed the organizational structure for implementingthe project. The
ITDB/SBV has maintained a separate P M U and the four participatingbanks a separate PIU.

The key issues and risks concerning the procurement component for implementation o fthe
project have been identified and are mainly related to the capacity o f the PMUs to negotiate
direct purchase o f software from the original system contractors, to prepare specification for new
hardware and software to be procured through ICB, to evaluate bids and supervise contract
implementation and overall, to act as system integrator.

 The corrective measures which have been agreed upon are: (1) to use input from original
 system contractors for preparation o f specification for major and complex ICB contracts for
 which compatibility and integrationwith the existing system are an issue; (2) to use independent
 expert consultants to review or prepare specification, participate indirect purchase negotiation,
 bid evaluation and contract supervision.

The overall project risk for procurement is average.




                                                    43

C. ProcurementPlan

The Borrower, at appraisal, developed a procurement plan for project implementation, which
provides the basis for the procurement methods. This plan has beenagreed uponbetweenthe
Borrower and the Project Team inNovember 2004 and i s available at ITDB/SBV at the State
Bank of Vietnam, Hanoi, Vietnam. It will also be available inthe project's database and inthe
Bank's external website. The Procurement Planwill be updated in agreement with the Project
Team annually or as requiredto reflect the actual project implementationneeds and
improvements ininstitutional capacity.
D. Frequencyof Procurement Supervision
Inaddition to the prior-review supervision to becarriedout from Bank offices, the capacity
assessment o f the implementingentities has recommended annual supervision missions to visit
the field to carry out post review o fprocurement actions.

E. Detailsof the procurementArrangementsInvolvingInternationalCompetition

1. Goods, Works, and Non-ConsultingServices

(a) List o f contract packages to be procured following ICB and direct contracting: See attached
Tables.

(b) ICB contracts estimated to cost above US$lOO,OOO per contract and all direct contractingwill
be subject to prior review by the Bank.

2. ConsultingServices

(a) List o f consulting assignments with short list of intemational firms: See attached Tables.

(b) Consultancyservices estimated to cost above USS100,OOO per contract and all single source
selection o f consultants (firms) will be subject to prior review by the Bank.




                                                   44

Annex 9: Economic and Financial Analysis
Benefits from the Second Payment Systemand Bank ModernizationProject (PSBM 2) cannot be
easily quantified inconventional terms, as cost-accounting mechanisms are not yet adopted on a
widespread basis inVietnam's banking sector. However, there i s extensive empirical evidence
showing that the national economy inany country benefits substantially from an efficient
payments system infrastructure. The economic benefits stemming from well-functioning
payments systems are generally accepted around the world, as they are an essential element o f a
modern financial system infrastructure. They offer significant tangible and intangible economic
and social benefits. Reliable and efficient payment systems substantially improve provision o f
services to businesses and households, increase confidence inbanks, and hence help to deepen
financial intermediation and stimulate private sector growth. The benefits o f these types o f
investments are described below and inmany instances have already taking root inVietnam with
the successful completion o f the first (PSBM 1) project. However, the Inter-Bank Payment
System(IBPS) and the Banking Operational Solutions (CBS) established under the first project
were pilots. PSBM 2 is designed to roll out the systems on a national basis and thus make the
benefits available to all geographical areas o f Vietnam.

Improving payment services

The legacy payments arrangements based on obsolete technology between the SBV and the
banks, betweenthe banks and within a banking organization underpinnedthe payments system
relationshipsbefore the establishment of the pilot IBPS. This system resulted inan inefficient
use o fthe available money stock, inequitable risk sharing between transaction parties, lack o f
confidence inthe banking system, and inadequate support for the development o f new financial
services. When the pilot IBPS utilization started about two years ago, it processed 233
transactions per day with a cumulative value o f VND 25 billion (US$15 million). Now, the
system processes over 10,000 transactions per day with a cumulative value exceeding VND 4
trillion (US$267 million). These new payments arrangements have contributed substantially to
the ability o f the banking systemto deliver efficient funds transfer services to the economy in
general. It has provided specific measurable improvements by successfully reducing float (from
up to 30 days inmid-1995 to less than 24 hours in2004), accelerating circulation o f funds and
increasingefficiency o f funds transmission, while providing convenience and service to users.
Available statistics on the operation o f the IBPS since its introduction show a steady increase in
boththe volume and value o f transactions as illustrated inthe following table:

          Item                      2001                      2002                      2003
 Volume of Transactions            207,246                    257,52 1                 309,275
   Value (billion dong)          1,082,000                  1,233,000                 1,384,000


As mentioned above, the pilot IBPS has substantiallyreduced the time taken to process payment
transactions. Inaddition, the share o f non-cashpayments inthe economy has increased steadily
since 1999, from about 70 percent to about 77 percent in2003. With the planned expansion
supported by PSBM 2, this trend will continue and will provide opportunities for all sectors o f
the economy including individual consumers to move away from informal mechanisms, as the
formal sector will offer services that are less expensive and more reliable.



                                                   45

Based on recent experience; the SBV believes that transaction volume will grow at the rate o f 35
percent per annum over the next five years. Inaddition, the IBPS i s being increasingly usedto
process payment collections and disbursements relating to government activities such as those
associated with the treasury and customs departments, and will also underpin the cash leg o f
financial market activities such as a future interbank money market and the cash leg o f securities
transactions.

Improvingmonetary policyimplementation

Large and unpredictable levels o f cash float influence short-term liquidityinthe economy and
create uncertainty incontrolling monetary aggregates. The pilot IBPS has enhanced the SBV's
capacity inmonetary policy execution as it has substantially reduced float, increased the
availability o f funds inthe formal economy-without the negative inflationary implications o f an
absolute increase inthe money supply-and reduced uncertainty inthe distribution o f float on a
daily basis. The expansion o f the new infrastructure and the associated information systems will
further improve the ability o f (SBV) to manage liquidity on a national basis innear real-time,
adjust reserve requirements efficiently and use indirect policy instrumentsthrough open market
operations.

ImprovingCBs operationalefficiency

Before the pilot banking operational systems went into operationunder the first PSBMproject,
the participating banks useddecentralized, old technology PC-based banking systems, which
were ill-fitted to provide a basis for the design and delivery o f modernbanking products and
services in a cost-effective and riskmanagement-based manner. Thus the ability o f the
participating banks to offer a reasonable range o f customer demanded services was quite limited,
which inturn had substantial constraining impacts on overall economic development and growth.
The new banking systems are customer-oriented and are based on modern centralized "customer
information files and accounting systems." Senior bank management are now able to plan,
monitor and control the status o fbanking operations at both the branch and aggregate level on a
daily basis, and thus bettermanage the contribution to profitability by individual business lines
on a customer, product, and branch basis for those branches that have installed the new systems.
With the implementationofPSBM2, information relating to every aspect o f the bank's business
will be available on a centralizedbasis. Thus participatingbanks will be able to produce
accounting statements on a daily basis including balance sheets and proactively manage all
aspects o f the business on a branch, regional and national basis.

The organizational structure and managerial attitudes within each participating bank have started
to change and are allowing the banks to exploit the benefits attaching to the new systems. The
systems expansion under PSBM 2 will provide bank management with timely information on an
increasingly expanded geographical basis. Branch managers will be able to focus on customer
service activities, expand their customer base and the range o f services offered, while spending
less time on reporting and data management. Insummary, the expansion inbanking systems will
strengthen the institutional capacity o f participating banks especially with respect to business
planning, new product and market development, financial accounting and reporting and risk
management. The associated improvements inoperational efficiency and profitability will



                                                  46

enhance the banks' value and potential credit rating, and thus support future possible equitization
or extemal market borrowing activities.

Improving CBs fund mobilization

For the financial sector, the potential benefits o f the payments and banking systems
modemization will be realized through lower intermediation and transaction costs, and through
additional revenues realized from new products. Inaddition, improved services should attract a
larger number o f customers and deposits. For example, today most salaries inVietnam are paid
incashand do not generally findtheir way into the bankingsystem. However, more andmore
employers are processing salary payments through the banking systemwhen such opportunities
arise. Participatingbanks indicate that salary payments are one o f the factors accounting for the
substantial increase incustomer accounts since 2002. Experience in all countries confirms that
once an account relationship i s established, customers rapidly become comfortable with using
other banking services, including fee-based services that provide convenience such as the use o f
ATM facilities for cashwithdrawals and deposits. Such changes, which are already beginningto
take place inVietnam, will further improve non-interest revenues for the participating banks and
access to the balances maintained incustomer accounts.

Improving fight against money laundering and criminal activity

The new banking information infrastructure, coupledwith a decrease incash transactions, will
enable better monitoring and control o f financial transaction flows ina timely and transparent
manner. This will provide a valuable tool inthe fight against money laundering activity and in
particular will support investigations relating to suspicious and abnormal funds transfers.

Inaddition to the direct benefits described above, the expanded IBPS and CBS are expected to
bringabout the following indirect, higher level benefits.

Promoting economic activity

With reliable and efficient payment mechanisms, state-owned andprivate companies, as well as
small and mediumenterprises (SMEs), will continue to benefit from the following:

        More efficient support for day-to-day business operations (payments o f goods to
        suppliers andreceipts o f timelypayments from their customers);
        Optimization o f their available liquiditythrough efficient payment order processing and
        the potential to switch balances into the most profitable bank-maintained accounts on a
        short-term basis;
        Reduction inunder-utilized cash reserves (decreasing the use o f cash) and their
        conversion to productive purposes. For example, through deposits, savings or investment
        accounts; or through use as working capital that underpinsbusiness expansion.

Additionally, a reliable and efficient payment system provides a strong incentive, as well as
being a prerequisite for economic agents to move away from informal economy mechanisms and
the associated risks to the formal economy and the advantages provided through access to a



                                                   47

broad range o f safe, reliable and cost-effective services and convenient new service delivery
channels.

Broadening access to financial services

Since the Inter-Bank Payment System (IBPS) began live operation inMay 2002 and up to
December 2003, more than 500,000 new accounts have been opened at CBs throughout the
country; the number o f ATMs continues to grow and payments via debit and credit cards are
starting to expand inthe major cities and commercial centers throughout the country. Thus,
access to financial services i s becoming substantially more convenient. Convenience has also
increased for customers undertakingbusiness at bank branches, as the end-to-end time per
transaction has decreased quite dramatically.

A primary objective o fPSBM2 is to assist the banking sector providebasic services to the
majority o f the population. These services, which include access to credit, access to deposit-
taking services and access to remittance services, will satisfy the major needs o f citizens who
today are unservedor underserved. The widespread availability o f the new services will also
enhance access to working capital loans for entrepreneurs and investors, and thus indirectly
result inincreased employment opportunities throughout the economy.

Facilitating integration with international markets

Large sections o f all economies are increasingly dependent on international trade. International
trade requires an efficient banking industryto facilitate trade and funds transmission services.
The pilot IBPS has already provided an internationally compatible ITplatform for Vietnam's
banking sector, and the expanded IBPS will further consolidate and expand the benefits o f the
first project to connect institutions throughout Vietnam efficiently and effectively with the
international financial and real sectors. Taking account o f the agreements relating to financial
sector liberalization under the Vietnam-US. BTA and with the eventual accession to WTO, the
expansion o f the new CBS will also help the participating banks better prepare themselves to
face new challenges while satisfying the needs o f their customers.

Fiscal impact and sustainability analysis

Fiscal impact. PSBM 2's investment costs and recurrent/operational/maintenance costs for the
operation o fthe system will be borne by the SBV, as inthe previous project. However, these
costs will be recovered by appropriate fees charged to participants for the services provided,
while the participating banks' costs would berecoveredby the savings realized through efficient
operation o f the payment systems interms o f time, labor, and revenues from new products and
 an expanded customer base. Giventhe cost recovery features o f this project, the fiscal
 expenditures related to the implementation o f this operation would be minimal. Counterpart
 funds for the project havebeenbudgetedby SBV andthe participatingbanks, which havemade
continuing investment on their own to upgrade and expand their electronic banking system.

Sustainability. This lending operation i s an IDA credit with highly concessional terms and
would not present any extra debt service burdento the government's budget. Vietnam has



                                                   48

maintained aprudent fiscal policy since the country opened itself to the international community,
and the government has established a track record for low budgetdeficits for the past ten years at
below five percent of the GDP. Debt service (principal and interest) for exports remains below
10percent, a manageable ratio, with exports growing at an annual average o f over 15 percent
(2000-2004) and with an annual GDP growth rate o f about 7 percent a year. The stock o f
extemal debt as a share o f GDP i s less than 40 percent and this share i s projectedto decline to
about 34 percent in2004.




                                                 49

Annex 10: SafeguardPolicyIssues
VIETNAM: VN-Second PaymentSystem and Bank ModernizationProject

NIA




                                   50

Annex 11:ProjectPreparationand Supervision


Below is a timeline o fproject preparation.

                                            P1anned                      Actual
PCNreview                                   10/15/2003                   10/30/2003
Initial PID to PIC                          02/20/2004                   02/20/2004
Initial ISDS to PIC                         NIA                          NIA
Appraisal                                   06/1/2004                    11/10-22/2004
Negotiations                                01/24/05
Board/RVP approval                          3/8/2005
Planned date o f effectiveness              06/08/05
Planned date o f mid-term review            11/15/2007
Planned closing date                        06/08/ 10

Key institutions responsible for preparationo fthe project include the State Bank o fVietnam, and
the following CBs: Bank for Investment and Development o f Vietnam (BIDV), Industrial and
Commercial Bank of Vietnam (ICB), Vietnam Maritime Joint-stock Commercial Bank (MCB),
and Vietnam Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (VBARD).

A Japan PHRDgrant for US$444,250 (TF053537) was received and usedfor project preparation
by the SBV to fund the following consultant services: (a) assessment o ftechnical designand
detailed costing, (b) review o f international charging models for software packages, (c)
preparation o fprocurement packages, (d) review o f Vietnam's laws and regulations on electronic
transactions and records against the international best practices, (e) preparationo f participating
banks' profiles, (f) preparation o f the project FinancialManagement Manual, and (8) upgrading
o f PMUaccounting software. The grant has also supported staff training on procurement and
commercial contract management for the SBV and the participating banks, upgrading o f the
P M U office equipment and incremental operating cost. The grant i s being successfully executed
by the SBV. All planned outputs are expected to be completed by early March2005. The
consultant's performance has been satisfactory, with significant transfer o f technical knowledge
to their client. The SBV and the participating banks have also benefitedfrom the training
activity and the strengthening o f the project financial management system.

Bank staff and consultants who worked on the project include:

Name                                     Title                                 Unit
Xiaofeng Hua                             TTL, Financial Analyst                EASFP
Miguel Navarro-Martin                     Sr. Financial Officer                BCFBD
Robert Keppler                            Sr. Adviser                          OPD
Thomas Rose                              Adviser                               EASFP
James Seward                             Financial Sector Specialist           EASFP
Thang-Long Ton                           Economist                             EASPR
Thang Chien Nguyen                        Sr. Procurement Specialist           EAPCO
Thong Quang Tran                         Financial Management Specialist       EAPCO
Hoi-Chan Nguyen                           Senior Counsel                       LEGEA


                                                   51

~
 Name                                Title              Unit
 Laura Mitchell                      Team Assistant     EASFP
 Lachlan Fleming                     Consultant
 Arthur D.Little Spain               Consultant
 Schlumberger SEMA                   Consultant

 Bank funds expended to date on project preparation:
     1. Bank resources:      117,747
    2. Trust funds:          250,793
    3. Total:                368,539.86

 Estimated Approval and Supervision costs:
     1. Remaining costs to approval:        82,253
    2. Estimatedannual supervision cost:    90,000




                                              52

Annex 12: Documents in the Project File


  A.     Counterpart documents

            Pre-Feasibility Studies, October 2004
            Feasibility Studies, January 2005
            TORSfor PHRD grant fundedconsultants, September-December 2004
            Government consultant report on project technical design and detailed cost,
             October 2004
            Government consultant report on software charging models, October 2004
            Government consultant report on procurementpackages, December 2004
            Project ImplementationManual, January 2005
            Draft government Subsidiary LoanAgreement, January 2004
            Draft P M U Financial Management Manual, January 2005

  B.     Bank documents

            Project Concept Note, October 2003
            Minutes o f decision meeting, April 2004
            Preparation and appraisal mission aide-memoirs and back to office reports, April
            -November 2004
            Arthur D.Little Report on MCB andBIDV, March2004
         0  Arthur D.Little Report on ICB, March2004
            Schlumberger SEMA Report on VBARD, March 2004
            L.Flemingreport oncommercialbankingsystem expansion, May2004




                                             53

        Annex 13: Statementof Loans andCredits


                                                                                                                       Differencebetween
                                                               Original AmoLiiit in US$ Millions                       expected and actual
                                                                                                                         disbursements

Project ID  FY                   Purpose                     IBRD       IDA         SF        GEF    Cancel. Undisb.  Orig.     F m . Rev'd

PO59663    2004 VN-Road Network Improvement                    0.00   225.26         0.00       0.00   0.00  230.27     0.00        0.00
PO71019    2003 VN-GEF Demand-Side Management &                0.00      0.00        0.00       5.50   0.00    5.50     0.33        0.00
                Energy
PO44803    2003 VN-PRIMARY            EDUC           FOR       0.00   138.76         0.00       0.00   0.00  195.70     0.88        0.00
                DISADVANTEGED CHILRE
PO75399    2003 Public Financial Management Reform             0.00     54.33        0.00       0.00   0.00    57.83   -1.03        0.00
                Proj.
PO51838    2002 VN-PRIMARY                   TEACHER           0.00     19.84        0.00       0.00   0.00   21.36     7.94        0.00
                DEVELOPMENT
PO59936    2002 V N    -Northein    Mountains     Poverty     0.00    l10.00         0.00       0.00   0.00  119.41    28.11        0.00
                Reduction
PO73778    2002 VN-GEF-System      Energy    Eqiiitizatioii-   0.00      0.00        0.00       4.50   0.00     5.37    0.53        0.00
                Renewa
PO73305    2002 VN-Regional Blood Transfusion Centers          0.00     38.20        0.00       0.00   0.00    44.70   11.64        0.00
PO72601    2002 V N - Rural Finance IIProject                  0.00   200.00         0.00       0.00   0.00   177.02  -26.98        0.00
PO66396    2002 VN-SYSTEM                     ENERGY,          0.00   225.00         0.00       0.00   0.00  261.26    65.02         0.00
                EQUlTlZATlON & RENEWAB
PO52037    2001 VN-HCMC ENVMTL SANK.                           0.00   166.34         0.00       0.00   0.00   177.00   20.07         7.56
PO62748    2001 V N - COMMUNITY BASED RURAL                    0.00   102.78         0.00       0.00   0.00   113.59   16.08         0.00
                INFRA.
PO42927    2001 VN-Mekong Transport/Flood Protection           0.00   110.00         0.00       0.00   0.00   109.67   78.50         0.00
PO59864    2000 VN-RURAL TRANSPORT II                          0.00   103.90         0.00       0.00   0.00    42.82   20.32         0.00
PO42568    2000 V N - COASTAL WetVProt Dev                     0.00     31.80        0.00       0.00   0.00    3I.45   23.10         0.00
PO56452    2000 VN-RURAL ENERGY                                0.00   150.00         0.00       0.00   0.00    72.98   60.75         0.00
PO04833    1999 VN-Urban Transport Improvement                 0.00     42.70        0.00       0.00   8.19    19.47   25.47         0.54
PO04845    1999 V N - MEKONG DELTA WATER                       0.00    101.80        0.00       0.00   0.00    84.82   70.84         0.00
PO04828    1999 VN-HIGHER EDUC.                                0.00     83.30        0.00       0.00   0.00    67.47   49.73        23.37
Po51553    1999 VN-3 CITIES SANITATION                         0.00     80.50        0.00       0.00   0.00    64.30   33.88        -0.23
PO04839    I998 V N -FOREST PROT. & RUL DE                     0.00     21.50        0.00       0.00   0.00    17.71   15.63        11.28
PO45628    I998 VN-TRANSM ISSION & DISTR                       0.00   199.00         0.00       0.00   0.00   118.62  109.95        22.99
PO04844    I998 VN-AGRIC. DIVERSIFICATION                      0.00     66.90        0.00       0.00   0.00    37.60   23.88        10.54
PO04843    1998 VN-Inland Waterways                            0.00     73.00        0.00       0.00   0.00    49.91   45.55        11.99
PO04830    1997 VN-WATER SUPPLY                                0.00     98.61        0.00       0.00  31.28    14.67   49.95         7.89
PO04838    I996 VN-NATIONAL HEALTH SUPPORT                     0.00   101.20         0.00       0.00   2.35    24.10   33.04         0.00
                Total:                                         0.00  2,544.72        0.00      10.00  41.82  2.164.60 763.18        95.93




                                                                    54

VIETNAM
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and DisbursedPortfolio
InMillions ofU S Dollars


                                                     Committed                           Disbursed

                                                   IFC                                 IFC

FY Approval       Company                 Loan     Equity   Quasi    Partic.   Loan    Equity     Quasi  Partic.

   2003         ACB-Vietnam             0.00        5.02      0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00       0.00   0.00
   2002        AZIAGF Vietnam           0.00        1.32      0.00    0.00      0.00    1.32       0.00   0.00
   2002           CyberSoft             0.00        I.25      0.00    0.00      0.00    I.25       0.00   0.00
   2002         DragonCapital           0.00        2.00      0.00    0.00      0.00    2.00       0.00   0.00
   2002          F-V Hospital           5.00        0.00      3.00    0.00      5.oo    0.00       3.00   0.00
   2003           Glass Egg             0.00        1.75      0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00       0.00   0.00
   1996         HolcimVietnam           18.54       0.00      0.00   31.29     18.54    0.00       0.00  31.29
   I998         MFL Vinh Pliat          0.15        0.00      0.00    0.00      0.15    0.00       0.00   0.00
   I997             NATL                14.56       0.00      0.00   11.34     14.56    0.00       0.00  II.34
 I995197       Nghi Son Cement          16.99       0.00      0.00    12.43    16.99    0.00       0.00   12.43
   2001         RMlT Vietnam            7.25        0.00      0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00       0.00   0.00
   I996         SMH Glass Co.           6.11        0.00      0.00    0.56      6.1 1   0.00       0.00   0.56
   2003           Sacombanlc            0.00        2.93      0.00    0.00      0.00    2.77       0.00   0.00
 2002103            VEIL                0.00        8.00      0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00       0.00   0.00
   1996             VILC                0.00        0.75      0.00    0.00      0.00    0.75       0.00   0.00

                Total portfolio:         68.60     23.02      3.00   55.62     61.35    8.09       3.00   55.62




                                                                Approvals PendingCommitment

             FY Approval               Company              Loan      Equity      Quasi     Partic.

                2002                  F-V Hospital        0.00         0.00       0.00       0.00
                2000                   Interflour         0.01         0.00       0.00       0.01
                1999               MFL Chau Giaiig        0.00         0.00       0.00       0.00
                1999                MFL Midi Minh         0.00         0.00       0.00       0.00
                2000                 MFL Mondial          0.00         0.00       0.00       0.00
                2000                   MFL-AA             0.00         0.00       0.00       0.00

                               Total pendingcommitment:      0.01      0.00       0.00       0.01




                                                         55

Annex 14: Country at a Glance
VIETNAM: VN-SecondPaymentSystem and BankModernizationProject
                                                                  East
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                              Asia B    Low-
                                                      Vietnam   Pacific income      Development diamond'
2002
Popuiation, mid-year(millionsj                             80.5   1,838    2,495               Life expectancy
GNi per capita (Atlas method, US$)                         430     950      430
GNi (Atlas method, US$ billionsj                           34.8   1,740    1,072

Average annual growth, 1996-02

Population(%)                                               1.3      10       19
Labor force (%j                                             1.7      12      2 3    GNI                               Gross

M o s t recent estimate (latest year available, 1996-02)                                                              primary
                                                                                                                   enroliment
Poverty (%of populationbelownationalpo vertylinej
UrbanPO pulation(%oftotalpopulationj                        25       38      30
Life expectancyat birth (years)                             70       69      59                       I
Infant mortaiityiper 1,OOOlivebirths)                       26       33       81
Child malnutrition (%of children under5j                    34        15               Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (%ofpopulation)          77       76       76
illiteracy (%ofpopulation age 159                             7       0      37
Gross primaryenroliment (%of school-age populationj         6 6     6 6      95                 Vietnam
   Male                                                     6 9     6 5      6 3                Low-income group
   Female                                                   6 2     6 6       87

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS

                                                1982      1992    2001    2002
                                                                                    Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                                  ..      9.9    32 7      35 1
Gross domestic investmentiGDP                       ..     V.6      312      32 1
Exports of goods and services/GDP                   ..     34.7    54 6     55 5                    Trade

Gross domestic savingsiGDP                          ..     x3.6    28 8      28 1
Gross nationalsavingsiGDP                                          30 9

Current account balanceiGDP                         ..     -0.8      16      -15
Interest paymentsiGDP                               ..      0 4       11     0 8
Total debtiGDP                                      ..    246.6    38 5     38 0
Total debt serviceiexports                          ..'     7.1     6 7      5 9
Present value of debt/GDP                                          33 5
Present value of debtiexports                                      60 8
                                                                                                 Indebtedness
                                     1982-92 1992-02      2001   2002 2002-06
(averageannualgrovdh)
GDP                                       5.2     7.4       6.9     7 0                          Vietnam
GDP DercaDita                             2.9     5.8       5.5     5.7                          Low-income w o w


STRUCTURE o f the ECONOMY
                                                1962      1992    2001    2002
(%of G D f j                                                                        Growth o f investment and GDP (Oh)       I
Agricuiture                                                33.9    232      230     15-
industry                                            ..     27.3     38 1    385     10
  Manufacturing                                     ..     15.4     8 8     206
Services                                            ..     38.8    386      385     5

                                                                                    0
Private consumption                                 ..     80.7    648      657
Generalgovernment consumption                       ..      5.8     6 3      6 2
Imports of goods and services                       ..     38.8    569      595


                                             1982-92 1992-02      2001    2002
(averageannualgrovdh)                                                               Growth of exports and imports (Oh)       I
Agriculture                                       3 1       4 2     3 0       4 1  50
Industry                                          5 0      112      6 4      9 4   ~4%
                                                                                   40
  Manufacturing                                   19       113      113      116
Services                                          7 9       6 6      6 1     6 5

Private consumption                                         5 0     5 6      7 9
Generalgovernment consumption                               3 4     6 6      5 4         97     98     99     00    01    02
Gross domestic investment                                  0 8      6 8      6 6
Imports of goods and services                              23 9                                                              I
                                                                    2 3     222                  Exports    -inports




                                                                      56

                                                                                                                Vietnam

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                          1982   1992    2001    2002
D o m e s t i c prices
(%change)
Consumer prices                                    37 7    -0 4      4.0
Implicit GDP deflator                              32 6      19      4.1

Government finance
/%of GDP,includes current grants)
Current revenue                                    P O     214      21.0
Current budget balance                              0 0     5 4      5.5
Overall surplusideficit                                    -2 5     -2.3                 IGDPdeflator    -CPI


T R A D E
                                          1982   1992    2001    2002
(US$ millions)                                                              Export and import levels (US$ mill.)

Total exports (fob)                              2,475   15,027   8,706    125.000
 Rice                                              300     588      725
 Fuel                                              756    3 , m   3,270    20 000 t
 Manufactures
Total imports (cif)                              2,950   8332     19,733
 Food                                               82
 Fueland energy                                     6 8    1871   2,077
 Capitalgoods                                      950

Export price index(S95=00)                                                           96 97     98    99    00    01       02

Import price index(1995=00)                                                               ciExports        EImports
Terms of trade (895=00)                                                    I
BALANCE of P A Y M E N T S
                                          1982   1992    2001     2002
(US$ miilions)                                                              Current account balance to G D P            ( O h )

Exports of goods and services                    3.199   l7,837   8,654
Imports of goods and sewices                     2 950   77,783   21,777
Resourcebalance                            -659    249       54   -1,523

Net income                                  -85   -384     -634     -766
Net current transfers                        90      59    1,x)o   1,767

Current account balance                    -654     -76     521     -522

Financing items (net)                      458     538     -196      986
Changes in net reserves                     196   -462     -325     -464

Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)
Conversionrate /DEC,local/US$)              0 9 11,2022 14,725 2 15,279.5


EXTERNAL D E B T and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                          1982   1992    2001     2002                                             ~~~



(US$ millions)                                                              Composition of 2002 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         43 24,332   t2.584   23,332
  IBRD                                        0       0        0       0
  IDA                                        35      57    1,344    1,715                      706       B 1715

Total debt service                            0    232     1,2u     IT74
  iBRD                                        0       0        0       0
  IDA                                        0        1       x)      13

Composition of net resourceflows
  Official grants                                   113     263
  Official creditors                               248      993      686
  Private creditors                                 $40    -591     -641
  Foreigndirect investment                         385     1,300    1,x)o
  Portfolio equity                                    0        0       0
                                                                                          E 7.635
World Bank program
  Commitments                                         0     739      558    A - IBRD                         E - Bilateral
  Disbursements                                       0     279      261    B IDA
                                                                               -       D- Other mitilateral  F- Private
  Principalrepayments                                 1        2       2    C - I M F                        G-Short-term




                                                              57

Annex 15: Map VNM33511




                          58

MAP SECTION


