Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
 
Report No.:  AB1602 
Project Name 
VN-Second Payment System and Bank Modernization 
Project (PSBM 2) 
Region 
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC 
Sector 
Banking (78%); Payment systems, securities clearance and 
settlement (22%) 
Project ID 
P082627 
Borrower(s) 
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM 
Implementing Agency 
State Bank of Vietnam 
47-49 Ly Thai To, Hanoi, Vietnam 
Tel:  84 4 8266876 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
May 9, 2005 
Date of Appraisal Authorization 
November 10, 2004 
Date of Board Approval 
March 10, 2005 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
The Vietnamese banking sector reform has come a long way since its beginning in the late 
1980s.  The reform process began in earnest in 2001 and the reform agenda has been based on a 
comprehensive multi-year reform program.  The objectives of this program are: (i) strengthening 
the regulatory, supervisory and institutional framework; (ii) diversifying the financial sector; (iii) 
enhancing financial sector transparency and accountability; (iv) improving the financial 
performance of the banking system; and (v) creating incentives for banks to operate in a more 
commercially-oriented framework based on institutional restructuring. 
Important changes have been accomplished both in the structure, the regulation and the 
operations of the banks, thus moving the banking sector towards a 
modus operandi
 that more 
closely resembles domestic banking sectors in other emerging markets and newly industrialized 
economies.  Over the past decade, the four largest State Owned Commercial Banks (SOCBs) 
have evolved from specialized policy lending vehicles to state-owned banks that are expected to 
operate on a more commercial basis by intermediating domestic savings to various segments of 
the economy and by providing other needed banking services both to the Vietnamese people and 
companies.  The four largest SOCBs, which account for 73 percent of all credit to the economy, 
continue to implement their restructuring plans aimed at transforming them into more 
commercially oriented institutions, including improvements to credit policies and procedures, 
accounting practices, information systems, products and services, and capital.  In June 2003, the 
State Bank of Vietnam (SBV) announced its intention to equitize two SOCBs, one of which is 
scheduled to have the participation of a strategic foreign investor.
1
There has been progress in 
the consolidation of the Joint-Stock Banks (JSBs); some of the JSBs have posted strong growth 
and performance, despite the small size of their operations in the marketplace.  The environment 
in which banks operate has improved with the removal of interest rate ceilings (in principle) and 
officials in SOCBs have been instructed to disregard political requests for directed credit.  The 
1
These are Mekong Housing Bank and VietcomBank. 
Page  2
SBV has promulgated numerous regulations on reorganizing bank supervision, gradually 
leveling the playing field for foreign banks, and reclassifying all non-performing loans (NPLs) in 
the four SOCBs.  
A
credit information center was set up in 1999, and a registry for secured credit 
transactions in 2002, both of which may help to improve access to finance.   
Despite these positive changes, overall progress in implementing the reform agenda has been 
mixed and Vietnam still has a long road ahead toward complying with international standards of 
best practice and to meet the coming challenges of financial sector liberation under the US-
Vietnam Bilateral Trade Agreement (BTA) and the forthcoming WTO accession.  The current 
speed of reform may be too protracted to meet the challenges resulting from the rapid opening of 
the financial sector to foreign participation in the context of the BTA and WTO membership.  
The
 
obligations under these agreements will create potentially serious competitive threats to the 
SOCBs and to the regulation of the financial sector.  Once the sector is fully liberalized, foreign 
banks and other service providers (e.g., insurance companies) may quickly take the most 
attractive clients in the market through better product and service offerings.  An immediate result 
of this could be that the SOCBs will be left with weak portfolios and potentially large fiscal 
liabilities for the government in the future.  These problems could be exacerbated by weak 
regulation and supervision of the sector and a continued concentration of financial operations in 
the banking sector due to limited growth in capital markets.   
The SBV recognized the immediate threat that these challenges pose to the future growth and 
st
ability of the banking system and developed a “Plan for the International Economic Integration 
of the Banking Sector” in mid-2003 to address the core development needs through 2010.
2
One 
of the key areas of reform of this Plan is the implementation of appropriate banking systems 
infrastructure and the completion of what was started under the comprehensive program 
developed in 1995 to develop a modern banking sector.  The program aimed to improve both the 
banking systems and payment services in the economy in order to reduce float, speed up 
circulation of funds and increase efficiency of funds transmission while, at the same time, 
providing convenience, service, and safety to users.  The development of the national inter-bank 
payment clearing and settlement system to handle inter and intra-provincial inter-bank payments 
(Inter-Bank Payment System - IBPS) was a primary focus of this program.  The program also 
had an important secondary focus on introducing modern, automated systems within the largest 
banks in the market.  These new systems were designed to strengthen and restructure the 
operations and management of the banking sector through the implementation of core banking, 
management information and accounting systems, new products and services and centralization 
of the information within the largest banks. 
The first phase of the modernization program, supported by the Payment System and Bank 
Modernization (PSBM) project of the World Bank, was successfully completed in 2003.  Under 
the project an internationally compatible IT platform was established.  On the foundation of this 
platform, a modern IBPS and two modern Core Banking Solutions (CBS) were introduced on a 
pilot basis.  The IBPS has vastly improved the payment services in the economy by reducing 
float, accelerating circulation of funds and increasing efficiency of funds transmission, while 
providing convenience and service to users.  The system has also helped to alleviate the problem 
caused by cash shortages that had existed for years in the economy, with a declining share of 
2
Decision of the Government of the SBV No. 663, June 26, 2003. 
Page  3
cash in total liquidity, at 22.0 percent in 2003 compared with 22.6 percent in 2002 and 23.7 
percent in 2001.  The new electronic payment services available from the pilot IBPS have been 
readily accepted by the commercial banks (CBs) with many banks originally not included in the 
pilot project now having online connections and making active use of the system.  However, the 
capacity and throughput needs of the system have far exceeded the original targets, and there is 
an urgent need to expand the system. 
The modern banking operational solutions have strengthened the institutional capabilities of the 
participating banks (accounting for over 73 percent of the banking system credit) under the first 
project, as they have centralized th
e
banks’ core businesses and stimulated initiatives to improve 
internal procedures, structure, management and customer services.  The new systems have also 
brought about changes in banking regulations and operations as well as banking staff quality in 
all aspects of banking activities.  The basic managerial structure of each of the commercial banks 
has started to change in order to take full advantage of the new systems.  A substantial problem 
now facing the participating banks is that they are currently operating two completely different 
systems:  the new centralized system supported by modern technologies, and the decentralized 
legacy systems based on the older manual methods.  The risks and costs associated with this type 
of dual operation are high not only for these banks, but for the whole banking sector, given the 
market share that is attributable to these banks, unless the new systems are rolled out to all the 
branches in a relatively short time.  In addition, the market demand is increasing for non-cash-
based payment instruments and products, and service delivery channels as Vietnam’s economy 
further develops. 
The PSBM 2 project, designed to build directly upon the original PSBM project, is a response to 
these urgent needs from (i) the SBV to increase the capacity of IBPS processing centers to 
continue operating and expanding the outreach of the payment systems in a fast, reliable, and 
safe manner; and (ii) the participating CBs to complete the roll-out of their new systems to 
minimize the possible operational problems and costs of running two different systems in 
parallel through their branch networks, and to add new functions to these systems to meet the 
increased demand for new products and services.  
2. Objectives 
The ultimate objective of the PSBM 2 is to continue assisting the government and the banks in 
their efforts to modernize the financial sector through further development of the financial sector 
infrastructure to support (i) economic growth, and (ii) achievement of the poverty reduction 
targets set out in the government’s Comprehensive Poverty Reduction and Growth Strategy 
(CPRGS).  The specific 
Project Development Objectives
 (PDO) are to assist Vietnam’s banking 
sector to (i) meet the demand of the economy for fast, reliable and safe payment services, (ii) 
broaden access to finance to facilitate the achievement of the government’s poverty reduction 
targets, and (iii) improve the operations of the participating banks through the expansions of the 
IBPS and the CBS.   
The overall project outcome indicators
 for the purpose of monitoring and evaluating the progress 
towards the achievement of the PDOs are: (i)
 
steady increase of the number of financial 
institutions/bank branches connected to the IBPS and the new banking systems; (ii) steady 
increase of the transaction volume and value processed by the IBPS and the CBS; (iii) continuing 
high level of performance of the expanded systems in terms of speed, certainty, reliability and 
Page  4
convenience; (iv) continuous growth in the use of non-cash payment instruments and widened 
range of banking products and services; and (v) improved financial accounting and operational 
reporting in the participating banks.  
 
The SBV’s goal is to give all banks and branches access to the IBPS system and expand the new 
CBS systems at the CBs beyond the pilot programs.  This will ensure that Vietnam’s integration 
with the international market takes place with a robust banking sector infrastructure that can 
sustain rapid economic growth and further private sector development.  The PSBM 2 will 
contribute to the achievement of these objectives by addressing the needs for IBPS and banking 
system expansion. 
The latest Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Vietnam (Report No. 24621-VN) indicates that 
the establishment of a sound market-based financial intermediation system in Vietnam remains 
perhaps the most difficult technical challenge facing Vietnam's policy makers, and an important 
part of the Bank Group’s activities.  While the PSBM 2 was not originally included in the CAS, 
it was added, at the request of the Government, in the CAS Progress Report (Report No. 27659-
VN), dated January 22, 2004.  The PSBM 2 is fully consistent with the Bank’s broader financial 
sector strategy that is being pursued through analytical work, policy dialogue, lending operations 
and technical assistance. 
3. Description 
The PSBM 2 is built squarely on the foundation laid by the first PSBM.  To fulfill the 
development objectives, the PSBM 2 project is organized around two main components: (i) IBPS 
Expansion; and (ii) CBS Expansion.  Project implementation is expected to be completed by 
December 2009 and the project will be closed on June 30, 2010.  The total project cost is 
estimated as US$112 million, and IDA funding is US$105 million equivalent.  Retroactive 
financing will be available for eligible expenses of goods and consulting services that may be 
incurred after January 1, 2005 up to Credit effectiveness. 
Component 1, IBPS Expansion
.
The IBPS is a centralized single-current-account-based, inter-
bank clearing and settlement system managed by the SBV.  Under the first PSBM project, a pilot 
IBPS system was established which is composed of the National Payment System Center 
(NPSC), its back-up center and five regional Payment Processing Centers (PPCs).  The pilot 
system has provided the core functionality of the IBPS, but the transaction volume and value 
handled by the pilot IBPS have far exceeded the original targets.  The situation calls for an 
immediate expansion of the system.  Originally, the SBV planned to address the capacity 
problem by adding 11 PPCs throughout the country.  Given the recent improvement in 
telecommunication access and quality in Vietnam, the central bank has decided to focus on the 
upgrading and expansion of the existing national and regional centers under the PSBM 2.  This is 
in line with the international trend wherein inter-bank payment systems are increasingly 
centralized for better efficiency, enhanced reliability and reduced cost.  The main activities of 
Component 1 are (i) upgrading hardware and installing new software to expand processing 
capability and strengthen interconnection and system and physical security; (ii) consultant 
support of project implementation such as advisory services on the required legal and regulatory 
environment; and (iii) staff training.  The component’s target group is the central bank, the 
banking industry, and the customers of the banks and other future financial institution 
participants.  The indirect beneficiaries include the government’s Treasury, the Customs, and the 
Page  5
financial markets, as the expanded IBPS will provide faster and more reliable payment services 
to these institutions.  
Component 2, CBS Expansion
.
Under the first PSBM project, the participating banks have 
adopted international standard core banking solutions, which centralize accounting and control 
functions in respect of customer files, deposit and loan, general ledger and financial control, 
trade finance, and other commercial bank core businesses.  But the application of the solutions is 
limited to the head office and a few pilot branches.  There is an urgent need to rollout the 
solutions to mitigate the high operational risk of running two parallel, but completely different, 
systems, and to enhance the system and physical security of the new facilities.  To further 
strengthen operational efficiency and risk management, new modules such as financial 
management and MIS are required.  The banks are also under increased market pressure to 
provide new products and services through new delivery channels (e.g. internet and telephone 
banking).  Under the component, new hardware and application software will be acquired for the 
purpose of systems rollout and expansion.  Experienced consultants will be engaged to provide 
project implementation support.  Another main activity of Component 2 is staff training.  The 
component’s immediate target group is the four participating banks (three SOCBs, and one JCB).  
As
 these banks account for over 66 percent of the banking sector assets, the whole banking 
system, as well as the public, are the ultimate beneficiaries.  
 
4. Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 7.00 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
105.00 
 Total 
112.00 
 
5. Implementation 
Institutional arrangements
.
The project will be implemented by five project implementing 
entities.  The Informatics Technology Department (ITDB) of the SBV will implement 
Component 1, and the four participating banks, namely the Bank for Investment and 
Development of Vietnam (BIDV), the Industrial and Commercial Bank of Vietnam 
(IncomBank), the Maritime Joint-Stock Commercial Bank (MCB), and the Vietnam Bank of 
Agriculture and Rural Development (VBARD), will be responsible for the implementation of 
Component 2.
 
These CBs participated and successfully completed their components under the 
first project.  Overall management of the project is entrusted to the ITDB/SBV, which acted as 
the PMU from 1998 to 2003 under the first PSBM project.  The ITDB, through its Project 
Management Unit (PMU), will be responsible to cover all aspects of the project’s financial 
management arrangements, including accounting, internal controls, financial reporting, audit, 
and management of special account.  Each of the participating CBs will be responsible for the 
implementation and financial management of their respective component and will retain the 
existing Project Implementing Unit (PIU) within their organizations.  The PIUs will identify 
technical requirements, select contractors and consultants, and supervise contract implementation 
for the roll out and expansion of their new operational systems.  They will also ensure that 
financial management arrangements and procurement process are done in accordance with the 
Development Credit Agreement (DCA) and World Bank’s policies and procedures on financial 
management and procurement. 
Page  6
Financial management arrangements
.
The PMU will prepare annual financial statements in 
accordance with International Public Sector Accounting Standards (IPSAS) and quarterly 
Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) in a format agreed with the Bank and submit them for the 
Bank team’s review.  The project accounts will be subject to normal internal audit procedures of 
SBV and the CBs.   External audit of the project’s financial statements will be carried out 
annually in accordance with International Standards on Auditing by an independent accounting 
firm.  The audit will be carried out in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to IDA. 
Procurement arrangements
.
Procurement for the project will be carried out in accordance with 
the World Bank "Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits
"
dated May 
2004; and "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
"
dated May 2004, and the provisions stipulated in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA).  
Procurement under the project will be carried out by the PMU and the PIUs.   
6.  Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project
 
Yes
 
No
 
Environmental Assessment
(OP
/BP
/GP
4.01) [ 
] 
[X] 
Natural Habitats (OP
/BP
4.04)
 
[
]
[X] 
Pest Management (OP 4.09
)
[
]
[X] 
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03
,
being revised as OP 4.11)
 
[
]
[X] 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP
/BP
4.12)
 
[
]
[X] 
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20
,
being revised as OP 4.10)
 
[
]
[X] 
Forests (OP
/BP
4.36)
 
[
]
[X] 
Safety of Dams (OP
/BP
4.37)
 
[
]
[X] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP
/BP
/GP
7.60) *
 
[
]
[X] 
Projects on International Waterways (OP
/BP
/GP
7.50)
 
[
]
[X] 
Note:  
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims 
on the disputed areas. 
 
7. Contact point 
Contact: Xiaofeng Hua 
Title: Financial Analyst 
Tel: (202) 458-2463 
Fax: (202) 614-0207 
Email: Xhua@worldbank.org 
 
8.  For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
