                                           Document of
                                          The World Bank


                                                             Report No: ICR1996



               IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                             (IDA-40410 TF-90325)



                                              ON A

                                             CREDIT

                         IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 67.8 MILLION
                            (US$ 105 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                             TO THE

                           SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM

                                             FOR A

        SECOND PAYMENT SYSTEM AND BANK MODERNIZATION PROJECT



                                     December 16, 2011




Financial and Private Sector Department
Vietnam Country Management Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                  Currency Unit = Vietnamese Dong

             Exchange Rate at Appraisal, January 6, 2005
                US$ 1.00 = Vietnamese Dong 15,780
                       SDR 1.00 = US$ 1.54

             Exchange Rate at ICR, December 16, 2011
               US$ 1.00 = Vietnamese Dong 21,020
                      SDR 1.00 = US$ 1.54

                           FISCAL YEAR
                       January 1 – December 31

              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BIDV           Bank of Investment and Development of Vietnam
BOS            Banking Operational System
BTA            Bilateral Trade Agreement
CBS            Core Banking System
DRC            Disaster Recovery Center
ERR            Expected Rate of Return
ICR            Implementation Complement and Results Report
IAS            International Accounting Standards
ITDB           Informatics Technology Department, the State Bank of Vietnam
ICT            Information and Communication Technology
IBPS           Inter-bank Payment System
IDA            International Development Agency
INT            International Investigation (Word Bank)
JSBs           Joint-Stock Banks
MIS            Management Information System
MSB            Maritime Joint Stock Commercial Bank
NPSC           National Payment System Center
NPV            Net Present Value
NPLs           Non-Performance Loans
PPC            Payment Processing Center
PSBM           Payment System and Banking Modernization Project
PDO            Project Development Objectives
PIU            Project Implementation Unit
PMU            Project Management Unit
SDR            Special Drawing Rights
SBDs           Standard Bidding Documents
SBV            State Bank of Vietnam
SEDS           Socio-Economic Development Strategy
SMART          Specific, Measurable, Attributable, Realistic and Relevant, and
                 Time-Bound
SOCBs          State-owned Commercial Banks
VBARD          Vietnam Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development
VDB            Vietnam Development Bank
VietinBank     Vietnam Industrial and Commercial Bank
WTO            World Trade Organization

                        Vice President: James W. Adams
                      Country Director: Victoria Kwakwa
                       Sector Director: Tunc Tahsin Uyanik
                  Project Team Leader: Nancy Chen
                     ICR Team Leader: Wei Zhang
                                           Vietnam
                    Second Payment System and Banking Modernization Project


                                                        CONTENTS


Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information…………………………………………………………………………..i
    B. Key Dates…………………………………………………………………………………...i
    C. Ratings Summary …………………………………………………………………………..i
    D. Sector and Theme Codes ………………………………………………………………….ii
    E. Bank Staff …………………………………………………………………………………ii
    F. Results Framework Analysis ……………………………………………………………..iii
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ………………………………………………….vi
    H. Restructuring …………………………………………………………………………….vii
    I. Disbursement Graph ……………………………………………………………………..vii

     
 1. PROJECT CONTEXT, DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN .............................................. 1
 2. KEY FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES ............................................. 4
 3. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOMES ................................................................................................... 9
 4. ASSESSMENT OF RISK TO DEVELOPMENT OUTCOME............................................................ 14
 5. ASSESSMENT OF BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE ..................................................... 14
 6. LESSONS LEARNED ................................................................................................................ 17
 7. COMMENTS ON ISSUES RAISED BY BORROWER/IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES/PARTNERS ...... 20

 ANNEX 1. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING [TO CHECK WITH FM/LOAN OFFICER] ................ 22
 ANNEX 2. OUTPUTS BY COMPONENT ........................................................................................ 23
 ANNEX 3. ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS .................................................................... 25
 ANNEX 4. BANK LENDING AND IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT/SUPERVISION PROCESSES ......... 26
 ANNEX 5. BENEFICIARY SURVEY RESULTS .............................................................................. 29
 ANNEX 6. STAKEHOLDER WORKSHOP REPORT AND RESULTS ................................................. 31
 ANNEX 7. SUMMARY OF BORROWER'S ICR AND/OR COMMENTS ON DRAFT ICR .................... 32
 ANNEX 8. COMMENTS OF COFINANCIERS AND OTHER PARTNERS/STAKEHOLDERS ................ 42
 ANNEX 9. LIST OF SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS ........................................................................... 43
  
 MAP …………………………………………………………………………………………..44
                                        Data Sheet
A. Basic Information
                                                                        Vietnam-Second
                                                                        Payment System and
Country:                Vietnam                 Project Name:
                                                                        Bank Modernization
                                                                        Project
Project ID:             P082627                 L/C/TF Number(s):       IDA-40410,TF-90325
ICR Date:               12/16/2011              ICR Type:               Core ICR
                                                                        SOC. REP. OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                        VIETNAM
Original Total
                        SDR 67.80M              Disbursed Amount:       SDR 59.92M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         n.a.
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
The Informatics Technology Department of the State Bank of Vietnam (ITDB)
Bank for Investment and Development of Vietnam (BIDV)
Vietnam Bank for Agricultural and Rural Development (VBARD)
Maritime Joint Stock Commercial Bank (MSB)
VietinBank (formerly Industrial and Commercial Bank of Vietnam, ICBV)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: Japanese PHRD Grant

B. Key Dates
                                                                             Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process           Original Date
                                                                                 Date(s)
Concept Review:        10/30/2003    Effectiveness:             9/15/2005      12/15/2005
Appraisal:             11/10/2004    Restructuring(s):                         06/29/2010
Approval:              03/10/2005    Mid-term Review:        11/27/2007        02/09/2009
                                     Closing:                06/30/2010        06/30/2011

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                                               S
Risk to Development Outcome:                                          Low
Bank Performance:                                                       S
Borrower Performance:                                                   S




                                                i
C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                Ratings             Borrower                         Ratings
Quality at Entry:               S          Government:                             MS
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision:         S                                                     S
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                                S                                                     S
Performance:                               Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
Potential Problem Project                          Quality at Entry
                                    No                                            None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
Problem Project at any                             Quality of
                                    No                                            None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                                Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Banking                                                               76                  77
Payments, settlements, and remittance systems                         24                  23




Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
International financial standards and systems                         67                  67
Other financial and private sector development                        33                  33

E. Bank Staff
       Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:             James W. Adams                      Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:           Victoria Kwakwa                     Klaus Rohland
Sector Director:            Tunc Tahsin Uyanik                  Khalid A. Mirza
Project Team Leader:        Nancy Chen                          Xiaofeng Hua
ICR Team Leader:            Wei Zhang
ICR Primary Author:         Xiaofeng Hua




                                                  ii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project’s Development Objectives are to assist Vietnam’s banking sector to: (i) meet the
demands of the economy for fast, reliable and safe payment services; (ii) broaden access to
finance to facilitate the achievement of the government's poverty reduction targets; and (iii)
improve the operations of the participating banks through the expansion of the IBPS and the CBS.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

N.A.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target        Formally       Actual Value
                                            Values (from           Revised       Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                               approval             Target      Completion or
                                             documents)             Values       Target Years
                Steady increase of number of financial institutions/bank branches connected to
Indicator 1:    IBPS and CBS, and of transaction volume and value processed by the new
                systems:
Quantitative    IBPS: 49 financial        Connectivity:        n.a.          IBPS: Coverage of
                institutions were          IBPS: 45%                        institutions
                connected to the pilot        increase over 5                registered an
                Inter-Bank Payment            years                          average annual
                System with daily          CBS: 80%                         growth of 98% in
                transaction volume of         increase over 5                2005-2010; that of
                VND 16-20 billion.            years                          daily transaction
                                                                             about 87%; and that
                CBS: Limited number of Transaction                           of daily transaction
                branches connected to the Volume and value:                  in VND over 1.5
                pilot CBS of the           IBPS: 80%                        times in the same
                participating banks in        increase over 5                period.
                2005                          years
                                           CBS: 80%                         CBS: All banks
                                              increase over 5                reported more than
                                              years                          100% average
                                                                             annual increase in
                                                                             the number of
                                                                             branches connected
                                                                             to the CBS in 2005
                                                                             – 2010 (48 times
                                                                             growth for
                                                                             VBARD), and
                                                                             exponential
                                                                             increases in
                                                                             transaction volume
                                                                             and value. In
                                                                             particular BIDV
                                                                             and MSB provided

                                               iii
                                                                         time series data:
                                                                         BIDV: No. of daily
                                                                         transactions
                                                                         increased by 8
                                                                         times and in
                                                                         monetary terms by
                                                                         90 times.
                                                                         MSB: No. of daily
                                                                         transactions
                                                                         increased by 760
                                                                         times and in
                                                                         monetary terms by
                                                                         over 16 times.
Date achieved       December 2004             June 2010                       June 2010
Comments
(incl. %      Fully achieved
achievement)
              Continuing high level of performance of the expanded systems in terms of speed,
Indicator 2:
              certainty, reliability and convenience
Qualitative   New pilot core systems Both IBPS and          n.a.          Speed: Real time
              performed well, but         CBS successfully                Certainty: RTGS
              needed to be expanded       expanded and                     or End-of-Day net
              urgently because of         demonstrated high                basis settlements
              rapidly increasing market level of                          Reliability: No
              demand.                     performance                      major
                                                                           breakdowns and
                                                                           business
                                                                           continuity
                                                                           capacity
                                                                           significantly
                                                                           enhanced
                                                                          Convenience:
                                                                           Web-based
                                                                           interface for
                                                                           users, and one-
                                                                           stop services for
                                                                           bank customers

Date achieved       December 2004             June 2010                    June 2011
Comments
(incl. %      Fully achieved
achievement)
              Improved frequency and coverage of management information reports in
Indicator 3:
              participating banks
 Qualitative  Management of              New core banking n.a.         BIDV, MSB and
              participating banks did systems                           VBARD’s MIS
              not receive timely and     successfully                   (by using data
              reliable information       expanded/upgrade               from centralized
              partly due to the existing to provide IAS                 CBS and data


                                             iv
               central bank regulations   compatible                          centers) provide
               as well as banks’          information in a                    daily information
               practices and system       timely and reliable                 on the operation
               limitations.               way.                                and financials of
                                                                              the whole bank
                                                                              (including
                                                                              branches).
                                                                             MIS acquired
                                                                              under Project
                                                                              (BIDV, VBARD
                                                                              and VietinBank)
                                                                              is IAS
                                                                              compatible.
                                                                             VietinBank
                                                                              completed MIS
                                                                              installation before
                                                                              project closure
                                                                              but regular
                                                                              reports were not
                                                                              yet available at
                                                                              project
                                                                              completion.
Date achieved     December 2004               June 2010                           June 2010
Comments
(incl. %      Largely achieved
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target                       Actual Value
                                                                Formally
                                            Values (from                         Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                              Revised
                                              approval                          Completion or
                                                             Target Values
                                             documents)                         Target Years
                All goods and consulting services contracts are successfully
Indicator 1:
               implemented to enable designed system expansion and upgrading
Qualitative     No contract was           All 40+ contracts n.a.             At project
               available                 are successfully                    completion, 28
                                         implemented                         contracts financed
                                                                             by IDA credit were
                                                                             implemented; Of
                                                                             which 27 contracts
                                                                             were successfully
                                                                             implemented, and
                                                                             the implementation
                                                                             of one contract
                                                                             continued after
                                                                             project closure per



                                               v
                                                                                      original contract
                                                                                      terms.1
Date achieved December 2004             June 2010                                     June 2011
Comments
(incl. %      Largely achieved
achievement)
Indicator 2:   All system expansions/upgrading are ready for acceptance.
Qualitative   Existing pilot systems   All system          n.a.                       All systems
              needed to be expanded    expansions/                                    acquired were
              and/or upgraded to meet upgrading are                                   accepted, except for
              rapidly growing business tested and prove to                            VBARD’s DRC for
              demand.                  be ready for                                   which acceptance is
                                       acceptance.                                    expected after
                                                                                      project closure.
Date achieved      December 2004                    June 2010                              June 2011
Comments
(incl. %      Fully achieved
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                           Actual
          Date ISR
    No.                              DO                            IP                  Disbursements
          Archived
                                                                                       (USD million)
     1    06/17/2005          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                         0.00
     2    12/21/2005          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                         0.00
     3    07/25/2006          Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory                   1.00
     4    12/29/2007      Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                   4.43
     5    02/18/2009      Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                  27.14
     6    06/29/2009          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                        37.88
     7    06/30/2010          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                        53.55
     8    05/30/2011          Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory2                 71.17




1
  The total number of contracts was reduced from 40+ to 30+ before and after Mid-Term Review due to the scope
readjustments of the MSB and VietinBank components.
2
  The downgrading of the rating was mainly due to the implementation status of the PHRD grant for project
implementation support.

                                                     vi
H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     Extension of IDA credit and
 06/29/2010               S       S          53.55   PHRD grant closing date to
                                                     June 30, 2011



I. Disbursement Profile




                                       vii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)

1.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country and sector background, rationale for Bank assistance)

1.       Country and sector context: The Vietnamese banking sector reform began in earnest in
2001. By 2005 important changes were accomplished both in the structure, the regulation and the
operations of the banks, thus moving the banking sector towards a modus operandi that more
closely resembles domestic banking sectors in other emerging markets and newly industrialized
economies. The four largest State Owned Commercial Banks (SOCBs) which accounted for 73
percent of all credit to the economy had evolved from specialized policy lending vehicles to state-
owned banks operating on a more commercial basis. The consolidation of the Joint-Stock Banks
(JSBs) had led to the sub-sector’s strong growth and performance. The environment in which
banks operate improved with the removal of interest rate ceilings (in principle). The State Bank of
Vietnam (SBV, the central bank) promulgated regulations on reorganizing bank supervision,
leveling the playing field for foreign banks and reclassifying all non-performing loans (NPLs) in
the four SOCBs. Despite these positive changes, overall progress in implementing the reform
agenda was mixed. The speed of reform at the time was considered as too protracted to meet the
challenges resulting from the rapid opening of the financial sector to foreign participation in the
context of the Vietnam-US bilateral trade agreement (BTA) and the expected WTO membership.
The liberalization commitments under those trade agreements were expected to present
significant competitive pressure to the SOCBs and regulatory challenges to the SBV.

2.       The SBV recognized the immediate threat that the challenges pose to the future growth
and stability of the banking system and developed a “Plan for the International Economic
Integration of the Banking Sector? in mid-2003 to address the core development needs through
2010. One of the key reform areas of this Plan was the development of appropriate banking
infrastructure and the completion of what was started under the comprehensive program
developed in 1995 to develop a modern banking sector. The program aimed to improve both the
banking systems and payment services in the economy in order to reduce float, speed up
circulation of funds and increase efficiency of funds transmission while providing convenience,
service, and safety to users. The development of a national payments system for inter-bank
clearing and settlement (Inter-Bank Payment System–IBPS) was a primary focus of this program.
The program also had an important secondary focus on introducing modern, automated operating
systems (e.g. core banking, centralized accounting and management information) within the
largest banks.

3.       The first phase of the modernization program was supported by the Payment System and
Bank Modernization (the PSBM) project financed by the World Bank (the Bank). The first PSBM
project was successfully completed in 2004 which introduced on a pilot basis a modern IBPS in
the SBV and two modern Core Banking Solutions (CBS) in six commercial banks. The Second
Payments System and Bank Modernization Project (PSBM2, the Project), designed to build
directly upon the first PSBM project, was a response to the urgent needs to expand the pilot
systems.

4.      Rationale for Bank assistance: The Bank was uniquely placed to continue assisting the
government with the expansion of the IBPS and CBS systems under the PSBM 2 project. The
Bank had the experience in such projects and was well equipped to deal with the variety of policy,
design and implementation issues involved. It could provide objective “best practice? advice,


                                                 1
thereby ensuring that key strategic and policy issues that would need to be addressed for the
overall implementation of such systems were fully addressed. The outputs of the project required
heavy capital investment in imported capital goods. At the time of appraisal, neither the
government nor the participating banks had adequate access to low-cost and longer-term hard
currency funding denominated. The government considered financing the cost of PSBM 2 with
IDA resources as an appropriate course of action. No other donors were providing assistance in
this regard at PSBM2 appraisal.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

5.      The project’s Development Objectives are to assist Vietnam’s banking sector to: (i) meet
the demands of the economy for fast, reliable and safe payment services; (ii) broaden access to
finance to facilitate the achievement of the government's poverty reduction targets; and (iii)
improve the operations of the participating banks through the expansion of the IBPS and the CBS.

6.          The PDO indicators as approved by Board were as follows:
         (i) Steady increase of the number of financial institutions/bank branches connected to the
             IBPS and the CBS.
        (ii) Steady increase of the transaction volume and value processed by the IBPS and the
             CBS.
       (iii) Continuing high level of performance of the expanded systems in terms of speed,
             certainty, reliability and convenience.
       (iv) Continuous growth of the use of non-cash payment instruments and widened range of
             banking products and services.
        (v) Improved financial accounting and operational reporting in the participating banks.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

7.      There was no formal revision of the PDO and the key indicators. However, the PDO
indicators were consolidated into three main values in the first Implementation Status and Results
Report (dated June 17, 2005), to improve the presentation of the indicators and enhance their
measurability. A further informal revision of the third PDO Indicator took place in 2007 to make
it more measurable. Those revisions were made after discussions with the regional quality
assurance unit (EAPCO), and reflected the evolution of the Bank’s current practices in
developing and using a SMART results framework in Bank financed operations.3 Details of the
revisions are provided in Section 2.3.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
(original and revised, briefly describe the “primary target group? identified in the PAD and as
captured in the PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected to benefit from
the project)

8.      The primary target groups were the SBV and the four participating commercial banks
including the Bank of Investment and Development of Vietnam (BIDV), the Maritime Joint Stock
Commercial Bank (MSB), the Vietnam Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (VBARD)
and the Vietnam Industry and Commerce Bank (VietinBank, formerly IncomBank). The indirect



3
    SMART stands for Specific, Measurable, Attributable, Realistic and Relevant, and Time-Bound.


                                                           2
beneficiaries included the banking industry, the customers of the participating banks and other
future IBPS members including the State Treasury.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

9.    The PSBM 2 project was organized around two main components: (i) Inter-Bank
Payment System (IBPS) Expansion; and (ii) Core Banking Solutions (CBS) Expansion.

10.      Component 1, IBPS Expansion (US$ 25.2 million equivalent): The pilot IBPS was a
centralized, single current-account based, inter-bank clearing and settlement system managed by
the SBV. It composed of the National Payment System Center (NPSC), its back-up center, and
five province-based Payment Processing Centers (PPCs). The pilot IBPS proved to be up to the
international standards that helped improve the payment services and address perennial cash
shortages in the economy through effective management and uses of centralized funding. It
provided the core functionality of the interbank payments system, but the transaction volume and
value handled by the pilot IBPS far exceeded the original targets. The situation called for an
immediate expansion of the system. There was also an urgent need to enhance the system’s
capacity for performance, network security and business continuity. The main activities of
Component 1 were (i) upgrading hardware and installing new software to expand processing
capability and strengthen interconnection; business continuity, and network and security system;
(ii) consultant support of project implementation; and (iii) staff training. The implementing
agency of this component was the Informatics Technology Department of the SBV (ITDB).

11.      Component 2, CBS Expansion (US$ 79.8 million equivalent): Under the first PSBM
project, the participating banks adopted international standard core banking solutions (CBS) and a
few other modules of banking operational systems (BOS), which centralized accounting and
control functions with respect to customer files, deposit and loan, general ledger and financial
control, trade finance, and other commercial bank core businesses. Those automated tools
stimulated initiatives to improve internal procedures, organizational structure and customer
services; but the application of solutions was limited to the head office and a few pilot branches.
There was an urgent need to rollout the solutions to mitigate the high operational risk of running
both the new and the legacy systems in parallel. There was also a need to build the capacity for
business continuity and enhance the network and physical security of the new facilities. To
further strengthen operational efficiency and risk management, new modules such as financial
management and improved MIS were required. Finally, increasing market demand required the
banks to add more operational modules to the CBS system to provide non-cash-based payment
instruments and more diversified financial products and services (e.g. internet and telephone
banking). The main activities were similar as those under Component 1. The implementing
agencies of Component 2 were the four participating banks.

1.6 Revised Components

N.A.




                                                3
1.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding allocations)

12.      The project’s closing date was extended once from June 30, 2010 to June 30, 2011,
mainly to allow time for implementation completion by three participating banks (BIDV, MSB
and VietinBank). An amount of over SDR7.9 million4 was canceled upon the closure of the IDA
credit account on October 31, 2011. The canceled amount was from the savings under the IBPS,
BIDV and VBARD components, and the IDA allocation originally to finance five goods
packages under the MSB and the VietinBank components as those banks did not have time to
implement the related activities by the project closing date.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

13.     Overall review: The project was prepared following the conclusion of the first PSBM as a
repeater operation. The result of the first PSBM project was verified and accepted by the SBV
together with the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Planning and Investment, and the Ministry
of Information and Communications. The Vietnam Association for Information Processing, an
independent IT organization, also provided verification of the pilot systems. At the time of
PSBM2 project completion, the project design was considered as Satisfactory. This assessment is
based on the incorporation in the project design of the lessons learned (see the following three
paragraphs for details). It also takes into consideration the complexity. Complexity is relative to
the nature of a project and the implementing agencies’ capacity. Including commercial banks in
the payments system related projects such as PSBM and PSBM2 may be seen as adding
complexity. However, it turned out to be a major contributing factor to project success.
Traditionally, Bank payments system projects tend to concentrate on providing such a system to
the central bank, leaving system implementation throughout the banking market to the client. This
type of project design appears to be less complex but usually entails more difficulties in making a
system work as the client might not have the technical capacity or investment funding to push the
new system through the banking market. For the national payments systems members, getting a
new model will not work unless they also re-engineer their core banking and operational systems.
By providing funding and technical support to three of the country’s four largest banks, and a fast
expanding joint-stock bank, PSBM2 ensured a critical mass of transaction coverage and a
balanced representation of national payments system members. All the implementing agencies
had experience in implementing IT based projects in particular through the first PSBM project,
although much remained to be learned by those agencies as the implementation of PSBM2 found
out which were summarized in the implementing agencies’ own project closure reports.

14.     Lessons learned - Flexibility: The project design took into account the Bank’s
experience in other financial infrastructure development projects and in particular that gained
under the first PSBM project. International experience related to IT investment projects was also
considered. The central lesson learned under the first project was flexibility in the overall solution
design. The pilot systems contained all the basic functionality to satisfy users’ immediate and
medium-term needs, but left the system expansion and performance enhancement to PSBM2 to
allow the beneficiaries to gain experience, see tangible benefits and build confidence. The design


4
    US$12.3 million equivalent at the exchange rate used for the credit (SDR1=USD1.54899 as of December 31, 2004).


                                                          4
of PSBM2 benefited from this approach and maintained the flexibility (e.g. the co-existence with
the IBPS of the legacy payments systems at the provincial level to service the State Treasury
which is still developing an automated government cash management system, and the modular
approach towards additions of new CBS/BOS functionalities). The Bank team discussed this
main lesson in a published a SmartLesson Note listed in Annex 9.

15.      Lessons learned – Procurement planning: The main activities of IT-based projects are
system procurement and implementation. In Vietnam (and probably in other economies at a
similar technological development level), engagement and working with international consultants
for detailed technical design and procurement support is another main activity. Under PSBM2,
procurement plans were carefully evaluated at project appraisal and in SBV’s Feasibility Study.
When it was necessary to readjust the procurement plans for two components with serious
implementation delays, the new procurement plans were again carefully evaluated both from the
technical and procurement standpoints. These efforts were time consuming but were necessary
for successful implementation.

16.      Lessons learned – Project management capacity: Based on the experience learned under
the first project, the PSBM2 design maintained the designated project management units at the
SBV and the implementing agencies to ensure that the institutional memories gained were
maintained, and adequate attentions would be paid to project implementation without major
interruptions to the normal operation of the implementing agencies. The design also highlighted
the importance of maintaining the institutional capacity.

17.     Risks identified: At appraisal the overall risk was rated as Modest which remained
appropriate at project completion. One risk to the PDO and two risks to the component results
were identified and rated as Modest. They were, “Other financial institutions not covered by the
project might be put at a disadvantage? (risk for PDO #2); and “Pace of change in legal and
regulatory framework on electronic transactions and records is slow to support the operation of
the expanded systems? (Component risk#1), and “Relatively weak capacity of PMU and PIUs to
manage procurement process and commercial contract? (Component risk #2). With the benefit of
hindsight, the second PDO was somewhat too generic, and the identified risk and its mitigation
were beyond the scope of the project.5 The first identified component risk did not materialize as
the existing legal and regulatory framework upgraded under the first project and by the SBV on
its own turned out to be able to govern and support the operation of the expanded systems. The
second risk to component results turned out to be a major implementation risk as there were staff
changes in particular of PIU personnel at MSB and VietinBank,6 and delays in procurement and
payments to contractors during project implementation. This risk should have been rated as high,
although at the time of appraisal there were no sign of any major staff changes at the banks. Some
main causes to procurement and payments delays were beyond the scope of the project.

2.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions
taken, as applicable)




5
  The project was appraised in early 2005 and at that time the going trend within the Bank for performance indicator
designs was to highlight in PDOs the contribution of Bank financed operations to the poverty reduction agenda.
PSBM2’s contributions to poverty reduction were meaningful but indirect. By the current Bank practice expected
indirect impact is beyond a project’s control and should not be used as a project-specific objective.
6
  Project staff changes significantly contributed to the catch-up in project implementation at MSB and VietinBank.


                                                         5
18.      Overall review: The project implementation was considered Satisfactory at project
completion, in particular when viewed against the international and country experience with
information and communication technology (ICT)-based projects. Even in a developed banking
environment, the failure rate of core banking implementations can be as high as 70 percent.7
Under the project, systems were successfully implemented and in general in smooth operation.
The project was completed in a relatively short time for similar IT-based projects (6 years), with
all the expected outcomes fully or largely achieved. Concerns for low disbursement at the early
phase of project implementation proved to be pre-mature as the final disbursement rate was 91
percent of the original baseline cost baseline cost (Bank financing portion of total cost). Examples
of successful project implementation are provided in Section 5.2 (b).

19.     Implementation efficacy: Project implementation was efficient at project completion and
compared with similar Bank IT projects in Vietnam and other countries. However,
implementation was not always smooth and at times suffered major delays in: a) the credit
effectiveness (270 days), b) engagement of implementation support consultants (12 months), c)
procurement processes for goods, and d) payments to contractors. Those delays were mainly
caused by the following factors.

20.      Factors subject to implementing agencies’ control: The main factor in this category was
the staff changes in the project management units (and to a lesser extent the technical teams) due
to internal re-organization, staff rotation, new assignment, retirement and/or career development
concerns.8 In the case of MSB and VietinBank, the changes were major but with a positive impact
on the pace of project implementation. With the departure of experienced staff, the PIUs had to
re-build the institutional memory and knowledge about IT projects, international practices of
contract management and World Bank guidelines.

21.     Factors subject to government control: Two factors in this category became substantial
causes to the delays in project implementation and they are the common problems under donor-
funded projects in Vietnam:

    1) The project implementing agencies tended to follow both the Bank procurement
       guidelines and the government’s procurement regulations at the same time, which had
       significant gaps between them. Vietnam's Public Procurement Law stipulates that the
       provisions of the legal agreement of the donor prevail over the national law. The
       government’s Decree 131 has a similar provision.9. It appears that those provisions were
       either not well disseminated to project entities and the relevant enforcement authorities
       (e.g. the State General Auditor and the State Treasury); or were not supported by specific
       implementation procedures. Perceived non-compliance of national laws and regulations
       can lead to specific and severe punishment while that of the donors’ guidelines may not.
       The resulted confusion often led to more rounds of review and revision.
    2) The internal processes for reviewing and approving payments to contractors were long
       and tedious at the State Treasury (for the SBV component) and the Vietnam



7
  A number of research papers report high failure rate of core banking system implementations. A 2008 Banker’s
Academy survey found that 70% of core banking implementations failed. See Annex 9 for details of the paper
8
  Effects on staff’s career development were another cause of staff changes when they had to be away from their
regular jobs for an extended period.
9
  Decree 131 stipulates that if “there is a discrepancy between any provision in an international treaty on ODA to which
the Socialist Republic of Vietnam is a signatory, and the Vietnamese Law, the provision in the international treaty on
ODA shall take preference?


                                                           6
         Development Bank (VDB, for the banks components). This created unnecessary frictions
         between the clients and the contractors.

22.     Other factors: There was a factor that affected the implementation of a participating
bank’s component in 2007–2008. Based on information received, the Bank’s INT undertook an
investigation of a consulting firm engaged by the participating bank to support project
implementation. This firm was found to have misrepresented its capacity and commitment in the
proposal and was debarred by the Bank in April 2010. The debarment was solely in response to
fraudulent behavior of the firm, and not in response to any fraudulent behavior on the part of any
agency of the government of Vietnam. This was a factor out of the control of the government or
the implementing agency. The case presented no serious impacts on the project’s
implementation.10

23.      Actions taken: The impact of staff changes was overcome eventually as new staff gained
experience through the learning by doing process and several rounds of training on Bank
guidelines. In the case of MSB and VietinBank, it was also due to the quality of staff replacement.
The technical weaknesses were supplemented once the implementation consultants were engaged
(in March 2006). MSB reduced the number of goods packages in the procurement plan from five
to four (with the Bank’s no-objection) in 2008 to focus on what the bank could deliver within the
life time of the project. VietinBank, faced with a possibility of having their component canceled
at the time of Mid-Term Review, also substantively readjusted the procurement plan in 2009 to
focus on what the bank could deliver towards achieving the objectives of the project before
project completion. The time taken to pay contractors was also improved after the Mid-Term
Review recommended more proactive interactions with the State Treasury and the VDB (e.g.
establishing an MOU on the standards for processing payment requests). This was part of a two-
level approach to deal with the problems, at both the project level and the country management
level. The country management’s dialogue with the relevant government agencies is continuing.
Those actions led to accelerated project implementation.11




10
   World Bank News Release, April 12, 2010
11
   A PHRD implementation support grant (TF090325) was secured in 2007 mainly to support the PMU to monitor
implementation progress and the VietinBank to overcome the obstacles in project implementation, but the grant was
not fully utilized due to the reasons discussed in the PHRD grant’s implementation completion GRM. The grant,
however, contributed to the monitoring and evaluation of project performance. The grant also financed an activity to
introduce principles of payments system oversight which was important to IBPS’ sustainability.


                                                         7
2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

24.      The project’s M&E arrangements were embodied in a results framework developed in
accordance with the Bank’s relevant operational guidance at the time of appraisal. Viewed against
today’s operational policies, the second PDO (“broaden access to finance to facilitate the
achievement of the government's poverty reduction targets?) was too broad. The outcome
indicators as approved were also somewhat repetitive, and therefore were consolidated shortly
after the Board approval. The consolidation reduced the Project Outcome Indicators from five to
three. The original forth PDO Indicator on growth of uses in non-cash payments instruments was
dropped as it was considered to be difficult measure during the lifetime of the project, although at
project completion statistics were available to demonstrate the increased uses of banks cards at
the participating banks. In 2007 the third PDO Outcome Indicator was modified, when it became
clear that the indicator would be difficult to measure due to the mismatch between the project’s
life time and the time needed for the new MIS systems to generate verifiable, broad results in
financial accounting and reporting. The Intermediate Outcome Indicators were also revised to
make them more pertinent to the outputs of the components. At project completion, the upgraded
results framework was considered as clear, realistic and responsive to Vietnam’s financial sector
development strategy and the project entities’ development priorities. The Bank team used the
results framework regularly for project supervision purpose. The project entities’ use of the
results framework to assess the project’s achievement increased when the initial tangible outputs
became available.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

25.     Procurement: In general, procurement processes under the project were in line with the
Bank guidelines and resulted in the acquisition of internationally compatible payments and core
banking systems. The reported good performance of the systems is another sign of the success of
the procurement processes. Section 2.2 discussed the procurement issues that caused project
implementation delays and the actions taken.

26.     Financial management: All the annual audits of the project were unqualified. The audits
were carried out in accordance with the international auditing standards by a local accounting
firm acceptable to the Bank. The main shortcoming identified by Bank supervision missions was
the delayed payments to contractors which were due to the slow services of the State Treasury
and Vietnam Development Bank who acted as the verification agents of the expenses claims of
the project.

27.     The project did not trigger Safeguard reviews.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional
capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)




                                                 8
28.     Post-completion operation: At project completion all but one of the systems procured
under the project were performing well with no major system stoppages or service interruptions.12
Multi-year maintenance contracts and the ongoing or planned enhancement activities at the
project entities (see below) would ensure continued operation and good performance of the
systems.

29.      Next phase: The SBV, BIDV and MSB have completed the next 5-year plan for the
development of their banks’ IT architecture, and the other two banks are in the process of
developing the strategy. All the project entities are enhancing the systems. For example, BIDV
plans to add capital market models to the CBS/BOS system; MSB is in the process of enhancing
the operational applications procured under the first PSBM; and VietinBank has turned the PIU
into an investment management unit in charge of 20 projects including those on internet banking
and business chain formulation. The SBV has drafted a regulation on the fee structure of
interbank payments to encourage more uses of the RTGS module of the IBPS. The central bank is
also considering internally about the legal/regulatory and institutional issues regarding the
clearance and settlement of foreign currency transactions (which is not processed by IBPS at
present). In addition, the SBV is finalizing a five-year strategy for developing a cashless economy
in Vietnam and has requested Bank’s assistance in implementation of this strategy. Considering
the importance of the payment system as a critical financial infrastructure for Vietnam, the
Bank’s financial sector team is discussing with SBV the options to support this important
initiative for improving financial inclusion in Vietnam.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

30.     Overall review: The project remained Highly Relevant at completion as viewed against
the current government economic development strategy and Bank assistance strategy.

31.      Country priorities: The Government of Vietnam’s 2011-2020 Socio-Economic
Development Strategy (SEDS) has set as the overall goal for the country to become a modern,
industrialized society by 2020. The ten-year development strategy has highlighted three priority
areas for achieving the overall goal, i.e.: (i) promoting human resources/skills development
(particularly skills for modern industry and innovation); (ii) improving market institutions; and
(iii) infrastructure development. The project (together with the first project) has provided
Vietnam in particular its financial institutions a critical financial market institution which is the
modern inter-bank payments system. It has also contributed to the operational re-engineering of
most of the country’s largest financial institutions. Those results are the basic building blocks for
innovation in the banking sector and continuous improvements of financial market institutions.

32.     Bank assistance strategy: The Bank Group’s new Country Partnership Strategy (FY12-
       13
FY16), which supports the government’s thrust of SEDS, is composed of three pillars: (i)
strengthening Vietnam's competitiveness in the regional and global economy; (ii) increasing the
environmental sustainability of its development; and (iii) broadening access to economic and


12
   At implementation completion VBARD was still in the deployment of the disaster recovery system procured under
the project and the related cost was to be financed by VBARD. The bank has adopted a three-pillar architecture for
system reliability and business continuity and has the backup center enhanced under the project.
13
   Presented to the Board on December 15, 2011.


                                                        9
social opportunity. Underpinning the pillars are two cross-cutting themes: (i) strengthening
governance and (ii) improving resilience in the face of external economic and natural hazards and
shocks and the impact of climate change. International experience including the lessons from the
most recent global financial crisis demonstrate that a sound and stable financial sector is critical
to a country’s competitiveness and resilience to external shocks. As part of the critical
infrastructure of the country, the expanded IBPS allows the SBV to closely monitor, and if
necessary promptly support, market liquidity, in addition to channeling much needed funds to
various economic actors in a timely, safe and reliable way. With the centralized operational
systems in place that centralize funding, the participating banks are in a better position to provide
better services and innovative products (e.g. internet banking) to their customers. The
management information modules of the systems are able to provide timely and holistic
information which are expected to strengthen risk management at the participating banks.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 2)

33.      Overall review: The Project Development Objectives were achieved with Satisfactory
results at project completion when evaluated against the following PDO Outcome Indicators.

34.      Indicator #1, Steady increase of number of financial institutions/bank branches
connected to IBPS and CBS, and of transaction volume and value processed by the new
systems: All the banks are now members of the IBPS. VBARD’s vast branch network of over
2000 business units are operating on the same CBS/BOS platform. While system rollout at the
other participating banks was mainly funded on their own, the enhanced/expanded capacity of the
systems has contributed to the exponential increases of the transactions processed (see Section F
of the Datasheet above for details). The achievement of this indicator is further demonstrated in
the following tables.

Table 1: IBPS Expansion
Year              Connectivity                      Daily Transaction       Total Transactions per day
                                                    Volume (No.)            (VND billion)

2002 (April-      20 credit institutions            300-500 transactions    Transactions processed per
December)                                           processed per day       day reached VND16–20
                                                                            billion

2005              49 credit institutions with 220   13,000 transactions     VND8,000-10,000 billion
                  member units/branches             processed per day

2010              94 credit institutions with 881   69,500 transactions     VND 105,000 billion
                  member units/branches             processed per day

June 2011         97 credit institutions with 788   84,000 transactions     VND 182,000 billion
                  member units/branches14           processed per day




14
  Member banks consolidated payment transaction at their headquarters level and reduced membership of their
branches with IBPS.


                                                    10
Table 2: CBS Expansion
                                                                              200215             2005             2010
Number of branches connected with CBS/BOS16
 BIDV                                                                            1               266               597
 MSB                                                                            10               18                41
 VBARD                                                                          44               47               2300
 VietinBank                                                                      0                70               153
Average total daily transactions processed by loan
module (VND billions)
 BIDV                                                                          135              1,384            3,114
 MSB                                                                           n.a.              15               271
 VBARD                                                                         n.a.              n.a.            22,280
Number of active cards holders17
 BIDV                                                                         1,327            900,000        2,000,000
 MSB                                                                           n.a.              n.a.           16,475
 VBARD                                                                       120,000           300,000        >7,000,000
Daily reporting to management of operational activities
and financial position and performance by branch
through MIS module (Yes/No)
 BIDV                                                                          Yes               Yes              Yes
 MSB                                                                           Yes               Yes              Yes
 VBARD                                                                         No                No               Yes

35.     Indicator #2, Continuing high level of performance of expanded/upgraded systems in
terms of speed, certainty, reliability and convenience: All the project entities confirmed good
performance of the systems in the areas highlighted by the indicator. Interbank and intra-bank
payments can now be settled in real time as compared to days in the past (speed and certainty).
The systems’ reliability has been significantly strengthened with the backup and disaster recovery
centers and network security capacity (e.g. automatic tracking of hacks). The systems use the
web-based technology interface, which is user-friendly.

36.     Indicator #3, Improve frequency and coverage of management information reports of
participating banks: This indicator was largely accomplished. The upgraded MIS systems at
BIDV and VBARD send overnight financial and operational information to the desk of senior
management based on data from the core banking system and the centralized databases.
VietinBank completed the implementation of a MIS module before the project closing date,
which is expected to provide similar daily information. MSB uses an in-house developed MIS
which has benefited from the CBS and the data warehouse. The centralized databases also enable
the banks to respond to the SBV’s information requirements in a timely manner. All the MIS
modules procured/enhanced under the two projects are IAS compatible.

37.     Other indicators: The evidence of PDO achievement can also be found in the direct
benefits gained for the SBV and the participating banks. The expanded IBPS has enhanced the
SBV’s capacity to better monitor and manage interbank market liquidity, thanks to direct transfer
of funds between banks and within a bank across the country, online processes, standardized



15
   The base year for BIDV and VBARD was 2003.
16
   Including all the branch network units of the bank, e.g., branches, sub-branches, deposit taking outlets, etc. except for
VietinBank’s data which only included first level branches.
17
   Including all types of cards issued by the banks, e.g., debit, credit and ATM cards.




                                                            11
procedures, adequate processing capacity and single settlement account (at least for the three
SOCBs). The expanded CBS/BOS (with automated operations, unified operational systems, large
processing capacity, centralized funds management and customer database, 24/7 call center and
one-stop customer services) have improved the banks’ competitiveness and operational efficiency
as well as strengthened their capacity for better risk management. The technologies adopted are in
line with the international standards in terms of capacity, speed, application software, security and
business continuity. The discussions in Section 3.3 and 3.5 provide further evidence of the
achievement of the PDOs. Detailed information on the main benefits gained under the project can
be found in the implementing agencies project completion reports.

3.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

38.    Given the nature of the project, no ERR/NPV analysis was carried out to quantify the
economic benefits of the project at appraisal. However, qualitative economic analysis was
conducted against a group of well-accepted economic benefits from well-functioning payments
systems and commercial banking systems. Using the same qualitative method, the following
economic benefits were achieved at project completion:

       The expanded IBPS and CBS/BOS are an essential element of a modern financial sector
        infrastructure in Vietnam.
       The expanded IBPS improves the effectiveness of monetary policy implementation as it
        has reduced cash float for most of payments in the banking system to real time or within
        the day, which in turn greatly improved predictability of cash flows within the economy.
       The expanded CBS/BOS are a tool for better risk management at the participating banks
        as bank management can now plan, monitor and control the status of banking operations
        at both the branch and head office levels on a daily basis.
       The expanded systems make it easier to investigate on suspicious and abnormal funds
        transfers, as most of the financial transactions (in value) are now captured by the systems.
       The expanded IBPS and CBS/BOS contribute to broadening the access to finance, as
        they:
             Enable the participating banks to provide to their customers one-stop services,
                 and new products (e.g. credit and debit cards and internet banking); and
             Help bank customers to improve financial management of their businesses (e.g.
                 more efficient processing of payments and receipts, and decreased uses of cash).
       The expanded systems are an important prerequisite for the economic agents to move
        away from the informal sector, hence help to reduce the risks to economic and socio
        development planning and macroeconomic stability.

39.    No standard financial analysis was conducted at appraisal, as cost-accounting was not yet
adopted on a widespread basis in Vietnam’s banking sector, and the financial results of IT
systems development are difficult to quantify in the short life cycle of the project.

40.      At project completion, the project was considered as Efficient given the realized and
verifiable benefits achieved. A more elaborated discussion on the methodology used is provided
in Annex 3.




                                                 12
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)

Rating: Satisfactory

41.   This rating is based on the High Relevance of the project and the achievement of the
PDOs as discussed in Section 3.1 and Section 3.2.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

42.     The project’s contribution to poverty reduction in Vietnam is mainly indirect from the
benefits achieved at the macroeconomic, national market and institutional levels. For details
please refer to Annex 3.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

43.     Operational policies: Based on the experience gained under the two projects the SBV has
issued operational policies for the acquired systems which are in line with the international
practices regarding information technology and operational systems in modern banking.

44.     Organizational structure: New operational units, noticeably the card and IT centers have
been established and some business centers reorganized at several participating banks as a result
of system rollout and expansion. The reorganization at the participating banks are more customer-
oriented rather than product-centered, with a strong emphasis on developing new products for
different target markets, at least partly as a result of the CBS/BOS expansions under the Project.

45.     Human capital: Staff trained either through learning by doing processes or by designated
training activities had enhanced the project entities’ human capital. It is important that their
knowledge and experience are appropriately maintained and utilized. Many staff trained during
the project implementation have been promoted to be in charge of next generation expansion of
the core banking systems within their banks. The confidence level and capacity of the in-house IT
staff have been enhanced in managing the current systems and identifying gaps for future
development and upgrading.

46.     Behavioral changes: While behavioral changes are difficult to verify, there are early
signs of changes in management of the banks triggered by the on-line management tools and
timely management information (MIS modules), as well as staff attitude towards technical and
business innovations thanks to the tangible benefits gained.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

47.     During PSBM2 preparation the SBV planned to address the capacity problem by adding
11 PPCs throughout the country. By the time the project implementation started, the SBV had
decided to focus on the upgrading and expanding the existing national centers and turn the six
PPCs into regional centers taking into account the improvement in telecommunication access and
the level of regional economic integration in Vietnam. This was in line with the international
trend wherein inter-bank payment systems are increasingly centralized for better efficiency,


                                               13
enhanced reliability and reduced cost. The success of the transformation of the six provincial
processing centers into regional centers under the PSBM2 project set a good example for the
gradual centralization of operation and financial control at the SBV. The SBV management has
indicated the adoption of a similar but more gradual approach towards the re-organization of the
SBV branch network in the context of the design of an overall information system architecture
(supported by an ongoing Bank-financed project). The project (together with its predecessor) has
also set a good practice example for the design and implementation of similar projects to meet the
demand of the fast expanding banking services industry in Vietnam.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

48.     The Bank task team distributed a questionnaire to the ITDB (including the IBPS main
and backup centers) and the four participating banks to collect feedback on project design,
implementation and lessons learned. All the project entities reported satisfaction with the project
design and implementation. Main reported difficulties encountered at different phases of project
implementation included unforeseen technical difficulties, inadequate participation of colleagues
from the business functions, change of main staff, and the government and Bank procurement
procedures. Those issues are similar to the ones raised in the project entities’ own project closure
evaluations which are discussed further in Section 7 below. Feedback on lessons learned from the
respondents is reflected in Section 6. For details of the project entities’ responses, please refer to
Annex 5.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Negligible to Low

49.     The technical basis for this rating is discussed in Section 2.5 and Section 3.2. The
operation of the systems is sustainable, thanks to: (i) steady system performance; (ii) existence of
multi-year maintenance contracts; and (iii) availability of backup and disaster recovery facilities.
All the project entities have dedicated staff to monitor and maintain system performance on a
real-time and/or daily basis. The financial deepening in the economy is continuing. The increases
in the use of the systems and the adequacy of the designed capacity (e.g. only 50% of the
designed IBPS capacity is used at present) are an important factor ensuring post-completion
business sustainability of the IBPS and CBS systems. All the project entities have secured budget
from their institutions for the maintenance of the acquired systems, and all are investing their own
funding for continuous system improvements.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)

Rating: Satisfactory

50.    The Bank responded to the needs for expanding/upgrading the pilot systems developed
under the first project. The PSBM2 project was highly relevant to the financial sector
development needs in Vietnam and the relevant government strategy. Lessons learned from the



                                                 14
first project and similar projects elsewhere were incorporated in the project design in terms of the
modular technical architecture, the flexible approaches towards specific expansion needs and the
institutional arrangements. The scope of the project and each component was based on extensive
reviews of the pilot systems and the overall operational environment of the project entities. The
costing of the main activities (i.e. several dozens of procurement packages) and the packaging of
the goods and services to be procured were based on solid inputs from the implementing agencies.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)

Rating: Satisfactory

51.     The Bank team was technically capable and understood the nature and processes of
payments system and banking IT projects. The review of procurement documents not only
checked the compliance with the Bank guidelines but also offered solutions to problems. Some of
the problems dealt with (e.g. the trade-in of an old server for a new one) were the first under Bank
financed projects. The team responded in a timely manner to the major issues causing
implementation delays. The efforts resulted in more regular trainings on Bank guidelines for
project entities, accelerated payments review processes, revitalization of the VietinBank
component and stop-gap financing of the maintenance cost of the IBPS, for example. The M&E
indicators were adjusted once it became clear that measurability of those indicators would need to
be enhanced. The team used the ISR to report main issues in a candid manner and rated the
project according to the progress (or lack of it) in each review period. The Bank management
supported the project supervision with higher than average budget allocation, and discussions
with the government on the factors under the government control and regarding the actions
needed following the INT debarment of a consulting firm under a component.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

Please refer to Section 5.1 (a) and (b) for the justifications for this rating.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

52.      The government strongly supported the implementing agencies’ request for Bank support
of the system expansions. It provided project preparation funding (mainly financed by a Japanese
Government PHRD grant) for the review and the costing of the technical needs for system
expansions. The government ownership of the project was strong, as reflected in a) the provision
of sizeable counterpart funding in cash for the IBPS expansion (15%), b) the firm actions taken to
address the major implementation issues such as those related to the serious delays under the
VietinBank component and a contractual relationship issue involving a consulting firm debarred
by the Bank, and c) the field visits at project completion of a large number of project sites to learn
about the experience under the project. The MS rating was mainly due to the factors affecting
project implementation described in Section 2.2 (paragraph 21) above, which were subject to
government control.



                                                   15
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

53.     At appraisal: The performance of the five implementing agencies at appraisal was
Satisfactory. All the project entities in particular ITDB, BIDV and VBARD carried out detailed
review of their pilot systems and the business requirements for system expansion. They worked
closely with the preparation consultants on the costing of the priority system expansion needs.
The results at project completion showed that the original design of the system expansions met
the priority needs of the banking market for the IBPS and that of the business development at the
participating banks in particular BIDV and VBARD.

54.      At project completion: The performance of ITDB, BIDV and VBARD was Satisfactory.
The management of those implementing agencies remained strongly committed to the
development objectives throughout the life of the project. They maintained experienced project
management units and capable technical teams, which fully utilized the knowledge and expertise
of the implementation support consultants. The ITDB and VBARD completed the originally
planned activities in 18 months before the original project closing date, and used the savings in
funding from the competitive procurement processes in the rest of the implementation period to
procure additional packages for system maintenance (IBPS) or enhanced disaster recovery
capacity (VBARD CBS). VBARD’s experience in system rollout was particularly noticeable. The
bank completed the rollout in 14 months in the vast branch network and absorbed the staff
redundancy mainly internally. This was achieved through an intensive train-the-trainer program,
staff re-training and a strategy to deploy the CBS quickly throughout the bank instead of rolling it
out in phases by different levels of branches. Among all the project implementing agencies,
VBARD stood out for the full utilization of the project funding (98 percent of the original IDA
allocation). BIDV completed all the originally planned activities at project completion. One main
difficulty BIDV encountered was the complex relationships between contractors and sub-
contractors when integrating the existing backup capacity and adding an internet banking module
to the system. The bank skillfully addressed the problems and in the last 12 months of project
implementation made up for the time lost. The cash funding BIDV and VBARD invested under
the project were 13 percent and 27 percent of the total cost, respectively. The cancelled funding
under SBV, BIDV and VBARD components (US$5 million) were mainly savings from the
competitive procurement processes.

55.      The performance of MSB at project completion was Moderately Satisfactory. The MSB
component suffered long delays in the first two years of project implementation. A major
difficulty MSB encountered was in the enhancement of the business applications acquired under
the first project. At the time of system procurement under the first project, MSB went for a
limited version of the vendor’s CBS/BOS system at a low price. However, MSB’s operation
expanded rapidly in the two years after the installation of the pilot system. Enhancement of the
applications to meet MSB’s more recent business needs would cost much more than the available
project funding and entailed long negotiations with the original system supplier. With the long
delays in project implementation, the bank appointed new project management and decided to
focus the efforts in adding an eBanking module, building the system’s backup capacity and
expanding the hardware capacity. Those actions (supported by the PMU and the Bank) ensured
the completion of the MSB component by the project closing date. However, the developmental
impact would be greater if the business applications were enhanced under the project. MSB
provided over 12 percent of the component cost as the counterpart funding in cash. The canceled
amount of IDA allocation (US$323,000) was initially to finance POS product development which
was no longer MSB’s priority after the eBanking/card switch module became operational in July


                                                16
2009. MSB’s performance in 2008–2011 was Satisfactory. The Moderately Satisfactory rating
takes into account the earlier delays in project implementation and MSB’s performance in the last
three years up to the project closing date.

56.      The performance of VietinBank was Moderately Satisfactory at project completion. The
component implementation as measured by the procurement and implementation of the original
system packages was delayed for three years until late 2008. At appraisal, VietinBank decided to
finance the consulting services for implementation support on its own, and could not engage the
consultants until late 2007 (for the hardware packages) and early 2008 (for the software
packages). The bank completed the system rollout on its own, but after that took a long while to
determine which priority business needs were to be supported by the project. At the Mid-Term
Review, the SBV and the Bank team decided to cancel this component if no major improvement
was made in project management and implementation. Meanwhile, the bank management was
planning human resource changes to better support the bank’s development strategy. Against this
background Vietinbank replaced project management and readjusted the procurement plan. The
new procurement plan focused on the development of MIS/Reporting and Internal resources
management/core banking/ERP, in addition to additions of hardware for the CBS/BOS system
(e.g. for network security and uninterrupted power supply). The identified priorities were in line
with the PDO, and were completed at project completion. The canceled amount of IDA allocation
to this component (US$1.6 million) was originally for a bond management module, but the bank
did not have enough time to implement the activity before the project closing date. VietinBank’s
performance in 2009–2011 was Satisfactory. The Moderately Satisfactory rating takes into
account the earlier delays in project implementation and VietinBank’s performance in the last two
years up to the project closing date.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

57.     This rating has taken into consideration: (i) the overall satisfactory performance of the
government and the implementing agencies at appraisal, (ii) the strong government ownership of
the project, (iii) the firm actions the government took to address a few major implementation
obstacles, (iv) the satisfactory performance of the three out of the five implementing agencies
which accounted for 78 percent of the project cost, and (v) the commendable results achieved by
the other implementing agencies despite earlier delays in project implementation.

6. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

Many lessons are learned from the relatively successful experience of PSBM2, which are
summarized below.

58.     Flexibility in overall solution design and project implementation: An important lesson
learned is flexibility in designing the overall system architecture and implementation sequencing
for IT-based/IT-driven projects in the banking and probably other sectors of an emerging market
economy that is experiencing fast changing the industry and technology. Often, the desire to
leapfrog from a primitive to a sophisticated banking environment in one step leads to adoption of
the “copy the developed world? approach in designing and implementing technical solutions.
Such practices can cause indecisiveness and low levels of confidence when adopting a system
architecture that is not appropriately understood and owned by the implementing units. With
support from Bank staff, the SBV management and the implementing agencies carefully assessed


                                                17
the conditions required for success and adopted a practical, phased approach based on flexible
and evolutionary incremental solutions, in both the payments and core banking environments.
Flexibility is also needed during project implementation so that timely readjustments can be made
to ensure the achievement of a project’s objectives within a reasonable timeframe. One example
of this approach in PSBM2 implementation was the modifications made under the MSB and
VietinBank components when it became clear that the two banks could not complete all the
originally designed activities within the reasonable life time of the PSBM2 project.

59.     Implementation planning: A flexible overall design alone cannot guarantee the success.
Detailed technical analysis is needed to develop an implementable project implementation plan.
In IT-based projects, the most important implementation planning is the packaging of IT systems
for procurement and the sequencing of their acquisition and implementation. There is no “golden
rule? for IT packaging, but it should be in line with the overall solution. Systems should not be
packaged in a way for which vendors are not available. Once systems packaging is finalized it
should be followed through unless there are strong technical or commercial reasons to revise it.
Some IT-based projects suffer from repeated repackaging or re-opening of bids. Failed bids could
be caused by inadequate technical specifications or a lack of clear functional requirements.
Sometimes the estimated system implementation/integration efforts presented in bidding
documents are way below the market practice. Frequent system re-packaging or bid re-opening is
a sign of weaknesses in the design of overall system architecture and implementation sequencing,
or a lack of technical/commercial competency. The PSBM2 project benefited from solid
procurement planning at appraisal. Once the system packaging and the procurement methods
were determined, the five implementing agencies followed them through. The changes under the
MSB and VietinBank components were the narrowing of the component scope rather than re-
packaging of systems. No changes were made in the overall architecture or the basic
functionalities of those banks’ COB/BOSs as those systems tend to be vertically integrated and a
cancellation of any basic part would impair the integrity of the system. There was no bid re-
opening under the Project.

60.     Change management: Reengineering of main operational systems in an institution often
leads to major institutional changes. In a banking environment where users are accustomed to
cash transactions, dispersed information flows and manual operational tools, and where
management and staff have limited exposure of international practices, it was critical to show
early success and benefits. The implementing agencies achieved this by a) ensuring the technical
designs were sound and adequate so that right systems could be acquired; and b) once the systems
were procured providing adequate resources to ensure the systems were deployed without delay.
The implementing agencies also attached high importance to train staff who were to deploy the
systems and the system users through intensive training provided by the consultants and system
suppliers, as well as learning-by-doing processes. Those change management measures helped
build confidence in the new systems and maintain the momentum of project implementation. The
management of the participating banks also realized early on that they would need to readjust the
organizational structure to support the new flowcharts of operational processes and new products,
and made the necessary organizational changes.

61.      Stepwise approach: In a banking environment described above, a general “follow-the-
international-best-practice? approach often fails to achieve the desired outcomes. In the case of
IBPS development, a carefully designed stepwise approach focused initially on a limited six-
province geographical area, with complete payments transaction functionality but limited security
and business continuity (such as disaster recovery) arrangements. The pilot system operated in
parallel with SBV’s electronic funds transfer system that processed both inter-province and intra-



                                               18
province payments at the time. It should be noted that the pilot system was a complete rather than
partial solution; hence sowed the seed for the success of system expansion and upgrading.18

62.      Project ownership: This is a recurrent lesson almost in all the Bank-financed projects.
The strong ownership of PSBM2 by the government and the implementing agencies could not be
maintained without the positive experience discussed above, and the commitment of the
government and the implementing agencies to the overall project objectives in particular when
project implementation suffered long delays.

63.      Bank procurement review: The adoption of the flexible and stepwise approach could
lead to a procurement challenge since single sourcing and reference to the pilot systems may have
to be used for the procurement of system expansion needs in the second phase. The Bank’s
procurement management (including the OPRC committee) worked closely with the task team
and adopted a flexible approach towards those issues, which contributed to the quality of
procured IT systems and their performance. The task team did not only check whether the
processes followed the Bank guidelines, but also endeavored to ensure the adequacy and clarity
of the procurement documents from a technical perspective. In other words, the Bank team was
driven to help the counterparts to find practical solutions that were also in line with the Bank
guidelines rather than simply saying No or pointing to the series numbers of the guidelines.
Within the task team, there were close collaboration and timely communication between the task
team leader, the technical advisor in charge of quality assurance and the procurement specialist
for reviewing the complex IT procurement packages.

64.      Staff capability: Technical competency of implementing agencies (supported by
competent consultants if needed) and of Bank task team is critical. For projects that are
considered technically complex or expected to trigger significant institutional changes, the
implementing agencies should train and maintain a team of core staff for both project
management and implementation. Those staff should also act as trainers when the implementation
activities are extended throughout an institution. On the Bank side, the appraisal and supervision
of those projects call for a task team with extended operational experience and solid technical
expertise.

65.      Resources mobilization: For projects with the technical complexity and implementation
scale such as PSBM2, the management of implementing agencies must commit to mobilize
adequate human resource for system deployment. In the case of VBARD component, about 500
staff were mobilized at the peak of the system rollout. Staff mobilized for system deployment at
the other three participating banks were in the hundreds. Actual spending of counterpart funding
increased more than one and half times than that at appraisal. On the Bank side, the slightly
above-average budget allocation contributed to the task team’s intensive supervision of PSBM2,
but the team also put in many unfunded staff-time.

66.     Disbursement curve: IT-based projects tend to be rear-loaded for disbursement. In
general, there is a mismatch between the standard or desired time for preparing (World Bank-
financed) IT projects, and the time needed to design and adopt internationally compatible but
locally adapted technical solutions. As a result the actual technical designs take place after a
project is approved and it is not uncommon to have a low disbursement rate for a year or two


18
  Currently the IBPS processes over 85% of total payments, with the rest mainly payments by the State Treasury. The
intra-provincial electronic payments system is expected to be completely turned off once the State Treasury system is
deployed nationwide.


                                                         19
until systems are procured and/or accepted under those projects. Future IT heavy projects in
Vietnam should take this lesson into account when making disbursement projections.19

67.    There are also a number of important lessons learned for IT systems implementation
which are provided in the implementing agencies project completion reports (see Annex 7 for a
summary of the reports).

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

Both the SBV management and the five implementing agencies expressed satisfaction with the
project design and implementation. On behalf of the government, the SBV also indicated an
agreement with the analysis and ratings of the ICR. The project entities own project conclusion
evaluations reported significant benefits gained. One main issue raised is about the duration
for system implementations within the lifecycle of PSBM2. Several participating banks
commented that the duration for system implementation was too short as compared to the
technical complexity of the systems. This problem could be attributed to a certain extent to the
long period spent before international consultants were engaged at the beginning of project
implementation. Execution of legal documents and credit effectiveness for PSBM2 took 22
months, leaving only a little more than three years for on-the-ground implementation before the
original project closing date. Some implementing agencies (e.g. ITDB and VBARD) started to
work on system expansion designs before the project became effective. Others waited more until
international consultants were engaged partly because of the technical complexity of their system
expansions. Under one component, it took the implementing agency more than 12 months to
complete the consultant engagements process after credit effectiveness. Those delays together
with the long procurement processes left much shorter time for the implementation of acquired
systems. However, when technical preparedness was higher, such as under the SBV and VBARD
components, system implementations were completed before the original project closing date.
Early start of the initial steps of procurement and consultant selections before the legal agreement
was signed or the project became effective could have saved time for system implementation.
This is permitted as “advance procurement? under Bank guidelines. This capacity constraint will
be resolved over time when in-house capacity is up to the international level and the domestic
market can provide similar services. It should be noted that all the project entities reported gains
in this regard under PSBM2.

Another main issue raised is the long review process of procurement. Some participating
banks pointed out that the number of steps and the time spent to obtain clearance of procurement
documents were significantly higher compared to the review process for projects financed by the
banks’ own funding. Section 2.2 above has discussed a main factor causing the long review and
clearance process (i.e. the practice to follow both the government and the Bank procedures under
Bank financed projects). Lack of experience in international commercial contracting was another
factor. Under PSBM2, procurement documents often underwent more than two rounds of
revisions mainly because changes were introduced to the standard wording of the Bank's Standard
Bidding Documents (SBDs) for Information Systems, although Bank guidelines only allow
minimum changes in the Bid Data Sheet or special conditions of contract. The Bank’s standard
conditions of contract in the SBDs provide a balanced allocation of risks and liabilities between


19
  For example, the disbursement curve of a similar IT project can be flat in the first two years of project
implementation, start to rise in the next 18 to 24 months and become quite steep in the last period of project
implementation.


                                                     20
the Purchaser and the Supplier. Due to a lack of experience in international commercial
contracting in particular when compared to their negotiation counterparts, implementation
agencies may agree to changes without recognizing that they would allocate all risks and
liabilities to the Purchaser. With the accelerated opening up of Vietnam’s economy, there must be
increased experience in international commercial contracting. A mechanism (or mechanisms) at
the national level should be considered to better utilize the experience of implementing agencies
of different projects to develop local capacity. In the short to medium run, the Bank may provide
systematic training on the international practices in commercial contracting, the considerations
behind the standard wording of the Bank’s SBDs, and the requirements of the SBDs.
Improvement of internal review procedures at the project level may also help. Under PSBM2, all
procurement documents of the participating banks were subjected to SBV Governor’s clearance
even after the banks’ board approved the packages. By this procedure the SBV had the
information of what was going on under each component, and could intervene when they saw
technical and/or compliance problems in the documents. However, the procedure also
concentrated the risk on the SBV. Making an implementing agency’s top management
accountable for procurement decisions would streamline the review process for projects with
multiple implementing agencies that are separate legal entities.

Unforeseen technical difficulties and inadequate functional staff participation were two other
main issues identified through the Bank team’s survey. Unforeseen technical difficulties are
almost unavoidable in IT-based projects in particular if newer systems have to be integrated into
older systems or different system suppliers and sub-contractors are involved. Under some PSBM2
components, procurement milestone dates or contract implementation schedule tended to be too
optimistic and did not factor in the unforeseen technical difficulties. Functional or business staff
participation is critical in the specifications of user needs and functional requirements and system
implementation. VBARD’s “train-the-trainer? program and the intra-web-based communication
were good practices in mobilizing functional staff. The implementing agencies that identified
those problems during system implementation also reported the resolution of them.

(b) Cofinanciers

N.A.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

N.A.




                                                21
                              Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                     Actual/Latest
                                Appraisal Estimate                                         Percentage of
Components                                          Estimate (USD
                                  (USD million)                                             Appraisal
                                                       million)20
Total Baseline Cost                            106.89                     98.12                  92
Physical Contingencies                          0.00                      0.00                  0.00
Price Contingencies                             5.14                     12.6621                246
Total Project Costs                            112.00                    110.78                 104
Total Financing Required                       112.00                    110.78                  99


(b) Financing
                                                              Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                              Type of         Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
Source of Funds
                                            Cofinancing         (USD       (USD       Appraisal
                                                               million)   million)
 Borrower                                                         7.99             18.01           225
 International Development Association
                                                                105.00             92.77               88
(IDA)




20
   The SDR/USD rate used was the one used for the DCA, which was 1SDR=1.54899USD, which was recorded in the
Minutes of Negotiations
21
   This figure also includes physical contingencies financed by counterpart funding (as compared to baseline).


                                                     22
                                          Annex 2. Outputs by Component


   The outputs22 delivered are provided in the following table:

  Component                                       Output                                  Delivery Date23
Component 1:
IBPS Expansion
ITDB                    Systems procurement and installation
                        Procurement and Installation of NPSC and Backup NPSC
                                                                                       January 2009
                        Hardware
                        Procurement and Installation of Hardware for Regional
                                                                                       January 2009
                        Processing Centers
                        Procurement and Installation of Network and Supporting
                                                                                       January 2009
                        Center
                        Procurement and Installation of Network Security               January 2009
                        Procurement and Installation of Oracle Database                January 2009
                        Procurement and installation of Application Software and
                                                                                       January 2009
                        Tuxedo
                        System Integrity                                               July 2009
                        Systems maintenance (for 1st year)                             June 2011
                        Training activities                                            June 2011
                         Procurement and delivery of consulting services for
                                                                                       July 2008
                        implementation support
Component 2:
CBS Expansion
BIDV                    Systems procurement and installation
                        Procurement and installation of Security systems               February 2010
                        Procurement and upgrading of IBM servers for Backup Center     July 2009
                        Procurement and installation of Disaster Recovery IT Systems   November 2008
                        Procurement and installation of Internet Banking and Mobile
                                                                                       June 2011
                        Banking
                        Procurement and installation of Centralized printing and
                                                                                       June 2011
                        automated packaging mail
                        Training activities                                            June 15, 2011
                        Procurement and delivery of consulting services for
                                                                                       June 2010
                        implementation support




   22
        Those funded by the IDA credit.
   23
        Final acceptance date


                                                          23
MSB              Systems procurement and installation
                 Procurement and installation of eBanking system               May 2011
                                                                               ATM contract:
                                                                               December2009
                 Procurement and installation of ATM/POS/NCC                   POS/NCC contract:
                                                                               Deployed but Not yet
                                                                               accepted
                 Procurement and installation of Hardware for DC and DRC       Aug 2010
                 Procurement and installation of Network and Security System   May 2010
                 Procurement and delivery of consulting services for
                                                                               June 2010
                 implementation support
VBARD            Systems procurement and installation
                 Procurement and Implementation of Application Software        November 2010
                 Procurement and Implementation of Hardware System             May 2009
                                                                               System deployment
                 Procurement of Hardware Equipment for DR Site                 ongoing on the bank’s
                                                                               own funding.
                 Procurement and delivery of consulting services for
                                                                               April 2010
                 implementation support
VietinBank       Systems procurement and installation
                 Procurement and installation of Branch Servers                October 2010
                 Procurement and installation of Network Security System       September2010
                 Procurement and installation of Uninterrupted Power Supply
                                                                               March 2011
                 (UPS)
                 Procurement and installation of MIS/Reporting, Internal
                 Financial Management, Human Resources Management and          June 2011
                 Payroll, Financial Management
Component 3:
Implementation
support
PMU              PMU office equipment                                          October 2007
                                                                               Annually and the last
                 Project audits (6 years)                                      one by December 6,
                                                                               2011




                                                  24
                         Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
                           (including assumptions in the analysis)

1.      Given the nature of the project, no ERR/NPV analysis was carried out to quantify the
economic benefits of the project. However, qualitative economic analysis was conducted against
the following well-accepted economic benefits from well-functioning payments systems and
commercial banking systems:

              Be an important building block of a modern financial sector infrastructure.
              Pave the way for the transition from an informal to a largely formal economy.
              Improve monetary policy implementation.
              Facilitate the fight against money laundering and criminal activity.
              Contribute to financial inclusion and access to finance.
              Enhance operational effectiveness and risk management of system operators.

2.       Using the same qualitative method, the following economic benefits were achieved at
project completion:

          The expanded IBPS and CBS/BOS are an essential element of a modern financial
           sector infrastructure in Vietnam.
          The expanded IBPS improves the effectiveness of monetary policy implementation
           as it has reduced cash float for most of payments in the banking system to real time
           or within the day, which in turn greatly improved predictability of cash flows within
           the economy.
          The expanded CBS/BOS are a tool for better risk management at the participating
           banks as bank management can now plan, monitor and control the status of banking
           operations at both the branch and head office levels on a daily basis.
          The expanded systems make it easier to investigate on suspicious and abnormal funds
           transfers, as most of the financial transactions (in value) are now captured by the
           systems.
          The expanded IBPS and CBS/BOS contribute to broadening the access to finance, as
           they:
           - Enable the participating banks to provide to their customers one-stop services,
                and new products (e.g. credit and debit cards and internet banking); and
           - Help bank customers to improve financial management of their businesses (e.g.
                more efficient processing of payments and receipts, and decreased uses of cash).
          The expanded systems are an important prerequisite for the economic agents to move
           away from the informal sector, hence help to reduce the risks to economic and socio
           development planning and macroeconomic stability.

3.     No standard financial analysis was conducted at appraisal, as cost-accounting was not yet
adopted on a widespread basis in Vietnam’s banking sector, and the results of IT systems
development are difficult to quantify in the short life cycle of the project.




                                              25
          Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                       Responsibility/
              Names                       Title             Unit
                                                                         Specialty
Lending
                                                                   Task Team Leader
Miguel Navaro-Martin         Senior Finance Officer        EASFP   (Identification -
                                                                   Preparation)
                                                                   Team member
Thomas Rose                  Advisor                       EASFP   (Identification -
                                                                   Preparation)
                                                                   Team member
James Seward                 Financial Sector Specialist   EASFP   (Identification -
                                                                   Preparation)
                                                                   Team member – Technical
Arthur D. Little Spain       Consultant                    EASFP   review (Identification –
                                                                   Preparation)
                                                                   Team member – Technical
Analistas Financiero         Consultant                    EASFP   review (Identification –
                                                                   Preparation)
                                                                   Team member – Technical
                                                                   review & design
Atos Origin SAE              Consultant                    EASFP
                                                                   (Identification –
                                                                   Preparation)
                                                                   Team member – Technical
Daniel De La Morena          Consultant                    EASFP   review (Identification –
                                                                   Preparation)
                                                                   Team member – Technical
Renato Polo                  Consultant                    EASFP   review (Identification –
                                                                   Preparation)
                                                                   Team member Technical
                                                                   review & design
Lachlan Fleming              Consultant                    EASFP
                                                                   (Identification -
                                                                   Preparation)
                                                                    Task Team Leader
Xiaofeng Hua                 Financial Analyst             EASFP
                                                                   (Appraisal-Board)
                                                                   Team member - Technical
                                                                   quality assurance
Robert Keppler               Senior Advisor                OPD
                                                                   (Identification –
                                                                   Appraisal)
                                                                   Team member
Thang Long Ton               Economist                     EASPR
                                                                   (Identification – Board)
                             Financial Management                  Financial management
Thong Quang Tran                                           EAPCO
                             Specialist                            review
                             Senior Procurement
Thang Chien Nguyen                                         EAPPR   Procurement review
                             Specialist
Hoi-Chan Nguyen              Senior Counsel                LEGEA   Legal documents
                                                                   Team member - Logistics
Ngan Thuy Nguyen             Program Assistant             EACVF
                                                                   support
                                                                   Team member - Logistics
Laura Mitchell               Team Assistant                EASFP
                                                                   support


                                                  26
Supervision/ICR
                        Senior Financial Sector               Task Team Leader (up to
Xiaofeng Hua                                          EASFP
                        Specialist                            Jul. 2010)
                        Senior Financial Sector               Task Team Leader (Up to
Nancy Chen                                            EASFP
                        Specialist                            Oct. 2011)
                                                              Team member (Aug. 2010
Wei Zhang               Financial Sector Specialist   EASFP   – Oct. 2011) &ICR team
                                                              leader
Viet Quoc Treu          Financial Sector Specialist   EASFP   Team member
                                                              Team member - Technical
Robert Keppler          Consultant                    ECSPF
                                                              quality assurance
                                                              Team member – Technical
Pedro de Cabo           Consultant                    EASFP
                                                              review
                        Lead Procurement
Sylvester Kofi Awanyo                                 EAPPR   Procurement review
                        Specialist
                        Senior Financial                      Financial management
Cung Van Pham                                         EAPFM
                        Management Specialist                 review
                        Senior Procurement
Thang Chien Nguyen                                    EAPPR   Procurement review
                        Specialist
                        Financial Management                  Financial management
Thong Quang Tran                                      EAPCO
                        Specialist                            review
Hoai Van Nguyen         Procurement Specialist        EAPPR   Procurement Review
                                                              Team member - Logistics
Michael Z. Figueroa     Information Assistant         EASFP
                                                              support
                                                              Team member - Logistics
Ngan Thuy Nguyen        Program Assistant             EACVF
                                                              support




                                            27
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                                    Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                               USD Thousands (including travel
                                              No. of staff weeks
                                                                          and consultant costs)24
Lending
  FY04                                                   22                          173.94*
  FY05                                                   34                          169.32
                                 Total:                  56                          343.26
Supervision/ICR
  FY05                                                  2                              2.91
  FY06                                                 15                             79.41
  FY07                                                 21                             79.87
  FY08                                                 19                             97.88
  FY09                                                 14                             68.65
  FY10                                                 12                             64.67
  FY11                                                 16                             90.51
  FY1225                                                7                             44.23
                                 Total:               106                            528.13

*Note: In addition to staff time financed by Bank Budget, consultant team member costs financed by bilateral
Consultant Trust Funds (CTF) were significant in FY04 (US$250,790).




24
   FY04-FY06 data included Sector Manager’s charges and those for FY05, FY08 and FY10 included some small
mischarges for miscellaneous expenses.
25
   As of December 6, 2011


                                                    28
                                                       Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
                                                                    (if any)

In August-September, 2011, the Bank task team carried out a small-scale, self-administered survey of project entities, using a questionnaire the
team developed following the ICR guidelines. The following table summarizes the respondents’ feedback that is shared by more than two project
entities. The summary also includes additional comments received during the Bank team’s ICR mission in September 2011.

                            SBV-      RPC-       RPC-            RPC-      RPC-        RPC-      RPC-                                   Vietin-
                                                                                                             BIDV    MSB    VBARD
                            ITDB       OC       CanTho          Danang    Haiphang     Hanoi    HCM City                                Bank

Overview:
Project design                S         S          S              S           S          S           S         S       S       S          S

Project implementation        S         S          S              S           S          S           S         S       S       S          S

Difficulties encountered and addressed during implementation:

Unforeseen technical
                                        X                                                            X         X                          X
difficulty

New-Existing systems’
                                                                                                               X                          X
integration

Change of main Staff          X                                                                                        X                  X

Change of project scope                                                                                                X                  X

Short implementation
                                                                                                               X                          X
duration

Government procurement
                                                                                                                       X       X
procedures




                                                                         29
                             SBV-   RPC-      RPC-         RPC-        RPC-        RPC-       RPC-                              Vietin-
                                                                                                         BIDV     MSB   VBARD
                             ITDB    OC      CanTho       Danang      Haiphang     Hanoi     HCM City                           Bank

Bank procurement
                                                                                                           X       X     X
procedures

Next phase
Next 5-year strategy
completed                     X       X         X           X            X           X           X         X       X

Strategy under preparation
                                                                                                                         X        X
Further system
                              X                                                                            X       X     X        X
enhancement underway

Some of the respondents have also provided good feedback on lessons learned, which is summarized below:
    Staff understanding of project objectives is critical.
    Project design should focus on solutions commercial banks are missing.
    Management need to pay adequate attention and provide sufficient personnel to system development projects.
    Implementation plan should be clear and feasible with specific objectives and detailed tasks.
    Once the schedule is agreed-upon, all efforts should be made to follow the schedule.
    There should be contingency plans for implementation schedule and funding
    System suppliers should include in their teams business and quality assurance consultants.
    Implementation consultants’ experience and skills are critical.
    Staff designated to project implementation should have experience to foresee problems.
    Those staff should proactively seek and participate in relevant training activities.
    Business line staff should actively participate in system design and deployment.
    Attention should be paid to continuous training of technical and business staff.




                                                                    30
       Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
                            (if any)

N.A.




                              31
                Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The SBV, on behalf of the government, conducted extensive reviews of the project after project
completion, which resulted in a consultant report, and the SBV’s summary overall evaluation
report. The participating banks also carried out their own reviews and the findings were reflected
in their project implementation reports (PIR). Below are excerpts of those reports. 26

Section 1: Government’s Overall Evaluation

Original objectives: In addition to the PDOs and the PDO outcome indicators in the World
Bank’s Project Appraisal Document, the following similar project objectives were used
internally:
          increase the credibility and confidence of the banking system by providing quick
            services;
          improve technical and managerial capacity of staff management and business
            systems, facilitate access to, and use of advanced technology;
          raise awareness of communities of the availability of a modern banking system; and
          enhance the role of management efficiency and control of activities of the banking
            sector and that of the SBV in terms of establishment, administration and
            implementation of monetary policy through management and monitoring of financial
            intermediaries.?

Achievement of objectives: “Objectives of the project are satisfactory.? [And,] “The most
successful component of the project was the Inter-Bank Payment System subproject implemented
by State Bank of Vietnam. In the course of the implementation of the IBPS, both interbank and
intra-bank transactions benefited from the payment system solution. At present, most of the
interbank transactions are conducted through IBPS as large banks were able to adopt a single
settlement account after completing the rollout of their core banking systems. This enabled the
banks to centralize intra-bank liquidity and manage funds flow in an effective manner.?

Knowledge transfers: “Staff training is a most important factor that has directly impacts on
project success. The bidders were required to train staffs of both SBV and CBs. In general,
training provided by bidders was remarkable in order to guarantee intra and inter-bank payment
system to be successfully operated and maintained.?

Lessons learned: The government evaluation highlighted the following lessons learned:
        “The establishment and existence of a competent PMU at SBV and PIUs at PBs was
           a key factor in project success and similar arrangements were retained for PSBM 2.
        Close supervision by the Bank’s task team after overcoming the early delays by
           reassigning the primary entity responsible for the whole project implementation
           ensured that the project’s implementation stayed on track [under the first project].
           Ongoing dialogue and coordination were maintained between the Bank and the SBV-
           PMU during all procurement and implementation stages.
        Clear guidance is required to help project implementing entities to define different
           stages of completion within the project, especially with respect to the definition of
           acceptance of vendor deliverables.




26
     With corrections of glaring spelling and grammar errors.


                                                            32
           Clearer SBV/MOF payment processing procedures and guidelines are needed for
            timely payments by the project implementing entities for goods and service suppliers
            per contract terms.?

Section 2: Implementing Agencies’ PIRs

OBJECTIVES, BENEFITS AND IMPACT

ITDB (IBPS Component):

Achievement of original objectives: “By the time of reporting, the system has been implemented
and is effectively operated in 63 provinces, meeting the objectives set out as follows
          Ensuring safe, stable, smooth and very effective operation of security system network
             in ensuring the safety of IBPS.
          Forecasting the incidents, potential vulnerabilities of security systems in particular
             and the IBPS in general, to minimize the risks for the system.
          Synchronizing the system to ensure being compliant with the standards of a modern
             system.
          Ensuring information technology security to improve availability of the system.
          Ensuring information technology Infrastructure invested is scientific and scalable
             meeting the practical requirements of the reality.
          Integrating application of digital signature applications to ensure safety.
          Improving processing power, expanding scope, and enhancing technical features for
             the current IBPS.
          Improving communications network to ensure system scalability to meet the required
             increasing number of processing payment transactions, connecting to the RPCs and
             the potential growth in the next 5 years.
          Improving the quality, stability, availability of services in the system.
          Ensuring that payment systems and back-up payment systems meet requirements set
             out. The safety and reliability of the system is enhanced through disaster recovery
             capabilities, reinforcing network security.
          Training and improving the competitiveness of the users in managing and operating
             the system efficiently.?

Benefits: Below are the specific benefits the SBV report cited:
         “Transactions occur faster, processing duration in the phase II is faster than that of
            phase I (in terms of average processing time per deal, end-of-day collaborative
            processing time).
         Scope: The scope has been expanded in the whole nation.
         Number of members: the scope of credit institutions (CI) which directly participate in
            the system has expanded.
         Quantity of transactions processed in the IBPS and their amount have increased many
            times.?

Impact: “The operation of IBPS has satisfied great demands of payment services supply agents
and customers on quickness, safety and confidence, speed up commercial banks’ (CBs) capital
circulation and increasing of capital flows of entire society; payment service fee is unchanged.
The success of implementation and launching of the system is a positive contribution to the
industrialization and modernization of the country, promoting the integration of Vietnam’s banks
in particular and the economy in general to the region and the world.?


                                               33
Lessons learned: The ITDB reported similar lessons as those learned under the first project.
Below are the highlights:
        “The provision of adequate time and resources are important to ensure that the
            required fundamental changes in attitudes and behaviors at all levels are matched
            properly with the time required for procurement and implementation of new facilities.
        The long delays in procurement and implementation of IBPS as well as CBS indicate
            that there have been serious gaps, attitudes, commitment and behavior on the part of
            the operators and implementers.?

BIDV (CBS Component):

Achievement of original objectives: The bank reported that the following objectives were
achieved:

“Engineering goals.
        Boost modern information technology to support business operations and improve
           the efficiency of bank management (equipped with IT disaster prevention, centralized
           printing system, the system IBMB)
        Ensure the banking system open and safe to participate in the economy globally
           competitive market (IBMB systems, security systems, redundant)
        There are solutions to security systems, limited to the minimum threats and attacks
           on systems and networks from internal and external (security systems, backup
           systems)

Business objectives
        Diversification of product portfolio and services deployed Internet banking and
           Mobile banking has created new products and new trading channel, modern
           customers, contributing to diversify product portfolio of BIDV.
        Empowerment and competitiveness of BIDV.
        Contributing to market expansion, market share in each market area.
        Ensure data security and the Bank’s customers, ensuring operational continuity and
           support the implementation of the business objectives of the Bank.?

Benefits: BIDV reported the following qualitative benefits of the Project:
   For customers:
         Better meet customer needs by diversifying products and services;
         Convenience in transactions;
         Improved reliability and safety;
         To enhance the information provided to customers to enhance service value through
           automated printing system and concentrate packaging directory
   For Bank:
         To enhance information security;
         To ensure continuous operation capability, better meet the business needs and
           requirements of bank management.
         Increase the competitiveness of the bank.
         Improved customer service, enhanced reputation and brand of the bank on the
           domestic market and internationally?




                                               34
Quantitative benefits reported are as follows:
        “Shorten the time the transaction, the time for searching and finding information of
           customers using internet banking and mobile banking channels instead of customer
           transactions through traditional channels.
        The system of banking reserves stored once again ensure the safety and availability.
        Increasing the level of information safety of bank customers by BIDV has been
           retrofitted with security systems and backup systems.
        Reduce losses to the bank when the system crash.

Impact: The impact of the project is seen as the following:
        “BIDV can offer products and services varied, more attractive. Quality customer
          service has been enhanced significantly. Thus confidence of customers in particular
          and BIDV banking system generally increased significantly, contributing to
          stabilizing financial markets and monetary and create public confidence in the Bank’s
          policy banks State Bank of Vietnam.
        With the tools of modern payment of non-cash, the Vietnamese public will have the
          opportunity to fundamentally change the habit of using cash and higher is changed
          billing practices, reducing considerably amount of cash circulating in the market.
        Vietnamese public service will be entitled to the same degree banking in the region
          made them more confident in the reform process to integrate with the region and the
          world.

Lessons learned: BIDV reported the following lessons learned:
        The “first lesson to ensure the successful deployment of attention is the close
           direction of the leadership. With the attention of the [Steering] Committee the
           leadership was encouraged to work mentally as well as creating conditions for
           facilities, personnel, policies and mechanisms to support the deployment process,
           ensure success project.
        Need to prepare the conditions related to the project. In addition to coordinating the
           reception and implementation of the project from the contractor the purchaser [need]
           to prepare a lot of content to ensure the effective promotion of the exploitation of the
           system such as: preparation of organizational structures to govern operating system in
           a continuous [and] timely [way], issuing documents relating to the mode of operation,
           system operators, [and] building promotions for products brought by the system.
        The procurement plan should have provided appropriate time to ensure enough time
           to handle technical and professional issues arising in complex deployment process.
           To avoid the deployment of many large packages with sophisticated techniques in
           parallel to ensure sufficient human resources necessary in the implementation
           process.?

MSB (CBS Component):

Benefits: MSB reported the following qualitative benefits from the project:
   “For customer
         Customers can use many new services from Maritime Bank: Ebanking, ATM card,
           payment account products, saving accounts, loan products, trading finance products,
           domestic money transferring and international payment.
         Transaction process is improved, transaction time is shortened, and quality of
           services is strengthened.



                                                35
   For bank
       Expand system of network and transaction points.
       Improve technological infrastructure and information system to ensure processing
          capacity and provision ability for disaster.
       Strengthen security ability of technological system and transaction implementation
          process.

Quantitative benefits reported are as follows:
        Have its own ATM card issuance system that is outsourced for Vietcombank before.
        Have its own ATM machine system, contribute to ATM network of the nation
           through Smartlink card switching alliance.
        Have private POS system of the bank to promote non-cash payment method.
        Upgrade Core Banking server to ensure for large transactions arising in
           corresponding to additional services and network expand.
        Build up and equip provision data center and server system, network, security
           devices to strengthen the going concern of Bank.

Impact: MSB saw the following impact of the project:
        The bank has a preferential capital for equipping, upgrading and modernizing the
         technical system to serve transactions and payments.
        Official and semi-official staffs participated in the project will be educated, trained
         for managing project and jobs in the fields of professional technology, advanced
         transaction of Bank.
        Bank services are diversified and the quality is significantly improved.
        Increase image of Maritime Bank in awareness of customers, partners and
         management agencies.
        Contribute to the considerable development of the network, business performance of
         Maritime Bank for the period from 2005 up to now.

Lessons learned: MSB identified the following lessons learned under the project:
        “Must understand clearly about procedures and guidance of World Bank in using,
           managing preferential loans of project.
        Need to carefully prepare the work contents in biding documents and contracts to
           avoid problems arising which may affect package’s objectives, project’s quality or
           progress.
        Pay attention to complete project documents early and match requirements in order to
           quickly disbursement and advance.?

VBARD (CBS Component):

Achievement of original objectives: The bank highlighted the following achievements:
        “Previously Agribank simultaneously use many different systems: IPCAS system,
         Retail Banking System, Direct Trading System, out-of-province electronic money
         transfer system, in-the-province electronic money transfer system, internal SWIFT
         system, report information system. On 04 December 2008, Agribank completed the
         implementation the IPCAS program for the entire system of Agribank, officially
         ended the existence of separate systems of Agribank, agreed a unified application
         program of Payment and Customer Accounting, opened a new era, the era of the
         IPCAS program.



                                              36
           For the first time in the history, Agribank officially centralized the entire system, all
            data are online and there is no difference between the Head office and a transaction
            center in highland areas. This has opened a new managing method of Agribank’s
            managers, which is online management. During the preparation of last finalization,
            Agribank’s managers had a very timely guidance based on data from the IPCAS
            system.
           Agribank officially provided consistent services to customers over the entire system,
            regardless of administrative boundaries, type of branches.
           Change the transaction process: The entire system of Agribank unified to use the one-
            door transaction process to serve customers.
           Best payment system: With the advantage of over 2,200 online transactions,
            Agribank had a payment system with the widest and fastest network. Agribank had
            an absolute advantage in the competition, especially for customers being
            Corporations which have a network of affiliates spreading in the provinces. Right
            after completing the deployment, Viettel Telecom Corporation had officially signed a
            contract to use payment services of Agribank. A series of big customers such as
            Electricity, Customs...is promoting the co-operation with Agribank.
           Implement card system of Agribank including connected Vietnam Banknet; issue and
            accept debit cards and Visa, Master credit cards.
           Expand and implement deposits systems which enable withdrawing anywhere in the
            system, allow many branches to expand services to connect with customers. Branch
            at 24 Lang Ha successful deployed the telephone payment with Viettel Corporation.
           Along with the development of the traditional services of the Bank, so far, it has
            completed the deployment of new services such as SMS banking (notice of change in
            account, account transfer, deposit, pre-paid telephone fee VnTopUp, credit
            information, etc.), and connection program of SWIFT payment network. Agribank
            completed the development of connection programs of bilateral payments (BP),
            connected to the securities companies, cash flow management system (CMS) for
            corporate customers and the inter-bank payment system (IBPS).?

Benefits: The following qualitative benefits are reported:

For customers: Attract customers with a modern payment system, the transactions are done fast,
simply and conveniently. Bring the necessary products and services for customers such as ATM,
SMS.
         Meet the demand through a wide range of products and services provided by banks.
         Save time, reduce troubles in the transactions by improved service method of the
            bank such as: one-door transactions, deposits in many places, withdrawing at many
            places ... and reduction of service costs.
         Access to and use of modern banking services through multiple distribution channels
            such as ATM card, credit card, debit card, SMS, Internet.
         Give to customers the satisfaction based on the banking services with good quality,
            short, safe and secured transaction time. The distance between banks and customers
            about space, time and scope was almost eliminated. Whether customers use any
            channel at any time or any transaction center of the bank will feel the quality and
            transparency of services.

For the Bank: The staff is trained more professionally, therefore takes less transaction time with
customers than the old system. Means of information exchange ensure that information is quick,



                                                37
timely and accurate; data transfer is at large capacity, efficient and cost savings. (Several internal
management applications) help the bank save both cost and time.
         The completion of deployment IPCAS System Phase 2 completely changed the
            business operation, transaction processing, and data processing from manual to
            machine, change the mindset to do, change the way to manage of the whole
            system. Implement the automation in many stages, reduce management costs,
            improve performance, transaction speed and increase profitability, create the ability
            to rearrange labor, help the internal management of the bank become more efficient,
            better risk management.
         The success of the project had strategic importance, changed competitiveness of
            Agribank compared to other banks; help Agribank become one of the banks with IT
            system which is the largest in size, processing speed, total volume transaction
            processing on average, level of completeness, the complexity and extent of most
            modern of technology all over the country. Agribank has achieved one important
            objective is to unify the entire system of software programs and technological
            processes. National data are centralized processed, online managed; the transaction
            process is consistent all over the country to create a breakthrough in exploiting
            products and services in both quantity and quality, (such as) e-banking products.
         IT system of Agribank has also achieved remarkable progress in terms of advanced
            technology system, modern facilities, and especially the officials have gained much
            knowledge, valuable experience, matured a lot during the project, and completely
            mastered the technology.?

VBARD also reported many quantitative benefits which are highlighted below:
      “The arrangement of labor, IT systems in general and IPCAS system in particular
         contributed to create the number of employees working in the modern banking
         environment which are capable of handling multi-professional jobs. (The new system
         enabled) the arrangement for over 1,000 staffs working in the money transaction to
         do other tasks (and) cut 4,000/34,000 employees working in reports at branches. In
         addition, the IPCAS system has created a new style of trading as one-door transaction.
         The staffs in credit division can also work as debt collection officers, disbursement
         officers.
      Many systematic functions are automated. With the new system, more than 140
         professional requirements are complete.
      The centralized data contributed to reducing the time to provide information for
         management. The reports for sector management, a summarized report for
         administration, economic analysis can be provided immediately. This is thing that
         was unthinkable many years ago.
      Number of customers increased from over 7 million to more than 17 million
         customers after the completion of deployment IPCAS system phase 2.
      From a bank which is behind in the card market before the project, with the
         completion of deployment IPCAS system and card management system, Agribank
         become the leader in the card market in Vietnam in term of the number of ATM
         (2100 ATMs) and the number of cards issued (7 million cards).?

Impact: The bank saw the following impact of the project:
        “The implemented project affected the entire operations of Agribank, all the
          professional operations of the bank were put into the management under IPCAS
          system by the model of entirely centralized processing.
        Headquarters manages and monitors all activities of all branches.


                                                 38
           Agribank ensures the provision of consistent services to customers over the entire
            system regardless of the customers in highland, island or city.
           Management information system ensures the accurate data for the direct
            administration of the Board and report to the SBV.?

Lessons learned: VBARD provided a long list of the lessons learned and below are the
highlights:

           Originally VBARD planned to implement IPCAS (i.e. CBS) in two years over its
            2,200 transaction centers, but later decided to rollout the first phase all over the bank
            and implement the second phase at the same time. “The lesson learned is the need to
            stick to practice, timely adjust project plan to shorten the deployment duration and
            implement more efficiently.?
           VBARD started system deployment in areas where competition was more intensive.
            The “Lesson learned in deployment on a large area, spread across the country is [that
            it is] necessary to select the areas with high competition for priority deployment, in
            order to provide competitive efficiency to the branches.?
           “The deployment included many complex steps, involving many different
            components and subjects; therefore it was needed to develop detailed instructions on
            what to do and how to do.?
           There was a need to provide “Instructions on standardizing data in details to branches
            [on] what to do for each command on the program to implement standardizing data
            on the old program (FoxPro, RBS) as required by the IPCAS program.? [And,]
            “Lesson learned in deployment on a large area is need to notify detailed plan to
            related subjects, from which create the activeness and co-operation.?
            “During the deployment and operation of the new system, the need [for] information
            exchange between branches with IPCAS sub-project management unit and partners
            was urgently needed.? There was a use of “a forum of implementing IPCAS
            programs, in which the information on deployment guidance, deployment status
            between branches, sub-project management unit and partner HIT were clearly
            informed. This method can be considered as the most effective and cost savings
            information exchange method, contributed to bring the successful deployment of
            IPCAS.?
           To “implement the projects successfully, the preparation of infrastructure networks,
            [and] environmental installation were key factors: by the time of deployment, almost
            [all the] branches of type 1 and type 2 were connected by readline, the transaction
            centers were installed by MEGA WAN and infrastructure equipment such as
            electrical systems, cash counting machine, safes.?
           “The successful implementation of IPCAS programs over the entire system was the
            result of the rhythmic co-ordination of all the sub-project management units,
            branches, partner HIT, partner of providing hardware, system software and related
            parts. In which, IPCAS sub-project management unit played a key role in creating the
            close cooperation between parties.?

VietinBank (CBS Component)

Benefits: The bank’s report contained a long list of specific benefits each system module brought
about. Below are the highlights of the qualitative benefits:

For customers


                                                39
      With the success of implementation internal financial management module, Vietinbank
       will bring more opportunities, facilities and value to customers.?

For banks

a. Human resources management:
        Meet the management requirements of multi-organizational structure and changes in
          organizational structure in the future.
        Implemented the centralized salary management; reduce input workload, data is
          centralized and unified.
        Assessment (of labor efficiency) is done in accordance with the identified objectives
          of the organization and individuals.
        Meet report requirements of each professional module and of statistic reports,
          analysis report on labor.
        Data on human resources and payroll is integrated into ERP, MIS, able to exchange
          data and implement report requirements and manage data in line with other
          administrative requirements.
b. Internal financial management
        Systems applied centralized database that fully integrated between the internal
          systems and modules of the ERP.
c. Financial management module
        Calculation and analysis the profitability will be performed in detail to each
          department, each product, each customer and each employee.
        The ability to forecast which is up to 5 years by (different) dimensions.
        The calculation of adequacy indicators of banking activities will allow Vietinbank to
          meet the requirements and regulations of the State Bank of Vietnam as well as
          international standards in the work of banking risk management.
d. Management/Report Information System
        New reporting system serves effectively for the executive management, risk control
          and monitoring the business activities of the bank.?
        MSB also listed many quantitative benefits and below are a few highlights:
        “Core banking: Maximum automatic support of the accounting entries.
        Financial management: Save time and cost of generating information, exporting
          reports; allow accurate analyzing and assessing the instant business performance to
          give more appropriate and effective management decisions.
        MIS: Complete report system from various data sources, automatically run and
          update reported data, and flexible in using; users may create new reports or set up
          warning thresholds.?

Lessons learned: Below are the summary of the key lessons learned emphasized by the
participating banks in their completion evaluation reports:
         “Require the professional consultants and consultants on quality deployment of new
             transactions and complex tools.
         Require the deployment partner with rich experiences and human resources, good
             ability for specialized fields.
         Require of divisions to participate actively and regularly.
         Request of the clear and feasible deployment plan.
         Strictly follow up the set out progress.




                                             40
          Require to define detailed and clearly the objects and specific tasks to be
           implemented, the clear criteria for testing of product acceptance.
          Require to pay more attention to retraining technical, professional staffs.
          Require to have project management tool, that saved sufficient information about
           project to easily access, report, manage, monitor progress, support decisions about
           project management.?

Section 3: MAIN ISSUES RAISED
The common difficulties in implementation as reported by the five project entities are
summarized below:
         Duration of implementation is relatively short particularly when compared to the
           technical complexity of the activities.
         The number of approval procedures is much higher compared to investments funded
           with the entities’ own funding.
         The procurement processes had long delays.




                                             41
       Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N.A.




                                      42
                        Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

1.    PSBM SAR (Report No. 14823-VN), October 25, 1995
2.    PSBM ICR (Report No. 27635), June 15, 2004
3.    SBV consultant reports on pre-feasibility and feasibility studies, Oct.2004 – Jan 2005
4.    SBV consultant reports on system expansion needs, March 2005
5.    PSBM2 PAD (Report No. 310023-VN), February 8, 2005
6.    Completed Mid-Term Review Questionnaire, January 2009
7.    PSBM2 Mid-Term Review Report, May 2009
8.    PSBM2 Implementation Status and Results Reports, June 2005 – May 2011
9.    Completed ICR Questionnaire, September 2011
10.   SBV’s Overall Evaluation of the PSBM2 Project, November 11, 2011
11.   Participating banks’ Project Implementation Reports, June - December 2011
12.   SBV consultant’s Project Completion Review Report, November 11, 2011
13.   Vietnam Country Assistance Strategy (2003 – 2006, Report No.24621), Sept. 16, 2002
14.   Country Partnership Strategy for Vietnam (2007 – 2011, Report No. 38236-VN), January
      3, 2007
15.   Country Partnership Strategy for Vietnam (2012-2016, Report No. 65200-VN)
16.   OPCS Guidelines for Implementation Completion and Results Report, August 2006 and
      updated October 5, 2011
17.   The Boston Consulting Group: “Renewing Core Banking IT Systems; Open-Heart
      Surgery for European banks?, May 2006 (http://www.bcg.com/documents/file14774.pdf )
18.   Banker’s Academy Briefing: “Maximizing Return on Your Investment in Core Banking
      System?, August 2009
19.   IT Cortex: “Statistics over IT projects failure rate?, 1995-2001 (www.it-
      cortex.com/Stat_Failure_Rate.htm )




                                            43
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           IBRD 33511R1
                                                   102°E                                      104°E                                     To 106°E                                              108°E                                     110°E
                                                                          To                                                           Babao
                                                                        Kunming                              To

      VIETNA M
                                                                                                             Kaiyuan
                                                                                                                                                                            To
                                                                                                                                                                            Tiandong               CHINA
                                                                                                                            Ha
                                                                                                                            Giang                   Cao Bang
                                                                                                                       4
         PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                                                                                            5                                   To
                                                                                       Lao Cai
                                                                                                    Re                                                                                  Nanning
                                                                     Lai Chau Town
                                                                                   1                  d                                       9
         NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                           3                                              Bac Can
                                                                                                                                8                                                                                                        22°N
                                              22°N                                                                                                                                                      To
         RIVERS                                                                                                                      Tuyen
                                                                                                                                     Quang
                                                                                                                                                           10 Lang
                                                                                                                                                               Son
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Hepu
                                                                                         Bla                      7                               Thai
                                                                               2            c   k              Yen Bai                            Nguyen
         MAIN ROADS                                                                                                                     13
                                                                           Dien                     Son La               Viet Tri     12 Vinh Yen                  14
         RAILROADS                                                         Bien Phu                                         11
                                                                                                                                                        Bac Giang
                                                                                                                                                                              15
                                                                                                    6                                                 Bac Ninh
                                                          To                                                                        HANOI            17 Hai Duong             Ha Long
         PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                           Muang Xai
                                                                                                                       Hoa Binh              16 18 19         Hai Phong
                                                                                                                                      21        Hung Yen 20
         INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                      Ha Nam 22 23
                                                                                                                                                       Thai Binh
                                                                                                                                                   Nam Dinh
                                                                                                                                      Ninh Binh    25
                                                                                                                                             Ma    24
                                              20°N                                                                            26                                                                                                         20°N
                                                                                      To
PROVINCES:                                                                          Luang
 1   Lai Chau         32   Da Nang                       LAO                       Prabang
                                                                                                                                                  Thanh Hoa


 2
 3
     Dien Bien
     Lao Cai
                      33
                      34
                           Quang Nam
                           Quang Ngai
                                                      P EOPLE'S
                                                      PEOPLE'S                                                             27
                                                                                                                                                                              Gulf
 4   Ha Giang         35   Kon Tum                    D EM . REP.                                                                                                              of                                             Hainan I.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (China)
 5   Cao Bang         36   Gia Lai
                                                                                                              A                       Vinh
                                                                                                                                                                             Tonk in
 6   Son La           37   Binh Dinh
 7   Yen Bai          38   Phu Yen




                                                                                                                  n
                                                                                                                                                    Ha Tinh




                                                                                                                      n
 8   Tu Yen Quang     39   Dac Lac                                                                                                     28




                                                                                                                          a
                                                                                                                          a
                                                                                                                          a
 9   Bac Can          40   Dac Nong           18°N
                                              18                                                               To                                                                                                                        18°N
                                                                                                           Khammouan




                                                                                                                              m
                                                                                                                              m
                                                                                                                              m
10   Lang Son         41   Khanh Hoa
11   Phu Tho          42   Binh Phuoc
12   Vinh Phuc        43   Lam Dong                                                                                                                                    Dong Hoi




                                                                                                                                           C
                                                                                                                                                             29
13   Thai Nguyen      44   Ninh Thuan




                                                                                                                                              o
14   Bac Giang        45   Tay Ninh




                                                                                                                                                   r
                                                                                                                                                      d
                                                                                                                                                      d
                                                                                                                                                      d
15   Quang Ninh       46   Binh Duong                                                                                                                                             Dong Ha
                                                                                                                                         To




                                                                                                                                                           il
16   Ha Noi           47   Dong Nai                                                                                                  Savannakhet                             30
17   Bac Ninh         48   Binh Thuan                        THA ILA ND                                                                                                                     Hue




                                                                                                                                                              lll e
                                                                                                                                                                  e
                                                                                                                                                                  e
18   Hung Yen         49   T.P. Ho Chi Minh




                                                                                                                                                                       r
19   Hai Duong        50   Ba Ria-Vung Tau                                                                                                                                              31
                                                                                                                                                                                                   32         Da Nang




                                                                                                                                                                           a
                                                                                                                                                                           a
                                                                                                                                                                           a
20   Hai Phong        51   Long An            16°N                                                                                                                                                                                       16°N
21   Hoa Binh         52   Tien Giang
22   Ha Nam           53   Dong Thap                                                                                                                                                                              Tam Ky
                                                                                                                                                                                                   33
23   Thai Binh        54   Ben Tre
24   Ninh Binh        55   An Giang                                                                                                                                                                                      Quang Ngai
25   Nam Dinh         56   Vinh Long                                                                                                                                                                               34
26   Thanh Hoa        57   Tra Vinh                                                                                                                                                             Ngoc Linh
                                                                                                                                                                                                (3143 m)
27   Nghe An          58   Kien Giang
                                                                                                                                                                                              35 Kon Tum
28   Ha Tinh          59   Can Tho
29   Quang Binh       60   Hau Giang                                                                                                                                                                                     37
30   Quang Tri        61   Soc Trang          14°N
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Cent ral
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Central                           14°N
                                                                                                                                                                                              Pleiku
31   Thua Thien Hue   62   Bac Lieu                                                                                                                                                                         36                      Quy Nhon
                      63   Ca Mau
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Highlands
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           38
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Tuy Hoa
                                                                                                             CAMBODIA                                                                                  39

                                                                                                                                                                                                         Buon Ma
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Thuot
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           41
                                                                                                                                                                                              40                                   Nha Trang
                                                                                                                                                                                        Gia Nghia
                                              12°N                                                                                           To                                                          Da Lat                          12°N
                                                                                                                                        Kampong Cham                         42
                                                                                                               To                                                          Dong
                                                                                                                                                                           Xoai                             43             44
                                                                                                          Kampong
                                                                                                          Chhnang                                                                                                               Phan Rang-
                                                                                                                                                      45                                                                        Thap Cham
                                                                                                                            Mekong




                                                                                                                                                          Tay Ninh
                                                                                                                                                                                  47
                                                                                                                                                             Thu Dau46
                                                                                                                                                                Mot                                48
                                                                                                                                                                             Bien Hoa
                                                        Gu l f                                                                                             51
                                                                                                                                                                   49
                                                                                                                                                                        Ho Chi Minh City
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Phan Thiet
                                                                                                                                       53
                                                          of                                                                  55           Cao Lanh               Tan An           50
                                                      Th a i l a n d                                                  Long Xuyen                      52          My Tho
                                                                                                                                                                                   Vung Tau
                                                                                        Phu                                            Vinh Long                  Ben Tre
                      VIETNAM                                                          Quoc                                           59            56
                                              10°N                                                              Rach Gia             Can Tho                      54                                                                     10°N
                                                                                                                                                                             lta




                                                                                                                                58         60                     Tra Vinh
                                                                                                                                           Vi Thanh        57
                                                                                                                                                                           De




                                              This map was produced by
                                                                                                                                             61       Soc Trang
                                              the Map Design Unit of The
                                                                                                                                                                      g




                                              World Bank. The boundaries,                                                             62                               n
                                                                                                                                                                  ko
                                                                                                                                                  Bac Lieu
                                              colors, denominations and
                                                                                                                                                           Me
                                                                                                                  Ca Mau
                                              any other information shown                                                                                                           0         50         100       150        200 Kilometers
                                              on this map do not imply, on                                                 63
                                              the part of The World Bank
                                              Group, any judgment on the
                                              legal status of any territory,                                                                                                        0                  50           100             150 Miles
                                              or any endorsement or
                                              acceptance of such
                                              boundaries.
                                                                                          104°E                                                   106°E                                            108°E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 JANUARY 2010
