                                                                                               93758
Vietnam: Second Payment System and Bank Modernization Project                                  April 19, 2012




 Improving Access to Finance:
 Providing timely and reliable payments services and new banking
 products


Overview
The Second Payment System and Bank Modernization Project (PSBM2), which closed in June
2011, significantly improved the speed and reliability of interbank payments in Vietnam from
two weeks in 2005 to within the day, with exponential growth (646 percent) of financial
transactions nationwide (2005-June 2011). The participating banks settled customer fund
transfers within minutes as compared to days in 2004-05. Centralized funds and customer
management strengthened project entities’ risk management capacity. Several banks can offer
eBanking services to customers now (159,000 eBanking customers and 412,360 instant
messaging customers).




Challenge                                           MULTIMEDIA
Vietnam embarked on banking reforms in the
late 1980s. By 2004, progress was made
towards a modus operandi that more resembled
banking sectors of other newly industrialized
economies. A modern interbank payment system
was in operation at the SBV (the central bank).
Two international-standard operational systems
were adopted by several banks. However, these
were pilot systems adopted under the first
Payment System and Bank Modernization
(PSBM) Project. Most interbank payments were
still processed by the old systems, it took days
to settle a transaction, and the systems could not provide       More Results
timely information for risk management. The legacy systems
were a major obstacle to access to finance for Vietnam’s
large population of bankable but under-banked households

                                                                 159,000
and enterprises. The pilot systems needed to be expanded
urgently to reduce the risks and costs associated with
running two different systems. The breathtaking pace of
                                                                 Vietnamese now use eBanking
Vietnam’s economic growth also called for further                services
development of the National Payments System and the
banks’ operational systems.

Approach
As an Information, Communications and Technology (ICT)-
                                                                    1 day
                                                                 is all it takes for interbank
based operation, the PSBM2 incorporated lessons learned          payments in 2011, compared to
from the first PSBM project and the worldwide experience         two weeks in 2005
(including that of the Bank) in ICT projects. The project
maintained the incremental approach towards technical
solution design and implementation. In addition, International
                                                                 MORE INFORMATION
Development Association’s (IDA) intervention focused on
quality assurance, in particular regarding technical               Second Payment System and
specifications, procurement planning and clarity and               Bank Modernization Project
adequacy of procurement documents, taking into account             Country Website
lessons learned in failed banking ICT projects. Significant
                                                                   Country Overview
attention was paid to procurement sequencing and
packaging, which helped to avoid frequent re-packaging or          Country Partnership Strategy
re-opening of bids. Procurement reviews strived to find            Data and Statistics
practical solutions, in addition to checking compliance, which
were incorporated, for example in the treatment of trade-in
equipment and system compatibility issues. As a result, the
large-scale system expansions were completed in just five
years. The expanded systems function well and have the
capability to be readily adapted to accommodate further changes in market demand.

Results
The PSBM2 brought about several verifiable economic benefits in the development of a
modern financial sector infrastructure, access to finance and improved banking operations.
Specifically, the PSBM2 (2005-2011):



       Improved predictability of cash flows in the economy and financial management by
       businesspersons or households since payments were made on real time or within the
       day.

       Provided mechanisms for economic agents to move away from the informal sector.

       Made available timely information for the SBV to monitor market liquidity and for the
       banks to manage risks.

       Enabled the banks to offer services such as eBanking, one-stop customer service, 24/7
       call center support.

       These benefits were achieved thanks to:
              98 percent per annum increase in payments system connectivity (from 49
              institutions in 2005 to 97 by June 2011);

              More than 100 percent per annum increase in bank operational system
              connectivity (48 times for the country’s largest bank in branch network);

              More than 1.5 times per annum growth of transactions processed by the
              payments system and exponential growth of transaction volumes at the banks
              (for example, one bank witnessed a per annum growth of 90 times); and

              Enhanced business continuity supported by new disaster recovery and backup
              capacities


Direct beneficiaries were the five project entities, and the broader beneficiaries included the
banking industry (for example,788 interbank payment system members), the banks’ customers
(they account for over 70 percent of total banking sector loans), and the future payment
system members (for example, the State Treasury).
Voices


      As a regular banking customer, I feel very comfortable with
   the service provided, such as money transferring. It is very easy
   for me to transfer money to my business partner within a day or
   receive money from them in 15 to 30 minutes.
          — Mr. Nguyen Guoc Cuong, a BIDV customer from Hanoi


Bank Contribution

      The original estimated total project cost was US$112 million equivalent, of which IDA
      was to finance 94 percent (SDR67.8 million or US$105 million). By project closure, 88
      percent (SDR59.9 million) of the IDA credit proceeds were disbursed. The cancelled
      portion was due to savings through competitive bidding processes and readjustments of
      the procurement plans under two subcomponents. Counterpart funding was substantial
      (US$18 million).

      Component 1: Payments system expansion (original-US$23.5 million / final-US$21.7
      million).

      Component 2: Banks core banking/operational system expansion (original-US$79.8
      million / final-US$71 million).

Partners
The Japanese government was the main development partner, having provided two Japan
Policy and Human Resources Development Fund (PHRD) grants (US$292,000) to the
government for project preparation and implementation, respectively. The project preparation
grant was particularly useful as the project entities’ capacity for preparing large ITC-heavy
banking projects was limited. The Spanish Government’s Consultant Trust Fund (CTF) grants
(US$287,000) helped the Bank team’s skills mix and project identification and preparation
costs.


The implementing agencies included SBV’s Information Technology (IT) Department, and the
four participating banks (BIDV–Bank of Investment and Development of Vietnam; MCB–
Maritime Joint-Stock Commercial Bank; VBARD–Vietnam Bank for Agriculture and Rural
Development, and VietinBank).

Toward the Future
The expanded systems are performing well with no major system stoppages or service
interruptions. All the implementing agencies have adopted the next five-year plan for IT
infrastructure development, and continue to upgrade the systems with enhanced technical
confidence and large funding of their own. The changes in organizational structure and
business processes have made the banks more customer-centric. Based on the positive
experience of the two PSBM projects, the government has recently adopted a strategy to
promote a non-cash economy in Vietnam to further develop financial sector infrastructure and
improve access to finance.
