FILE COPY
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No.  140a-ML
APPRAISAL OF AN
EDUCATION PROJECT
MALI
June 1, 1973
RETUBN TO
RECORDS CENT[ -,,I. t
Education Division
Projects Department
Western Africa Regiona1 Office
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted |
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVAL±NT
(Ejxchange Rate on February 27, 1973)
us$             = 460 Malian francs
MiF 1           = US$ 0.0022
XF 1 million    = US$ 2174.00
MEASURES
lm                   3.28 ft
1m2                 10.76 sq ft
FISCAL YEAR
Janmary 1 - December 31



. MALI
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Glossary
Basic Data
Summary and Conclusions ......................       .    i - iii
I.   INTRODUCTION ................1......1
II. THE SETTING.                                                   1
III.   THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SYSTEM  EDUCATION FINANCE         4
IV.   EDUCATIONAL DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY AND ASSESSMENT ....         8
V.   THE PROJECT .........       .................................   13
General ........       ................................   13
Strengthening of Planning and Managerial
Capabilities .................    14
Study of Alternatives for Extension
of Basic Education ..........................   14
Lower Secondary Level Groups of Laboratories and
Workshops ...................................1 -
Women's Technical Teacher Training
College (E.N.E.T.F.) ......      ..................   16
Central School for Industry, Commerce and
Administration (E.C.I.C.A.) .................  16
Technical Assistance               .        .         16
Cost of the Project ..........................   18
V1.   IMPLEMENTATION .......................................   20
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ................  21






APPENDICES
I.   The Education and Training System
II.   Education Finance and External Aid
III.   Technical Assistance
IV.   The Basic Education Study
ANNEXES
1.   Comparative Data Indicators
2.   Education System:  Structure, Enrollments, Teachers, 1970-71
3.   Total Primary, Lower and Upper Secondary Enrollments (public and
private) by Region (1969-72): Total and Regional Projected
Enrollments (1978)
4.   Enrollments at the Central School for Industry, Cowmerce and
Administration 1969-72 and Projected Enrollments 1979-80
5.   Recurrent Expenditures on Education
6.   Summary of Estimated Project Costs
7.   Contingency Allowances
8.   Project Implementation Schedule
9.   IDA Financing by Category of Expenditures
10.  Schedule of Disbursements
CHARTS
1.   Structure of Ministry of Education
2.   Structure of Education System
3.   Education Pyramid
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Mali in November/December 1972. The mission consisted of Messrs. A. Tsantis
(economist), B. Hubert (architect), and M. J. Wilson (general educator), of
the Association; G. Motel (technical educator) of I.L.0.   and C. Molineaux
(architect), consultant.






GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS
Enseignement fondamental                  -  "Basic education" as defined by the
1962 reform. The first cycle
(grades 1-6) is equivalent to
primary school; the second cycle
(grade 7-9) is equivalent to lower
secondary.
C.F.E.P.C.                                -  The primary school leaving examination
- certificat de fin d'etudes                  (results of which, together with school
du premier cycle                           year grades, qualify fcr entry to the
second cycle)
D. E. F.
- dipldme d'4tudes fondamentales          -  Grade 9 school leaving examination.
The required qualificaticn for entry to
upper secondary, technical vocational
and teacher training programs.
G.A.P.
- certificat d'aptitude                   -  Certificate of vocational preparedness;
professionnelle                            the skilled worker qualification.
Brevet de technicien                      -  Technician's diploma:
baccalaureate level technician qualifica-
tion.
Ecole normale superieure                  -  The higher teacher training college
in Bamako which trains teachers for
upper secondary school in a four
year program.
Ecole normale secondaire                  -  Secondary teacher training college:
trains teachers for middle schools in
a four year program. Located at Bamako.
Instituit pedagogique national            -  National Pedagogical Institute
part of the directorate of teacher
training, responsible for the design,
development and diffusion of curricula,
comprises several departments:
French, maths, audio-visual,
production of materials.
Ecole nationale d'administration          -  National School of Administration
the 4 year higher professional training
institute for economics, management,
administration and the social sciences.
Centres d'apprentissage agricole          -  Agricultural apprenticeship centers
training extension workers in a 2 year
program.



Centres d'animation rurale               -  Rural development centers
training youths (18+) as rural
development agents.
Centres d'orientation pratique           -  Centers for practical education:
rural continuation schools (2 year
program) designed to help rural
primary graduates settle permanently
in rural areas.
F. E. D.                                 -  Tie European Common Market development
- Fonds Europ6en de D6veloppement           agency.
F.A. C.                                  -  French government agency for overseas
- Fonds dtAide et de Coop6ration            development.



M A L I
BASIC DATA!
Population (1971)                                5.1. million
Urban                                       500.000
!oomadic                                   300,000
Population Annual Growth Late                     2.2%
GDP/2apita                                       US$ 70
Modern Sector Employment                          47,000
nnrollments
Levels of Education              Student Numbers           Enrollment Ratio21
Pri-mary                      203,700                      19.6%
Lower Seconcdary                26,180                      7. 5%
Upper Sec. General, Technical   3,760                       1.2%
Vocational                       3,230)
Teacher T'raining               1,550)                      1.2%
Higher Education                1,730)
Expenditures on iducation and Training (1972 Estimates)
Public Riecurrent Expenditures on rducation and
TIraining as a percentage of total recurrent expenditures 32%
Total Publ.ic Expenditures on bducation and Training as
a percentage of GDP.                                        4.6e*
1/ Comparative Education Data in Vnnex 1
2/ A-s percentage of age group (Annex 2)






APPRAISAL OF A FIRST
EDUCATION PROJECT IN MALI
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises an education project for Mali, for which a
credit of US$5.0 million is proposed.
ii.       The major challenges which confront educational development in
Mali are identified as follows:
(a) planning and management: the need to develop local capabilities
for planning, programming, budgeting, program evaluation and
cost analysis and control. Specifically, the reduction of costs
and the control of enrollment flows are pressing problems.
(b) qualitative improvement of the system (which has been neglected
during the recent period of expansion) specifically:
=    the development of curricula and methods more relevant
to Malian needs.
teacher training and upgrading programs and physical
facilities and equipment for implementing these changes.
(c) the extension of opportunities for basic education (presently
biased toward the modern, urban sector) through the identifica-
tion, exploration and development of economically viable alter-
natives to the present system.
iii.      The proposed project, which would be the first Bank Group education
project in Mali, would address these three main problem areas. It would com-
plement the programs of other bilateral and multilateral agencies in higher
education, teacher training, extension agent training, functional literacy
programs and rural training and provide:
(a) at the Ministry of Education assistance to create and develop
local capabilities for planning and management.
(b) at the lower secondary school level (grades 7-9) (i) the construc-
tion, equipment and materials (for a three year period) for 11
groups of laboratories and workshops for science, technology and
domestic science to serve 22 schools with an expected enrollment
of 6,600 by 1979/80 and (ii) aid to the National Pedagogical
Institute and the Women's Technical Teacher Training College for
the improvement and development of curricula in science, tech-
nology, domestic science and teacher training.



- ii -
(c)  at the upper secondary level (grades 10-13) conversion, extensions
and equipment to permit better adaptation of the country's only
middle level technical/vocational training institute to the
needs of the economy.
(d) at the first level of education, assistance for a study, inspired
and directed by Malian specialists, of alternatives for extend-
ing a basic education to the population not served by the exist-
ing education and training system. This study would be one of
the first of its kind to be undertaken under Bank Group financing.
It is therefore designed to provide evaluative and experimemtal
data which will help in the design and implementation of similar
projects in other member countries especially in the West Africa
Region.
iv.       There are a number of positive elements in the Malian education
system which suggest that the proposed approach might yield favorable results:
-    the education system has a strong national character:  the
majority of primary and lower secondary school teachers are
Malian; expatriate upper secondary teachers are being rapidly
replaced.
-    the balanced output of the system (over 50 percent of the
baccalaureates awarded each year are in science and tech-
nical subjects).
-    a relatively large proportion (60 percent) of higher educa-
tion enrollments are in Malian institutes.
-    there is a national examination and testing service.
-    parents and students provide wide financi-al support for
education.
-    there is considerable experience with functional literacy
programs oriented to Malian needs and using local languages.
v.        A project unit would be established within the MinistTy of Educa-
tion to coordinate project implementation.  It would have the assistance;of
technical specialists and would use consultant architects for dewign andasuper-
vision of school construction. Contracts for civil works and procurehent of
furniture and equipment would conform to the Bank's guidelines on interna-
tional competitive bidding. Domestic manufacturers of furniture would be
accorded a preferential margin equal to 15 percent of the c.i.f. price of
competing imports or the existing rate of import duty, whichever is lower.
A preferential treatment will also apply to members of the Western Africa
Economic Community.



- iii -
vi.       Total project costs are estimated at US$5.5 million equivalent, net
of taxes, with a foreign exchange component of US$4.1 million. The proposed
IDA Credit of US$5.0 million equivalent, would correspond to about 90 percent
of total costs net of taxes and would meet all foreign exchange costs plus
64 percent of local expenditures net of all duties and taxes. Retroactive
financing of the costs of consultant architects incurred before signing of
the credit agreement up to US$40,000 is recommended. The proposed project
would be completed in about five and a half years.
vii.       The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA
Credit of US$5.0 million equivalent.






APPRAISAL OF A FIRST
EDUCATION PROJECT IN MAL.I
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      In February 1972 a UNESCO mission visited Mali to identify an
education project suitable for Bank/IDA financing.  The UNESCO mission report,
submitted in April 1972, recommended expansion of basic education opportuni-
ties and of agricultural technician training; improvement in the quality of
basic education and of technical education; and strengthening of education
administration. The report was discussed with the government in June 1972
by an IDA mission and agreement was reached on project items to be considered
for IDA assistance. The project, prepared by UNESCO in October/November
1972, was appraised in November 1972 by an IDA mission comprising Messrs.
A. C. Tsantis (economist), B. J. Hubert (architect), M. J. rlilson (general
educator), G. Motel (technical educator, ILO), and C. Molineaux (architect,
consutltant).
1.02      During appraisal the main modification to the request consisted
in the grouping of practical science and workshop facilities (for reasons
of efficiency in their management and operation) at central locations,
instead of provision of such facilities at 24 individual lower secondary
schools.
1.03      The project provides for financing of improvements at the lower
secondary education level (grades 7-9) and at the technician level (grades
10-13) and related teacher and administrator training. It also includes
support for a reinforcement of education planning and administration at the
national level and for a study of the alternatives to expand the provision
of basic education.
II. THE SETTING
Physical Environment and Population
2.01      Mali is the second 1argest African francophone country in the area,
extending over 1.24 million km or twice the size of France. The population,
,pKE!22AnMUy1&.I&Iami, is estimated at 5.1 million and includes about half
a million urban dwellers and 300,000 nomads (in the northern region). The
literacy rate is a low 10 percent. The population growth rate is 2.2 percent,
the group below age 15 accounts for _4 percent of the total.  The population
is largely concentrated in the southern section of the counstry, mostly in
small village clusters along the valleys and tributaries of the Niger river.
The livelihood of 90 percent of the people depends on agriculture, livestock
and fisheries activities. Agriculture is characterized by some 400,000 small
family farms. Mali is one of a small number of countries where serious efforts
are being undertaken to increase farmer productivity by providing farmers in
production schemes with functional literacy for example, in the groundnut



-2-
and rice schemes. This is facilitated by the greater linguistic homogeneity
that Mali enjoys over many other African countries. The Baibara and Peul
languages are used by the large majority of the ethnic groups in their market
transactions. Bambara and Peul are being systematically developed so that they
may potentially become an effective means of written communication. Bambara
is now used in the farmers' functional literacy programs.
The Budget, Development Prospects and Future
Allocation of Resources to Education
2.02      An increasing share of public finance has been devoted to social
services; this sector now accounts for 37 percent of the total expenditures
or about two and a half times more than that allocated to the directly produc-
tive sectors. In 1972, public expenditures to education/training amounted to
4.6 percent of GDP. Considering that public revenues amounted to about 15
percent of GDP, this is a considerable commitment; however, the impact of
external subsidies on the government's sectoral allocations is concealed.
The government's strong endorsement of the expansion of educational opportu-
nities is also demonstrated by the growth of the recurrent expenditures on
education/training (15 percent p.a. in 1967-72) during a period of overall
expenditure restraint (4 percent p.a. in the same period). While some new
rural training programs of limited scope have been introduced, and other
training schemes for middle level manpower have been expanded, non-formal
education/training accounted for only about 1 percent of total public recurrent
expenditures by 1972. The remainder of the expenditures on education fostered
the further growth of the formal education system. While this system has been
quite successful in meeting some of the modern sector's manpower requirements,
it is not fully adapted yet in its programs and methods, particularly at its
lower levels, to the economic and social objectives of the country.
2.03      The country's long term potential for raising output in agriculture
and livestock is substantial. Economic growth over the next decade will likelv
continue to be modest, in the order of 4-5 percent p.a. Future allocations
of the limited financial resources - to be determined in the new five year
plan under preparation - mist respond to priorities in agriculture and live-
stock production and to the improvement of infrastructure. This would mean
in particular a reduction of the high rate of growth of recurrent public ex-
penditures on education to a level compatible withi other sectoral claims and
as needed by (a) the growth of the system in meeting modern sector manpower
requirements, and (b) the expenditures for new programs addressing the basic
education/training needs of the vast majority of the population. The growth
rate of recurrent expenditures on education that may be required under (a) and
(b) above cannot be determined yet, pending the outcome of studies still in
the planning stage. It would be reasonable for these expenditures to be held
in the next few years to a maximum annual growth rate of 6 percent, which is
the expected rate of growth of overall public recurrent expenditures. The
feasibility of a lower growth rate would be the subject of consultations
between the Government and the Association (para 4.12). The underwriting of
capital expenditures on education by external sources is expected to continue
(para 3.11).



- 3 -
Human Resource Development and Absorptive Capacity
2.04      The Government has been quite successful in recent years in reduc-
ing manpower shortages as a constraint to development and in the replacement
of an increasing proportion of expatriates by Malians, because of the improve-
ments in the expansion of educational opportunities, particularly at the higher
level, domestically and abroad. The domestic output of professional and middle
level manpower (1,160 graduates in 1972 of whom about 9 percent were profes-
sionals) supplemented by a large number of students returning from specialized
training abroad (about 190 returned and were absorbed in 1972, mostly profes-
sionals), is meeting the basic manpower needs of the economy, for both growth
and normal attrition. In addition, the share of foreign personnel decreased
from 43 percent of the professional jobs in 1965 to 19 percent in 1970; for
technicians, the decrease was from 34 percent to 17 percent. Over the same
period, the proportion of senior to technical personnel in industry improved
from a ratio of 1:1.8 to 1:2.4.
2.05      Nevertheless, the supply of trained manpower is not yet in balance
with the needs of the economy. Some shortages of Malian qualified professional
and technical staff remain in agriculture and in education; in fact, at the
upper secondary and higher manpower levels education is one of the rare sec-
tors where expatriates still predominate (the teachers for upper secondary
education require four years of university training after BAC level). Experi-
enced senior staff is also in short supply as suggested by the frequent delays
in appointing cotnterparts to specialists in manv projects. Conversely, there
are areas where an over-supply situation is developing such as among lower
secondary teachers (who currently require four years of training after lower
secondary education) and graduates from the higher studies in administration.
Delays and difficulties in placing graduates from technician and skilled work-
er training programs are also experienced because of the irrelevance of many
such programs to emplovers' needs.
2.06      The Government continues its role as a last resort employer.  This
practice imposes a considerable burden on the budget although it has been
modified in recent years: primary education graduates have lost the privilege
of almost automatic employment. Because of the prevailing financial con-
straints the government in the immediate future is likely to be reluctant to
absorb the increasing number of graduates of secondary and post secondary
training programs. This will most likely lead to further changes in the
government's policy on hiring these graduates, allowing a greater number of them,
particularly of university level, to seek employment in the private sector of
the economy. The present government's hiring practice distorts the magnitude
and composition of the real manpower demands of the different economic sectors,
leads to poor external efficiency of the education system, and limits feedback
for improving and adjusting the training programs. Finally, it has contributed
to an unfortunate expectation bv parents that formal education guarantees civil
service emplovment.
2.07      In reality, employment offered by the modern sector of the economy,
including the civil service, benefits only a tiny fraction of the population.
The modern sector employs about one person per 100 inhabitants, a ratio among
the lowest in Western Africa. The economically active population amounted
to 2.3 million in 1970. Of this labor force employees in government services



- 4 -
accounted for 26,700 and in organized enterprises in the secondary and tertiary
sectors for only 21,000, or 2 percent of the labor force. State enterprises
are prominent in modern commerce, transport and manufacturing, and account for
three quarters of the employees in these sectors. Recorded unemployment is
low at present, as can be expected in an economy with a majority of the popu-
lation in self-employment and with the prevailing labor market distortions
(para 2.06).
2.08      Given the economic limitations (para 2.03), the prospects for
significant employment expansion in the modern sector are not bright. At
present salary levels, Government absorption of specialized manpower is ex-
pected to continue at an average of about 1,000 persons per annum (para 2.06).
Absorption by the secondary and tertiary sectors would probably amount to about
50 professionals, 100-120 technicians, and roughly 500 skilled and clerical
workers per annum. These estimates, representing rough orders of magnitude
require refinement and regular updating when data collection procedures im-
prove. Systematic modern sector manpower planning is still in an embryonic
stage. Specialist input and government commitment are required for its
development and for its linkage, through interministerial working groups,
with planning of the formal education system.
2.09      Considering the magnitude of student enrollments and flows, and
the nature of the courses attended both in Mali and abroad, there are con-
siderable risks that present market imbalances could rapidly become worse.
The latent problem of the absorption of primary school leavers could become
an open issue. If excessive or misplaced investments in educational expansion
should continue, the creation of urban pockets of unemployed graduates could
result, with serious consequences. If Mali is to avoid this predicament,
changes in the government's education development strategy, along the lines
supported by the present project, and the firmness of its implementation in
these next few years will be crucial.
III. THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SYSTEM
General
3.01      The Ministry of Education Youth and Sports was until recently princi-
pally responsible for administering education and training in Mali (Chart 1).
As of May, the Ministry was divided into the Ministry of Fundamental Education,
Youth and Sports and the Ministry of Higher and Secondary Education and of
Scientific Research. Not all details with regard to the organization of the
Ministries have been worked out, as yet. Other Ministries (Production, Health,
Post and Telecommunications) and agencies operate training facilities meeting
their own requirements. A six year primary school (the first cycle Wf basic
education) prepares for lower secondary school entry examination and for
lower level vocational and agricultural training. Lower secondary school
(the second cycle of basic education, grades 7-9) prepares students for entry
into upper secondary general education and vocational, agricultural and teacher
training at the same level (grades 10-13). Students continuing to higher



5-
education (grades 13-16) are channeled on the basis of results of the Malian
Baccalaureate examination and on the guidance of the Bureau of School and Uni-
versity Orientation. Annexes 2-4 give the key data about teachers and en-
rollment distribution.
3.02      Educational planning is new to Mali; the general directorate of
planning, finance and administration was created only in 1970 and because of
its recent development and lack of trained personnel other Ministry depart-
ments have not begun to use its services, continuing to pursue their opera-
tions independently. Most of the staff in this directorate are inexperienced
in planning and come from teaching. All would benefit from additional train-
ing. Some progress in the improvement of educational statistics has been
achieved through UNESCO technical assistance. Much work still has to be done.
The objective should be to develop long-term educational plans to improve
their coordination with manpower needs (identification of these should also
be improved) and to rationalize budgeting, management and evaluation procedures
so that efficiencies in the operation of the system can be achieved. Additionally,
there is a specific need to coordinate the disparate vocational training and up-
grading programs offered by various ministries and national industries.
Formal Education/Training
3.03      Enrollments in the formal education system (Annexes 2-4) have ex-
panded rapidly after independence. In primary and lower secondary education this
growth was the product of a community response to government decisions to increase
educational opportunities for Malian youth. This parental enthusiasm may now
be on the wane as the chances for their children to secure a civil service job
are becoming more and more limited (para 2.06). Teacher supply has generally
kept up with the enrollment expansion at the primary and lower secondary levels
where almost all staff is Malian. Dependence on expatriates at other levels is
heavy (55-90 percent) and foreign staff replacement is being undertaken
slowly, except at the upper secondary school level.
3.04      Primary Education.  Only a small minority of Malian children have the
opportunity of receiving some primary education. Enrollments (207,000 in 1971)
account for only 20 percent of the 6 - 12 years age group, which is among the
lowest in Africa (Annex 1), and enrollment ratios range from 6 percent in Gao
to 29 percent in Bamako. While the primary system imparts some skills in cal-
culation and the French language to most of the students reaching at least the
fourth grade, its main function continues to be the preparation of a small
minority of students proceeding to further education. Both of these functions,
however, are undertaken at a high cost because of the limited efficiency of the
system; the main causes of inefficiency are the use of a foreign language for
instruction, the multiplicity of subjects, and the poor educational background
and training of the teachers. The average repetition rate is 31 percent; only
43 percent of the entrants are enrolled in the final year of the program; and
those graduating take 7-8 years to complete the six year cycle. About 36 per-
cent of the recurrent expenditures on education are devoted to primary education
and the recurrent expenditures/student year amount to US$25, or a third of GDP/
capita. Although these financial allocations compare favorable with other
Western Africa countries (Upper Volta $50, Senegal $43, Ivory Coast $44) they



- 6 -
are high for Mali--and particularly when considering that these expenditures
are supplemented by monthlv parental contributions determined by parent asso-
ciations for school construction, furniture, limited maintenance, and scarce
classroom supplies. A stuidy of alternatives to the ahove deficiencies is
recommended in Chapter IV.
3.05      Lower Secondarv School.  The lower secondary school was, until re-
centlv, an extension and reinforcement of the primarv school curriculum, with
chemistry, biology, physics and domestic science additions to the alreadv long
list of subjects. Mostly built and maintained by the parent associations, the
schools lack specialized facilities and equipment for science and practical
work and there is no budget to support these activities; thus, instruction is
essentially theoretical. Lower secondary school graduates, despite their nine
or more years of basic education are still seriouslv handicapped whether they
are to enter the lahor market or upper secondary level technical/vocational
schools and teacher training colleges. Over 25 percent of total lower
secondary school enrollments are repeaters with 40 percent repeating the ninth
grade in the hope of a "second chance" at success at the school leaving exami-
nation (Diplome d'etudes fondamentales-D.E.F) which is a requirement for further
studies or training, although in principle repetition of this class is not
allowed. Motivation is high: students often organize review and remedial
classes which mav continue until early evening. In the rural commtnities
where many of the schools are incomplete, the students must break their studies
unless they can move to larger communities and be accepted by the inspectorate
as eligible for entrv to a complete school.
3.06      Upper Secondarv Education.  Upper secondary general and technical
enrollments have tripled since 1965 to a level of 3,800 in 1970/71. Contrary to
the experience in other African countries, over half of the students have
followed and graduated from science and technical streams. The curriculum
still follows the French model but the baccalaureate examination is Malian
set and administered. Hitherto, all qualified graduates continue their
studies on scholarship. The key middle level technician training institution
is the Central School for Industry, Commerce and Administration (ECICA)
(Annex 4). The training provided by this institution is insufficiently
practical although quantitatively it meets the economy's demands for tech-
nicians. In principle, ECICA's programs are of three year's duration, but
because of the poor quality of lower secondary school graduates they had to
be extended to four years to permit half of the first two years to be devoted
to general studies and remedial work in basic skill areas.  Contributing to
the low proportion of practical work, equipment is inadequate in the majority
of the workshops: this situation urgently requires correction if the insti-
tution is to become effective.
3.07      The teacher training establishments (four primary and two lower
secondary level) enrolled 1,550 in 1971.  Domestic science teachers are trained
at the Women's Technical Teacher Training College, a small but well run institu-
tion of 80 students. There is a need to improve the institution's program to
include more practical science work. The program is of four years duration
instead of three for the same reasons as in the case of ECICA. In higher
education 1,400 students were enrolled in Malian institutes (teacher train-
ing, engineering, administration, agriculture and medicine) and about another



1,000 were abroad in 1972/73. The local institutes are generallv small and
the utilization of teachers and physical plant is inefficient. The Higher
Teacher Training College and the National School of Administration, staffed
largelv bv expatriates, account for 66 percent of l'alian enrollments at this
level.  Both have reached their growth peak; and unless their enrollments
are curtailed, emplovment of their graduates will become problematic in a
few years. 1While consolidation and regrouping of higher education institutes
is an obvious need, its implementation will remain difficult as long as each
of them remains closely related to bilateral or multilateral foreign aid
agencies.  The government should, nevertheless, try to rationalize this
situation (para 4.04).
Vocational Training
3.08      Virtually all vocational training programs are assisted by external
donors. As in the case of higher education, this is one of the reasons for
the fragmentation and dispersion of vocational training, and for the duplication
of training opportunities and consequent inefficiency in the use of human and
technical resources. Vocational and agricultural programs at the lower second-
ary level train students age 16 and above, with a primary education, as skilled
workers and extension agents. In addition, there are eight centers for rural
orientation (assisted by ILO) intended to re-integrate rural primary school
leavers into agricultural production. Student motivation is difficult to
maintain after completion of six years of formal primary education and there
is no follow-up to help them obtain employment or become self-employed.
3.09      Functional literacy for adults is provided in village built centers
and given by voluntary instructors who rely on the advice of the agricultural
extension services. Courses are given at night for a period of six months
when functional literacy is theoretically achieved. Local languages (Bambara,
Peul) are used. In 1972, an estimated 1,600 centers reached some 40,000
farmers but indirectly influenced many more. Farmers often drop out to
return later or participate on a remedial basis. Since attendance and per-
formance data are lacking, the real costs for an individual who achieves
functional literacy are not clear.  An evaluation of the program is required.
In addition to the functional literacy centers (Ministry of Education),
training for rural development - agriculture, health and civic instruction -
is given at 45 rural development centers operated by the Ministry of Produc-
tion.  Because of the fiscal difficulties, FED which was originally associated
in the setting up of these centers has been asked by the government to par-
ticipate in their operation. They are staffed by extension workers, trained
by ILO at the Agricultural Apprenticeship Centers and by military personnel
who are gradually being replaced by the former. FED has also been asked to
increase the capacity of the extension training centers.
Education Finance
3.10      Public recurrent expenditures on education/training have grown much
faster than total recurrent expenditures (para 2.02). The sector accounted
for MP 6.5 billion in 1971 and rose to MF 7.8 billion in 1972 or a 19 percent
increase. This was 29 percent and 32 percent of the recurrent budget res-
pectively. Ministry of Education allocations and transfers to the regions



- 8 -
are mostly for teachers' salaries. The transfers are supplemented by parents'
voluntary contributions at the lower education levels (paras 3.03-3.05) which
were found to represent in urban areas 0.5-3 percent of family monetary revenues
(for one child in school). On the other hand, most of the students in upper
secondary and post secondary education are on scholarships which account for
about 15 percent of the recurrent expenditures on education.
3.11      Almost all capital expenditures in the sector are underwritten
by external sources. The most significant projects are listed in Appendix
II. The government's triennial development budget allowed only MF 46 million,
all for teacher upgrading programs, out of its local contribution to the budget
of MF 10.6 billion. These budget figures represent only the Malian contribu-
tion to the total cost of these programs; however, last year the government
was not able to meet its share of expenditures because of financial constraints.
3.12      Estimated unit recurrent costs of education (US$25 primary, US$117
middle, US$340 secondary) are relatively high in terms of the GDP per capita
(US$70). However, they compare favorably with those of other countries in
the region. One of the reasons is that teacher salaries have been frozen in
Mali since 1962; the salaries represent 11 times GDP per capita for primary
school teachers, 18 for middle and about 28 times for secondary school
teachers - multiples which are among the lowest for countries in the region.
IV.  EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY AND ASSESSMENT
Education Development and Strategy
4.01      The government is now developing an education strategy which takes
into account, to some extent, financial constraints and the developing im-
balances among manpower demand and supply (paras 2.05). The basic elements
of the strategy consist of:
(a)  reducing the bias of primary education in favor of the urban/
modern sector by developing economically and culturally rele-
vant alternatives for the majority of the population;
(b)  controlling growth throughout the system by limiting initial
enrollments and applying stricter controls where feasible to
student orientation and admission to different levels of the
system;
(c)  reducing education costs through program improvement; and
(d)  improving the quality and capacity of training programs to
better meet the economy's manpower needs.
4.02      To implement this strategy, the Ministry of Education will have
to be staffed with an adequate number of trained officials who are not
currently obtainable locally. Therefore, the government intends to recruit



-9-
suitable university graduates and provide them with on-the-job training by
technilcal assistance, complemented by ad hoc training to be run by the
interministerial Institute for Productivity and Management (which is assisted
by ILO).
Education Reform
4.03      With regard to basic education the government's plan is to involve
a larger proportion of the population, through more efficient alternatives to
the present traditional primary system. The government's intention is to
expand and improve the relevance of basic education and to affirm its dual
functions: (a) preparing students for further education and training a
minority of able ones, and (b) preparing the majority of students for direct
entry to productive employment by at least imparting to them functional skills
in reading, writing and calculation and by encouraging qualities of initiative
and curiosity which may not be highly valued in the students' traditional
habitat.   To that end, the government would mobilize local resources through
working groups, composed of professors and students from the Malian higher
institutions, which will study the structures, content and methods required
to implement alternative program(s). The nation's experience in the application
of local languages to functional literacy programs would also be evaluated.
Specialists would be needed to organize the study, program the work and design
the necessary research and experimentation on methods and programs. They would
also undertake research and advisory work where local specialists are not
available.
Enrollment Controls
4.04      With regard to control of the system's expansion, several measures
have already been taken such as the introduction of selective examinations
for access to lower and upper secondary level institutions. Additional measures,
to be implemented this year, include (a) a competitive entrance examination
at the Central School for Industry, Commerce and Administration and (b) the
stabilization at 1972 levels of new enrollments in the higher institutes of
Engineering, Teacher Training and Administration, through the award of
constant numbers of scholarships. Growth rates for various levels of the
system are being examined in connection with the five year plan being prepared.
Legislation is being drafted which would make acceptance of an assignment to
a specific training institution a condition for financial assistance by the
State. Further measures would be required to reorient enrollments toward
agricultural specializations. The further development of higher education in
Mali requires the close collaboration of the interested agencies and the
government. The latter provided assurances during negotiations, that it would
prepare within about two years from credit signing and discuss with the Asso-
ciation a plan for the development and rationalization of higher education.
Reducing Costs Through Program Improvements
4.05      The lower secondary school has been the government's primary target for
reform. When the planned qualitative improvements are implemented, the impact



- 10 -
should be a reduction of the duration of upper secondary level training programs
by one year, with a commensurate reduction in their costs. The Ministry of
Education intends to shorten the program of ECICA when it is satisfied that the
quality of entering lower secondary school students has improved. The length
of the courses at the teacher training institutions and at the Rural Polytechnic
Institute should also be reduced. At the lower secondary level, the government
has already undertaken curriculum reform and teacher upgrading in mathematics
and French with the object of improving quality. Planning of practical curricula
in science, technology and domestic science is under way, but new facilities
would be required to implement the more practical courses envisaged.
Improving the Quality and Capacity of Training Proeams
4.06      Middle Level Technician Training.  Qualitative improvements to help
ECICA meet middle level manpower demands of the modern sector are urgent
(para 2.08). The government intends to make the training programs more
flexible and relevant to employers' needs. To this end, a governing body
has been created which represents both public and private enterprises (al-
though terms of reference have yet to be worked out). Further, the director-
ate of secondary and technical education has agreed in principle to a new
curriculum which would increase the practical content of the programs to
about 40 percent of the work week. However, to implement this curriculum
and to achieve a better use of ECICA, additional equipment and some expan-
sion of facilities for the commercial streams and for administration would
be required.
4.07      Agricultural and Rural Training.  To provide the rural development
centers with extension workers and instructors a request has been made to
FED to extend and increase the capacity of the Agricultural Apprenticeship
Centers (para 3.09). Also, to facilitate the entry of primary school graduates
into the rural environment, the government, assisted by ILO in staff train-
ing and program development, will construct 12 more rural orientation centers
(para 3.08) in 1973/74 and improve the operation of the existing ones. Func-
tional literacy activities will continue to be extended within the context
and possibly with the financial assistance of agricultural production schemes
one of which is being proposed for consideration to IDA. Two studies to be
undertaken this year should assist the government to coordinate and direct invest-
ments efficiently in non-formal education/training programs. The first study is
an evaluation of functional literacy in the groundnut scheme and the second is
a review of all non-fonnal training in Mali, sponsored by UNICEF.
Strategy Assessment
4.08      The government is rightly concerned about the limited impact of the
formal educational system on the population at large and the relatively high
costs of education. The proposed plan to studv viable alternatives is soundly
based, and could be replicated by other countries facing similar problems.
The government's educational development strategy is also sound in emphasizing
qualitative improvements in the system. There is a need, however, to further
control enrollment growth and relate it, at secondary and post secondary levels,



- 11 -
with the manpower requirements of the monetary sector of the economy.  This
need is illustrated by assessing the financial implications of two hypotheses
for enrollment growth, developed in informal Ministry working papers in the
early stage of preparations for the five year plan, one assuming continuation
of trends of recent years (hypothesis A) and the other presenting arbitrarily
reduced growth rates (hypothesis B). Neither of these hypotheses, both of
which are presented below for the first three levels of education, are based
on any estimate of manpower demand.
Total Enrollment             First Year Enroll-
Level                  Growth Rate                 ment Growth Rate
Hyp. A       Hyp. B           Hyp. A        Hyp  B
Primary                    4.0          2.8              3.9           2.0
Lower Secondary            4.9          2.5              6.6           4.0
Upper Secondary            6.7          5.1              4.9           3.4
The high growth assumption in primary education would increase enrollments by
168,000 (31 percent) between 1971-78, but the enrollment ratio would rise only
to 21 percent from 20 percent currently. Similarly, at the other levels of
education only marginal increases in the enrollment ratios will result.
4.09      If the government were to implement a plan based even on the low
enrollment growth of hypothesis B above, the expenditures required for educa-
tion and training would increase from MF 7.8 billion in 1972 to MF 11.7 billion
in 1978. This growth, averaging about 7% p.a., includes (a) a 10% increase
in salaries expected this year, (b) a 3% p.a. real growth in the salary com-
ponent of unit costs built in the salary structure, and (c) assumes that the
share of expenditure on training by other ministries, with the expected expan-
sion of their programs would increase from 5% to 8% of the total. These re-
current expenditures on education/training would represent about 36% of the
government's total and about 5.6% of GDP in that year. Under existing financial
prospects this allocation to the education sector is higher than can be expected
to take place. Therefore, the government is faced with having either to reduce
costs of education to a more feasible growth rate (para 2.03) or to increase
revenues for education.
4.10      Reduction of the growth in costs is more feasible and also indispen-
sible if new programs are to be introduced. It can be achieved in two ways:
In the immediate future, by selectively controlling enrollment growth at
secondary and higher levels to meet the estimated manpower absorption level
of the monetary sector of the economy as will be shortly determined by special
studies. Because of the inadequate information base, it is not possible to
forecast the target growth rate at this time, but even the low enrollment
growth hypothesis, in para. 4.08, for the upper secondary level would lead



- 12 -
to excessive enrollments at this and the higher level into which secondary
graduates enter. In the intermediate future, costs can be controlled by
improving efficiency (a) through enforcement of the government's own regula-
tions on repetition and wastage, and (b) by school consolidation and more
efficient teacher utilization, which should result from the systematic
school location planning that has only recently begun. Some reduction in
expenditures would also result from the anticipated decrease by one year in
the duration of the secondary level four year programs once lower secondary
sehool students have graduated from a full cycle of the reformed program in
1978 (para. 4.05).
4.11      On the other hand, trying to increase revenues for education is un-
likely to yield significant results. The private sector's capacity to absorb
a further shift of the financial burden of education is limited, given the
relatively high cost of education for the majority of the families whose chil-
dren have access to it (para. 3.10). Increases in school fees to be paid by
parents would likely have an adverse impact on student attendance or enroll-
ments, would meet social resistance and would not be an administratively en-
forceable method of enrollment control. External donors may meet some oper-
ating costs of the programs they support, but such subsidies are usually phased
out after a relatively short period.
4.12      In view of the manpower (para. 2.08) and financial (para. 4.09)
constraints, a careful review of educational priorities is needed to determine
the feasible rate of expansion of the educational sector and the extent to
which each sub sector should be expanded and improved. With regard to the
lower level of education, the Government should stabilize enrollments in
the formal system at the lowest participation rate which is politically and
socially feasible, while awaiting the definition of an alternative approach
(para. 4.03). During negotiations the Government agreed to consult from
time to time with the IDA on the best ways to achieve these objectives.
IDA Project Strategy
4.13       The proposed project would address itself to the key areas of Mali's
education development strategy. It would support the government's efforts to
develop local capabilities in planning, management, program evaluation, bud-
geting and cost analysis, without which none of the planned changes in the
education system can be achieved.  The project would also provide assistance
to the government to study and evaluate economically viable alternatives for
extending some form of basic literacy to the 80% of the school age population
and the illiterate adults presently beyond the reach of the system. It would
also contribute to finalizing the reform at the lower secondary school level
by (i) aiding in the renovation and development of the science, domestic
science and technology programs to make them more practical and adapted to the
Malian environment; and (ii) by assisting in improving lower secondary school
teacher quality. It would also help in the implementation of reform programs
for the middle level technician training institute to make it better adapted
to the demands of the economy.



- 13 -
V. THE PROJECT
General
5.01      The proposed project would finance:
(a)  construction and equipment for
(i)  eleven groups of practical multipurpose science
laboratories and basic technology and domestic
science workshops, each group serving 1-4 schools
(grades 7-9) in the surrounding area;
(ii) ENETF, the training institute for lower secondary
school domestic science teachers (grades 10-13);
and
(iii) ECICA, the middle level technician training
institute (grades 10-13);
(b)  the costs for a special upgrading program of teachers and
for the training of the directors of the facilities in a(i);
(c)  the provision of
(i)  7 man years of specialists' services and 1-1/2
years of fellowships for the above institutions;
(ii) 11 man years of specialists' services to train
local personnel and organize and develop proce-
dures for improved planning and management in
the Ministry of Education and to develop manpower
planning capabilities in the Division of Human
Resources of the Central Planning Bureau;
(iii) 5.5 man years of specialists' services to organize
and implement a study of the alternatives for the
extension of basic education, and the identification
and preparation of a future possible project in this
area; and
(iv) 2.5 man years for an architect or an engineer expe-
rienced in school construction to aid the Project
Director;
(d) furniture, equipment and accomnodation for the Project Unit.



- 14 -
Strengthening of Planning and Managerial Capabilities
5.02      This project item consists of nine man years of technical assist-
ance to the General Directorate of Planning, Finance and Administration which
will provide services to both education Ministries and two man years to the
Human Resource Division of the Planning Bureau. The assistance to the General
Directorate of Planning, Finance and Administration would be directed towards
local staff training in the key areas of education planning, finance and
budgeting, program evaluation, management and administration-. The educational
planning post to be provided within the project would in effect constitute a
two year extension of the existing post provided under a UNDP/UNESCO project
which is to end mid-1974 and which UNDP does not have funds to extend. In
order to ensure that the technical assistance personnel are effective, the
designation of the local staff to be trained should be timed to coincide with
their appointment. The manpower specialist to be attached to the Planning
Bureau would assist in developing permanent mechanisms for assessing and pro-
jecting the quantitative and qualitative manpower needs of the modern sectors.
In carrying out his tasks, he would collaborate closely with the Ministry of
Education officials.
Study of Alternatives of Extension of Basic Education
5.03      To permit a larger proportion of population to participate in basic
educat:ion, the project would include an extensive study of alternatives to the
present, traditional formal system (para. 4.03) The study would involve the
equivalent of 5.5 man years of technical assistance, the services of 10.5
man years of M4alian specialists plus support staff and related expenditures
for experimentation and evaluation. The foreign support would primarily be
in the following fields: educational planning (coordinator), educational
research and evaluation (specializing in empirical, program-oriented research),
rural development (experience in integrated projects), applied linguistics
(use of vernacular languages as educational media), management (logistical/
communication problems of large systems) and mass media (in particular, the
application of radio for rural development and education). The coordinator
and his team, would organize the study, program the work, help design the
necessary research and education studies and provide guidance and expert
advice on the conduct of experimentation in methods and programs. They
would be assisted by Malian specialists in related fields (including socio-
logy and functional literacy) and teams of students from the final years in
the higher institutions of Teacher Traininlg and Administration. The Malian
specialists and senior students would be responsible for the major part of
the field work including surveys and pedagogical experiments where their
knowledge of the languages and of the environment would be indispensable.
They would also assist in the coding and processing of survey and experi-
mental data. The study would prepare the way and also include the costs
for the identification and preparation, including designs, of a possible
second education project focusing on the implementation of the reform of basic
education.
5.04      Special arrangements would be made for the study to be supervised
at the national level. Consultative and work groups of parents, teachers,
employers, or others affected or interested by eventual reforms would be



- 15 -
established to guide, react and contribute to the work of the study team.
The study would extend over a period of three years and be carried out in
two phlases. An interim report would be prepared at the end of the first
phase (after one year) prior to proceeding with the design of the experi-
ments. During negotiations, the government provided assurances that (a) the
terms of reference of the study team, the phasing of the study, the composi-
tion of the team of foreign and local specialists would be acceptable to the
Association and (b) that it would consult with the Association about the
study's recommendations and its proposals for their implementation.
Lower Secondary Level Groups of Laboratories and Workshops
5.05      This project item consists of the construction and equipment of
34 multi-purpose science laboratories, 28 technology workshops, and 17 pract-
ical work facilities for girls' family and social education all in 11 groups;
the upgrading of teachers in the use of the facilities above; the training of
11 administrators for the groups; and the provision of didactic materials for
the first three years of the operation of these facilities, corresponding to a
full cycle of studies at this level. The groups, each serving from 1-4 schools,
would contain about 2,200 student places half of which would be located in Bamako.
They would be located within walking distance from the user schools, i.e. less
than a kilometer and built on, or adjacent to the site of one of the schools
to be served. About 6,600 students would use the facilities, corresponding
to almost one-fourth of projected public enrollments at this level by 1978/79.
5.06      The government has already appointed committees to develop the
new curricula, prepare the simple equipment requirements which would best
suit the Malian environment and finalize the weekly timetables. During
negotiations, the government provided a progress report on the activities of
these committees and confirmed that 20 - 25 percent of the weekly work-load
would be devoted to practical work and experimentation. Forty selected
science teachers and 20 domestic science teachers would be upgraded in the
use and maintenance of the facilities and equipment by the time of the opening
of these facilities. With regard to the teaching of technology, as there are
no technology instructors available, the government should select 35 students
currently enrolled in the first year of ECICA who would be given a special
polyvalent training program (masonry, carpentry, electricity and metal work)
in their third year. Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotia-
tions. This training would be complemented by on-the-job pedagogical training,
under supervision in the facilities by the technical assistance to be provided
and by that already installed at ECICA. The training would take place within
the premises and be given by the present staff of ECICA, making use of the
equipment provided in this project (para. 5.08). The administrators of the
groups of laboratories and workshops would be given training in inventory,
budgeting and scheduling procedures at the Institute of Productivity and
Management (para. 4.02). The Institute would also follow up the trainees
during their first year on the job.



- 16 -
Women's Technical Teacher Training College (E.N.E.T.F.)
5.07      This project item consists of the construction and equipment of a
biology laboratory to give the domestic science teachers of the Women's
Technical Teacher Training College training in biology and nutrition. The
goal is to further the integration of family social education with science
and, at the same time, to ensure maximum utilization of these teachers (para.
5.06).  A new curriculum, agreed in principle with Ministry officials, em-
phasizing practical work by the students would be taught by the present
instructors who are qualified. The school has presently no facilities for
science instruction.
Central School for Industry, Commerce and Administration (E.C.I.C.A.)
5.08      This item consists of the construction of commercial and secretarial
classrooms and of an administration block; conversion of existing classrooms
and work areas into laboratories, technology rooms and a library; equipment
for the industrial sections of the institution and equipment for simulated
commercial work areas. A new curriculum with a practical work content
amounting to 40% of a student's workweek has been accepted in principle by
the Ministry of Education. The present staff is qualified to implement this
curriculum anid the government provided assurances during negotiations that
it would appoint a Malian counterpart to the chief technical adviser already
provided by FAC as Director of Practical Work.
5.09      Reduction in Duration of Programs.  It is expected that a direct
benefit from the government's qualitative reforms of the lower secondary
school programs (para. 4.05) would be reduction by one year of the four year
programs at the Women's Technical Teacher Training College, at ECICA and at
the teacher training college for other lower secondary school teachers. An
evaluation of the improvement in the achievement of lower secondary school
graduates would be made with the assistance of the program evaluation special-
ist (para. 5.02). The government provided assurances during negotiations
that upon the specialists' recommendations that the qualitative objectives
of the reforms have been achieved, and after consultation with the Association,
it would reduce to three years the above programs for graduates from the proj-
ect schools and other lower secondary schools implementing the new curriculum.
Technical Assistance
5.10      In addition to providing for the technical assistance which con-
stitutes the core of the first two project items (paras. 5.02 - 5.03) the
project would include another six and a half man years of specialist-services
(Appendix III):
(a)  five and a half man-years for three specialists in science,
domestic science and technology to assist in curriculum
development in the National Pedagogical Institute, prepara-
tion of equipment lists and teacher training required by
the introduction of practical facilities for science, tech-
nology and family/social education (para. 5.05);



- 17 -
(b) one and a half man years for a specialist in technical/
vocational education planning to develop plans for the
rationalization and standardization of the program and
equipment at ECICA and at other training/upgrading
centers (para. 3.02).
The government agreed during negotiations that all specialists would be
acceptable to the Association and would be employed on terms and conditions
agreeable to the Association. The government also agreed that in order to
ensure to local counterparts full opportunities for on-the-job training the
designation and appointment of the latter and the specialists should be timed
to coincide.
tc) In addition, the project would provide
(i) a six month fellowship to the Director of
Secondary and Technical Education for attending
abroad a specially designed program of visits
and training in technical/vocational training
schemes;
(ii) a one year fellowship to the Malian appointed as
Director of Practical Works in ECICA (para. 5.08)
to permit him to study vocational training abroad.
(d) The Project Unit: Two and a half years of the services of
an architect or engineer experienced in school construction
would be provided to assist the project director in the im-
plementation of the physical aspects of the project.



- 18 -
Cost of the Project
5.11        Estimated costs and foreign exchange components of various elements
of the project are suwmarized as follows (Annex 6).
Malian Francs (millions)  U.S.Dollars(Thousands)  % of
Local Foreign  Total    Local Foreign  Total   Total
L.  Planning and Yianagement      56      167    223       121       363    484      9.7
a. Basic Education Study         79       121    200       171       264    435     8.7
Ct.  Lower Secondary 'enters    491       755  1,246    1,067    1,642  2,708    5441
Civil l^lorks           (407)   (423)  (830)    (8&4)    (920)(1,6CO4)
Furniture               ( 38)    ( 45)  ( 83)    ( 83)    ( 97)(: 180)
Equipment               (15)    (236)  (251)    ( 33)    (512)(  545)
Prof. Services          ( 31)    ( 51)  ( 82)    ( 67)    (113)(  160)
D.  L.M.E.T.F.                     3        5       8        6       11      17       .3;
Civil 4orks             (2)    (2)  (43               4)    (41)(    8)
Furniture      )
Equipment      )        ( 1)    ( 3)  ( 4)    (  2)    (  7)(.   9*).
Prof. Services)
i.  E.C.I.C.A.                   82       323    405       178      702    880    17.6
Civil dorks             (:54)    ( 56)  (ilo)    (116)    (121)(  237)
Furniture               (. 6)3    (  7)  ( 13)    ( 13)    ( 15)(-  28)
Equipment               (:16)    (249)  (265)    ( 35)    (542)(  577)
Prof. Services          ( 6)    C 11)  ( 17)    ( 14)    ( 24)(  38;)
F.  Technical Assistance         38       112    150        84      243    327      6.5
G.  Project Unit                 19        54      73       42      18    160       3.2
Sub-total.1                 76      1,        3053 _  12669   3 ,43  5.912   100.0
Physical Contingencies       66       120     186     143       262    4o5      8.I
Price Contingenci-es        138:      232     370      300      5oIj   504    16.0
Sub-total 2                           352     556     443       766  1,?29    2
Total                       972    1,bb9   2,b61   2.12 11? 21   6229
Total net of taxes          645    1,b92  2,537    1;0        4,112  5:,516
_20    257412       -



- 19 -
5.12      Total project cost net of taxes is estimated at US$5.5 million.
The cost for construction, net of taxes, has been estimated by substracting
from the total cost estimate an approximation of taxes and duties on imported
and local materials and the other elements of contracts for civil works of
a nature similar to those in the project. The distribution of expenditures
including taxes by category is shown in Annex 6. New construction and altera-
tions to existing school buildings, exclusive of contingencies, would account
for 45 percent; furniture and equipment 26 percent; foreign and local spe-
cialists 26 percent; and the Project Unit (para 5.10) 3 percent. Space
standards for the practical facilities would be well within the range of
those for comparable facilities financed by the Association. Utilization
standards would average 76 percent of a work week of 32 hours which is sound.
Estimated Bamako unit costs of new construction per square meter of gross
area are US$91 for workshops and $183 for science laboratories. The rela-
tively high costs for science laboratories reflect Mali's landlocked situa-
tion and are comparable with those obtained in countries similarly located
(Upper Volta $172 and C.A.R. $214 - all unit cost estimates include taxes).
To ensure appropriate implementation of the new lower secondary curricula and
teaching methods, the project costs also include workshop and laboratory ma-
terials as required to move one cohort of students through the full three
year cycle of studies. The Association's support of these expenditures,
amounting to US$250,000 would be on the basis of a declining proportion,
from 75 percent in the first year to 50 percent in the second, and to 25
percent in the third.
5.13      Contingencies.  Contingency allowances included in the project
costs consist of (a) unforeseen factors, 10 percent of estimated costs of
civil works, professional services, furniture, equipment and the education
study; and (b) price escalation varying from 4 percent to 8 percent p.a.
for the different cost categories, as shown in Annex 7. All contingencies
amount to 19 percent of the total estimated project cost or 24 percent of
the total cost before contingencies.
5.14      Foreign Exchange Component.  The foreign exchange component would
be approximately US$4.1 million equivalent, representing about 75 percent of
the total project costs of US$5.5 million, net of taxes. It has been
estimated as follows: (i) civil works 65 percent; (ii) furniture 72 percent;
(iii) equipment 94 percent; (iv) services of consultant architects 79 percent;
(v) technical assistance 75 percent; (vi) fellowships 100 percent; and (vii)
project unit 74 percent.
5.15      Project Recurrent Costs.  Full utilization of the project facilities
would be reached by 1977/78. By that time recurrent expenditures for their
operation would amount, for the groups of laboratories and workshops, to MP 155
million; for ECICA to MF 21 million; and for the other items to MF 4 million.
The total of about MF 180 million would represent 1.5 percent of total re-
current expenditures on education/training which are expected to be held at
a rate of growth compatible with the demands of other sectors, 6 percent
(para. 2.05). In order to ensure the introduction of appropriate budgetary
procedures for the operation of the groups and the timely procurement of
materials, the government provided assurances during negotiations that



- 20 -
it would (a) make specific annual budget provisions for the groups' opera-
tion; and (b) establish simple but effective inventory and budgeting procedures
for each group. The expenditures for materials at ECICA could be met from
existing allocations for such materials within the scholarship provisions
(MF 20,000/student) assuming successful expenditure control through the
new budgeting and control mechanisms to be introduced under the project
(para. 5.02).
VI. IMPLEMENTATION
6.01      Administration.  A project unit would be established within the
Ministry of Higher and Secondary Education and of Scientific Research in the
General Directorate of Planning, Finance and Administration and would be
responsible for: (i) supervision of project implementation, (ii) coordina-
tion with other Ministries and parties involved in the project and (iii)
liaison with the Association. The unit would include, on a full-time basis,
a project d:Lrector who would usually report to the head of the Directorate
but would be empowered to make all day-to-day decisions relating to the opera-
tion of the unit including staff management, coordination of technical assist-
ance specialists, and procurement of supplies and services. The project
Director would have access to the two Ministers of Education when required.
The Director would be assisted for two and a half years by a project architect
or engineer experienced in school construction and by an accountant. The
latter would draw on the assistance of the administration and management ex-
pert provided within the project under para. 5.02 (Appendix III) for approxi-
mately one year. A ministerial decision to establish the Project Unit has
already been signed. The formal establishment of the project unit by
decree and the appointment of the project director would be conditions of
effectiveness of the Credit. However, it is expected that prior to the
credit's effectiveness preliminary survey work by consultant architects to
accelerate the project would be performed under the supervision of the Service
de l'Habitat, Ministry of Industry and Public Works.
6.02      Professional Services.  Design, planning, and construction super-
vision for the new laboratory-workshop centers and alterations to the tech-
nical training schools would be performed by consultant architects, acceptable
to the Association, engaged on terms and conditions acceptable to the Asso-
ciation. To accelerate implementation, the government has been advised to
appoint the consultants as soon as possible and retroactive financing of
their costs up to IJS$40,000 is recommended.
6.03      Sites.  Of a total of eleven sites required for the lower secondary
groups of science laboratories and workshops, ten have already been selected.
All of these facilities would be built on or adjacent to the sites of existing
schools to be served by the respective groups. The remaining construction
and alteration work would be performed at existing schools. During negotia-
tions assurances were obtained from the Government that legal acquisition
of acceptable sites for all centers would be initiated before the scheduled
start of construction.



- 21 -
6.04      Procurement.  Civil works, furniture, and equipment supply con-
tracts would be awarded following international competitive bidding in accord-
ance with the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits.
Local manufacturers of furniture would be allowed a preferential margin of
15 percent of the C.I.F. costs of competing imports or the currently applica-
ble import duty, whichever is lower. A preferential treatment will also
apply to members of C.E.A.0. (Western Africa Economic Community). Lots for
furniture and equipment would be for at least $40,000 to facilitate delivery
to each school, although items which cannot be grouped in packages of at
least $5,000 would be locally procured on a competitive basis within the
duration of the project up to a maximum of $70,000 (corresponding to 5 per-
cent of total costs of equipment and furniture). The project is within the
capacity of the Malian construction industry.
6.05      Disbursements.  Disbursements from the Credit will cover:  (i) 100
percent of the total costs of furniture and equipment; (ii) 100 percent of
technical assistance, teacher training, education study and project unit costs
(para 5.01); and, (iii) 75 percent of civil works and professional costs.
Construction is expected to be completed within about 2-1/2 years after the
signing of the Credit Agreement (Annex 8). The proposed IDA Credit of US$5.0
million equivalent would cover about 90 percent of the estimated total project
cost of US$5.5 million (net of taxes) and would finance 100 percent of foreign
exchange expenditures and 64 percent of local expenditures net of all duties
and taxes (Annex 9). The estimated schedule of disbursements is shown in
Annex 10. Because of the need to provide the didactic materials for the first
three years of the centers' operation it would take 5-1/2 years to complete
project implementation.
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations agreement was reached with the government on
(a) the preparation of a plan for higher education (para 4.04); (b) consulta-
tions with the Association on the expansion and improvement of the education
sector (para 4.12) and the study's recommendations (para 5.04); (c) the terms
of reference of the specialists (paras 5.04 and 5.10) and the timing of the
appointment of the counterparts (para 5.10).  With regard to the groups of
laboratories and workshops agreement was also reached on (a) the new timetable
(para 5.06); (b) preparation of technology teachers (para 5.06); (c) evalua-
tion of graduates of the new curriculum in project facilities in relation
with a reduction in the duration of certain study programs (para 5.09); (d)
introduction of appropriate budgetary, inventory and procurement procedures
(para 5.15); and, (e) selection of sites (para 6.03). In addition, the govern-
ment agreed to appoint a Malian Director of Practical Work at ECICA (para 5.08).
7.02       The formal establishment of the project unit and the appointment
of the project director would be conditions for the effectiveness of the
Credit (para 6.01).
7.03       The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA Credit
of US$5.0 million equivalent to Mali.






APPENDIX I
Page 1
THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SYSTEMI
General
1.        The Ifinistry of Education is principally responsible for admini-
stering education and training in Iali (Chart 1).  Other Mtinistries (Produc-
tion, Health, Post and Telecommunications) operate vocational centers meet-
ing their own training requirements. The structure of the education system
is shown in Chart 2. The reform of 1962 still represents the general educa-
tion policy of the government. It decreed a basic education of nine years to
be available to all, but primarily because of financial constraints, the ex-
pansion of the first cycle of fundamental education (grades 1-6) has been
limited and entry into the second cycle of fundamental education (grades
7-9) has been restricted. This latter level prepares students for entry,
through examinations, into general, voaational and agricultural education/
training at the secondary level (grades 10-12 or 10-13). Students continu-
ing to higher education (grades 12-15) are oriented on the basis of results
of the Malian Baccalaureate and on the advice of the Bureau of School and
University Orientation.
Fundamental Education: primary and lower secondary education (grades 1-9)
2.        This level of education absorbs about 61 percent of the country's
education recurrent budget, or about 18 percent of the government's total
recurrent expenditures.  As most of the expenditures are devoted to salaries
and administrative expenditures, provisions for classroom equipment and mat-
erials are meager (Annex II, para 1). No individual school budgets exist
for schools at this level of education. Responsibility for constructing,
furnishing and maintaining the schools rests with local parent associations.
Schools are of the simplest design and construction, with one story groupings
of classrooms end to end. M1any of the first cycle sclhools are built of mats
suspended on wooden frames which are inundated and subsequently reconstructed
each rainy season. Parents also contribute to school cooperatives that meet
immediate classroom needs for materials needs such as chalk and paper (Annex
II, para. 2). Administration is largely the responsibility of 22 general in-
spectors. Headmasters are generally untrained and selected on the basis of
their teaching experience. The MIalianization of the teaching force has been
completed; 82 percent of the staff in the first cycle are qualified, and 83
percent in the second.
First Cycle: primary (grades 1-6)
3.        Participation in first cycle education has doubled since indepen-
dence in 1962 (204,OO0 students in 1971) but still accounts for only 20 per-
cent of the ags group. Educational opportunities are unevenly distributed:
the hiighest enrollment ratio is 29 percent for the Bamako region, for other
regions the ratio ranges to as low as one-third of the highest. The instruc-
tion is in Frenich: lhowever, in the first two years, to interpret written



APPENDIX I
Page 2
French the teachers frequently communicate with their students in the local
language (where the teachers and students belong to the same linguistic group).
The instruction is theoretical and divided into the traditional long list of
unintegrated subjects. This curriculum, devoid of coherent themes and
relevant interests and using a medium unfamiliar to the majority of rural
students, is largely responsible for the poor internal efficiency of the
system. The teachers, themselves the product of 11 years of blackboard
and oral education, prove a major barrier to the adaptation of the cur-
riculum to a rural and, hence, manual and practical environment. Primary
school leavers are, thus, necessarily ill prepared and even alienated from
the rural context to which the majority of them must return.
4.        While the annual unit costs at US$25 compares favorably with other
Western African countries, the real cost of education per primary graduate
is high because the system is inefficent. The average student takes 7-8
years to reach grade 6. For every student entering grade 6, some 20 in-
structional years have been expended on students leaving the system earlier
and many of these students will revert almost automatically to illiteracy.
As a measure of the productivity of the system, approximately 12 percent of
a given year's initial new enrollments completed the cycle. The costs and
the poor internal efficiency of the system are pressing the government to
consider alternative approaches to primary education. Furthermore, there
are indications that the popular enthusiasm of the sixties, which doubled the
enrollments through school construction, is now on the wane. A primary
education no longer ensures a civil service job nor even the opportunity
for further study.
Second Cycle: Lower Secondary School_(grades 7-9)
5.        Second cycle enrollments amounted to 27,000 in 1971/72 and accounted
for only 7 percent of the age group. In the period 1969-1971 (after the change
in the structure in 1969) total enrollments have increased by 6 percent or at
3 percent p.a. However, working papers for the five year plan anticipate a
2.3 percent average growth rate of new enrollments at this level, to be
achieved by regulation of the pass rate of the entrance examination (established
1970). The curriculum of the lower secondary school is an extension of the
primary program. Despite the desired practical character of the program, in-
struction is theoretical becatuse the schools contain no specialized classrooms
or teaching spaces and science and domestic teachers are limited at most to
one demonstration kit per school, often incomplete, which must be carried from
room to room. The character of lower secondary school education handicaps the
efficiency of institutions offering post ninth grade training to which about
65 percent of the second cycle graduates go on. Teacher training and the
middle level technical training institutions have extended their program to
four years in order to improve students' basic skills and to provide practical
science and technology in the first year of the program.



APPENDIX I
Page 3
6.        However, this second cycle of fundamental education is a strategic
period of orientation for students in terms of the scientific and technolo-
gical content and skills on which further education and training must build.
The government recognizes this and is making determined efforts to improve the
quality of education. When the quality of lower secondary school graduates
has been significantly improved savings could be realized through the reduc-
tion of various post ninth grade programs. Mathematics and French (taught as
a foreign language) have been the object of curriculum development and teacher
upgrading programs during the last two years, carried out with French and
UNICEF assistance, and planning of radical improvements in the teaching of
science and domestic science has already begun. A barrier to the upgrading
of teachers is the government's inability to meet the local costs.
7.        Recent curriculum improvements and the selective entrance examina-
tion introduced in 1970 have not yet had an effect on the internal effici-
ency of second cycle education. Over 25 percent of lower secondary school
enrollments are repeaters; the repetition is over 40 percent in the ninth
grade due to the school-leaving examination (the D.E.F.) which is a require-
ment for further studies or training. This situation indicates contravention
of the government's own regulations regarding repetition of classes, and
corrective action is required to reduce the high costs per student graduate.
The situation should improve since the government is about to implement com-
petitive entrance examinations at the next level of education; this move would
sever the association of the Diploma with a post in the civil service, which
it previously guaranteed.
Upper Secondary General and Technical Education
8.        Enrollments are distributed in seven public (of which one is tech-
nical) and three private schools. Enrollments tripled since 1965, to 3,800
in 1970/71, but still accounted for only about 1 percent of the age group.
Objective aptitude tests administered in the ninth grade are used to channel
students to the literary or scientific streams. Contrary to the experience
of other African countries, a majority of students has consistently followed
and graduated from the scientific streams. The curriculum reflects that of
the French Lycee although the baccalaureate examination is set and administered
nationally. About 50 percent of the teaching staff is expatriate. The annual
graduation of 40 teachers from the Ecole Normale Superieure (aided by UNESCO/
UNDP and France) is rapidly replacing them. Because of low pupil/teacher
ratios and the proportion of students receiving scholarships (89 percent in
1971/72),unit costs are relatively high, averaging about US$320. Student flows
show a fair efficiency since only about 15 percent of total enrollments in
1971/72 are repeaters. The number of qualified graduates has increased from
89 in 1963 to 707 in 1972. Of these, 80 percent continued their education in
Malian institutes of higher learning (75 percent in teacher training and
administration) and the rest abroad, all on government scholarships. In order
to align enrollments in different specializations witlh national manpower
requirements, a bill regulating scholarship awards is pending.



APPENDIX I
Page 4
Technical and Vocational Training
9.        Technical and vocational training is given at two levels: for skilled
workers with a primary education, but over 16 years of age (enrollments amount-
ed to 1,130 in 1970/71) and for middle level technicians at a grade equivalent
of 10-13 (enrollments were 1,480 in 1970/71). These enrollments represent just
over 1 percent of the total system enrollments. The Vocational Training Center
(aided by USSR and France) is the key institution at the first level and grad-
uates annually 70 qualified trainees (C.A.P.). About 30 percent of the in-
structors are foreign. In order to improve the external efficiency of the
institution, an effort has begun to survey the needs of the employers. This
effort needs to be systematized and coordinated with the additional training
programs offered in smaller scale by several national industries, ministries
and the private sector. Because of the fragmentation and dispersion of this
training, often the inadvertent result of foreign aid, there is unnecessary
duplication of courses which militates against the efficient utilization of
limited human and technical resources.
10.       The sole middle level technician training institution is the
Central School for Industry, Commerce and Administration (ECICA). ECICA
recruits holders of the Diploma of Basic Education (grade 9) and public
employees nominated by their agencies. In 1970/71, it enrolled 817 students.
A majority of the students (84 percent) receive scholarships. Replacement
of the predominantly foreign staff (78 percent) has been slow. The output
of the institution is in balance with demand, and internal efficiency is
satisfactory with only 8 percent of the enrollments as repeaters. Success
at the final professional examination is high: 90 percent and above. There
are clear indications, however, that the employers find the training insuf-
ficiently practical. Because of low quality of recruits from the second
cycle, the first two years of study include 50 percent of general studies.
Also contributing to the low allocation of time to practical courses is
the inadequacy of equipment in the majority of the workshops; this situa-
tion urgently requires correction if the institution is to become more ef-
ficient in meeting crucial manpower requirements of the economy.
Teacher Training
11.       The Directorate of Teacher Training is responsible for training
and upgrading of teachers as well as for curriculum development and educa-
tional research. In 1970/71, the seven teacher training institutions (primary,
middle and higher) enrolled a total of 2,000 students. Recurrent expenditures
for this level represent about 6 percent of the Ministry of Education budget.
Between 40-70 percent of the staff are foreign. The primary and lower secondary
level training institutes recruit at the level of the Diploma of Basic Educa-
tion, minimum age 16. Selection procedures at both levels need improvement
to ensure that entrants offer some potential for teaching. At present, the
primary teacher training establishments, in particular, tend to serve as
havens for secondary school dropouts. An oversupply of teachers at the lower
secondary level is developing and corrective action in reducing enrollments
is required.



APPENDIX I
Page 5
12.       Domestic science/family education teachers are trained in the
Women's Technical Teacher Training College, a small but well run institution
enrolling 80 students.  The school trains teachers for lower secondarv schoolh
and polyvalent teachers for the prototype rural continuation schools. The
denand for the graduates of this institution is largely based on the exten-
sion of the continuation schools,; the rate of this expansion is currently
uncertain. The program is currently undergoing changes toward a more practical
and scientific training with a greater proportion of teaching practice.  How-
ever, the facilities to accomplish these goals, specifically for science, are
lacking.
1Ligher Education
13.       Higher education is increasingly 'talian.  Its development, throu,gh
much external assistance dates from 1965. About 12 percent of the 'Iinistry of
Education recurrent budget is allotted to this level, including scholarships
abroad.  In 1972/73, of the 2,400 students pursuing higher studies, about 58
percent were in llali.  The government's strategy has been to establish instead
of a university, specialized institutes created according to demand, therefore
avoiding the development of a multipurpose university with strong tendencies
to uncontrolled growth. However, some of the schools are small and the use of
teachers and physical plant is not efficient. Expatriate professors are still
in a majority.  The Hligher Teacher Training College and the National School
of Administration (which account for 66 percent of Malian enrollments at this
level) have reached their growth peak and unless enrollments are curtailed
employment of their graduates could become a problem in the intermediate
period.
Agricultural Training
14.       The Rural Polytechnical Institute, operated by the Directorate of
Higher Education and Scientific Research, is the principal training facility
for agricultural technicians. Two levels of training, each a 4 year program,
are given: the first (enrollments 210 in 1970/71) recruits at the level of the
diploma of fundamental education leading to the intermediate diploma of "brevet
de technicien"; the second producing graduate level specialists, had 90 en-
rollm;nts in 1970/71, recruiting predominantly from the qualified graduates
of secondary genaral and technical education (although entry for qualifying
first level graduates is possible). A training school for veterinary tech-
nicians is operated by the Rural Polytechnical Institute at Bamako. Exten-
sion workers (recruited from rural 17-18 year olds with a primary education)
are prepared at threc agricultural training ccnters (centres d'apprentissage
agricole) with a total enrollment of 214 in 1970/71. These centers are small
and uneconomical with an average enrollment of 70. FED has been asked to
expand them.  Consolidation of these centers to achieve economy of scale,
together witlh alternate periods of on thc job experience in the different
agricultural schtemes under the supervision of qualified extension workers,
could lead to more efficiL nt and effective operation.  Unit costs are ap-
proximately 330,000 Fm per student year ($708.00 exceeding the unit costs
of tete Rural Polytachnical Institute (310,000 Fm or $666.00).



APPENDIX I
Page 6
Rural and Non-Formal Education
15.       The rural, agricultural character of the xalian economy has led to
several experiments designed to stimulate rural development and improve agri-
culture. There have been essentially three thrusts: the first aimed at re-
orienting and inserting primary school leavers (grade 6) into the rural environ-
ment (eights centres d'orientation pratique) - operated by the Directorate of
Secondary and Technical Education - with an enrollment of 140 in 1972); the
seond aimed at preparing rural youth, regardless of educational background,
for rural development (centres d'animation rurale/centres saisonniers - 45
centers with approximately 900 enrollments in 1972) and the third aimed at
increasing the productivity of farmers and other workers through functional
literacy (approximately 1,600 centers with about 40,000 participants).
16.       The centers for primary leavers (constructed by the Government, in-
structors trained by I.L.O.) have e>perienced difficulties on various counts:
the students' lack of motivation after six years of traditional primary
education, the problem of reinserting them effectively into the rural en-
vironment as productive individuals. Twelve more centers are to be built
in 1973, bringing total enrollments in 1974/75 to approximately 1,200. The
small scale of the centers (60 trainees) is likely to result in uneconomical
operation but, more importantly, the choice of the target population remains
questionable until such time as the first level of education changes in
orientation and content.
17.       The rural development centers (Nihnistry of Production) are the pro-
duct of integrating agricultural training centers (of which 104 were built
by FED in the period beginning 1962) and the mixed military/agricultural/social
training centers initiated during the immediate post-independence period.
Their staffing will be less military in the future as instructors trained by
ILO at the Agricultural Apprenticeship Centers become available. FED has
been asked to extend the former and to participate in the operation of the
rural development centers. The functional literacy centers, under the re-
sponsibility of the 'Ministry of Education, are located in agricultural devel-
opment target areas and their program is planned with the aid of the extension
services. On the advice of the latter, villages participating in the various
schemes (cotton, rice, groundnuts) are asked if they wish to participate. When
a center has been built and a volunteer teacher (usually one of the few literates
in the village) has offered his services, basic equipment (lamps, blackboard,
chalk, pens, etc.) costing approximately 35,000 FM- (US$76.00) is provided.
A center has 20-30 enrollments and operates in the evenings for about an hour
for a six month periocd (two sessions of three months). It is hoped that
literacy is achieved at the end of this period. Data on attendance and re-
sults are not collected or analyzed1 systematically, in the main because regional
directors are overburdeinde (200-300 centers each) and supervision is difficult.
Despite the publication of a Bambara language newspaper (with a general rather
than agricultural orientation) maintenance of acquired skills is problem.



APPENDIX I
Page 7
18.       In the formal education system, a small UNESCO/UNDP project has
initiated an out-of-school science project for urban youth. Its impact
and future are uncertain.
Private Education
19.       Private education in Mali is largely provided by the Roman Catholic
Church. The church operates 75 schools (50 primary, 21 lower secondary, two
technical and two upper secondary schools) serving 16,246 students or 7 per-
cent of total enrollments in formal education. Over 70 percent of the students
are non-Catholic, however, and a recent agreement between church and state
will work to integrate the two systems as far as standards and methods are
concerned: for example, teachers are already trained in state institutions.
The state will pay at least 70 percent of teacher salaries and may contribute
to other operating expenses. Examinations, the award of scholarships and the
orientation of students towards further education or training are performed
by the state.






APPENDIX II
Page 1
EDUCATIONAL FINANCE AND EXTERNAL AID
Finance
1.        Primary Education.  These lower grades absorb about 36 percent of
the recurrent budget for education: the distribution of recurrent expendi-
tures at this level is 88.4 percent for teacher salaries, 7.3 percent for
materials and 4.3 percent of administration. The expenditure on materials
represents about $1.80 per student: this is supplemented by parent associa-
tions to the best of their ability. About 92 percent of the public expendi-
tures are effected through transfers to the regions and for teacher salaries.
These allocations resemble those in other countries in the region; however,
salaries (expressed as a multiple of GDP) are low in comparison (Mali: multi-
ple of 14, Upper Volta: multiple of 18).
2.        Lower Secondary School.  This level absorbs 39 percent of recurrent
education expenditures. Unit costs amounted to MF 53,000 or US$115.00 in 1971,
distributed as follows: teacher salaries 89 percent, materials 9 percent (of
which 1 percent from private funds) and administration 2 percent. TJnit costs
compare favorably with other countries in the region (Cameroon $216 and Ghana
$192). The negligible number of expatriate teachers, the absence of boarding
at this level and the freezing of teacher salaries at the 1962 level are the
most probable factors behind Mali's appreciably lower unit costs. Parent
associations and school cooperatives are an interesting feature in lower sec-
ondary school financing. On the basis of school visits by the mission, it was
found that parents contributed from 50 up to 250 MF per student/month, de-
pending on the region concerned, and student cooperatives 25-50 MF per month.
These funds are used to buy school supplies or to effect minor repairs.
Estimated family contributions may be as high as 3 percent of monetary in-
come. It should be noted that the parent associations finance the construc-
tion of all facilities (as at the primary level) hence their voluntary sup-
port for education is already overstrained. Perhaps because the lower second-
ary school was until recently an extension of primary, lower secondary schools
have not been granted their own budgets. Teachers are paid by the central
government directly and the inspectors allocate funds for materials. In the
case of a small number of lower secondary schools, science facilities have
been established but only through the reallocation by the governor concerned
of already earmarked funds, consequently the continued support of such facili-
ties is uncertain.
3.        Upper Secondary Education.  Recurrent expenditure at this level ac-
counts for 12 percent of total public expenditure on education. A high propor-
tion of the teachers (58 percent) are expatriate and their salaries are paid
mainly by bilateral aid sources and external aid finances all capital expendi-
ture. Somewhat unusual is the fact that expenditure per student in technical
education is only 60-70 percent of that in general education, due in large
part to the difference in the direct budgetary allocation for materials (exclud-
ing the portion of scholarships normally retained for these expenditures)
MP 16,000 per student for general secondary versus MF 8,100 for technical



APPENDIX II
Page 2
schools. Unit costs for upper technical secondary education are about
MF 120,000 (US$261) and for upper secondary general about MF 160,000; however,
there is considerable variation from school to school due to diseconomies of
scale. Unfortunately, it is not possible to clarify the actual expenditure
of funds (headmasters tend to reallocate funds for materials and the retained
portion of scholarships to satisfy particularly pressing needs) because
budgetary controls and adequate accotnting are lacking. Other anomalies in-
clude the operation of ECICA and the Lycee technique under a single budget,
despite the fact that they have different administrations. A large number of
students (about 5,225 or 89 percent of the enrollment) receives scholarships.
In the general secondary schools 65 percent receive full scholarships (MF
85,000 or US$185) and 25 percent half scholarships (MF 40,000); in technical
education the range was from 51 percent (ECICA) to 71 percent (Lycee technique)
on full scholarships and 20 percent (ECICA) to 33 percent (Vocational Training
Center) on half scholarship. Scholarships accounted for 57 percent of bud-
geted expenditures.
4.        Teacher Training.  Recurrent expenditures amounted to 6 percent
of total recurrent expenditure. In-service training is supported by ex-
ternal sources except for salaries which are paid by the Government. In
the last two years, the Ministry of Education has found it difficult to
meet this cost. Recurrent expenditure in the Women's Technical Teacher
Training College is high because of the small size of the school: MF 28.9
million in 1972 or a unit cost of MF 385,000 (US$837.00). In the long term,
consolidation with a larger institution might be considered as part of an
overall nationalization of teacher training.
5.        Higher Education.  In 1971, higher education accounted for 7 per-
cent of total public recurrent expenditure. Allocations from scholarships
abroad and Malian counterpart funds to fellowships from external sources
amounted to a further 5 percent. Practically all students are on scholar-
ships: local full scholarships (boarding) are MF 281,500 or US$612.00, non-
boarding MF 85,000. The average scholarship held abroad in 1972/73 was
ME 630,000 per year or US$1,370.00 plus allowances and travel costs of $952.00.
Government contributions to foreign fellowships average about MF 137,000 or
US$298.00. Unit costs are difficult to estimate because financing by external
sources is not recorded in the budget: however, on the basis of budget data
the average is ME 400,000 or US$869.00. Given the present support from ex-
ternal sources, the cost of educating a student in Mali is less than sending
him overseas.
External Aid
6.        Substantial aid has been provided for the education sector by
bilateral and multilateral agencies. Annex 1 to this Appendix gives a
listing of the most important contributions.



H  (0  (0   00   '0     H
00    H  H   H          (0
00  H    00                                                        H                                 '0                               '0
0-                   H    '0    000    0-                                                                                                                           00
0  *  00   00 00  0000                                                    H                                oe                                 0
000                                                                                   (.00
H   000                                                                                                                      0'
'00                                0
0000  ol0-o                                                                                00
00                               0
00o-0  00                                                  0                                                                  H
H       OH    0'                                                                                                                      a
H       00    ho                                                                                                                       H
'03     '.0                                                00                                                                 0
0"                                                        H
HO      00  '   H      00   000-HO'  0-0000'           0  H   0'  0' 0' 00  0000-H  0' 00 0- 0' H  r' 0'   00000100.  0000  00000000    0
0     00  0000000  000000000  0       0  0'  00  00 00  0    000000  00  0  00 00  0  H  00   000000   000
H 0000000000               00  00(0(00000tH 00000o         0  0  Ho  00000          OOO0'00oOooHooo                   00  0000000' 0'0-0-  0'000-    H
'COO   H   00 000  00'    0'  000"0-00 0000000000..        0      0.00  000000  0    0000000  00   00000   00'o   0-0  00-0000  000   0,-HO           0
00.0   0    0  00  000      0   0000000000000000           -  0  00  0000   0'   000000'oo    00000    00  00000000  000   0.0000    0
-  0  H    0000000'.'       0000'.0-000   000,                0000   0000  (0   000000  0  (0             H000.0 000000000.00000000 0.00
00000         OH  00              Ho    Oo'  (0.000        00 00 OHOHOHO              0.0  00 0            0'ooo-.   '0  00000
000   0'  0' H00  00        H000000H0000000.00000          0. 0000000(00000         000000  ('0    HO   0-000,o   0-'-'-  00
0.  0' 000.000.000000          00H00000.0  00  -000    0  H  0' 0..'OO0o.'O              00000
 0
00  00 000           0   000.000000000              0      00  00000,00000    0  0  00 000    otO   Ho-'
00  0   0   0   H         0   000100-  OOO000o            0     00  0000   0    000    0  00  0  0  OHoom           00
000'   000'   0'    0   000000   H0000    0               00                      --          00 0  0  00' 0' -   HO
00  0    0         0      HOOO00H         000000    H    0                   0    0           0  -  0  0000         00
0    0               H   0000 00'0  000-HO          0                   00   0           00 00 0'  0*0         00-
000000   0'0 0        0                   0                000          H         0
0                                ,                                                                                  '0
H         H  00  00  '0   C       H   H  H'0H  0000010            OHOHHH                   (0000-H  00H00   0H              000  000-OH   OHO  000000   I H
'0        0  .0    0   0   0       0   0  000   0.0000            0  (0   0   0  0  0        00000  0  00 0         00      .00000  0-HOd 000000 '0.0  (00
'000  000<000  0  00    0    0   00(0  0000000000000 000000,'oO'00,00H 000000000000000000000   0                              00-00  0.0000 000'o.00' 0-00   (00
00  000000  00 0        0   0'   00000000000   000-00   OOOOOHO'0H 00000.000000    00000.00000000000   0  0.                  00  0   00  0000000000    0
00    00,-C   H  0.0000000000000    00000000000000                                                    0      0000."             OH                           I
0    00  00                                                                    0000  00   oo00o   0             oHo  0000H0000000" 0001    0
00' 000000000                0'  000  0000   00000000000                0.00000000   & I0O0  H 0 0                00      'a                              I
000  0000000  0  00(0   0   0   00  '-'000000' o 0000  0  OOHOOHH00000000   000-0000000000-0000.0   0                        000       0000000000   '000
00  00-000' 0  000    0   '0  00    00000   000000    ""000H000000H00000000   000,',  0000-00000 HH2                         000000  toO  000  000'-  0    00
H00  00  00  00 0        0        Oo                 00000  OHo   0000  00000  0  0   00.000  000   000                       00gj7  g  0-00-000000000
HO    H0-'H  H  OH           0      000000001  000000    00"  00  0'00000000 0-000000  0000  OH 00  0000 OOOH   S0            00-  0         jO  zS0O         H
0  0000      0'   00   00000' 0'00.0  00000000  H' '000000    00000000                        000   0000
000   00  000.0000000000000    00  0000  0.000.0-00000  00 H  0    0  0000000000000000<000    0                               oo.-'-o  H00.00000H000.         0
0'    000000000000                00'  oH  0o0o OoOo.  OH,0000H00000  0' 00 00000  0000  000  00    O0'0   0                  0  0    00000000  0000          0
OH    0000    0  00-00    0(-                       000000  00.0-Ho-O00o-o00000 0000  ..o000H00o00O.oo,'0o0  00            0- '-'0  0  000      0000000      '      0
00    000000      00         0   00022    0                         20                                                                                       L
'0 0  OH    0   00   --          '0002.    0' 0  000000,0    0  00  00' 0000    0000'  0000000-000   0            0    00 0000  00  0000'
4    -MZ0  00 000   '0   0   00  00000   00000000  0  'a 00000  002.00-0000000    000   00000000'00000   0                  00      0000  000  0000         0
00  00    00000   0   00000   0   0000               0000000'000000  0000-00  0            00 00-0    0  0  0        00
0-  0000000     00    0   -   0   Oo  0"0H  000000  -  0'.o000'00000000000000    0000000000.000   0  00                     0000000000000-0                          0
0       000000000                 00   ' 00-0  0000  0000     0-0000000000000' 0          '0 Ho  0000  HO                   0    000'..
0  0              00    0        0  0   0  0   00 00 000000000   000000   r0000   0000000  '1  0                  0    0  000    0    000 00
2   8(20 '0000000                 000000H000               0   000             0  000         000000000  0  00  0  0        00   0   '0    0    00000
0-00   00   0   0   00            0  0000  00  0000                     "'0  0"'0    00  0-0000   ,"'0-o  0            0    0' 00     0    0000
00  00 000  0    0   0   00       0   0  00-00  000        0000000'.-'    0  000           000000000000   0000  00 0        0        0     0'   000000
0    001  0  00        00000000000000                      0  000.00,   00    H     000                             0       0   00 0'           000000               0
0   000010        00   0          00  00  00000  0000      000000000   00  0000-   000&000",00   0000  00 0'                     00 0      00    0000
0000  00   0   0             0'   0 0000   000        0  0000  0' 000  000  000    0  0   00000  00000  0              "-  00 0       00  01 0'
0- 0   0   0            0   0          000       0  0000  0  Oo  000' 0'         0000   0000  H00   0  H                  0      0   000                   0'
0  0    00              0   0  0       0000      00 00000  0  0.0  00    0-0   00H,"'0  0  0' 00 00 00 .0         2.             0    0000
H    0   0-000  00   0                      0  0      00           0'00  0    0  OH  0000    00         0  0  0  0                              0    0000
0   0   0000    0    0                 H       00      00      00 0-"0  00000  00000           000'(   0  0  0                   2'  2-         00   00
0   00   0   00 0                      0   0            0       0  00000000   0-0  00000-   00000  0  H  0' 0  0  H              0              00  000
0        0H00   0    0                 0   0                    0   0   0   H  00  000           00000  H      0         0       00                  00-                  0
0'   0   0000          0               0   0.                  00 0- 0. 0         000  0000    .000000        00 00      0       0
00   000000       0               00                       0  00-              0  00       00000          0  0      0       '-'                 0
00             0       00              0  0000                  ' 0-000000.0000               00000000         0  0      00    00
0        00000         0               0  00                    0  00                  000    00  '0000        -                0
0       0                   000                  0  0                   0      000    0
0             00       0                   00-                  0    00                       0      0                          0
0
000                                                                                            I
II.                                         I                                                  t                                 1'
000             00           (0        (00   0000  0000    000000000'                0    0    0'   00             00     00    0    0'  00      00       0'   00  0-0
U-                                                                                   00        00                         0-000                                    03
00  0-        0- (0   0   00   0       (0  000  0000  0-0000000                    '0  0  00 000000000  00        H  0  00 00 0000000000  0000-0000-00    00
900                                         tx::  :z:                                                             0- 00-0000000 000-00 z  0:    00
..'                     '.''''.''''                               *''***'*'.''''.'.'...''...'''  0 00
((00                                                                                           I                                I
((0'                                        F                                                  1.                         0000                                    2.
1.00                                       00          00  00                        00     000                           00  H                         0000000
00             00            0'         '0  00  -00   00000000                       00000000000                    0     0-(000        0000      0'
00-             0       0'       00                                                                   00000000   0- 0- 0'               0  0000  0000(0  00000-      0
:                :   I                                             %o                                   0,100-0' :00000-00000000000
'00' OH                      0000000000  (0000000 0                                                                    0-H......
00                      00  00        00000      00                  00 00 00   000000      0000   0  0  00 00      0  0  000000  0000000000000
'0                      00  (0       '0000      (0    (0 (0  00  (0 00 (0   (0(00            000   0- 00 (0 (0      0  00 00(00  0000000000000
0-                      00 00  000(0  00  0- 0- 0- 0- 00 0'  00000   *' 0- 0'.100
0'                      0   0         0000      00    (0 00  0-  0- 0  00    00000          000    0000000         (0000000000  00000  00000   (0
0                           0  0  0         0      0000   00 0'     (      0  00 00000- 0-0000  000-00   12
'0                      00  00                                       00 0- 000              0000   000000  0        0000000000000-  0- 0- 0- 0-
00                                              0-00
0-I.-              (0    100100        -  (00                 0000   00 00 (00         00000000000000(0  0000000
_______________________________________________                                                     0'             100    -
I  I    100   I''  (0'  I'''  (0-  (00  (0  I'' 2.2.      ('0'   (0    03  "0  0000(0  '0Ho'
00      00  0                         0.000
0 000 H 0000000-000  00000000
0   0  000  0'   0  00 0-0    0000000
H    000  00 HO  0  00  0  0000000    000000  0
00 00  0   0  00 000  0. 00
00-  00o     0(0  00      00 000  00  'a0   HO00a''00
0-00  0  00  (0 00  00      0  0.0  H  oo
00      00  000000000   00<00000.00
000  0' 00  '    00 00   0    000'000.
000   00-     0      000        000  00000.0
00  '0  00'    0000
00  0  '00           0    000   *' 00  00
0.  00   0      00  0   00    00  0
00  0   00      0         0-00    0  0000  0
00  0           000' 0           0000
000' 0   0      000  00  000   000000  0
0  OH      00  00  00        0        00    0000-  00
-  00   0     00  0    (00   o0-        o
0  00  00    00  0000000000   0
0    0     00  00  0'-         000
0  --   0      0.000000-0000   00
0  0   00    to   0   00    00000   H
00   0     0   0       0   000000  '0
-.  00    00  '    (00    0000   (0
0    0     .         0-00   -   '  0'  -0
*    0               00        0(0  0
00              00        0-   '0






APPENDIX III
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
The project would irtclude provision for 20.5 man/years of
specialist services to assist the government in implementing the project
and training local counterparts. The cost of this technical assistance
is estimated at US$ .92 million, exclusive of specialist services for
the basic education study (Appendix IV). The implementation period would
extend through the fourth year of project implementation (this Appendix,
page 2). In addition, the project would include provision for one and
a half man/years of fellowships to local personnel for training abroad.
The cost of fellowships is estimated at US$12,000. The fellowships would
be offered over a year's period (this Appendix, page 2).



APPENDIX III
Page 2
MALI
TECHNICAL ASSISTL'CE*
Implementation Period
Han
Year     First    Second      Third        Fourth      Years
Specialists              NO.   Quart. 1 2 3 4   5 6 7 8   9 10 11 12  13 14 15 16
Second Cycle Schools
Science and Domestic
Science                 2                 x x        x x x x4.0
Technology                1                       x x x x   x x                          1.5
iCICA - Technical/
vocational education
planning                1                       x x x     x x x                        1.5
Planning, Budgeting
and Management
Education Planner         1                       s     x x x   x x x x                    2
'duc. Finance/Budgeting  1                        x x x x   x x x x                        2
Program PIvaluation       1                           x     x     x x x   x x x            2
Admin. and Management    1                    x   x     x x x   x x x x   x x x            3
1wanpower Specialist      1                         x  x x   x x x x      x                2
Project Unit
Architect/Engineer        1            x x x x   x x x x   x x                           2.5
Total                                                                           20.5
Fellowships
Jirector, Technical
Education               1                       x         x                             .5
Director of Practical
4jorks                                            x  x x   x
Total                                                                           1.5
* In the costing, the services of the architect/engineer have been included
in category "project unit".
7W* First quarter begins on date of signing Credit Agreement



APPENDIX IV
Page 1
THE BASIC EDUCATION STUDY
1.   The objective of the study is to assist the Malian authorities in the
exploration and implementation of alternative systems for extending some
form of basic education to a greater proportion of the population within
the financial constraints likely to obtain in the medium and long term.
The study will also conduct guided experimentation and development activities
with regard to pedagogical techniques, instructional materials, organization
and structures. Tentatively, the methodology of functional literacy, the
use of radio and the application of vernacular languages have been identified
as areas for action research. Field work on such aspects will result in data
on costs, effectiveness and feasibility from the human, acministrative and
logistical standpoints which will prepare the ground for implementation
within a time scale to be discussed with the Governnent. The study will take
as its starting points the economic and social needs with regard to the
definition of basic education (which skills and knowledge are minimally
required for successful participation in economic development over the medium
and long term; what are the various population groupst aspirations and attitudes
toward learning) and explore the present and likely resources, personnel
organizations, structures, methods and media - including both the formal
educational system and existing approaches to non-formal education for
implementing an alternative system.
2.   To be successful, the study must have the total commitment and active
involvement of the Malians. To ensure this and to guard against any lundue
bias toward the formal education system, an inter-ministerial committee with
appropriate local support staff,will be established which will supervise the
conduct of the study, review its findings at appropriate stages (paras 4 and
5) and formulate detailed recommendations for action to the Council of
Ministers upon conclusion of the study. It is also intended to establish ad
hoc consultative groups representing different interest groups (the peasants,
the agricultural development schemes, the youth, religious and language
groups, etc.) which will both inform the study and react to its ideas and
proposals throughout its duration. Work groups comprising local specialists
in relevant fields - functional literacy or management and administration
for example - will provide working papers on specific topics, when requested
by the interministerial committee, to assist the study team in its tasks.  The
study team will itself include Malian specialists: the Ecole normale superieure
and the Ecole Nationale dtacdninistration have staff competent in such fields
as education, sociology, economic and human geography, management, accounting
and other relevant fields. In addition, final year students of these institutions
could be of enormous value in the conduct of field interviews, surveys and
experiments. Knowledge of local languages, customs and conditions is a sine
quo non for successful field work. Finally, the national capabilities and
experience in pedagogy, curriculum development (the Directorate of Teacher
Training and the Institut pedagogique national) and in administration and
basic education (the Directorate of Fundamental Education and Literacy) are



APPENDIX IV
Page 2
indispensable to the guidance and conduct of the study.
3.   The technical assistance contribution to the study should, then, be
limited to well-defineTdacti7-ities requiring specific experience and skills.
It is envisaged that the organizational and logistical aspects of the study
be entrusted to a small core of technical assistance with experience in the
conduct of large scale investigations. A project coordinator (doubling in a substantive
field such as pedagogy and educational planning) would provide the continuity
and coherence between the various key activities of the study.  Above all,
the coordinator will have the difficult and sensitive task of ensuring that
the end obiective - implementation of recomnendations for reform - remains
a constant preoccupation for those conducting and those sponsoring the study.
For this reason, it will be important that he provide continuity between the
first and, eventually, a second project.  Specialist contributions, on a
consultant basis, would also be sought in the following fields: economics
of development (with an orientation towards project analysis an-d programing),
management t,l   stical problems of large scale systems), educational research
a.nd development (with experience of broad integrated projects touching on
agriculture, health, community development, education and training), applied
linguistics (the analysis of the "information capacity" of vernacular
languages) and the use of mass media (radio, low cost publications) for the
support of education and training systems.  Each of the former would be in
the field for key periods only, the continuity and the bulk of the day-to-day
data collection and experimentation would be the responsibility of Malians
in these fields. The organization, planning and manjagement of the technical
assistance and of the stuty as a whole should be the responsibility of a
single agency. Consultants, however, might be sought from several sources.
L.   With regard to the programming of the study, experience suggests that a
two phase approach would be most effective.  In the first part (approximabely
one year duration) a general diagnosis of' the problem and a review of potential
resources and availaable research data would be conducted.  The design and
specific plans for performing this phase would be drawn up by the executing
agency responsible for organizing, planning and managing the technical assist-
ance: both the Government and IDA would review these plans before this phase
is implemented. This phase would lead to the formulation of:.
(a)  alternative approaches;
(b)  the identifica-tion of research, experimentation and further
data gathering that must be performed in order to assess
their feasibility; and
(c)  specific proposals for immediate actions to be conducted
within the framework of the study on a pilot basis (for
example, experimental use of local languages and radio to
help implement a new, shorter and more relevant curriculum
in selected schools.)
These conclusions would be presented to the intermiristerial committee in the
form of an interim report and to the council of ministers to permit the Govern-



APPENDIX IV
Page 3
ment to consider, weigh and decide upon the option(s) to pursue. At the
same time this report would be presented to IDA for its comments and approval
of the proposed second phase.
5.   The content and duration of the second phase can only be indicated in
general terms at this stage.  It should be the subject of discussion with the
Borrower on (a) a provisional basis,nine months after the commencement of the
first phase and (b) on a firm basis when the interim report (para 4 above) has
been made available and reviewed by IDA and the Borrower. It seems likely,
however, that this phase would include:
(i)  more intensive surveys,  likely areas would be listening
habits, the availability of radios/printed materials in
rural areas; the uses to which various lanuages in the
environment are put; review of the education/training
needs generated by specific agricultural development
projects and their contexts (here, the parallel studies
of UNICEF on the social impact of the Operations would
provide useful inputs) the ways people use or would like
to use literacy and numeracy, etc.;
(ii)  specific action research and development activities: with
the objective of testing out and developing instructional
methods, curricula, new types of teacher and alternative
structures. One likely theme of exploration would be the
capacity of local languages and the teaching methods of
functional literacy to handle the content of a basic
education (para 4).
6.   Such surveys and development work would help better define the likely inputs
of an alternative system for increasing participation in basic education.  On the
one hand, they would help define content and strategy (do different groups require
different approaches and content?) on the other they would test out the feasibility
of techniques and media, from the points of view of costs and effectiveness.
Thus, it is hoped that the outcome of the second phase of the study would be not
only detailed plans for the implementation of an alternative to traditional forms
of basic education but also tested tools and methods for implementation. Of
course, development will be a contunuing task for those engaged in implementation
fa' which procedures for monitoring and evaluating the impact of program and
methods on instructors and participants should be an integral component.
7.   Malian specialists and fourth year undergraduates will be the mainstay of
this phase:' performing data collection, monitoring experiments on a continuing
basis. The period of field investigation would be approximately nine to twelve
months with consultant specialists on hand at crucial points in the field work.
Data processing and analysis would, after initial collation and coding in the
field, be carried out by the executing agency. Preliminary analysis would be



APPENDIX IV
Page 4
followed by discussions in the field with Malian specialists and the
consultative groups, leading to the drafting of final blueprints for wide
implementation of the reform.



.........
...........                                                                                                                                  16,
......                                                                                       1W
IC              t,
U-0                                                                                 QI-01)
ol
IC
211
IC
tl
IC
IC
IC
IC
61
IC
IC
IC
I:Z
-Z  11
...... . .. .
........... .
IC              .1
IIC                      .......
CI                                                  IC              11                                                                                                             . ....... .. ..
... ..............
IC IZ                                                                IC             1.                C,C',               I              I'll                                                                       .  ..         .   .......
....... . ..
........ ..
(I)






MALI - EDUCATION PROJECT
Education System: Structure Enrolments and Teachers
1970 - 71
Total
Percentage                                                           Unadjusted                          Enrollment as
of                            Percentage       Percentage    Pupll/Teacher         Population         Percentage
Grades      Age Group       Enrollment       Total Enrollments        Teachers        Foreign        Qualified           Ratio           Age GroupY        Age Group
primaGi
Public                                                  190,801                                  4,776             -               82.0            40:1
Private                    I - 6      618 - 11/13-       12,902                                    310            34.0             78.0            42:1             (b - 13)              19.6
1,037 ,000
Total                                                   203,703               85.0               5,086             2.0             82.0            40:1
Lower SecondarX
Public                                                   23,050                                  1,355             -               83.0            17:1
(12 - 14)             7.5
Private                   7 - 9        12 - 14            3,126                                    175            6Z.0             76.0            18:1
349,000
Total                                                    26,176               11.0               1,528             7.0             82.0            17:1
Upper Sec. General (Technical
Public                                                    2,840                                    235            62.0                             12:1
(15 - 17)             1.2
Private                  10 - 12       15 - 17              919                                     89            34.0                             10:1
321,000
Total                                                     3,759                 1.5                324            53.0                             12:1
Vocational (First Level)
Public                     7 - 9       16 - 18              906                                    155            27.0                              6:1
Private                                                     538                                     20            45.0                             27:1
Total                                                     1,444  )                                 175            29.0                               8:1
_________                                           )            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1.2
Vocational (Secondary Level)
Public only               10 - 13      16 - 19            1,790  )                                 123            57.0                             30:1
(16 - 19)             1.2
Teacher Training
410,000
Public only
Primary         10 - 11       16 - 17              727  )                                  48            40,0                             15:1
__________                                          )            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0.6
Middle          10 - 13       16 - 19              824  )                                  48            65.0                              17:1
Higher Education
Teacher Training )                                           232        )                            51           72.0              74.0             4:1
)                                                    )      0.7
Other Faculties  )        13 - 16      18 - 21              499         )                          100            66.0                               5:1
Overseas                                                   1,000 (eat.)
Total enrollment    240,154                 100.0
Source: Annual Statistical Yearbook, Ministry of Education, Youth  and Sport, Bamako, 1971
1/ Decree No.57, April 20, 1970 defined the age of entry as age 6 - 8 years on December 31, following the opening of school.
2/ United Nation Population data.
3/ Unadjusted enrollment ratio.
March, 1973.






MALI EDUCATION PROJECT
Total Primary, Lower and Upper Seconda   Enrollments
(Public & Private) by Rdgion (196 9-a2)
and Projected Enrollments (1978)
_              1                                          Projected
1969/7o_              1970/71               1971/72_               1978/79 i/
Kayes        Primary          31,226                 30,938               33,000                 39,970
Middle            4,030                 4,067                  -                     5,090
Bamako       Primary          56,279                63,614                67,506                 82,040
Middle           10,617                 9,760                  -                    12,160
Sikasso      Primary          24,725                 27,849               29,956                 36,021
Middle            2,995                 3,375                  -                      ,332
Segou        Primary          24,993                 27,663               29,522                 35,760
Middle            2,913                  3,428                 -                     4,305
Mopti        Primary          24,221                 26,159               27,785                 33,660
Middle            2,154                  2,533                 -                     3,196
Gao          Primary          24,185                 27,480               29,305                 35,500
Middle            2,616                  3,013                 -                     3,780
Totals :    Primary          185,629                203,703              217,074                262,951
Middle           25,325                 26,176               26,816                 32,863
Secondary4/       2,823                  3,507                4,338
j Prior to 1969-70, Mali had a five year primary education and a four year middle school.
/ Distribution of enrollments by region estimated. The distribution by region remained approximately
the same as 1970/71.
/ Based on Ministry of Education low projections (working papers for the five year plan).
Regional distribution estimated.
/ Upper secondary schools recruit from all the regions.                                                             x
LO
March, 1973.



MALI EDUCATION PROJECT
Mali: Mrollments at the Central School for Industry,
Commerce and Administration  (ECICA) 1969 - 1972
Projected Enrollments 1979 - 80
1969 -70             1970 -71        1971 - 72        1972 - 73       1977 -80
Cour se s    s
e        Total   Graduates         T.      G.      T.      G.       T.      G.       T.     G.
x
Industrial    M         384        19           424   135        329    88       317    58        490   150
& Civil
Engineering  F           1         -             2    -          -     -         -      -         -      -
M        95          7           109    16        77    29         -      -         81    17
Cormmerce
F        11         1             21     5        67    -          -      -        42    13
Total                  106         8           130    21        144    29       159    16        123    30
Administra-   M         170         4           174    40       167    54         -      -         53    15
tion
F        54         -            87    10        120    21         -     -         45    15
Total                  224         4           261    50        287    75       337    66         98    30
Total          M        649        30           707   191        573   171       554   116        604   182
Enrollments
F        66         1           110    15        187    21        259    24        87    28
Total                  715        31           817   206       760   192        813   140        691   210
March, 1973.
A2



ANNEX   5
MALI
RECURRENT EXPENDITURES ON EDUCATION AND TRAINING
ACTUJAL 1971"1 AND BUDGET^,D 1972
(MF Thousands)
1972
1971            1972        1971
Amount     %    Amount   %       %
1. Ministry of Education
a. Central Expenditures
- Personnel                          2,248,546        2,661,225      18.4%
- Materias                             870,983       1,011,699       16.1%
- Other  '/s                           749,221          981,346      31.0%
b.  Regional Expenditures                   2,156,897       2,550,206       18.2%
Sub-total                          6,025,647  93%  7,204,476  93% 19.6%
2. Other Ministries
a. Ministry of Production
- Agricultural Training                167,795          216,043       28.8%
- Veterinary Training                   26,645           30,514      14.5%
b.  Ministry of Health                        110,648         1.17,059       5.8%
c.  Ministry of Social Affairs                 27,522          34,617       25.8%
Sub-total                            332,610   5%    393,233   5% 19.7%
3.  Technical Assistance Lodging Expenses-3       140,000   2%`   150,QO0   2%  7.1%
4.  Total                                       6,498,257        7,752,709      19.3%
5.  Total Government Recurrent Expenditures  22,324,857         23,985,441        7.4%
6.  GDP                                       161,900,000(Est)170,000,000(Est)
7.  4 as % of 5                                          29.1%             32.3%
8.  4 as % of 6                                           4.0%              4.6
1/  Actual only for Ministry of Education (a), rest are liquidation of credits.
7/  Includes such expenses as allowances for new teachers' salaries and examination co~
3/  Estimates based on utility expenses and rental expenses by government for 320
housing units mainly for expatriate teaching staff.



M? i  - - WCATION PROJEICT
SomnarY o5 ra  mte   C..tg
O sO 0)1
(Ezclusive oE i ciritcal Assistansce,
Education Study & Projaet Unit)
Enroll-                                       Building      Siteworks    Cost Factor      Furniture   Equipment   Cost of Prof.                      Total
ment    Science  Shops   Shops    Area      Contr.Cost       Cost      Applied/Dist.      Cost         Cost       Services          Total          in US$
Sector  Item           Institution                    977-78    Labs  (Bovs)  (GirlsY   in m2    in 000 F14   in 000 FYr4'  from Bamako         in 000 FM   in 000 FM   in 000 FM         in 000 FM      ISl-460 FM/
A              Groups of Science La,bora-
tories and llMrkshnya
I   H_madou Kmnate (+ Base Aerienne)          460       2       2        l       800       45,512        2,276          0.0            4,228        7,812        4,779            64,607       140,450
2   Niarela (+ Begadadjit Republique          760       4       3        2     1,357        79,772       3,989          0.0            8,573       13,814        8,376           114,524       248,965
and Bosol)
3   Hisira (+ edina-Coura)                    520       3        2       2     j,095        63,812       3,191           0.0           7,809       10,571         6,700           92,083        200,180
4   Hamdallaye Plateau                        400       2        2       1       800        45,512       2,276           0.0           4,Z28        7,012         4,779           64,607        140,450
(+ NIGomiyirbougou)
5   Dar Salam (Camp des Gardes                740       4        3       2     1,357        79,772       3,989           0.0           8,573       13,814         8,376          114,524        248,965
MHderse, NTomikorobougon)
6   Bedlabougou                               410       2        2       1       800        45,512       2,276           0.0           4,228        7,812         4,779           64,607        140,450
7  Groupe Central,, Segou (+ Centre           990       5       4        2     1.653       105,523       5.276           1.08         11,490       18,422        11,080          151,791       329,980
Adinistratif)
8   Sikasso A                                 350       2        2       1       800        5b,472       2,574           1.13          4,782        8,835         5,405           73,068        158,843
9   Keye  Legal - Segou                       400       2        2       1       800        53,675       2,684           1.18          4,983        9,206         5,636           76,184        165,617
10   Hopti                                     810       4       3        2     1,357        97,763       4,888           1.22         10,494       16,908        10,265          140,318        305,039
11   Centre No. VI, Gao (+ Centre No.l)        760       4       3        2     1,357       121,918       6,096           1.53         13,074       21,066        12,801          174,955        380,337
Operational materials (all groups)                                                                                                            115,000                        115,000        250,000
SUB-TUTAL, Sector A                     6,600      34      28       17    12,176      790,243       39,515                        82,462      251,072        82,976        1,246,268      2,709,276
B           E.NI..T.F.  Sezou                          95                                  2/        3,375          169          1.08             820        2,858           708            7,930         17,239
C           I.C.I.C.A., Bmako                         690                                 84623'   104,480        5,224                        13,183      265,000        17,524          405,411        881,328
TOTALS (Net of contingencies)           7,385                             13,022       898,898      44,908                         96,465     518,930        101,208       1,659,609      3,607,843
* Includes local taxes
1! Exclusive of septic disposal system
2/ Includes consideration of repetitive aspects of 2nd cycle facilities and
extensive travel to remote locations in construction phase
3/ Obtained from Controller, Feb. 27, 1973
4/ Alterations only (75 E2)
5/ Estimated at double for conversion work
6/ Does not include alterations end repairs (3,750 m2)
Msy 1973.



H6LI EICATIOI  FOECT
CoWItT icaY  LLO6A1MSe  (V.S. *o00
& OParatimeal                           lochoical Assist-          Basic                                                               Totals
SicSt              bIidas                                   l4at.ril lor          Profossioael        unce (& Sr.oiok        Kdoc-tion                                                        (Lot4  + FnwLnS
Deseloopet          Coastrctive             luraoto re       2d Cvcle Scbool           S  cyeas              Prgoar)               studv               Pro oct Unit           Sub-Totals           CtrranclOl
Local    Fe          Local    farder      local    Foreo    5cat    Foreign    Local              t        oc-l    ForEbrn     Local    ftr.fln       Local    Foret        Lot    ForeinL
conttoacv ?otafts
(a) Pbryical                     10        1 101      10x        101       107        101        101     10           10ox       10_                             101         10-
(6) Price Eacalatti 1                     102        2011       152       tS2        161        19%       181         92         92        181        13       12        147         101        101
Ctot uflee  Coetito_ete
(1) lacl udio  tes              48         SO         956       996         7         tl3       6B        1,060       bl         139        205       606         171       264          42        11t       1,668      3,346           5,014
(2) ascludig twe                 26        S0         S27       996        45         113       68        1,060       35         139        205       606         171       264          U2        its        1,119     3,346           4,465
(t) I9Ipui  A u
(1) Incldiag tame            5          5          96       100        10          11         7         106        8          14          -        -           17        26                     -           143       262             405
(2) Rcldiag tame             3          5          S3       tOO         5          11        7          106        4          14          -         -          17        26          -          -           89        262             331
(b) Price Ecalatil.
(1) lncludigtomm              7         5         191        t49       1?          la        11          191       7          13         37         79         21        37            4        12          297        504            801
(2) Zecluding texe           4          5         LOS        149        8          1o        13         191        3          13         37         79         21        37            4        12          195        S04            699
Sbe-Total (a) + tb)
(1) Ioclodlg ta,e.          12        10         217         41       27          29       20          297       1S          27         37         79         38        63            4         12         440        766          1,206
(2) Vacludims taxs           7         10         158       249        13          29       20          297        7          27         37         79         38        63                     ::          264        76           1,050
sr ad Setet
t(Cot + ODetingencia
tocludiag tlas          60         60       1,243     1,165       124         142       S8        1,357       96         166        242       685         209        32          46        130        2,108     4.112           6,220
axelodiag tests         33         60         685     1,245        58         1U         s8        1,357      42         166        242        685        209        32          46         130       1.403      4.112          5,515
M*y 1973



P;.tI   o;L_.0r. 7vaiect
I ncloeoet stioun 0ch ¢jo1e
F5rst                             Second                              Third                              Foorth                              Fifth
QOarter:              1 I               3       4         5        6        7        E          9    10 1A      I       1 2      1 3      14      I5        16       17       18       19       20
1.oleintaiioe
Laboratory - Workshop Grops                          (  '* 99             6.,. 4+-          0   :                                                          H :   I I!        HII   1
(oo      ooo      uo00     vvv      vuw      xxxs     xx                          K                                   E                                   8
(                                                                                            as
E.C.1E.tC.                                           (                                                           I**  -I -!    //::,!i!!H! II !   H!
I           000      000     vwV      XXK      500      f
(      o       oo      vv-                xxx     Z:
(                                                       05
Civil horks                                      $2,050,000                -        -        40       85      115      175      260      350      530      403                         90        4- 
Psritcore                                           210.000       -        -        -         2       12       18       -        -                178       -                          '   -                       ' -      -        -        -
Wpaispnt (I-cI.operational ats, Eor groups) 1.128,000             -        -        -         7      5C       -        _ -               -       288            -           122       -        -        -         92       -        -        -        59
Professional Sert.ces                               220,000       10       20       45       75       14       14        9        9        9       15                              -            -             -                                        -
Technical Assistante  pd Fell-ships                 811,000       -        -        24       47       73       85       85       85       99       94       70       59       35       24       24         7       -        -        -
Rasti  Education Study                              435,000       -        -        10       84       39       77       38       45       45       12        a       19        a       -         50      -         -        -        -        -
Project Unit                                        160I 000      38       13       13       14       13       13       13       14       13       13        1        2       -        -        -
Su.-Tot.1                                    $5,014,000        48       33       92     269      796      322       320     413      516   1,130       484        80      165      114       74        7       92       -        -         -9
Unsllooated                                   !.209,000         9        7       17       51      163       69       72       97      126      283      112       21       54       35        7       23       36       -        _                  27
Project Total                                $6,223,000        57       40      109     320      959       391     392       510     642   1,413        596      101      219      149       81       30      128       -        -         -        86
Local Taxes                                      707.000
Cost Net of T.ses                             5.516.000
Lacal Financing                                 558,000                          10       30       88       35       35       45       58      127       58       10       18       14        8         2       12                                   8
IDA Ftn1nctng                                 4,958,000        57       40       85     255      764      312      312      408      512   1,127       46d        80      172      118       60       20      102                                   66
Olbninse of Symbols employed in the Table:
Cosstrucrio  related sch*edle                                               Foroiture & Equlpnet -ched.le:
*  Selectros   nd appotnt,nt of architect                                   o  Preparation of procure,nent lists & bidding doctunents
*  Survey of cmvetrmction site.                                             v  Preparation and submlasion of bids by vendors
+  Prelihdnary architectural plamaing                                       -  Review of bids end award of sopply contrct,
-  Preperati-o  at bidding domssts for c.o.truction                         o  Mancfcture anddor delivery
P Preparation ad sobeislon of conntruction bids                            z  Installation of fixed It---  of furnitare 6 eqtipnent
'  Raeviw  of bids & aard of -on-truction contr-cts                         e  Purchase of operattonal equipaent for 2nd cycle schools.
Construction (including site-works & utilities)
C-o.tr-ntiao  defect. aSrarntee perid.
MIay 1973



MALI EDUCATION PROJECT
IDA Financing by Cate ory of Ex'oenditure (includes contingencies)
% IDA
Financing/
COST  NET  OF TAXES              Government          IDA          Cost Net
Total      Local      Foreign         Pinancing       Financing       Taxes
Construction (incl. site works
& prof. services)   2,231       760         1,471            558             1,673          75.0
Furniture                           199        57           142             -                199         100.0
Equipment                         1,445        88 '       1,357             -              1,445         100.0
Technical Assistance  and Teacher   927        242 '        685              -               927         100.0
Training Programs
Basic Education Study               536       209           327             _                536         100.0
Project Unit                        178        48           130             -                178         100.0
Total                             5,516     1,404         4,112            558             4,958          90.0
March, 1973.



ANNEX 10
MALI - SCHEDUIE OF DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ THOUSANDS)
Accumulated            Undisbursed
Quarter*          Disbursements          Disbursements             Balance
1                     -                      _                 5,000
2                    57                     57                 4,943
3                    40                     97                 4,903
4                     85                   182                 4,8
5                   255                    437                 4,563
6                   764                  1,201                 3,799
7                   312                  1,513                 3,487
8                   312                  1,825                 3,175
9                   408                  2,233                 2,767
10                   512                  2,745                  2,255
11                 1,127                  3,872                 1,128
12                   468                  4,340                   660
13                    80                  4, 420                  580
14                    172                 4,592                   408
15                   118                  4, 710                  290
16                     60                 4,770                   230
17                     20                 4, 790                  210
18                    102                 4,892                   108
19                     -                  4,892                   108
20                                        4,892                   108
21                      -                 4,8 92                  108
22                    108                - 5,000
*  Starting from the effective date of the Credit Agreement.
March, 1973.



MAL I
ORGANIZATION CHART OF THiE
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION, YOUTH AND SPORT-
irm~~<_
'I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. Ih                                                                         EI, -.
F s naICe                      ~~~~~~~~~~E d-ca1-o and t 1-ery                                 sdstt a-_1r  T.&h,,-t? F .-ech            ouh  ndSl  
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ad., M.... E    Ab
T.tth, T .... ng  si-il-
Copw    f wh.  G-elvos   C-1-11.    -.uw  ,u    .1.  I,rY   -d1sbd  f.dcl  n
Wo lId B.A-1 7535






MALI: EDUCATi,- AND TRAINING SYSTEM
NON-FORMAL/RURAL
RURAL DF\0FtOEMET
C FNIT LR S 1/ 
A )I-EE                                    FUNCTIONAL LITERACY
RURAL TRAINiNG CEN ERS
(Y0U-IH )
X    COMPET-IVE ENTRANCE                                            AGRICULTURE                         6IN GRADr PRIMARY   -              RRS
EXAMINATION
O =  PROFESSIONAL EXAMINATION                                                                              GRADE 9   D.E.F.
- =  SELECTION                                                                                                              o    I|11+
=  EXAMINATION                                                                                                                      TECHNICIANS
GRADE EQUIVALENT                                                                                                FXTSNfION                    FAC
EXCEPT UNIVERSI rY LEVEL -  Is, ETC.                                                                             SERVICE                  S             2.d I23d4tl 0
f          PROf-ESSIOINALS
EX'CENSION
SEhV iCE
.............................................................................. ....           ..........................................................................................     E_ 
GENERAL EDUCATION
'     PROPOSED PROJECT AREA
C.F.E.P.    CERTIFICAT FIN D'E IUDES PREMIER CYCLE                        PR,MARY                                               BAc
D.E.F.     DIPLOME D'ETUDES FONDAMENTALES                  .
SAC        BACCALAUREATE                                   ,ZX.                                                      10   11    12
ECICA -    ECOLE CENTRALE PFOUR L'INDLUSTRIE,                                                        :
LE COMMERCE ET L'ADMINISTRATION                                                                                          UNIVRSIT IDDLUEE
ENETF-   ECOLE NORMALE D'ENSENGd
ENETF-   ECOLE NORMALE D'ENSEIGNFMENT                                                         'W | 7  | 8  |                                     I 3rd I 4t
TECFINIOUE FEMIN,N NORMALE                                                                                  XAMI NATIN
......................I  I    I  I    I    I  I    I
AGE   6    7    8    9    10   11    12    13   14   15    16    17   18   19    20   21    22    23   24    25   26
TEACHER TRAINING
D.EEF.          PRIMARY
10 I 11
D. E. FMIDDE
ENETF
................................................................................................................. ......................................................................................................R
1/ RURAL DEVELOPMENT CENTERS                                         TECHNICAL/VOCATIONAL                      PRIMARY                                                                                              4
MILITARY'CIVIC/RURAI_ DEVELOPMENT I RAINING                              TRAINING                                           VOCATIONAL TRAININD CENTER SPECIALIZED CENTERS NuRSING, POLICE, ETC I.
2/ ENTRY 5  8 YEARS                                                                                                            |
3/ SCHOOLS OF ENGINEERING, ADMINIS'rRATION,                                                                   D.E.F. 
MEDICINE (PRACTICALi HIGHER TEACHER TRAINING                                                                               SKILLED  VORKERS
4/ TWO TO THREE YEARS' DURATION                                                                                                       11| 1
STATE INDUSTRIES                    ECICA TECHNICIANS
CIVIL SERVICE
WoVd Banlk-7538






MALI
EDUCATIONqAL PYRAMID 1970-71                                                                               Enrollment
Ratios (Unadjusted)
(Thousands)
age
24                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~42                             01j42
24z                                                                                    O                                                     SA92
23                                                                                     0,1                                                 463"1
22                                        45                                           0344
21                                      470,6   O'                                                                                                                               Ages 19-24
20                                     48                                             1,3 -3, 0,3                                             47
19                                   0                                               16      0,4                  .                            48
18                                 51                                              3,4       09                                                  50
17                               53 5_                                                  .      1
MALE                       IOFMLE                                                     
16           l                     I                                                                                                                                               1,2 . 2  520
15                           56                                            1069                                                                        4                        Ages 13-18
14                          57                                          13,5                       5,7                                   I
13                        59                                           144                          72                                                   5
12                      6161 .                                                   Mle         Fmae 66                                                       59
11                     62                                             15,3                          .90                                                       6
10                   64,                                                                                                                                       62                  1 9.0
9ource           66ited                                             16tions, t91                                                                                64tal           Agpeslat!Orl  7a12 7-1 2
8               68                                                  17,6                                 10,7                                                                                H
5    78                                                                                023102         9,76
70         60         50         40         3            001 0                                       20         30          40         50          60         70
Source   United Nations, for total populauorr figures (19S7D)
Educainonal statistical yearbook 1970-1971 Ministry of National Edutation
WVorld Bank-7536






4;   To Teoda                                0          :
-I L '   '   -  -  -   |  '      The boundaries shown otn this map do not                    -
i-pi,' enidorsernent or arceplance by the       A    L   G    E    R    I   A
World Baik and its affiliates.
REPUBLIC OF MALI
2o<'  .    EDUCATI-ON    PROJECT                             ; \                  o          oo    290    300    400                          Temsolit
EDUCATION   PROJECT '                                                        KILOMETERS
.   '       1                  0      ~~~~~~~~~~50   100  150     200      250     
*       S.cond  ycle Scienee Laoorotry.Wokrkhop Ce dr          i                                       MILES                                                        )
Technia Teaoer Troiniq Scoo for Girk s
m       Cnrto SChOol for Stdusty Commferce & Adrainistrotiont   |'*                                                                             
Principol Ro&  (Poved)                                                                                                           I       Kidal
Secondary Roads(Paved       -
-Unpaed Roads
1+-+-4-4-  XRilways
Nu.Agubie Rivers~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Floo~d Area
(03     International Airport     -
6       Airfeds NfiAFUK
.     M A U R I T A N I A                         -          'I'>                                     NSSOMenoit  
-.J8,    _ U* -'..  *-                                                              -   
NIORO                                                                                                                          LbztI
9' 4 os*Iimon>t- - tsv Norn ' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ W \ ~Douentz3   /aD
D,erna                0                                                                       ~~         ~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~N I G  E    R
Tonenko  vart ~ ~ ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~TPrtNve                                        4
-~~ - ~ ;  t1  >>--- \ ---42__ 1           X  Mourdiom th    9 'NionO                      BANDIAGARAS                                                        t    G      E 
j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1    C                                                          I ;;Y      UPR )LI
-tt  ,,)  st AKQ =_r?,-S k S\ w~~~'    FACILITIES TO BE PROVIDED I1N SECOND CYCLE                                          >e~ L
' AJ 2X ,,  ,    'KO L                                      SCIENCE EMAC  'G'S          GIR'S 3              Li 
CA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                  CAJ {t t}LXz
AFOULA E ~ ~ ~    ~ ~ ~ 'INIREA4                                                                     
OUGONI           ~)                   A      MISIRA r2kalAItAMEY..
ito
SEG  9 A 7                                                                                             To Porto OOU 
w                        LIKOR~~~~~~~~~~~~~5K55A22                                                                                                     
C   2         T  uAiioodu                                                                                                            LI,AES2 
~  MOPTI                                     2                -A~' ~ENCE  E-' GRL



