CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 420 MLI
Development Credit
Agreement
(Education Project)
BETWEEN
0
REPUBLIC OF MALI
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JULY 11, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 420 MLI
Development Credit
Agreement
(Education Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF MALI
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JULY 11, 1973


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 11, 1973, between the REPUBLIC OF MALI
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02(h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02(i) into 6.02(h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to five million dollars ($5,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed under the Development Credit Agreement; provided,
however, that, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall
be made on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is
not a member of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in,
or services supplied from, such territories.


﻿4
Section 2.03. Except for miscellaneous local purchases not exceeding in the
aggregate a value of $70,000 equivalent and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the goods and services (other than services of consultants) required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be
procured on the basis of international competition under procedures consistent
with the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits,
published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised in October 1972, and in
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1979 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on January 15
and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each January 15 and July 15 commencing
July 15, 1983, and ending January 15, 2023, each installment to and including
the installment payable on January 15, 1993 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative, financial, technical
and educational policies and practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   For the purpose of overall management and coordination in the
carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall establish and maintain a Project
Unit with such responsibilities and powers as are specified in Schedule 4 to this


﻿5
Agreement. The Project Unit shall be composed of a full-time Project Director
assisted for two and a half years by an architect or engineer experienced in school
construction, and by an accountant, all qualified and experienced and acceptable
to the Association. The Borrower shall provide such Project Unit promptly as
needed with such qualified and experienced staff and such facilities and other
resources, as shall be required for the efficient operation thereof.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the procurement of goods
and services for the Project and in the preparation of designs and specifications
and supervising the construction works included therein, the Borrower shall employ
consultant architects and other technical specialists acceptable to the Association
upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. (a) The construction works included in the Project, shall be
carried out in accordance with standards appropriate to the specific functions of
the educational facilities concerned and the climatic conditions and pursuant to
plans and specifications acceptable to the Association.
(b)   In carrying out the construction works included in the Project, the
Borrower shall employ contractors acceptable to the Association upon terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, contract documents and
construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof), to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and to disclose the use thereof


﻿6
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to
examine the Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all
such information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take all such action as shall be necessary
to acquire not later than the dates scheduled for the beginning of construction
all such land as shall be required for the construction and operation of the facilities
included in the Project and shall furnish to the Association, promptly after such
acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Association that such land is available for
the Project.
Section 3.07. The study included in Part C of the Project shall be carried
out by a team of specialists acceptable to the Association employed under terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.08. Counterparts to specialists furnishing technical assistance to
be trained to replace such specialists shall be appointed at the beginning of the
term of employment of such specialists.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures of the Project Unit and, in respect of the
Project, of the other departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause each institution included in the
Project to carry on its operations and manage its affairs in accordance with sound
administrative, financial, technical and educational policies and practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause each institution included in the Project to
operate and maintain its plant, equipment, properties and facilities and make all
necessary renewals and repairs thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering
and financial practices.


﻿7
(c)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, title to all goods
financed in whole or in part with the proceeds of the Credit shall be obtained
free of all liens.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall consult with the Association on the
recommendations of the team carrying out the study included in Part C of the
Project and the Borrower's subsequent actions thereon.
Section 4.04. With regards to lower secondary education, the Borrower shall
(a)   continue the work of the committees already established to develop
new curricula, to determine equipment requirements suited to
conditions in Mali and to complete the scheduling of instruction;
(b)   provide progress reports on the activities of such committees;
(c)   take measures so that 20 to 25 per cent of the weekly work load
will be devoted to practical work and experimentation;
(d)   improve the qualifications of forty selected science teachers and twenty
domestic science teachers by supplemental training; and
(e)   select thirty-five students at the Ecole Centrale pour l'Industrie, le
Commerce et l'Administration (ECICA) to be given polyvalent training
(bricklaying, carpentry, electricity and metal work) in their third year.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall
(a)   appoint a Malian Director of Practical Works at ECICA; and
(b)   reduce, by one year, the four-year programs in the Women's Technical
Teacher Training College, in ECICA and in the teacher-training
institution for other lower secondary school teachers, provided that
an evaluation indicates sufficient improvement in the achievement of
lower secondary school graduates upon their graduation from a full
three-year cycle of studies under the new curriculum followed in
project institutions.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall (a) make annual budgetary allocations for
the operation of each of the groups of laboratories and workshops included in
the Project and (b) establish inventory, procurement and budgetary procedures
satisfactory to the Association for each group.


﻿8
Section 4.07. Within two years from the date of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall prepare a program for the coordinated planning and development of higher
education and shall exchange views with the Association thereon.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the administration, operations, resources and expenditures in respect
of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out any part of the Project, and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information. shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations, resources and expenditures in respect
of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by either of them of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit, the carrying out of the Project


﻿9
and, after its completion, the evaluation of the effectiveness of the Project a,id
in particular to inspect all installations, sites, works, buildings, property and
equipment related to the Project and any relevant records and documents.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03, The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at
any subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its option,
may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding
to be due and payable immediately together with the service charges thereon, and
upon any such declaration such principal and service charges shall become due
and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in the Development Credit
Agreement notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01(b) of the General Conditions:


﻿10
(a)   an Arrete establishing the Project Unit has been promulgated; and
(b)   the Project Director has been appointed in accordance with
Section 3.01 of this Agreement.
Section 8.02. The date October 15, 1973 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Article IV of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty-five years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister of the -Borrower responsible for finance is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of
the General Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere des Finances
Bamako, Koulouba
Republic of Mali
Cable address:
MINIFINANCES
Bamako
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿11
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPU3LIC OF MALI
By /s/ Seydou Traor6
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Roger Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Westei n Africa


﻿12
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of such proceeds to each
Category and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                       Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
I.   Part A of
the Project
(a)   Civil Works and                1,330,000        100% of total expend-
and Services of                                 itures through Sep-
Consultants                                      tember, 1975; 60%
Architects                                      thereafter
(b)  Equipment;                      1,290,000        100% of total
Furmture                                         expenditures
II.  Part B of the                           40,000         100% of total
Project - Training                                    expenditures
of Teachers and
Directors
III. Part C of                              440,000         100  of total
the Project                                           expenditures
IV. Part D of
the Project
(a)   Specialists'                    770,000         100% of total
Services and                                     expenditures
Fellowships
(b)  Project Unit
(i)  Project                     110,000         100% of total
Architect                                  expenditures
or Engineer
(ii)  Furniture and               50,000         100% of total
Office Equipment;                          expenditures
Vehicles; Rent;
Travel expenses
for Supervision
V.   Unallocated                            970,000
TOTAL                5,000,000


﻿13
2.    For the purpose of this Schedule:
(a)   the term   "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from the territories, and in the currency of, any
country other than the Borrower; and
(b)   the term   "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign
expenditures and expenditures for goods or services supplied from the territories
of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals may be made in respect of Category I(a) above (consultant architects'
services) for expenditures made prior to such date but after May 31, 1973, in
an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $40,000; or
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or in the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
any percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will
be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such category from the unallocated amount of the credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set 1'orth in the third column of the table
in paragraph 1 above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Category I(a)
or (b) shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation


﻿14
to such Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
been made.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
I.    The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A:
1.    The design, construction, furnishing and equipping of eleven groups of
practical multipurpose science laboratories and basic technology and domestic
science workshops, each group serving a number of lower secondary schools (grades
7-9) in the surrounding area, as further specified in Part II of this Schedule.
2.    The design, conversion, furnishing and equipping of a multipurpose science
laboratory in the Ecole Normale d'Enseignement Technique F9minin (ENETF),
S6gou, the training institute for lower secondary domestic science teachers, of about
75 m2 in size.
3.    The design, construction, conversion and rehabilitation, furnishing and
equipping of classrooms, administrative space, laboratories and a library, and the
equipping of industrial and commercial sections, of the Ecole Centrale pour
l'Industrie, le Commerce et l'Administration (ECICA), Bamako, the upper secondary
level technician training institute, providing about 846 m2 of new space and
converting and rehabilitating about 3,750 m2 of existing space.
Part B:
The in-service training of about 60 teachers and the training of the eleven
directors of the groups referred to in Part A(1) above.
Part C:
The preparation, design and implementation of a study of about four years
of alternatives for extending a basic education to all the population of school age
including that not served at present by the existing education and training system.
The preparation of preliminary designs for implementing the construction and
equipment requirements resulting from such study.
Part D:
1.    Utilization of specialists' services and provision of fellowships over a 1-1/2
year period substantially as detailed in Part III of this Schedule for (i) curriculum


﻿16
development and teacher training for the new lower secondary practical facilities;
(ii) technical and vocational education planning; (iii) training local personnel and
organizing and developing procedures for improved planning and management in
the Ministry of Education and developing manpower capabilities in the Division
of Human Resources of the Central Planning Bureau and (iv) organizing and
implementing the study of alternatives for the extension of basic education.
2.    Contracting the services of an architect or engineer for the Project Unit and
the procurement of furniture, equipment and vehicles for the Project Unit.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1978.


﻿17
II.   Groups of Laboratories and Workshops
Additional Facilities   Estimated New Area (m2
Science  Shops   Shops
Location             Lab.   (Boys) (Girls)
Mamadou Konate (and        2       2         1         800
Base Adrienne)
Niarela (and Bagadadji,    4       3         2        1,357
Rdpublique and Bozola)
Missira (and Medina-       3       2         2        1,095
Coura)
Hamdallaye Plateau (and    2       2         1         800
N'Gomiyirambougou)
Dar Salarn (and Camp de    4       3         2        Z,357
Gardes, Medorsa and
N'Tomikorobougou)
Badalabougou               2       2         1         800
Groupe Central, Sdgou      5       4         2        1,653
(and Centre
Administratif)
Sikasso A                  2       2         1         800
Kayes Ldgal-Sdgou          2       2         1         800
Mopti                      4       3         2        1,357
Centre No. VI, Gao (and    4       3         2        1,357
Centre No. 1)


﻿18
III.  Specialists and Fellowships and Approximate Periods of Service
1.   Curriculum Development and Teacher Training for Lower Secondary Schools.
About five and a half man-years for expert services of three specialists in
science, domestic science and technology to assist in curriculum development and
teacher training required by the introduction of the practical facilities.
2.    Technical and Vocational Education Planning.
(i) About one and a half man-years of expert services to develop plans for
the rationalization and standardization of the program and equipment at the Ecole
Centrale pour l'Industrie, le Commerce et l'Administration (ECICA) and at other
training and upgrading centers; and (ii) about one and a half years of fellowships
for the Director of Secondary and Technical Education (six months) and the
Director of Practical Works to be appointed in ECICA for training abroad.
3.    Strengthening of Planning and Managerial Capabilities.
About 11 man-years of specialists' services as a team to train local personnel
and organize and develop procedures for improved planning and management in
the Ministry of Education and to develop manpower planning capabilities in the
Division of Human Resources of the Central Planning Bureau.
4.    About 5.5 man-years of specialists' services to organize and implement a
study of the alternatives for the extension of basic education.
5.    About 2.5 man-years for an architect or engineer experienced in school
construction.


﻿19
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
The following rules shall apply to all contracts referred to in Section 2.03
of this Development Credit Agreement.
A.    Contracts for Civil Works
1.    Bidders will be required to prequalify.
2.    With respect to any contract for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent
of $100,000 or more the following shall apply:
(a)   The Borrower shall, before qualification      is invited, inform   the
Association in detail of the procedure to be followed and shall introduce such
modifications in said procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. The
list of prequalified contractors together with a statement of their qualifications
and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification, shall
be furnished by the Borrower to the Association for its comments before the
applicants are notified and the Borrower shall make such additions to or deletions
from the said list as the Association shall reasohably request.
(b)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, a list of all contracts for civil works to be let in carrying out
the Project indicating the estimated value of each contract and the forecast
timetable for award, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders. The bidding documents shall, inter
alia, specify that the bidder may submit bids in respect of individual educational
institutions included in the Project or a group of them included in the bid invitation,
together with related facilities or any combination thereof, the bids therefor to
be opened simultaneously and the Borrower to have the option of awarding to
one contractor one contract in respect of all such institutions and facilities, or
separate contracts in respect of several such institutions and facilities to different
contractors.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of


﻿20
the bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, together with the recommendations for award,
and the reasons for the intended award. The Association shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the procedures set forth or
referred to in Section 2.03 of this Development Credit Agreement, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
of any such contract.
(f)   The Association's approval shall be required for any proposed change
in a contract involving a price increase of more than 10% of the contract or more
than $20,000 equivalent, whichever is less.
3.    With respect to any other contract for civil works, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of any such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together
with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other information
as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines
that the award of the contract is not consistent with the procedures set forth
or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Development Credit Agreement, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
B.    Contracts for Materials, Furniture and Equipment
1.    Before inviting bids, the Borrower shall send to the Association for its
approval, the lists of materials, furniture and equipment required for the Project
showing the specifications and the estimated unit and total price. Items shall be
indexed, coded and numbered for identification regarding the respective educational
institution and the spaces for which they are required. Such items shall be grouped
in lots so as to permit bulk procurement as shall be consistent with sound technical
and procurement practices. Insofar as practicable, each such lot shall be for not
less than $40,000 equivalent. Amendments to such lists which may be made from
time to time shall also be submitted to the Association for approval.


﻿21
2.    Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, for
its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other
bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures to
be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
3.    With respect to any contract estimated to cost less than $5,000 equivalent
the Borrower may procure such goods under such contracts on a competitive basis
in accordance with the normal procurement procedures of the Borrower, provided
that the aggregate cost of the goods to be so procured shall not exceed $70,000
equivalent.
4.    Procurement shall be limited to those items of materials, furniture and
equipment which are specified in the approved lists mentioned in paragraph B.1
above and which shall be identified in contract documents by the same indexes,
codes and numbers as in such lists.
5.    The Borrower shall send to the Association, after bids have been evaluated,
a summary and analysis thereof, and, in the case of a bid for $5,000 equivalent
or more, obtain the Association's approval before awarding a contract. In case
of a contract to be awarded to other than the lowest bidder, the Borrower shall
send to the Association a brief justification by the Project Unit of the proposed
award.
6.    Promptly after bids have been evaluated and the contract has been awarded,
the Borrower shall furnish the Association with the following:
(i)         a certificate signed by the Project Director that the goods
contracted for are in accordance with the quantities and
specifications in the list approved by the Association under
paragraph B.1 above; and
(ii)       two conformed copies of the contract awarded, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Association of
the first application for withdrawal of funds from its Credit
Account in respect of such contract.


﻿22
C.    Supplemental Rules on Bid Evaluation and Comparison
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids, customs duties and
other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and similar taxes on locally
supplied goods, shall be excluded, except to the extent hereinafter provided. Bidders
shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported
goods, or the ex-factory price for locally manufactured goods. The cost to the
Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be taken into account in the
evaluation of bids ;,n accordance with paragraph 4.7 of the Guidelines for
Procurement.
2.    For equipment and furniture included in Category I(c) of the table set forth
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower
may grant a margin of preference to goods manufactured in the Republic Of Mali
and to goods manufactured in countries which are a party to the West African
Economic Community in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in the Republic of
Mali, if the bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of
the Borrower and the Association that the manufacturing cost
of such goods includes a value added in the Republic of Mali
equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B: bids offering goods manufactured in the Republic of
Mali, other than bids classified in group A.
(3)   Group C: bids offering goods manufactured in a country (other
than the Republic of Mali) which is a party to the West African
Economic Community and entitled to preferential tariffs
thereunder.
(4)   Group D: bids offering any other goods.
(b)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes in goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied locally, to determine
the lowest evaluated bid of each group. The lowest evaluated bids of each group


﻿23
shall then be compared with each other and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected for purposes
of award.
(c)   If, as a result of the first comparison under paragraph (b) above, the
lowest bid is a bid from group C or group D, all group C and group D bids shall
be further compared with the lowest bid from group A, as determined under
paragraph (b) above, after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of goods to be imported
offered in each group C and group D bid, for the purpose of this further comparison
only, an -amount equal to the smaller of (i) the amount of customs duties and
other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the
importation of goods offered in such group C or group D bid, or (ii) 15% of
the c.i.f. bid price of such goods. If the group A bid or a group C bid is the
lowest in such further comparison, it shall be selected for purposes of award.
(d)   If, as a result of the further comparison under paragraph (c) above,
a bid from group D is the lowest, all group D bids shall be finally compared with
the lowest bid from group C, as determined under paragraph (b) above, after adding
to the c.i.f. bid price of goods to be imported offered in each group D bid, for
the purpose of this final comparison only, an amount equal to the smaller of (i)
the difference between the amount of customs duties and other import taxes which
would actually be payable for the importation of goods offered in such group
D bid and for the importation of goods offered in the group C bid, or (ii) 15%
of the c.i.f. bid price of goods to be imported offered in such group D bid. If
the lowest bid in such comparison is the group C bid, it shall be selected for
purposes of award; if not, the lowest bid from group D, as determined under
paragraph (b) above, shall be selected for purposes of award.
3.    The bidding documents shall clearly indicate any preference which will be
granted, the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the methods and stages that will be followed in the evaluation
and comparison of bids to give effect to such preference.


﻿24
SCHEDULE 4
Project Unit
1.    The Project Unit, within the General Directorate for Administrative and
Financial Planning, a service common to the Borrower's Ministry of Secoridary
and Higher Education and Scientific Research and Ministry of Basic Education,
Youth and Sports, will be under the direction of a full time Project Director,
and will be responsible for the overall management of the Project, in coordination
with the Borrower's ministries and other agencies involved in the Project. The
Project Director will report to the Director General of such Directorate, but would
be empowered to make all day-to-day decisions relating to the operation of the
Unit, including staff management and procurement of supplies and services. The
Project Director would also have access to the Ministers responsible for national
education when required. The Project Director will in particular carry out the
functional liaison with the education agencies involved in the Project and will ensure
that the construction, extension, conversion, equipping and furnishing of all
educational premises be consistent with educational requirements.
2.    The Project Director will be assisted by a Project Architect or Engineer who
will be responsible for liaison with the Borrower's Service de l'Habitat, Ministry
of Industrial Development and Public Works. In addition, the Project Director will
be assisted by an Accountant. Such additional supporting staff as may be required
for the efficient carrying out of the responsibilities of the Project Unit will be
provided.
3.    The Project Unit will be responsible, inter alia, for the following:
(a)   coordination and integration of all Project activities with the Ministries
and other agencies of the Borrower; correspondence with the Association on
technical matters relating to the Project;
(b)   arrangements for the selection of the consultant architects and other
specialists, the establishment of their terms of reference and administration of their
agreements;
(c)   preparation, with the help of the Borrower's Ministry of Industrial
Development and Public Works and the consultant architects, of a comprehensive
implementation schedule based on the Critical Path Method, a Gantt chart or other
satisfactory method, for setting down the planned timetable of coordinated
activities and responsibilities on which the carrying out of all aspects of the Project
will be based;


﻿25
(d)   arrangements for the selection by the appropriate authorities of the
teachers and of the directors of the groups of laboratories and workshops and
the establishment of their training programs in collaboration with the appropriate
specialists provided under the Project and the Public Institute of Productivity and
Management; arrangements for the selection, briefing and supervision of
counterparts for the specialists;
(e)   arrangements for the review and approval by appropriate authorities
of the reports, specifications and other material submitted by the consultants and
other specialists;
(f)   regular inspection of all construction works;
(g)   arrangements for preparation of master lists of the furniture and
equipment to be procured for the Project;
(h)   arrangements for inviting bids and awarding contracts relating to the
Project;
(i)   keeping of records and accounts and preparation for submission to
the Association through proper channels of applications for withdrawals from the
Credit Account; and
(j) prepa-ation of quarterly progress reports for submission to the
Association.


