Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 18961-JO
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUTMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$55.0 MILLION
TO
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
FOR AN
AMMAN WATER AND SANITATION MANAGEMENT PROJECT
February 17, 1999
Infrastructure Development Group
Middle East Department
Middle East and North Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of February 15, 1998)
Currency Unit: Jordanian Dinar (JD)
JD        =    US$1.412
US$1.0         JD 0.708
US$1.0   =    ECU 0.922
US$ 1.0   =    Italian Lira (Lit) 1,796
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS          =   Country Assistance Strategy
CIDA         =   Canadian International Development Agency
CIP          =   Capital Investment Program
CM           =   Cubic meter
EIB          =   European Investment Bank
EIRR         =   Economic Internal Rate of Return
FIRR         =   Financial Internal Rate of Return
GOJ          =   Government of Jordan
GTZ          =   Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
IBRD         =   International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB          =   International Competitive Bidding
IS           =   International Shopping
ICR          =   Implementation Completion Report
JVA          =   Jordan Valley Authority
KfW          =   Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
LACI             Loan Administration Change Initiative (The World Bank)
MC               Performance-Based Management Contract
MOP          =   Ministry of Planning
MOWI             Ministry of Water and Irrigation
NBF          =   Not Bank-Financed
NCB              National Competitive Bidding
NPV          =   Net Present Value
NS           =   National Shopping
O&M          =   Operation and Maintenance
OED          =   Operations Evaluation Department, The World Bank
Operator     =   Private Management Contract Operator
OIF          =   Operating Investment Fund
PHRD             Policy and Human Resources Development
PMU              Planning and Management Unit (the project implementation unit)
PSP          =   Private Sector Participation
RFP          =   Request for Proposals for the MC
RFQ              Request for Prequalification for the MC
SA           =   Special Account
SOE          =   Statement of Expenditures
TA           =   Technical Assistance
TOR          =   Terms of Reference
UFW          =   Unaccounted for Water
USAID        =   United States Agency for International Development
WAJ          =   Water Authority of Jordan
WSR          =   Water Sector Review
WUP          =   Water Utility Policy
GOVERNMENT'S FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31
Vice President:         Kemal Dervis
Country Director:       Inder Sud
Sector Director:        Jean-Claude Villiard
Team Leader:            Jamal Saghir



The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
Amman Water and Sanitation Management Project
Project Appraisal Document
Table of Contents
Page No.
Project Financing Data ...............................................................1
A.   Project Development Objective ..............................................................2
1.  Project development objectives and key performance indicators ..................                               .....................2
B. Strategic Context                                                                ..2
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project                                                   .2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                                      .2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                                            .3
C.   Project Description  Summary ..............................................................4
1.  Project components ..............................................................4
2.   Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project ......................                          .....................4
3.  Benefits and target population ...............................................................4
4.   Institutional and implementation arrangements ............................................................... 5
D.   Project Rationale ...............................................................6
1.  Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection .................................. .................6
2.   Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies .............                                   7
3.  Lessons learned and reflected in the project design ............................................................8
4.  Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ..........................................................8
5.  Value added of Bank support in this project ...............................................................                    9
E. Summary Project Analyses                                                                 ..9
1. Economic                                                               .9
2. Financial .11
3. Technical .11
4. Institutional .12
5. Social .12
6. Environmental assessment .12
7. Participatory approach .13
F. Sustainability and Risks                                    ..13
1. Sustainability .13
2. Critical risks .14
3. Possible controversial aspects .14
G. Main Loan Conditions .....................................                       .                                                    15
1.  Actions completed during project preparation ..................................... 15
2.   Agreements reached during negotiations ..................................... 15
3. Condition of effectiveness .....................................                                                               16
H. Readiness for Implementation .....................................                                                                    16
I. Compliance with Bank Policies .16



Table of Contents (continued)
Annexes
Annex 1:  Project Design Summary
Annex 2:  Detailed Project Description
Annex 3:  Estimated Project Costs
Table A   Cost Breakdown of the Operating Investment Fund
Table B   Cost Breakdown of the Capital Investments
Table C   Cost Breakdown of the Technical Assistance
Annex 4:  Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
Annex 5:  Financial Summary
Annex 6:  Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table B   Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C   Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 7:  Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8:  Documents in Project File
Annex 9:  Statement of Loans and Credits and IFC Investments
Annex 10: Jordan at a Glance
Annex 11: Government's Water Utility Policy
Annex 12: Summary of Performance Obligations of the Operator
under the Management Contract
Maps:  IBRD 29332, 29333 and 29334



The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
Amman Water and Sanitation Management Project
Project Appraisal Document
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
Middle East Department
Date: February 17, 1999                  Team Leader: Jamal Saghir
Country Director: Inder Sud              Sector Director: Jean-Claude Villiard
Project ID: 48521                        Program Objective Category: PV
Sector: Water Supply and Sanitation      Program of Targeted Intervention:  [ ] Yes  [x] No
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan
Project Financing Data    [x] Loan      [  Credit    [] Guarantee    [] Other
Loan Amount (US$ million): 55.0
Proposed terms:             []   Multicurrency       [x]   Single currency, US$
Grace period (years): 4  [    Standard Variable  [    Fixed    [x] LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 17
Commitment Fee: 0.75% on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after signing, less
any waiver
Financing plan (US$ million):
Source                                             Local         Foreign        Total
Government                                          13.2            3.8          17.0
Cofinanciers:
IBRD                                              6.4          48.6           55.0
EIB (ECU 40.0 million)                            9.4          34.0           43.4
EIB (METAP II) (ECU 0.54 million)                 0.1           0.5            0.6
Italy (Lit 36.0 billion)                          2.3           17.7          20.0
Total     31.4          104.6          136.0
Borrower: Government of Jordan
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agency: Water Authority of Jordan
Estimated disbursements        1999        2000       2001       2002        2003
(Bank FY/US$m):
Annual 3.0         13.0        17.0       15.0         7.0
Cumulative  3.0        16.0       33.0       48.0         55.0
Project implementation period: 51 months
Expected effectiveness date: April 19, 1999
Expected closing date: July 31, 2003



Jordan
Amman Water and Sanitation Manaaement Proiect  Paae 2                    Proiect ApDraisal Document
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The objectives of the project are to: (i) improve the efficiency, management, operation and delivery of
water and wastewater services for the Amman Service Area (Service Area); and (ii) lay the groundwork
for the sustainable involvement of the private sector in the overall management of these services. These
objectives complement the Government of Jordan's (GOJ) strategy for water supply and wastewater
services.
Progress in achieving these development objectives by the end of the project will be evaluated annually
on the basis of (i) reducing unaccounted for water (UFW); and (ii) increasing continuity of water supply
to customers.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1): CAS document
number: 14999-JO, Date of latest CAS discussion: October 24, 1995.
The Project builds on the recent sector work done by the Bank (Water Sector Review (WSR), Report No.
17095-JO, October 15, 1997). The WSR shows that scarce water is one of Jordan's constraints to
sustained economic growth and that the sector will require substantial reorganization before it can
efficiently manage this resource and provide efficient and sustainable services. This observation is fully
consistent with the CAS, which underlines: (i) the necessity of infrastructure development (including, in
particular, water-related infrastructure); and (ii) the need for increased private sector participation in
order to increase efficiency levels in the management of infrastructure projects.
In this context, the strategic sector orientation is summarized as follows:  (i) reorganization and
restructuring of the sector institutions to optimize efficiency and effectiveness of their operations; and
(ii) introduction of private sector participation (PSP) schemes such as performance-based management
contracts in the short term, starting with Anmman and spreading to other areas. In the medium and longer
term and as the need for financing grows, PSP will move towards more complex schemes such as leases
and concessions. The proposed project addresses this strategy through the provision of a private
management contract operator (Operator) to improve water and wastewater service in Amman, the
country's economic and administrative center, and by providing for technical assistance to restructure the
operations of the Water Authority of Jordan (WAJ) in order to attract long-term financial involvement by
the private sector. In addition, the project will play a critical and catalytic role in maintaining support
and cofinancing from donors. Through the involvement of the Operator, the project will provide program
management capacity that will encourage donor financing for the water and wastewater sector.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
As detailed in the WSR, the primary issues in the water supply and wastewater sector in Jordan are:
*   Limited and vulnerable water resources. Present use already exceeds renewable supply, the
difference being made up by the unsustainable practice of overdrawing highland aquifers. As a
result, groundwater levels are declining and water quality is deteriorating.
*   The eap between supplv and demand for municipal and industrial water services is growing.
Shortages now exist throughout most of the year, affecting the great majority of the population and
undermining consumer confidence and willingness to pay for the services.
* Efficiency of service delivery for both urban water supply and irrigation is low. Distribution
systems suffer from serious losses. UFW in municipal and industrial supplies exceeds 50 percent.
*   Cost recovery is low as a direct result of service inefficiency due to high UFW and inadequate
tariffs, which until October 1997 did not cover operation and maintenance (O&M) costs.



Jordan
Amman Water and Sanitation Manaaement Proiect  Paae 3                    Proiect Appraisal Document
*   Inaloropriate institutional arrangements are at the heart of the country's water resources
management problem. WAJ is responsible for urban services, while the Jordan Valley Authority
(JVA) is responsible for irrigation in the Jordan Valley. Both are substantially over-staffed but lack
equipment and adequately qualified personnel, and neither has an incentive to ensure unified
planning and management of water resources to best meet the national interest.
*   Environmental degradation and water quality are of increasing concern. The main wastewater
treatment plant for Amman is treating twice the load for which it was designed, which has resulted
in serious negative environmental, public health and economic impacts downstream.
The GOJ is responding to these challenges. A water policy framework was issued in September 1994
setting out principles that underlie Government actions in the sector; it was superseded by a Water
Strategy issued in April 1997, and a Water Utility Policy in July 1997; a Water Master Plan is under
preparation; and a study to address institutional issues has been carried out and partially implemented.
Licenses for new wells have been restricted, metering is being introduced for existing wells, a resource
tax on groundwater abstraction has been levied, and municipal and industrial water and sewerage tariffs
have been restructured and substantially increased, becoming effective in October 1997. Donors (EIB,
USAID, GTZ, KfW, CIDA, etc.) are actively involved in supporting these initiatives, and two Bank loans
have supported these changes - the Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan and the Agriculture Sector
Technical Support Loan. But the above measures only begin to address the problems.
Much more remains to be done at the national level, including:
*   Strengthening sector policy formulation and planning through the transfer of all national water
resources planning functions to a central planning unit and formulating a comprehensive master plan
for water and wastewater.
*   Increasing private sector participation in the management and delivery of water and wastewater,
starting with the Service Area.
* Implementing a service improvement program, also starting with the Service Area, to improve
management, operation, capacity and service delivery and to substantially reduce UFW.
*   Improving efficiency through a prioritized investment program to develop and implement a
program of water distribution system restructuring and rehabilitation for the Service Area.
*   Investing in wastewater treatment to mitigate environmental degradation and facilitate reuse.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project will limit its focus to sector issues that can be addressed during its 4-year implementation.
Other issues will be addressed in other lending operations under preparation or planned in the future.
Issues addressed in the project are:
*   Improving efficiency through increased participation of the private sector in the management and
delivery of water and wastewater services in the Service Area.
*   Implementing a service improvement program to reduce UFW.  In addition to the physical
restructuring and rehabilitation of old networks, there are problems in metering and billing, leak
detection and repair, and accounting practices. The Operator for the Service Area will be required
to improve service delivery according to prescribed performance targets affecting the majority of the
population in this area; and
*   A program  of cost recovery and tariff restructuring, taking into account affordability and
willingness-to-pay of users.



Jordan
Amman Water and Sanitation Manaaement Proiect  Page 4                           Proiect Anoraisal Document
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown; see Maps for the extent of the Service Area):
Comnponent                  Category       Cost Incl.    % of    Bank-        % of
Contingencies   Total   financing    Bank-
(US$m)           _(US$m)   financing
Management Contract                     Management         10.03        7        10.03       18
Supports provision of private sector
Operator under a 4-year performance-based
mnanagemnent contract to manage water and
wastewater services in the Service Area.
Operating Investment Fund               Physical           24.11        18       24.11       44
Supports essential short-term expenditures
to improve operations and maintenance in
the Service Area.
Capital Investments                     Physical           94.69        70       15.36       28
Supports design, implementation and
supervision of the restructuring and
rehabilitation of the water supply system as
well as upgrading and extending service
coverage.
Technical Assistance                    Institution         7.17        5         5.50       10
Supports institutional restructuring and  building;
improving managerial capacities of WAJ;    project
measures to monitor and audit the       managemnent
Operator's performance; studies related to
the project; and preparation of other water
sector projects throughout Jordan.
Total                             136.00       100       55.00       100
Note: Percentages are rounded up.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The Project supports the policies and reforms proposed in the GOJ's April 1997 Water Strategy,
particularly: the transfer of management of infrastructure and services from the public to the private
sector; achieving the highest practical efficiency in the conveyance, distribution, application and use of
water; adoption of demand and supply management; the setting of water and wastewater charges that will
initially cover O&M costs and subsequently recover the capital costs of water infrastructure; and giving
precedence to meet rising municipal and industrial demands.
3. Benefits and target population:
Economic benefits
*   Improved efficiency of the distribution system through leakage management, network rehabilitation
and a program of meter repair and replacement are expected to reduce UFW by at least 25
percentage points and to increase sales revenue. Improvements in operational efficiency through the
Operator will also contribute to increased revenues by reducing accounts receivable and operating
cost.
*   Improved service delivery and increased supplies of piped water will come closer to meeting
consumer demand and reduce the need for extensive reliance on expensive vendor-supplied water in
some areas.



Jordan
Amman Water and Sanitation Manaaement Project  Page 5                 Project Aooraisal Document
* Increased financial autonomy of WAJ will result from tariff increases, institutional restructuring,
and improvements in the financial efficiency of its overall operations.
Social benefits
*   Extension of water supply and wastewater collection services to low-income households added to
the WAJ network will provide access to reliable piped water at prices much lower than those now
charged by vendors. These households will also experience health benefits from improved access to
water and wastewater service.
Other benefits
*   Improved overall water resources management will result from metering of bulk supply, regulating
groundwater abstractions, an increase in sector efficiency (reduction of UFW), and improved
planning, project design, procurement and implementation.
* Enhanced management capacity within the sector will result from private sector participation in the
delivery of water and wastewater services.
*   Losses will be reduced, enabling greater water use and increased volumes of reclaimed wastewater
for reuse in irrigation.
*   Environmental benefits will result from more efficient water use and from improved operation of,
and connection of more households to, the sewerage system.
Target Population: All WAJ customers in the Service Area (about 2.0 million) will benefit from
improved distribution systems and more reliable water supplies. Low-income households and refugee
camps in particular will benefit from improved minimum service levels.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period: Fifty-one (51) months.
Executing agency: Water Authority of Jordan (WAJ).
Project Coordination:
The Ministry of Water and hIrigation (MOWI) will have overall responsibility for project
coordination.
*   The Planning and Management Unit (PMU) within WAJ was created and is headed by a Project
Director who reports directly to the Secretary General of WAJ. The PMU will be responsible for
following day-to-day project activities, coordinating with the Operator, and monitoring performance
indicators during the implementation period, and will carry primary management responsibility for
the Capital Investment Program (CIP). The works to be implemented under the Project will be
cofinanced by the Bank, EIB and the Govermnent of Italy.
*   The Operator will be responsible for managing water and wastewater services in the Service Area
under a 4-year performance-based management contract (MC). Ownership of the underlying assets
and authority for setting tariffs will remain with the Government. The Operator, as part of the
Services, will have responsibility, on behalf of WAJ, to manage the Operating Investment Fund
(OIF), to procure goods, works and services in accordance with the World Bank Procurement
Guidelines and to enter into contracts. WAJ will approve the annual procurement plan for the use of
the OIF as prepared by the Operator. The Operator's activities will be subject to independent
technical and financial audits to monitor performance and determine the amount of performance
incentive compensation based on a percentage of incremental cash flow.
* Other works will be carried out under parallel programs by other donors, including a major
investment program financed by KfW and USAID. WAJ, through the PMU, will ensure
coordination of all programs. The Operator, who is contractually responsible for operating and
maintaining the water supply (and sewerage) system, will accordingly have a special role. This role



Jordan
Amman Water and Sanitation Manaaement Proiect  Page 6                   Proiect Appraisal Document
is defined in the management contract, which specifies the arrangements for coordination and
consultation between the Operator and WAJ with respect to the CIP.
Project oversight and policy guidance: MOWI would set the strategic direction of the project with close
consultation with WAJ and the Bank. MOWI would also facilitate coordination, provide policy
guidance, and oversee implementation.
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements: WAJ, through the PMU, would establish
and maintain project accounts and adequate control procedures that would facilitate timely and
transparent reporting in accordance with the Bank's Financial Management guidelines (OP/BP 10.02).
These accounts would be audited each fiscal year in accordance with Bank guidelines by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank. WAJ would ensure that all project accounts are furnished to the Bank
within six months of the end of each fiscal year, in such scope and detail as the Bank may reasonably
request. Special Accounts: Since this project was appraised and negotiated prior to July 1, 1998,
conventional disbursement procedures will be used at first with the intention to convert to the Loan
Administration Change Initiative (LACI) procedures subsequently. To facilitate disbursement against
eligible expenditures, the Govermnent would open a Special Account at the Central Bank, to be operated
by WAJ, under terms satisfactory to the Bank. Administrative details of the Special Account are
included in Annex 6.
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements: The PMU would be responsible for monitoring progress
against agreed performance indicators specified in Annex 1. The Operator would furnish the PMU with
monthly and annual reports summarizing the management contract operations and the utilization of
project funds. The PMU would provide, on a semi-annual basis, consolidated reports on project
implementation progress covering: (i) projections for project financing and implementation; (ii) status of
project finances and procurement of goods and works; (iii) status of implementation of the service
improvement program under the management contract, the capital investment and technical assistance;
(iv) statement of income and expenditure for the current and previous semester; and (v) monthly cash
flow projections for the next six months. These reports would be submitted to the Bank within one month
of the end of the relevant semester, and would provide the basis for monitoring the progress of the
project. The PMU would prepare a detailed mid-term report to serve as the basis for a Project Mid-Term
Review, scheduled for the last quarter of the year 2000. The PMIJ will also prepare and submit an
hnplementation Completion Report (ICR) to the Bank within six months of the Closing Date of the Bank
loan. An Early Implementation Assessment will be undertaken in the first year of implementation.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The first major issue to be resolved in the design of the project was whether the reform of the Service
Area water and wastewater sector would be resolved within the existing public sector paradigm, or
whether private sector assistance should be sought. Private participation was chosen for the following
reasons: (a) the failure of the existing public sector paradigm despite nine Bank-financed projects to
improve sector performance and efficiency; (b) the likelihood that a private operator with extensive
experience would improve performance and efficiency more rapidly; and (c) greater flexibility within the
private sector of creating better incentive structures, hiring practices, quicker procurement, etc.,
conducive to increasing performance and efficiency.
The full range of options for PSP were considered, including outright sale, concession, lease or
affermage, management contract and technical assistance. The envisaged solution, a performance-based
management, operations and maintenance contract, permits the highest level of private sector
participation (full delegated management responsibility), consistent within the constraints imposed by the
Govemment, namely:  (a) Govemment control over tariffs; (b) Government ownership of the
infrastructure; and (c) poor performance of the sector and the financial viability of WAJ. The proposed
performance-based management contract is, however, a hybrid solution that includes elements of



Jordan
Amman Water and Sanitation Management Project  Page 7                           Proiect ADpraisal Document
concession and affermage, namely: (a) operator control over an operation investnent fund financed by
the Bank (to be procured according to Bank procurement guidelines) to help fumd priority O&M
necessary to achieve the performance indicators agreed upon in the contract; (b) full possession by the
operator of the infrastructure during the scope of the MC; (c) an innovative performance bonus which
permnits the operator to retain a percentage of the incremental cash flow resulting from improved
performance and efficiency; and (d) full operator control of operations, maintenance, billing and
collection.
The primary advantages of the above approach are that: (a) the performance compensation creates an
incentive structure for the operator to improve the overall financial situation for WAJ; (b) it is a
relatively short-term solution (4 years) that permits WAJ to attract a concessionaire or lessee on more
advantageous terms at the end of the management contract, once performance and efficiency have been
enhanced; (c) it provides a vehicle for mobilizing additional resources from the donor community; and
(d) it permits the Government to maintain ownership of assets and control over tariffs.
A concession would have required much longer preparation time and a substantial increase in tariffs. In
addition, both a lease and a concession are relatively long-term commitments. The Government clearly
felt more comfortable with a shorter-term option for their first venture with private sector management in
this strategic sector.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies:
Bank-financed Projects (over the last 10 years)
Sector issue                   Project          Performance Audit Re ort (no. 15813) by OED
Implementation        Development
Progress             Objective
,imited water and sewerage services  * Greater Amman Water   Physical Objectives    Sustainability of
coverage; inadequate institutional    Supply and Sewerage  were satisfactorily  achievements
capacity                         Project (1985-1991)       achieved             jeopardized by large
UFW and low cost
recovery.
Limnited water and sewerage services  * Jordan Water Supply  Physical Objectives    Sustainability of
coverage including wastewater    and Sewerage Project     were satisfactorily   achievements
treatment facilities; inadequate  (1985-1994)              achieved. Financial   jeopardized by large
institutional capacity                                    (cost recovery)       UFW, low cost
covenants were in    recovery and rapidly
default.             deteriorating financial
position.
Other development agency-financed projects
Sector Issue            Donor/Agency                Project                   Status
Inappropriate institutional      Canada/CIDA       * Structural Adjustment and     Completed.
arrangements                                       Policy Support Project         Recommendations
adopted by GOJ.
Limited and vulnerable water     USA/USAID         * Water Quality Improvement     On-going
resources                                          and Conservation Project
Low efficiency of service delivery    French       * Hydraulic Analysis of the water  On-going
Govermment       systems in the Irbid Governorate
Low efficiency of service delivery    Germany/GTZ  * Operations and Management    On-going
Support Project
Low efficiency of service delivery    Germany/KfW  * Hydraulic Analysis of Greater    Completed
Anmman Water Supply System
and Organizational Restructuring



Jordan
Amman Water and Sanitation Manaaement Proiect  Page 8                  Project ADpraisal Document
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The institutional autonomy and financial viability of WAJ deteriorated during implementation of the
Jordan Water Supply and Sewerage Project (closed in June 1994), despite a specific objective to improve
autonomy and financial viability and legal covenants. One conclusion of the ICR was that the current
institutional, regulatory and ownership framework for the public water and wastewater utility in Jordan
was not conducive to sound financial performance. Although the Government has in the past stated its
intention to restructure WAJ and other public sector institutions to improve efficiency, eliminate
subsidies, and increase participation of the private sector, a lesson learned from previous projects is that
fundamental changes are needed in the institutional setting and regulatory environment if these intentions
are to be realized.
Another key finding from previous lending is that despite a clear objective of reducing UFW, losses
actually increased to over 60% in 1992 before showing some signs of improvement in the last three
years. The principal lesson appears to be that this problem cannot be solved through a project approach
or the use of consultants working largely on their own. It must become an internal, operational matter
with appropriate staffing and budgeting, accountability, regular performance monitoring and an award
system. However, this would not be sufficient in the current context of full public sector involvement.
Direct involvement of the private sector is needed to achieve these objectives.
Another emerging lesson is related to the Government's policy of giving priority to investments to
connect all the population to drinking water, which has long-term implications in terms of the
sustainability of water reserves. Investments to reduce UFW should, therefore, receive priority.
A final lesson drawn relates to the effectiveness of legal covenants. Although a legal covenant might
appear to provide good leverage for ensuring financial and institutional performance improvement and
viability, previous operations have shown that it appears unlikely that non-compliance will result in
suspension of disbursements if major sub-projects are being implemented satisfactorily. In addition, the
achievement of covenants concerning prices charged by public authorities has delayed implementation of
the energy and agriculture adjustments loans. Therefore, any policy conditions related to cost recovery,
tariff reform and financial viability and performance should have government ownership and be agreed
during project preparation and preferably included in a Water Utility Policy (WUP).
The project design takes into account these lessons: (a) a WUP was issued by the Government on July
23, 1997; (b) combined average water and sewage services tariffs for Amman and other governorates
were substantially raised (by 30 percent and 60 percent respectively) and restructured during project
preparation and became effective in October 1997 - such increases are considered sufficient to recover
O&M costs (including depreciation) for the project areas over the 4-year implementation period;
(c) investments to reduce UFW would receive priority in the capital investment component of the project;
(d) introduction of a performance-based private Operator with a specific scope of work and efficiency
targets would increase service efficiency; and (e) a new institutional framework compatible with the
complexities of water sector needs was issued and a program of implementation was adopted on
September 13, 1997. These up-front actions agreed and implemented during project preparation show
GOJ's commitment to the project and adoption of a new approach to resolve sector issues.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The proposed project is part of a program that would provide for three other investment projects
(Amman/Zarqa Wastewater Reclamation and Reuse Project, the Disi/Anmman Conveyor Project, and the
Jordan Valley Development Project). The program was discussed and agreed with the Government in
August 1996. In addition, MOWI, the Ministry of Planning (MOP), and WAJ actively participated in the
preparation of the draft Project Concept Paper and project processing. The project design was agreed
with MOWI, MOP and WAJ and ownership is strong. Commitment at the political level to involve the
private sector in the delivery of water in the Service Area and to solve some of the sensitive issues that
the project addresses, such as cost recovery, has been demonstrated by the approval by the Council of



Jordan
Amman Water and Sanitation Manaaement Proiect  Page 9                    Proiect Anpraisal Document
Ministers of the proposed project concept and of restructuring and substantially increasing water and
wastewater tariffs.  In support of this project the GOJ would provide counterpart funding of
US$17 million towards this project.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank introduced the concept of private sector participation in the water sector through an Economic
Development Institute-sponsored seminar in 1995. The Bank's support was evident in a number of
respects during project preparation: (a) based on the Bank's broad international experience with private
participation in infrastructure and the water and wastewater sectors in particular, the Bank was well
positioned to advise the Government on private sector participation in general, and the specific
transaction structure adopted; (b) the Bank helped mobilize trust funds (PHRD) for advisors, for the
preparation of draft terms of reference, and for advice on contractual and design issues related to the
management contract; (c) the Bank helped to clarify and act as a catalyst for various policy decisions;
(d) the application of Bank procurement procedures helps assure potential operators of standards of
transparency, while a competitive procedure helps assure that the Government selects the best offer; and
(e) the Bank also helped mobilize donor investment in the restructuring and rehabilitation of the network.
The Bank was well positioned to add value given its 20-year history in the Jordan water sector (nine
water sector projects supported by IDA/IBRD), its knowledge of the Jordanian economy as a whole, and
its integrated approach to the water sector (evidenced in the 1996 Water Sector Review).
E: Summary Project Analyses (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
Methodology. The economic analysis uses a cost benefit, with and without project, methodology. It
estimates a net present value and internal rate of return on both financial and economic terms. The
analysis examines the Project's two main components (Management Contract plus Operating Investment
Fund and Capital Investments) as separate exercises, calculating net present values and internal rates of
return for both. Because of the indivisibility of the Capital Investment Program, the entire JD 152
million program is included in the analysis for this component, not just that financed by the World Bank,
EIB and Italy under this project.
The period of analysis for the Management Contract plus Operating Investment Fund is four years.
Given the expected life of civil works under the Capital Investments component, the analysis is modeled
over 25 years. The discount rate used is 10 percent, which is the Bank's normal hurdle rate for water and
wastewater projects. The economic analysis converts financial to economic flows by using conversion
factors for the forex premium, the foreign portion of civil works and consultants, and a small portion of
water which is considered to offset current non-WAJ sources (e.g., water vendors).
Summary of Base Case Results. Financial and economic net present values and internal rates of return
for the Base Case Scenario are shown below.
Component                       Financial                       Economic
Base Case Scenario              NPV (000)         FIRR (%)       NPV (000)        EIRR
Management Contract plus         JD 4,454            42           JD 6,468         61
Operating Investment Fund            _
Capital Investments             JD 31,721            13          JD 29,812         13
Major Assumptions. For the Base Case, the major assumptions are: (i) in the without project case, a
major water system rehabilitation would have to take place in year 12 to preserve the network; (ii) the
Operator is able to achieve substantial reductions in both technical and commercial UFW (going from a
total of 52 percent today to 28 percent in year five); (iii) the Operator achieves substantial efficiency
gains in staffing; and (iv) the physical contingencies provided by the Project's engineers and reflected in
the base costs used in the economic analysis (15 percent) are sufficient.



Jordan
Amman Water and Sanitation Manacement Project  Page 10                 Proiect Aoraisal Document
Sensitivity Analysis and Switching Values - Management Contract + Operating Investment Fund.
Sensitivity Analysis
MC+OIF Comronent
Scenario                  Description                  Resulting EIRR (%)
1        Commercial UFW only decreases by 10% during          18
the Project
2        Staffing costs do not decrease                        33
3        Scenario 1 + Scenario 2                               -1
4        Consumables do not change                            31
Switching Values
MC+OIF Component
Scenario                   Description                     Amount (%)
1         By what percentage would the commercial UFW          14
reduction have to be limited to in order to bring
the NPV to zero? (Base Case = 6% by Project end)
2         Investment costs under the OIF would have to         48
increase by what percentage in order bring the
NPV to zero? (Base Case = 16,410)
Sensitivity Analysis and Switching Values - Capital Investment Program
Sensitivity Analysis
Capital Investment Program Component
Scenario                  Description                  Resulting EIRR %
1        Rehabilitation in year 12 costs only 1/2 of Base      6
Case amount (175 million vs. 350 million), energy
and maintenance expenses increase by 3% over the
analysis period
2        Tariffs backtrack by 20% in year 5; constant after    13
that
3        Investment Cost overruns by 20 percent                10
Switching Values
Capital Investment Program Component
Scenario                  Description                      Amount (%)
1        By what percentage would the rehabilitation           27
program in the Without Project Case have to
decrease in order to bring the NPV to zero? (Base
Case JD 350 million)
2        What would the percent of UFW savings                 < 0
attributable to the CIP component have to be in
order to reduce the NPV to zero? (Base Case
40%)
3        Project capital investment costs would have to        24
increase by what percentage in order bring the NPV
to zero?
Fiscal Impact. Govermnent's counterpart contribution is about 7 percent of the total Program (total
Capital Investment Program, Management Contract, Operating Investment Fund and Technical
Assistance), averaging only about JD 3 million per year over the four year implementation period. This
is not considered to impose any fiscal burden. The total Capital Investment Program of JD 152 million



Jordan
Amman Water and Sanitation Management Proiect  Page 11                 Proiect ApDraisal Document
represents about 10 percent of the total MOWI capital investment plan for the period 1998-2001. The
Program's loan obligations are about JD 101 million (net of the grant component), with annual debt
service obligations estimated at about US$11 million per year for 13 years.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
The financial analysis at the Project level demonstrates that the financial gains for the Service Area from
improving sector efficiency and implementing the restructured tariffs are significant. By the end of the
4-year management contract, operating revenue per unit of water billed within the Service Area is
expected to grow by about 20 percent, from JD 0.490 to JD 0.589 per cubic meter (CM) while operating
costs per unit (excluding depreciation) are also expected to decline by about 18 percent, from JD 0.423 to
JD 0.346 per CM (Annex 5). Increases to the operating revenue per unit are driven by: (i) reductions in
total UFW, to below 30 percent, which would translate directly into an increased billable water and
sewerage base; and (ii) restructured tariffs, which increased the weighted average tariffs of water and
wastewater by 30 percent and 60 percent respectively. Reductions in the unit operating costs are
attributed to improvements in operational efficiencies.
The improvements described above would net for the Service Area an annual working cash surplus (total
revenues less working expenses) between JD 11 to 24 million, enough to cover all allocable depreciation
allowance of JD 0.250 per CM. This would satisfy the immediate and short-term goals of achieving full
cost recovery of O&M costs (including depreciation but excluding interest payments on long-term debts)
for the Service Area, and further eliminating the need for any operating subsidy by the Government,
which over the last decade had averaged JD 16 million annually. It is projected that by the year 2004, the
Service Area would generate a positive net income after deducting interest payments.
The favorable financial impact of the project will directly affect WAJ's overall financial position since
the management contract area represents about 45% of WAJ's Balance Sheet. The October 1997 tariff
restructuring is also expected to further improve the overall financial position of WAJ. Base case
scenario projections for WAJ indicate that operating revenues are expected to increase by an average of
15 percent annually over the next four years and would cover all of O&M costs and about 54 percent of
depreciation by the end of the Management Contract. The extent of the impact on the overall financial
position of WAJ is demonstrated in the proforma income statement in Annex 5.
3. Technical:
Improving the provision of water and wastewater service to the citizens of Amman can be measured
through several key performance indicators which have been established for monitoring purposes.
Technical improvements will be measured by:
(i) Reduction in UFW by at least 25 percentage points. This technical improvement will be
accomplished by providing resources to identify and repair chronic conditions that lead to
significant loss of water and to improve the accuracy of metering of both bulk supply and
customer consumption. Resources will also be made available from the OIF to provide,
inter-alia, tools and equipment necessary to implement the engineering standards.
(ii) Reduction in unit electricity use per CM of water by approximately 18 percent. This
technical improvement will be accomplished by evaluating the overall use of electricity in the
system and developing and implementing efficiencies in the utilization of the equipment as well
as in the movement of water around the city of Amman. The Operator will be expected to utilize
his expertise to develop an Energy Management Plan and to use the resources of the OIF to put
equipment in efficient operating condition.
Improvements in service will be measured by:
(i) Reduction in the time period from initial report of a technical problem to the completion of
repairs from an average of 2 days to 6 hours. This factor will be improved by using the resources
from the OIF to provide necessary equipment and vehicles, including communications



Jordan
Amman Water and Sanitation Management Proiect  Paae 12                 Project Appraisal Document
equipment, to enable faster and more efficient response to a report of system problems. In
addition, the development of computerized maintenance management and inventory systems will
provide management with the tools to dispatch repair personnel with the necessary tools,
material, and equipment required to respond effectively.
(ii) Improving the constancy of water supplied to all customers to a minimum of two (2) thirty-
six hour periods per week during the peak summer season. This indicator will provide a
determination of the effectiveness of improvements to the water distribution system. Although
major improvements in the constancy of water distribution are dependent upon the CIP and an
increase in bulk supply of water to Amman, the rehabilitation work and the efforts to improve
efficiency of operation can be measured by the Operator's ability to improve this performance
indicator.
4. Institutional:
WAJ will be the Executing Agency on behalf of the Government, which, according to Law No. 18 of
1988, is vested with the responsibility for providing and managing water and wastewater services in
Jordan. The same law allows WAJ to delegate part of their responsibilities to others. The decision to
contract an experienced private sector water utility company to operate these services was taken by WAJ,
and endorsed by the Council of Ministers (in April 1997), because of the need for substantial, and rapid,
improvements in service delivery.
To manage execution of the Project, WAJ will strengthen the PMU established for projects already in
implementation. Technical assistance will be provided for this purpose. Full details of the strengthening,
responsibilities, organization and accountability of the PMI are described in the Project Implementation
Plan (available in the Project Files). The PMU will be subdivided into the following Directorates:
Management Contract; Capital Investment; and Govemorates Support together with Operations
Management Support. Special Tendering Committees have been formed and will take procurement
decisions. The Operator will procure, on behalf of WAJ, essential goods and works financed from the
OIF.
5. Social:
The project is likely to have three main social impacts. There is also likely to be an overall social benefit
accruing from the health externalities that will result from both an increase in potable water and better
management of the city's wastewater system.
a  The Council of Ministers has endorsed the option that all WAJ staff in the Service Area will initially
be seconded to the Operator, who may return up to half of the staff back to WAJ. A detailed staffing
policy is included in the MC.
*  Some consumers in Amman will face an increase in their bills through the Operator's efforts to
reduce UFW, improve administrative efficiency and reduce accounts receivable. Thus, it is expected
that those households with illegal or undocumented connections or incorrect bills will be obligated to
pay for water they use in the future.
*  As system efficiencies are achieved, consumers in Amman are expected to experience an increase in
the supply of water during the summer months under the project. This will, in turn, allow a reduction
for some households in the amount of water they must purchase from vendors.
6. Environmental assessment: Environmental Category    [ ] A   [xl B   [ ] C
The proposed project would contribute to improving the environment, primarily through expansion and
improved management of water and sewerage systems. Currently, there are no known investment proposals
under the project whose implementation would require land acquisition or result in involuntary resettlement.
No known archaeological or historical sites would be affected by rehabilitation of sub-projects to be
supported, nor do the operating and investment components of the project raise any international water



Jordan
Amman Water and Sanitation Management Project  Paae 13                 Proiect Appraisal Document
issues. The activities to be supported comprise small and medium projects for the rehabilitation, upgrading
and extension of water and wastewater services. The project does not include new water resource
development and will not support expansion or rehabilitation of existing wastewater treatment facilities
(bilateral funding will be used for wastewater-related investments, but will ensure that any expansion of
wastewater collection facilities does not result in unacceptable overloading of treatment facilities. The
project does not include any component with major environmental impact. The Operator's staff will include
a sewerage engineer with experience in the regulation of industrial wastewater, wastewater treatment, and
reclairmed water re-use. Contract documents for construction of works will include agreed provisions for
mitigation of short-term impacts due to dust, noise and traffic disruption. The Government has prepared an
Environmental Analysis and Management Plan for the proposed project (included in Project File, Annex 8).
This plan meets the requirements of Annex C of the Bank's Operational Directive 4.01 for Environmental
Assessment.
7. Participatory approach:
The preparation of this project builds on findings of studies and surveys (prepared by WAJ and
consultants) of beneficiaries. During project preparation these results were confirmed by WAJ and the
Municipality of Greater Anmman and translated into the project design by project preparation working
groups, which included staff from MOWI and WAJ, Technical Advisors and missions from EIB, GTZ
and KfW, as well as the Bank. Furthermore, it is expected that consultation with beneficiaries will be on
a continuous basis during project implementation through ongoing public relations campaigns. In
addition, a detailed consumer survey is planned during project implementation to keep track of consumer
expectations and willingness to pay for water and wastewater services.
Extensive collaboration and consultation was undertaken with the donor community throughout project
preparation by coordinating the development of a policy framework and objectives and also by
overlapping missions.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
*   The deteriorating financial and operating performance of WAJ during the past decade raises
questions regarding the sustainability of the project. Project sustainability will depend upon:
(i) assuring that the Operator will have adequate financial resources to carry out his mandate;
(ii) there being adequate supplies of bulk water for the Operator to sell; (iii) a flexible legal
environment (labor and procurement regulations, construction permits, etc.); and (iv) continued
good management of water and sanitation services in Amman beyond the four-year scope of the
project.
*   Assurances were obtained from the Government in order to ensure long-term sustainability that, not
less than 12 months prior to the scheduled completion date of the MC, or as otherwise agreed, the
GOJ would submit to the Bank their proposal for the continued management of the water and
sanitation services in the Service Area, and that various options of public sector management and/or
PSP, e.g., concessioning; lease contract (affermage); corporatization/ privatization; or renewal of
the MC, would be considered.
*   Assurances were obtained from the Government that the stated policy (see section 4 of WUP in
Annex 11) will be implemented to ensure that water and wastewater charges will be sufficient to
operate and maintain the rehabilitated networks and to move towards the recovery of all or part of
the capital costs of water infrastructure.
A number of supply-side decisions will have to be made to ensure a balance between water demand and
supply, including water from non-conventional sources. Implementation of this strategy will be
supported by the Bank and other donors and is expected to include investments in augmenting supply
capacity to Aninman as follows: (a) 50 MCM/year through the Adassiya-Deir Alla-Zai system;



Jordan
Amman Water and Sanitation Manaaement Prowect  Paae 14                         Proiect Appraisal Document
(b) 50-100 MCM/year through the Disi-Anuman water conveyor; (c) wastewater treatment to allow reuse
in agriculture; and (d) improved efficiency in water use by end-users.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in thefourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                      Risk               Risk Minimization Measure
Rating
Government/Parliament will not accept private  M    Policy dialogue is being carried out by the Minister of
Operator.                                           Water and Irrigation in close consultation with top
decision makers. Council of Ministers has already
approved the award of the management contract to the
selected Operator.
WAJ/Amman employees to oppose               M - S   A working group has been discussing the issues
transfer/secondment to the Operator.                internally, including the possibility of providing
incentives to induce employees to transfer to the
Operator. The Civil Service Law is proposed to be
amended to allow for secondment of civil servants to
the private sector.
Government not able to move forward to a more  M    Dialogue on benefits of PSP will be increased at the
substantive private sector involvement after the    mid-term review and assurances from Government on
4-year management contract.                         follow-on measures will be attained by Year 3.
Lack of additional future increases in tariffs to  S  During project preparation, tariffs for urban water and
allow full cost recovery.                           sewage were restructured and substantially raised to a
level that covers O&M costs, and an increasing
portion of depreciation for the Service Area. By the
end of the project, expected efficiency gains in the
Service Area would yield further increases in cost
recovery to include full depreciation and interest
payments. The situation will be closely monitored
during project implementation.
Administrative and procurement difficulties and  M  The MC will include a provision that management and
delays to pTocure goods and woTks necessary to      procurement of goods, works and services under the
implement rehabilitation investment and service     OIF is the responsibility of the Operator. Capacity of
improvement Program by the Operator to reduce       PMU for other procurement will be ensured through
UFW.                                                TA.
Delay in project implementation.              M     There will be regular supervision and close follow-up
of Project Management Team/PMU during project
implementation. Moreover, recent Cabinet approval
for streamlined procurement procedures would
remove procurement bottlenecks.
Overall Risk Rating                          M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
*   Continuous political consensus within the Cabinet on the use of a private Operator in the Service
Area. The Minister of Water and Irrigation is working closely with the Prime Minister and the
Government to consolidate consensus and to facilitate the Operator's activities during
implementation.
*   Selection of WAJ staff by the Operator. Some WAJ employees may oppose secondment/transfer to
the Operator; information campaign and consultations are being held.
*   Retrenchment of staff who are not required by the Operator, since Employment Option adopted by
the GOJ requires Operator to keep a minimum of 50 percent of current staff.



Jordan
Amman Water and Sanitation Management Proiect  Paae 15                Proiect ADpraisal Document
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Actions completed during Project Preparation:
* The Government of Jordan and WAJ have taken specific actions to ensure proper project design and
implementation, including: the prequalification of prospective bidders through an RFQ; the
preparation and issuing of the RFP for the MC; and selection of the Operator. The Government has
also presented a Water Utility Policy and restructured and substantially increased tariffs as of
October 1, 1997.
2. Agreements reached during Negotiations:
*  Lending Terms. The GOJ decided to select a LIBOR-based US Dollar denomninated loan. This
selection of loan terms would reduce the Government's exposure to currency risk.
*  Insurance. Reference to section 3.03 of the Project Agreement, it is understood that WAJ insures
vehicles and stores and that other properties are covered by self-insurance. This is satisfactory to the
Bank.
*  Cofmancing Agreements. A soft Loan of Lire 36 billion from Italy was approved by the Steering
Committee of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Italy on October 13, 1997. Subsequently, the EIB
signed an ECU40 million loan agreement with the GOJ on June 11, 1998. Effectiveness of the EIB
loan is conditional on the Bank's loan becoming effective.
*  Establishment and Operation of Special Account. The Special Account will be opened by the
Borrower and operated by the PMU of WAJ.
*  Reallocation of Loan Proceeds. The Bank delegation confirmed that, should the need arise, the
proceeds of the Loan could be reallocated among categories listed in Schedule 1 to the Loan
Agreement.
*  Performance Indicators. The evaluation Indicators as discussed and agreed will be attached in the
agreed Supplemental Letter to be signed at the same time as the Loan, Project and Subsidiary
Agreements by an authorized representative of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, WAJ, and the
Bank.
* Project Implementation Plan. The Plan as discussed and agreed will be attached to the agreed
Supplemental Letter.
*  Environmental Analysis and Management Plan. The Plan as discussed and agreed will be attached to
the agreed Supplemental Letter.
*  Mid-Term Review and Progress Reports. The scope, contents and modality of the half-yearly joint
project review as presented in section C-4 of the PAD were discussed and agreed. The Performance
obligation of the MC Operator, as summarized in Annex 12 of the PAD, would provide the
framework for reviews of performance.
*  Water Utility Policy: With respect to water pricing and cost recovery and sustainability, assurances
were obtained that the Government's Water Utility Policy in general, and the cost recovery section
(section 4 of the Policy) in particular, will remain enforced during project implementation.
Assurances were also obtained that in order to ensure long-term sustainability, the GOJ would submit
to the Bank their proposal for the continued management of the water and sanitation services in the
Service Area and that various options of public sector management or private sector participation,
e.g., concession, lease contract (affermage), corporatization/privatization, or renewal of the
management contract, would be considered. This information would be received not less than
12 months before the scheduled completion date of the management contract or at a date otherwise
agreed.



Jordan
Amman Water and Sanitation Manaaement Proiect  Pane 16                Proiect Aporaisal Document
*  Financial Management. It was agreed that the PMU will be required to implement financial
management systems, including accounting, reporting and auditing systems, satisfactory to the Bank.
The PMU will be staffed by a full time qualified Financial Controller to ensure that financial
management requirements are complied with. It was also agreed that annual financial statements for
WAJ will be prepared in accordance with international accounting standards and will be audited by
an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank.
3. Condition of Effectiveness:
* The GOJ has provided the Bank with a signed copy of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement (dated
May 2, 1998) between the Government and WAJ, thereby satisfying the condition of effectiveness.
R. Readiness for Implementation
[x] The engineering design and procurement documents are ready. Some packages have gone to
tender/prequalification.
[x] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[x] The Operator is selected and the MC initialed between the GOJ and the selected Operator.
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[x]  This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
XSA4
Team Leader: Jamal Saghir (MNSID)
Sector Directo  Je n-Claude Villiard (MNSID)
Country Dlrector: Inder Sud (MNCMS)



Jordan                                                                                                Annex I
Amman Water and Sanitation Management Proiect      Page 17                             Proiect Appraisal Document
Annex 1
Amman Water and Sanitation Management Project
Project Design Summary
Narrative Sunmary          Key, Performance Indicators    Monitoing and                Critical
Evaluation           Assurptions
Sector-related CAS Goa    :.
I .  Removing economic          1.1 A framework for identifying,   1.1  Finalization of    Continued regional
development bottlenecks         prioritizing and financing      national water    political stability and
requires major investments in  future sector investments.       master plan.     favorable
infrastructure, particularly  1.2 Introduction of management   1.2  Management   to attract and sustain
The main issue is the extent of  contract operator for 4 years  Contract         private capital flows
private sector financing,       as a firste stignature.
ownership and operation.        private sector.
Projec Development Objective:
l.  Improve efficiency,         1.1 Reduce Unaccounted for      1.1  Periodic project   Experience from the
management, operation and       Water by 25 percentage          monitoring       project will provide
delivery of water and           points                          reports. These    confidence and wider
wastewater services for the                                     reports will be    acceptance by the
Service Area and lay the    1.2 Increase constancy of water     audited by       Govemment to push on
groundwork for a sustainable    supplied in peak season to      independent      further with other types
involvement of the private      two 36 hr periods per week      technical and    of private sector
sector in the country's overall  and continuous for the rest of  financial       participation, such as
management of water and         the year for all customers      auditors for      affermage or
wastewater services in                                          compliance.      concession, at the end of
Amman.                                                          The Bank will   the 4-year management
also review     contract.
these reports.
Outputs:
I. Improved management of       1.1 Prepare standard Operating    1.1  Project       Continued Government
Water and Sanitation Services   and Maintenance Procedures      monitoring       support for private
in the Service Area.           in line with acceptable          reports. These    sector participation in
intemational standards.         reports will be    the sector through
1.2 Staff/lI 000 water and          audited by      improved policies and
1.2stae' 00water aondetin         independent      regulations to attract
wastewater connections          technical and    private capital.
Target - 4.0-4.5                financial
auditors for     Effective coordination
1.3 Develop and implement an        compliance,      with other network-
Energy Management Plan.         The Bank will    zones' rehabilitation
Target - reduce power           also review      projects.
consumption by 18%              these reports.   Availability of sufficient
1.4 Develop and implement a                          funding to complete all
customer service and public                      the network-zones
information program.                             rehabilitation and
2.  Amman water network system   2.1 Meters repaired and replaced                     Willingness of the
rehabilitated and efficiency of  Target - 200,000 subscriber                      goveronent to
water distribution system       Meters                                           implement the
improved.                                                                        management contract
arrangement into other
areas.
Willingness of the
govemment to achieve
its stated goals of full
cost recovery.



Jordan                                                                                              Annex 1
Amman Water and Sanitation Manaaement Project     Page 18                            Proiect Aporaisal Document
2.2 Reduction in number of.   ....
breakdown repairs to:
water network - 80%
wastewater network - 50%
2.3 Reduction of response time
for repairs to a target of 6
hours.
2.4 Network 100% mapped
2.5 Hydraulic computer model
developed and staff trained in
its use.
2.6 Implementation of a
Preventative Maintenance
Program.
2.7 Implementation of a leak
detection and repair program.
3.  Strengthened WAJ capability
and financial viability    3.1 Improve collection of
Accounts Receivable to 20%
of total amounts billed per
annum (including past due
billings).
3.2 Develop and maintain a
Computerized Information
System for subscribers,
billing and collection, A/R,
accounting, maintenance
management and inventory
systems implemented and
maintained.
M. Management Contract         1.1 US$10.03 million          Inputs will be        Reach agreement on the
Operator's Base Fee                                       monitored and        next step after the
2.  Operating Investment Fund  2.1 US$24.11 Tnillion          evaluated through    completion of the 4-year
2.OpratigInvstmetFun 2.1US$2.  11millproject monitoring  management contract.
3 . Capital Investment:        3.1 US$94.69 million           and disbursement     Continued commitment
4.  Technical Assistance:                                     reports.             of the Government to
implement policy and
4.1 Technical and          4.1 US$0.71 million                                 institufional reforn
Financial Auditors                                                         measures.
4.2 Support to PMU         4.2 US$2.12 million
4.3  Regulatory            4.3 US$0.49 million
Framework
4.4 Willingness-to-Pay Study  4.4 US$0.28 million
4.5 Fin. Management &      4.5 US$0.25 million
Accounting System
4.6 Financial Auditors     4.6 US$0.49 million
4.7 Future Project         4.7 US$2.83 million
Preparation throughout
Jordan



Jordan                                                                               Annex 2
Amman Water and Sanitation Management Proiect  Paae 19                  Proiect Aporalsal Document
Annex 2
Amman Water and Sanitation Management Project
Detailed Project Description
Project Component 1: Management Contract Operator's Base Fee - US$10.03 1 million
1.    This component will pay for salaries and expenses of the Operator's core group of staff
managing the operations of the Service Area's water and wastewater infrastructure. In addition to overall
improvement of performance and efficiency, some of the outputs resulting from this involvement include
development of standard operating procedure manuals; maintenance manuals; a computerized
maintenance management system; an asset and customer database; an improved meter reading and billing
and collection system; a customer service program; a public information program; a computerized
mapping system; an occupational health and safety program; an emergency response plan; and
management and technical training programs.
2.    The following list of deliverables are expected to add value to the Service Area. These projects
fall into the categories of institutional development and are to be completed in parallel with the
management, operation, and maintenance of the system.
-  Standard Operating Procedure Manuals for all operating facilities
-  Operation and Maintenance Manuals for all facilities
-  Computerized Maintenance Management System, including:
Maintenance Work Order System
Inventory Management System
Preventative Maintenance Schedules
-  Asset Database
-  Energy Management Plan
-  Customer Database
-  Updated Meter Reading, Billing, and Collection System
-  Customer Service Program
-  Public Information Program
-  Computerized Mapping System
-  Computerized Management Information System
-  Occupational Health and Safety Program
-  Emergency Response Plan for all facilities
-  Management Training Program
-  Technical Training Program
3.    In addition, the operations management portion of the contract will require the Operator to
provide information on a weekly, monthly, quarterly, and/or annual basis regarding:
-  all operations and rnaintenance activities
-  financial operations
-  progress toward completing and implementing all of the above deliverables
-  condition of assets
-  recommendations for any programs and activities that the Operator deems important
regarding future operations of the utility
4.    In accordance with the Contract, the Operator shall provide all personnel and associated wages,
salaries, and benefits; administrative facilities and services and other services necessary to manage and
direct the operations of the water and wastewater systems in the Service Area, including source
1     Represents a ceiling amount available under the Loan. The fixed-fee portion for the selected MC Operator
is US$8.8 inillion.



Jordan                                                                                Annex 2
Amman Water and Sanitation Manaaement Proiect  Page 20                   Proiect ADpraisal Document
withdrawal, treatment, pumping, and distribution systems, wastewater collection, pumping, treatment and
disposal, and billings and collections in order to complete the following tasks:
5.    Improve the efficiency of the water supply distribution system:
a.     Develop, direct and supervise a leak detection program, including repair of leaks and
replacement of pipe.
b.     Develop, direct and supervise a meter calibration, repair and replacement program,
starting with the master meters at the well-heads and surface water intakes and including
all distribution meters.
c.    Update and maintain the ANIS-based digitized mapping system for:
(i)    Primary and secondary water networks
(ii)    Tertiary and service connections for water networks
(iii)   Wastewater building connections and collection system
d.    Provide the hardware, software, data, and all licenses to WAJ at the conclusion of the
contract at no cost.
e.     Review and assess the hydraulic information available, develop and test a hydraulic
model and use the hydraulic model to identify and implement a program of system
strengthening to reduce hydraulic losses.
6.    Improve the efficiency of the water system and wastewater system operating equipment:
a.    Identify the immediate needs for equipment repair, obtain parts and tools, direct and
supervise the repairs and maintenance, including, but not limited to, all wells, pumps,
generators, controls, water and wastewater treatment equipment, and auxiliary equipment
included in the water and wastewater systems.
b.     Develop and implement an Energy Management Plan to provide for efficient utilization
of pumps and all other electrical operating equipment.
7.    Improve the disinfection of water supplies:
a.    Identify the problems of existing chlorination equipment, obtain repair parts, direct and
supervise the repairs, direct subsequent maintenance.
b.     Supply sufficient chlorine to ensure chlorine residuals throughout the distribution
system.
8.    Protect the integrity of well sources: the Operator will examine each of the wells and obtain
parts and supervise and direct the required well-head protection measures.
9.    Protect the integrity of surface water sources:
a.     Develop a watershed protection program, including recommendations for changes in
existing laws, rules and regulations, and practices in order to provide an initial barrier to
drinking water contamination.
b.     Train the staff in implementation of the watershed protection program
c.     Conduct public forums to describe the watershed protection program, its need and effect
on public health.
10.   Improve the operations of the wastewater system:
a.    Identify the problems of existing wastewater treatment equipment, obtain repair parts,
direct and supervise the repairs, and direct subsequent maintenance.
b.     Develop and implement a plan to identify and disconnect illegal storm water connections
from buildings to the wastewater collection system.



Jordan                                                                                Annex 2
Amman Water and Sanitation Management Proiect  Paae 21                   Proiect Aopraisal Document
11.   Improve the efficiency of meter reading, billing, and revenue collections:
a.     Develop and implement a program to collect accounts receivable that are turned over to
the Operator for collection.
b.     Develop, supervise and direct a program to identify illegal connections and, with the
assistance of WAJ and the Govemorate, convert these connections to legal service
connections.
c.     Develop, supervise and direct a program to update the database of connections and to
classify the use in accordance with current tariff definitions.
d.     Develop, supervise and direct the institution of computerized administrative systems to
enforce collection of overdue accounts. Provide hardware and software and train the
employees in its use.
e.     Develop a unified billing and collection system for the Service Area.
f.     Create and implement a utility based code of accounts for the Service Area.
12.   Improve the operations of water and wastewater systems:
a.    Identify the need for and support facilities and equipment and administrative support;
e.g., transportation, including specialized vehicles; communications systems, including
telephones, two-way radios; facilities, including office space, warehouse space, repair
space; and repair tools and equipment, meter testing and repair space and equipment.
b.     Develop and implement a preventative maintenance program and train the staff.
c.     Develop and implement computerized materials and maintenance management systems,
obtain the hardware and software, and train the employees.
d.    Identify a listing of critical and necessary spare parts, materials and equipment, obtain
the parts, materials and equipment, and establish an inventory system for storage and
replacement (as a part of the materials management system).
13.   Improve the efficiency of the customer service and public relations:
a.     Develop and establish a customer service system and train the employees involved in
responding to customer complaints, inquiries and any other interface with the customer.
b.     Develop and establish a public information program to educate the public as to:
(i)   the importance of water supply and wastewater collection and treatment to the
population, public health, and the economy.
(ii)   the problems existing in the sector including overdrawing of aquifers(s),
contamination of the sources, illegal connections, excessive leakage.
(iii)  the programs underway to improve service.
(iv)   the costs of operating the systems and the methods of recovering the costs
including the provisions of needed amounts for domestic use at minimum cost
and the concept of everyone paying their "fair share".
14.   Improve the effectiveness of the management of the water and wastewater systems:
a.    Develop and implement:
(i)    Standard Operating Procedures
(ii)    Operations and Maintenance Manuals
(iii)   Safety Manuals
(iv)   Inventory Procedures and Manuals
(v)    Standards Procedures for periodic asset condition surveys



Jordan                                                                              Annex 2
Amman Water and Sanitation Management Proiect  Page 22                 Proiect AMyraisal Document
b.    Develop and implement a management training program consisting at a minimum of the
elements of management, personnel management, financial management, budgeting,
planning, controlling.
c.    Develop and implement a training program  to provide technical operations and
maintenance training to all water system operators and maintenance workers.
d.    Review current administrative systems, address the need to update and improve, develop
and implement updated computerized administrative systems, obtain the hardware and
software, and train the employees.
e.    Develop and establish a comprehensive occupational safety program, and provide safety
training.
f.    Develop and establish an emergency operations plan, train the water/wastewater system
employees and conduct mock drills as training for the implementation of the emergency
actions.
15.   Provide for administrative control:
a.    Compile and maintain comprehensive records, as identified in Deliverables (below), and
report to the appropriate authorities for facilities and systems operations, regulatory
matters, laboratory analyses, maintenance plans and activities, related financial matters,
permit and compliance results, equipment status, and other relevant information in
accordance with applicable laws, regulations, permits, and guidelines.
b.    At least weekly, or as necessary, meet with the WAJ designated representative to review
operations, reports, ongoing cost information, and key upcoming projects and/or
operations which may impact service delivery to the public. Conduct annual
comprehensive plant and system inspections with the WAJ designated representative to
evaluate and document conditions, safety, or other concerns.
16.   In managing the operations the Operator will be guided by the various standards, requirements,
and guidance documents including, but not limited to, the following:
a.    Industry best practices as identified by recognized international standards;
b.    Jordanian standards and World Health Organization guidelines;
c.    Design criteria and performance specifications for the various components and
equipment throughout the utility as identified by manufacturers' information;
d.    Asset maintenance performance standards as identified by manufacturers' information.
Project Component 2: Operating Investment Fund (OIF) - US$24.11 million
17.   This Fund will provide the Operator and WAJ with funds to be directed to support essential
short-term and operating investments to improve O&M and support in the rehabilitation of the water and
sewerage system, including but not limited to:
a.    purchase of material and equipment to carry out the piping network and pumping system
rehabilitation;
b.    purchase and installation of materials and parts to rehabilitate piping systems, pumping
systems, metering systems (bulk and retail), control systems, and other elements
necessary to upgrade the systems to efficient working conditions; and
c.    purchase and use of operating supplies required to provide compliance with quality
standards.
Detailed breakdown of the OIF sub-components are outlined in Annex 3, Table A.



Jordan                                                                                Annex 2
Amman Water and Sanitation Manaciement Project  Page 23                  Proiect Aporaisal Document
18.   A portion of the Fund is specifically established in order to provide a sum of money to
restructure/rehabilitate the water and wastewater systems and to place the existing elements of the
systems in first class operating order. The Fund is made available as a supplement to capital which
would normally be used for rehabilitation purposes. The Fund is not intended to be used for major
capital improvements involved with the re-structuring or expansion of the overall system.
19.    The Operator will develop an annual plan for the use of the Fund to be approved by WAJ; the
first annual plan (Plan) will be due 60 days after the Effective Date, coincident with the Start Date of the
Contract. Subsequent Plans will be due 90 days before the end of the first, second, and third contract
years. Procurement under the Plan will be limited to 40% of the total available in each of the first two
years and 20% of the total available in the third year. Any amount not expended in any particular year
will be carried over to the subsequent year(s). After approval of the Plan by WAJ, the Operator will
implement the Plan by procuring, by entering into contracts, on behalf of WAJ, supplies, materials,
equipment, and/or contracted labor in accordance with World Bank procurement guidelines as identified
in the Contract. Approved invoices for the purchased supplies, materials, equipment and or contracted
labor will be paid by WAJ from the specific restricted account or Special Account in accordance with
World Bank's disbursement guidelines.
Description of Uses
Repairs/Rehabilitation/Replacement
20.    To determine the extent of what is needed a thorough review and update of a 1995 Facilities
Inspection Report of WAJ Sources of Supply, Pumping Stations, and Booster Stations (including an
appraisal of condition of the equipment and an estimate of the cost to repair/rehabilitate) was carried out.
Distribution Piping
21.   Approximately 650 KM of the 2,655 KM of pipe in the distribution system is constructed of
galvanized iron (GI) and is less than 100mm in diameter. In addition, house connections of small
diameter GI pipe have been the standard in the past. GI pipe has proven to corrode rapidly from both the
inside and the outside, rapidly turning these system into sieve-like vessels in lieu of leak free pipe.
Ultimately all of these small pipes will have to be replaced in order to effectively reduce physical
leakage. The rehabilitation of the 650 KM of GI pipe is estimated to cost approximately US$ 40 million,
which includes the cost of material and installation for 100mm minimum ductile iron cement-lined pipe
and new plastic (PE) service connections. This rehabilitation fund will allow for the replacement of up
to 25% ($10 m) of the GI pipe and house connections which will be identified as cost effective
replacements during the leak detection survey.
Retail (Subscribers) Meters
22.    The average service life of retail meters in Amman is five (5) years, consequently all meters are
changed, i.e. replaced with new or rebuilt meters, every five years. This fund will provide for the
purchase of new meters for approximately 70% of the installed subscribers' meters. WAJ anticipates
rebuilding approximately 30% of the meters in WAJ's workshop.
Large Distribution Meters
23.   In order to determine the cost effectiveness of repairs to pipelines in the transmission systems
(between the sources and the distribution network) it is necessary to obtain knowledge of the losses in the
systems. Under the CIP for restructuring the primary water network, meters will be required at various
points in the resource network and for various districts. The Operator will identify the strategic points
requiring immediate installation of metering devices for installation during the contract period for the
benefit of efficient operation of the transmission lines.
Control Equipment
24.   Upgrading the control systems will allow the Operator to effect efficiencies through improved
knowledge of the operating characteristics of the supply system as it relates to the demands in the



Jordan                                                                                Annex 2
Amman Water and Sanitation Management Proiect  Paae 24                   Proiect ApDraisal Document
distribution network. The complexity of the pumping requirements significantly increases the need for
information in order to efficiently operate the pumping system. Once the Operator identifies the need for
controls and justifies the need to WAJ, as well as the expected savings, the funds will be available to
implement the control system(s).
Leak Detection
25.    Physical leakage in the distribution system is a significant element of unaccounted for water and
is estimated to amount to more than 30%. A leak detection survey of the tertiary (local distribution)
system will provide the information to make cost effective decisions regarding repairs/replacement and
general rehabilitation of the tertiary system. This amount will provide the Operator with sufficient funds
to immediately implement a leak detection survey program using multiple crews to assess the various
sections of the distribution system and develop a cost effective plan for rehabilitation. The cost of
implementing a cost detection survey varies significantly due to the topography, traffic, type of pipe, and
type of leaks; however, it is considered that approximately US$188/kilometer should be sufficient to
complete a survey for the majority of the distribution network.
Operating/Construction Equipment
26.    According to a recent assessment of the maintenance of the distribution system, maintenance
crews suffer from inadequate equipment, vehicles and supplies to effectively complete repairs and/or
new installations in the network. This assessment also developed an estimate of the equipment needs in
order to allow work crews to operate effectively.
Computers (Hardware and Software)
27.    A requirement of the contract is the development of institutional methods and systems to allow
for effective administration of the water and wastewater system. Operations Management Support has
developed computerized systems and the Operator will be required to install, maintain, and ultimately
turn over to WAJ computerized administrative and management systems necessary to effectively operate
the systems.
Operating Supplies
28.   WAJ currently has insufficient cash flow to ensure payment of current O&M expenses. In order
to ensure that water supplied can meet Jordanian health standards, this money is provided specifically for
the purchase of necessary treatment chemicals; specifically:
a.     Chlorine for use at the Zai Treatment Plant, the Qastal Pumping Station, and other
rechlorination points in the network; and
b.     Aluminum Sulfate, Activated Carbon, Polymer, and Potassium Permanganate for use in
the Zai Treatment Plant.
Project Component 3: Capital Investment - US$94.69 million 2
29.   A comprehensive study (Hydraulic Analysis of the Greater Amman Water Supply System) for
restructuring and rehabilitating the existing water supply and distribution systems for Greater Amman
has recently been completed. The cost for carrying out the works under this plan is estimated at
US$217 million.
30.    The rationale behind the proposed restructuring and rehabilitation subdivides the system into
4 Resource and 43 Distribution Zones. The approach has been to provide a comprehensive strategy
which allows maximum flexibility to address the strategic development needs of the system and
adaptability to changes in expected water supply sources in the future in ways that enable packaging and
sequencing of the work into sensible packages for donor financing.
31.   Zoning Structure. The four Resource Zones (two of which are further subdivided into north and
south zones) get their water through Primary Pipe networks from a system of interconnected Terminal
2      Includes the cost of detailed design and implementation supervision.



Jordan                                                                                                Annex 2
Amman Water and Sanitation Management Proiect      Page 25                             Proiect Aporaisal Document
Storage Facilities. Each Terminal Storage Facility in turn is supplied with treated water from a particular
source through a Transmission Pipe. This configuration allows inter-zonal bulk water conveyance and
blending around the system without interfering with the distribution system (see Figure la).
Category 4*          ,                Category 3     1
Source                                                           -- -             _ ,-  - - - -
f        ,                       Distribution
Transmission Pipe                     - - Primary P          Storage  _
A                              Terminal  .   A                  _ er   n
Treatment Plant                              Storage             Distributionr                /
Wellfield                                    S                   Distorigo ag         Dis      n io'
co W  '   Storage            \    Distribution
Treatment Plant                              Storage                   Category2
Wellfield                                                         ,                     Resource
Zone
The restructuring of the Distribution System proposed is based upon subdividing the distribution pipe network
into zones supplying them via an adequate storage facility and allocating them to an appropriate source. Figure
2 shows diagrammatically this concept.
*Refer to Figure l b for different pipe network categories
Figure la: System from Source to Resource Zone
32.    Within each Resource Zone, water is supplied by gravity to distinct Distribution Zones through
Distribution Storage Facilities which feed from the Primary Pipe network. This arrangement effectively
insulates the primary system from diurnal and seasonal variations in demand and also allows primary
pipes to be sized optimally (see Figure lb).
33.    Under normal operating conditions Distribution Zones are allocated to particular Resource Zones
which could be supplied by one or more sources. The allocation of Distribution Zones to Resource
Zones can be altered to suit changes in resources without having any impact on the Distribution Zone.
this flexibility is an advantage for a system such as Amman's where significant changes in resourcing are
envisaged over the coming decades.



Jordan                                                                                     Annex 2
Amman Water and Sanitation Management Proiect  Paae 26                       Proiect Appraisal Document
Pipe network   Description of
category       Pipe network
-              Transmission
Primacy
Secondary
Districoe   ;jj\                 -       jj    Tertiary
Service pipe
Figure 1 b: Zoning Structure
34.    This project component will finance the detailed design, implementation and supervision of the
following packages as part of the proposed restructuring and rehabilitation works (see Maps) (for
detailed cost breakdown see Annex 3, Table B):
a.     Package # 1: Includes pipework and fittings for Distribution Zones (DB): Dabouq
(DB12); Khilda (DB13); Suweileh (DB14); Kamaliya (DB15); Safut Upper (DB16); and
Safut Lower (DB 17).
b.     Package # 2: Includes pipework and fittings for Distribution Zones (DB): Umm El
Shuj ayrat (DB 18); Abu Nseir (DB20); Shafa Badran Upper (DB25); and Shafa Badran
Lower (No. 26).
c.     Package # 3: Includes construction of reservoirs, water towers, pumping stations and
primary pipelines in the north sector.
d.     Package # 4: Includes pipework and fittings for Distribution Zones (DB): Hizam (DB2);
and Quweismeh (DBI 1).
e.     Package # 5: Includes pipework and fittings for Distribution Zones (DB): Abu Alanda
(DB10).
f.     Package # 6: Includes construction of reservoirs, water towers, pumping stations and
primary pipelines in the south eastern sector.
g.     Italian Package:  Includes pipework and fittings for Distribution Zones (DB):  El
Rasheed (DB 19); and Kharabshe (DB2 1) and their respective Primary Pipe Networks.
Above includes work financed by EIB, Italy and the Bank.
35.    Works within Distribution Zones typically include: Construction of Distribution Zone Storage
facilities including Local District Storage; installing district meters, local boosters, closed valves, and
pressure reducing valves/tanks; and replacing the secondary, tertiary and service pipes and meters as
needed (see Figure 2).



Jordan                                                                                               Annex 2
Amman Water and Sanitation Management Proiect     Page 27                             Proiect Appraisal Document
District Zones created            Local          Primary
through the need to supply        ,storage       Pipe
local areasat high elevations'                   Distribution
i.e.... close to reservoirs.                     Zone   ---
District Zone a                        District
Distribution               ,Zone                                   ---------
/  N.  ~~FM-   District Meter
From Prmary                                                                    )  <    Local Booster
Pipe Network/
_    ,    f     1    31    Closed valve
14 Pressure
/                                  =i   ;reducing
I                           ~~~~~~~~~DisIt        valve
/      District Zone di                                                          .District ZonA e
\                .          ~~~~~~~~~~DistrictZoneb \    . /            H       /
' District Zones created .
through the need to supply              -                              District Zones created
local areas at extremities of                                         through the need to supply
the network.        f                                                - lower elevations through a
pressure reducing valve.
Figure 2: Composition of Distribution Zone
36.    Works related to the Primary Pipe Network include: Construction of Termrinal (bulk) Storage
Facilities; and strengthening or installing new Primary mains and appurtenances.
37.    Other packages are financed in parallel through:  two loans from  KfW  for US$31.3 million
equivalent; a loan form EIB for US$23.6 million equivalent; and a grant from USAID for
US$15.0 million. USAID  have committed to finance the design of all remaining packages. They have
also indicated willingness to finance the remaining unfunded packages totaling about US$57.4 million.
38.    Rehabilitation of prioritized areas of the distribution network will be carried out with funding
from incremental revenues to include repair/replace old and leaking pipes and service connections.
39.    A component is included in the project for sewerage to be extended to provide connections to
new and existing properties not currently served by sewerage conditional on a determination that sewage
treatment facilities have adequate capacity for the increased loading.
Project Component 4: Technical Assistance (TA) - US$7.17 million
40.    A program of TA is included under the project and includes provisions to: (i) strengthen the
Planning and Management Unit (PMU) to support implementation of the project and dissemination of
experience to other Governorates; (ii) provide independent auditors to monitor the Operator's technical
and financial performance; (iii) provide consultants to assist in the establishment of proper financial
management and accounting systems for the PMU and for annual financial audits; (iv) carry out related
studies (including willingness of consumers to pay for water and wastewater services and development of
a regulatory framework); and (v) enable preparation of other proposed water sector projects throughout
Jordan.



Jordan                                                                             Annex 2
Amman Water and Sanitation Management Proiect  Page 28                 Proiect Aporaisal Document
41.   The PMU will be charged with managing all activities related to this project, i.e. the capital
investment program and the management contract, with limited involvement of other WAJ departments.
The PMU will also be responsible for disseminating experience gained under this project and ongoing
OMS activities to other WAJ governorate administrations. The PMU, directly responsible to the
Secretary General of WAJ, would act on behalf of WAJ in dealing with the Operator, the Donors,
Municipalities and other GOJ Ministries.
42.   To achieve the above objectives several staff would be recruited, and equipment and vehicles
procured, as follows:
(i)    Support for the PMU through financing for key staff positions in the PMU management
and administration and other directorates, for procurement of vehicles, equipment, furniture and
supplies, and for related PMU travel (partly funded by the loan (see Annex 6));
(ii)   Technical and financial auditors to provide independent assessment of the Operator's
performance in order to verify achievement of performance targets and to calculate performance
incentive payments (fully funded by the loan);
(iii)   Financial auditors to present, within six months of closing of the fiscal year, an Annual
Report of the results of their work in the PMU and WAJ together with a management letter to
certify that the financial accounting, auditing and control procedures are adequate and are in
accordance with internationally acceptable standards;
(iv)   Financial management and accounting system consultants will be appointed to assist
the PMU establish an acceptable project accounting system that complies with Jordanian laws,
General Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) and hiternational Accounting Standards (fully
funded by the loan);
(v)    Willingness-to-pay study consultants will be appointed to assist WAJ develop a basis
for setting future tariff and cost recovery policy by determining the willingness of consumers to
pay for improved water and sewerage services;
(vi)   Development of Regulatory Framework study consultants to provide the basis for
establishing a necessary regulatory framework for the long-term involvement of the private
sector in managing water and wastewater service provision;
(vii)  Preparation of future water sector projects will be supported by provision for
consultants and related costs needed to prepare investment projects for implementation (fully
funded by the loan);
(viii) Preshipment inspection of goods consultants. The costs of factory-witnessed tests and
preshipment inspections is normally included in the goods procurement contract, but in certain
circumstances it may prove advisable to hire a specialized inspection agency.
It is the GOJ's intention to seek grant funding for the above remaining components of the TA program
not funded by the Bank Loan.



Jordan                                                                                   Annex 3
Amman Water and Sanitation Manaaement Proiect  Paae 29                      Proiect Appraisal Document
Annex 3
Amman Water and Sanitation Management Project
Estimated Project Costs
Local         Foreign          Total
------- --- -US $ million---------------------
Proiect Component "
1. Management Contract Fees                           2.21            7.26          9.47
2. Operating Investment Fund                          0.57           22.82          23.39
3. Capital Investments                               22.63           59.36          81.99
4. Technical Assistance                               1.97            4.55           6.52
Total Baseline Cost                                  27.38           93.99         121.37
Physical Contingencies                             2.41           5.96           8.37
Price Contingencies                                1.64           4.62           6.26
Total Project Cost                                   31.43          104.57         136.00
Numbers for project components may not exactly match respective numbers in Tables A, B and C of Annex
3 due to rounding errors.



Jordan                                                                             Annex 3
Amman Water and Sanitation Management Proiect  Paae 30                 Proiect Appraisal Document
Annex 3, Table A: Cost Breakdown of the Operating Investment Fund
Local    I  Foreign   I    Total
Project Component-                     ---US $ thousand -
Operating Investment Fund:
Repairs/Rehabilitation/Replacement                274          1,096          1,370
Distribution Piping                                  -        10,000         10,000
Retail Water Meters                                  -         3,920          3,920
Large Meters (source and zone)                       -         1,000          1,000
Control Equipment                                                500           500
Leak Detection Survey                             292            207           499
Operating Equipment                                  -         3,600          3,600
Computers and Software                                           500           500
Consumables (as identified)                          -         2,000          2,000
Total Operating Investment Fund Base Cost      566         22,823        23,389
Physical Contingencies l/
Price Contingencies                             38           685            723
Total Component Cost                              604         23,508         24,112
Note:
1/    No physical contingencies were applied since all values are budgets and do not cover specific
contracts.



Jordan                                                                             Annex 3
Amman Water and Sanitation Management Project  Page 31                 Proiect Appraisal Document
Annex 3, Table B: Cost Breakdown of the Capital Investment
Local       Foreign        Total
Project Component                            . US $ thousand-
Capital Investment:
Packages Design and Tender Document Preparation       143         466            609
Package #1 (EIB)                                    1,809        7,234         9,043
Package #2 (IBRD)                                   1,241        4,965         6,206
Package #3 (EIB)                                    1,708        6,834         8,542
Package #4 (EIB)                                    1,780        7,121         8,901
Package #5 (IBRD)                                   1,423        5,690         7,113
Package #6 (EIB)                                    1,796        7,185         8,981
Italian Package                                     3,818       15,271         19,089
Rehabilitation Works                                6,061        2,597         8,658
Land Acquisition                                    1,223                       1,223
JEPCO Connections                                     122         489            611
Unallocated                                         1,507        1,507         3,014
Total Capital Investment Base Cost    22,630     59,359         81,989
Physical Contingencies                           2,263        5,936         8,199
Price Contingencies                              1,241        3,260         4,501
Total Component Cost                               26,134       68,555        94,689



Jordan                                                                              Annex 3
Amman Water and Sanitation Manaaement Proiect  Page 32                  Proiect Appraisal Document
Annex 3, Table C: Cost Breakdown of the Technical Assistance
Local    I  Foreign          Total
Project Component                ------------------US $ thousand---------------------
Technical Assistance:
Technical and Financial Auditors                    142           500            642
Support for PMU                                    926           1,000         1,926
Development of Regulatory Framework                 49            400            449
Willingness-to-pay Study                            57            200            257
Financial Management & Accounting System            75            150            225
Financial Auditors                                 149            300            449
Future Project Preparation (throughout Jordan)     568           2,000         2,568
Total Technical Assistance Base Cost   1,966          4550           6,516
Physical Centingencies
Price Contingencies                             197            455            652
Total Component Cost                              2,163          5,005         7,168



Jordan                                                                             Annex 4
Amman Water and Sanitation Manaaement Proiect  Page 33                Proiect Appraisal Document
Annex 4
Amman Water and Sanitation Management Project
Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
Methodology. The economic analysis uses a cost benefit, with and without project, methodology. It
estimates a net present value and internal rate of return on both financial and economic terms. The
analysis examnines the Project's two main components (Management Contract plus Operating Investment
Fund and Capital Investments) as separate exercises, calculating net present values and internal rates of
return for both. Because of the indivisibility of the Capital Investment Program, the entire JD 152
million program is included in the analysis for this component, not just that portion financed by the
World Bank, EIB and Italy.
The period of analysis for the Management Contract plus Operating Investment Fund is four years.
Given the expected life of civil works under the Capital Investments component, the analysis is modeled
over 25 years. The discount rate used is 10 percent, which is the Bank's normal hurdle rate for water and
wastewater projects.
Where applicable, risks modeled are those shown as "modest to substantial" or "substantial" section F in
the PAD. The analysis also analyzes the normal risk of civil works cost overruns, as well as items where
the project's economic internal rate of return (EIRR) was considered sensitive by the Task Team.
Finally, it calculates switching values for selected critical risks.
Conversion Factors and Inflation Rates. The economic analysis converts financial to economic flows
by using conversion factors for the forex premium, the foreign portion of civil works and consultants, and
water available from the Project that would displace non-WAJ sources (especially vendor sales in the
summer).
Financial and Economic Internal Rates of Return. The table below shows the estimated net present
values and internal rates of return by major project component. Differences between financial and
economic NPVs are accounted for by the increase in consumer's surplus from forgoing buying more
expensive water from non-WAJ sources (total JD 1.6 million) and the net effects of the FOREX premium
and an assumed tax rate of 15% for the foreign portion of civil works and some consultancies (total
JD 1.5 million).
Table 4.1
Net Present Values and Internal Rates of Return
Component                      Financial                      Economic
Base Case Scenario             NPV (000)        FIRR (%)      NPV (000)      EIRR (%)
Management Contract plus        JD 4,454           42          JD 6,468         61
Operating Investment Fund
Capital Investments            JD 31,721           13          JD 29,812        13
Fiscal Impact. Government's counterpart contribution is about 7 percent of the total Program (Capital
Investment Program JD 152 million, Management Contract JD 7 million, Operating Investment Fund
JD 17 million, and Technical Assistance JD 5 million), averaging only about JD 3 mnillion over the four
year implementation period. This is not considered to impose any fiscal burden. The total Capital
Investment Program of JD 152 million represents about 10 percent of the total MOWI capital investment
plan for the period 1998-2001. Repayment of the IBRD loan will be the responsibility of the Ministry of
Finance. It is expected that the loan will be re-paid over 17 years with a four year grace period. The
proiect's loan obligations are about JD 101 million (net of the grant component), with annual debt
service obligations estimated at about US$1l million per year with an annual interest rate of about 6.7
percent and a likely commitment fee of 0.75 percent on the undisbursed balance. The total loan
obligation represents an incremental increase of about 2 percent to Jordan's overall debt (based on a total
of about $8.1 billion, 1996 figure, latest available).



Jordan                                                                               Annex 4
Amman Water and Sanitation Management Proiect  Page 34                  Proiect Appraisal Document
Recurrent expenditures, as explained below are expected to decrease under the project as a result of
improved operating efficiencies.
Summary of Benefits and Costs. The analysis shows that the return to the Management Contract plus
Operating Investment Fund component is quite robust, with an estimated EIRR of 61 percent. The main
benefit streams for this component come from:  (i) the reduction in UFW  (both technical and
commercial); and (ii) improvements in the tertiary system and meter replacements carried out under the
Operating Investment Fund. Both of these items lead to higher water sales. Costs streams for this
component, in the with-project scenario, reflect expected reductions in energy, the wage bill and
consumables as a result of the management contract.
The Capital Investments component has an EIRR of 13 percent. Benefit streams for this component
derive from the reduction in UFW (net of that considered under the Management Contract plus Operating
Investment Fund component) plus a small increase in sewer connections. Costs in the with-project
scenario include lower energy and maintenance costs and the avoidance of a major system rehabilitation
in year 12 of the without project case also add to the expected return.
Management Contract plus Operating Investment Fund Component (MC+OIF)
Main Assumptions. For the MC+OIF component, there are three principal assumptions. First, it is
assumed that 60 percent of the reduction in technical losses will result from the investments made under
the Operating Investment Fund (see Note to Files, dated 15 February 1998 giving WAJ and technical
advisors' basis for this percentage). This expected reduction is based on two factors: international
experience with management contracts undertaken in other locations; and the estimated effects in of the
civil works programs that are in large part targeted to decreasing unaccounted for water in the project
area.
The second major assumption is that, as a result of the management contractor, commercial unaccounted
for water is substantially reduced. Under the Base Case Scenario, it is expected that actions of the
management contractor that commercial losses will decrease by 14 percent from an estimated 20 percent
today to 6 percent in year four of the analysis. (Again, see Note to Files, dated 15 February 1998 giving
WAJ, technical advisors' and the Task Team's basis for this assumption.)
The third major assumption is that the wage bill will be reduced by over 25 percent under the
management contract. WAJ has specified that only about half of the current number of employees will
be working in the new utility under the contract, versus those currently employed. The Bank project
team and WAJ extensively studied manpower requirements to operate the new utility and a reduction of
this number is considered reasonable. Provisions in the management contract permit a reduction in work
force of this magnitude and it is expected that the contractor will avail itself of this allowance.
Sensitivity Analysis and Switching Values. Four scenarios are modeled, and the results are presented
in the following table. These scenarios attempt to model the critical assumptions described above and
the third and sixth risk identified in Section F of the PAD. No attempt was made to model a failure for
the Government to increase tariffs because of the short analysis period for this component and the recent
(October 1998) major rate increase.
Table 4.2. Sensitivity Analysis
MC+OIF Component
Scenario                  Description                    Resulting EIRR(%)
I     The percentage of commercial UFW only decrease         18
by 10% during the Project
2     Staffing costs do not decrease                         33
3     Scenario 1 + Scenario 2                                 -1
4     Consumables do not change                              31



Jordan                                                                                Annex 4
Amman Water and Sanitation Manaaement Proiect  Page 35                   Proiect AoDraisal Document
The results of the sensitivity analysis show the importance of successful implementation of this
component regarding the Operator's staff efficiency gains and targeting of its efforts to reducing
commercial UFW.
Switching values were also estimated for this component. Given the robust internal rate of return for this
component, only two most likely scenarios were modeled. Results are shown below.
Table 4.3. Switching Values
MC+OIF Component
Scenario                              Description                              Amount(%)
1     By what percentage would the commercial UFW reduction have to be limited  14
to In order to bring the NPV to zero? (Base Case =6% by Project end)
2     Investment costs under the OIF would have to increase by what percentage in  48
_order bring the NPV to zero?
Capital Investment Program (CIP)
Main Assumptions. For the Capital Investment component, there are also three critical assumptions
underpinning the economic analysis. First is the reduction in unaccounted for water as a result of system
improvements, and primarily in the reduction of high pressures reaching the tertiary system. Therefore, it
is assumed that 40 percent of the overall reduction in technical unaccounted for water is as a result of
capital improvements to the primary and secondary system. As mentioned above, the exact nature of the
extent of unaccounted for water can only be estimated. However, the magnitude of the reduction is
considered reasonable by both WAJ and the design engineers (see Note to Files, dated February 15,
1998).
Second, it is assumed that, without the Capital Investment component, the primary and secondary system
would need substantial rehabilitation in year 12 of the analysis. Thus, in the without project scenario, JD
350 million, plus an additional JD 32 million for design and supervision, is added to the Without Project
Case starting in year 12 and continuing for a four-year implementation period (total JD 382 million,
without contingencies). These figures represent WAJ's and the design engineers' best conservative
estimate of costs of rehabilitation that would be required (based on part on the experience of
rehabilitating a pilot area without restructuring and pressure control) and, given the unknown extent of
system deterioration 10 or 20 years into the future, could be substantially more than the estimates used in
the analysis.
Finally, capital investment and PMU costs are not increased in the Base Case Scenario beyond the
15 percent contingencies already included by the project engineers. This was considered reasonable
given the degree to which detailed designs are already completed and the short implementation period
envisaged (4 years).
Sensitivity Analysis and Switching Values. During the analysis, seven scenarios were modeled, of
which the three with the largest negative effect on the EIRR are shown below. Scenarios 2 and 3 reflect
the fifth and sixth risks outlined in the Critical Risks portion of the PAD.
Table 4.4. Sensitivity Analysis
Capital Investmnent Program Component
Scenario                    Description                      Resulting ELRR
1     No rehabilitation in year 12, energy and maintenance      6
expenses increase by 3% over the analysis period
2     Tariffs backtrack by 20% in year 5; constant after that   13
3     Investment Cost oven-uns by 20 percent                    10



Jordan                                                                               Annex 4
Amman Water and Sanitation Management Proiect  Paae 36                  Prolect Aporaisal Document
Switching values were also estimated for this component and the three most important, based on critical
assumptions from the engineers and the sensitivity analysis, are presented below.
Table 4.5. Switching Values
Capital Investment Program Component
Scenario                              Description                             Amount (%)
1     By what percentage would the rehabilitation program in the Without Project  27
Case have to decrease in order to bring the NPV to zero? (Base Case JD 350
million)
2     What would the percent of UFW savings attributable to the CIP component  < 0
_  have to be in order to reduce the NPV to zero? (Base Case = 40%)
3     Project capital investment costs would have to increase by what percentage in  24
_  order to bring the NPV to zero?
Economic Analysis Annex. A complete description of the economic analysis, including worksheets for
the Base Case and scenarios, is available in the Project File, both on disk and hard copy.



Jordan                                                                                Annex 5
Amman Water and Sanitation Manaaement Proiect  Page 37                   Proiect Appraisal Document
Annex 5
Amman Water and Sanitation Management Project
Financial Summary
Methodology
1.    The financial assessment of this project was conducted at two levels: (i) the Project level where
the financial impact of the management contract on the operations of the Service Area was analyzed by
comparing the net present values of the total operating surplus streams of two scenarios: one including
the management contract and the other without (see Appendices Al and A2); and (ii) the Entity level
where the financial structure, efficiency and viability of WAJ will be analyzed by preparing proforma
income statements (see Appendices B 1 through B8).
Financial Impact of Management Contract
2.     A financial model was set up for the Service Area covered under the proposed performance
based management contract (MC) in order to assess the impact of various scenarios on the operating and
maintenance revenues and costs. The model is designed to forecast expected revenues and costs for both
water and sewerage services within the MC area under two basic scenarios. Scenario A considers the
changes that will occur in the expected cost and revenue items as a consequence of the successful
implementation of the MC. Scenario B represents projections of the current situation (i.e. no MC). This
approach has the benefit of isolating the specific impact of the MC. The model indicates clearly that net
present value of the total operating surplus streams for Scenario A are more superior to those for
Scenario B.
3.    The data for the model are based on a mosaic, and are not sufficiently segregated to be exactly
attributed to the Service Area. The order of magnitude of such error, however, is not expected to be
more than plus/minus 10 percent. However, this should not affect the general conclusions of the exercise
given the robustness of the benefits generated by the MC.
4.     The following subparagraphs outline the principal revenue and expense items modeled along
with any assumptions used and the basis for projections:
*      Revenue from Water Sales. Estimates the revenue generated from water sold. It is
calculated by multiplying the total quantity of billed water each year by an appropriate
weighted average water tariff for that year.
*     Revenue from Sewerage Surcharge. Similarly, the revenue from sewerage surcharge
is estimated along the same lines of the water sales.
*      Other Revenues. This revenue item includes other revenues, mainly in the form of fees
and charges collected by the Operator for various services rendered. For the purpose of
forecasting future revenues, it is assumed that they all vary directly with water sales.
*     Energy Costs.  Electricity costs used primarily for pumping water dominates this
expense item. It also represents the item with the most potential for significant cost
savings and efficiency gains by the Operator. Table 1, below includes a breakdown of
the constituent costs along with potential electricity cost savings for the various waters
supply sources for the Service Area. Potential cost savings in power are estimated using
the difference between standard pump cost calculations (under efficient normal
conditions based on physical relationships) and actual power cost for the various
locations. Energy costs projections are adjusted for wholesale electricity price inflation
and also reflect an estimated efficiency cost savings of about 7, 6, 3 and 2 percent in
years 1, 2, 3 and 4 respectively. Power usage for wastewater within the Service Area is
not significant since little pumping is done and only three relatively small and fairly new



Jordan                                                                                                Annex 5
Amman Water and Sanitation Manaaement Proiect      Page 38                             Proiect Appraisal Document
treatment facilities are included within the Service Area. An allowance for wastewater
treatment O&M costs is included in Table 1.
Table 1: O&M Cost Breakdown for 1995
Na t   Output      Tr;anst er   Lao        Po       ..,,,Y; Co Ntaint,    Adun    , hai         Powertif
1. Zai         38.4      (873.2)     221.6      6016.9      401.3      93.0       17.8      6750.2     8-10
2. Khaw        18.2       3431.1        -          -          -          -          -          -       15-20
3. Wala        12.7       1348.3       -           -          -          -          -         -         20
4. Qastal      15.8      (386.9)      106.2     1083.2      156.2      31.6        3.0      1380.2      20
5. Ruseifa     7.3                    26.8       494.1       6.7       15.7                  543.3      50
6. Intemal    22.0          -        2600.9     2586.7      52.7       45.4       561.3     5847.0    15-20
Total       114.4      3519.3      2955.5    10180.9     617.0       185.7     581.6     14520.7    18-20
Allowance for Wastewater Treatment   200.0  150.0      50.0       50.0                 450.0
Grand Total   3155.5    10330.9    667.0      235.7      581.6     14970.7
Notes:
* A negative number indicates revenues.
Khaw and Wala are assumed to be outside the control of the Operator.
Source: Adapted from OMS Working Papers 36, 43, 44, 45, 46, and 48.
*       Salaries and Wages Costs. Projection estimates are based on achieving a target ratio of
44.5 employees per thousand connections (both water and sewerage). The skill mix of
the manpower reflects a wide range needed to operate an efficient utility of this size. It
is anticipated that the salary levels for local staff will be the going market rates. Table 2
below outlines a preliminary indicative skill mix needs with expected salaries during MC
period.
*       Net Bulk Transfer to/from  Service Area. This item nets out costs and revenues from
getting water from sources outside the control of the Operator or for providing water to
others from sources operated by the operator (see Table 1). These amounts are
calculated on the basis of unit costs' for each of the shared sources.
*       Operation and Maintenance Investment Fund.  This fund (JD  16.41 million) is
intended to finance purchase of supplies, materials, spares and replacement spares,
replacement equipment and other necessary elements to properly operate and maintain
equipment within the Service Area and for meeting the goals of WAJ and the Operator as
identified in the MC. The purchases could also include piping, repair clamps, meters,
gauges, tapping sleeves, valves, motors and a myriad of other items normally used in the
course of operating and maintaining the system. It is expected that funds will be spent
according to pre-approved annual procurement plans with a limit of 40 percent of the
total available in the first two years and the remaining 20 percent in the third year of the
MC.
*       Management Contract Base Fee. The cost of US$10 million was estimated on the
basis of the Operator's core group of individuals to be recruited who will manage the
operations of the Service Area. It is assumed that these costs will be distributed evenly
among the 4 years with the exception of an additional mobilization of about JD 1.4
million in Year 1.
According to OMS Working Paper No. 46, October 1996 and as amended in January 1997.



Jordan                                                                                                      Annex 5
Amman Water and Sanitation Manacement Proiect         Paae 39                               Project Appraisal Document
Table 2: Preliminary Staff Projections in the Service Area
Projected      Base Yew                       Projected Salaries ()JD 000)
Local Staff           No        Salary (J1/MM)       Year I         Year 2         Yar 3          Year 4
Technical Team:
Water Engineer                    12              680            100.4          102.9         105.4          108.1
Sanitary Engineer                 12              680            100.4          102.9         105.4          108.1
Finance/Accounting                12              595             87.8           90.0          92.3           94.6
Customer Mngnmt Spec].             9              595             65.9           67.5           69.2          70.9
Maintenance Engineer              12              595             87.8           90.0           92.3          94.6
Admin/Proc.                        9               510            56.4           57.9           59.3          60.8
Head Technicians                 200              510          1,254.6        1,286.0        1,318.1        1,351.1
Computer Spec].                    9              680             75.3           77.2          79.1           81.1
Sub-total        275                            1,828.6        1,874.3       1,921.1        1,969.2
Semi-Skilled Team:
Meter Readers                     60              255            188.2          192.9          197.7         202.7
Technicians                       60              340            250.9          257.2          263.6         270.2
Laborers                          80               160           157.4          161.4          165.4         169.5
Equipment Operators               70              280            241.1          247.1          253.3         259.6
Others                            70              200            172.2          176.5          180.9         185.4
Sub-total        340                            1,009.8        1,035.1        1,061.0       1,087.5
Grand Total         615                           2,838.4        2,909.4        2,982.1       3,056.7
5.      Two main aspects of the MC which will have the greatest impact on the financial model are the
following:
*       Reduction in Unaccounted for Water (UFW). Any reduction in UFW  will translate
into increased billable water which in turn means increased revenue - provided that the
weighted average tariffs do not decline. It is expected that during the course of MC
reduction in total UFW attributable to the activities of the Operator would be from 52%
to 31%.2 This reduction in UFW would typically accrue in part from reduction in what is
called "administrative" (or sometimes referred to as non-technical) losses through
improved metering, billing, collection and administrative systems. This can be achieved
relatively quickly and at low cost. It is anticipated that most of the additional billed
water - previously unbilled - would be charged at the third and fourth tariff blocks. The
net effect of this would be to push the weighted average tariff up.
The other component of the UFW is due to physical losses between the source and the
consumer meters, estimated in the base year at about 32 percent. Limited network
rehabilitation within the Service Area network through the Operating Investment Fund
would yield effective reduction by about 5-6 percent over the MC period. Tangible
benefits from the larger capital investment program are not expected to be felt by the end
of the third year at the earliest.
*       Improvement in operating efficiency.  It is assumed that improving the operating
efficiency at the sources, pumping stations, transmission pipes and the distribution
network would yield 18-20 percent cost reductions in terms of lower unit operating costs.
2       Total UFW  including those accruing from the capital investment program would be 28% by 2002.



Jordan                                                                             Annex 5
Amman Water and Sanitation Management Proiect  Page 40                 Proiect Aooraisal Document
Financial Analysis of WAJ
6.    The financial projections herein are based in part on data reported by WAJ and certain
assumptions to complement available data including the expected impact of the proposed management
contract for the Service Area, which accounts for about 45% of WAJ's total water sales and revenues.
The assumptions reflect the best judgment on WAJ based on data available and discussions with WAJ
staff. The cut off year for the projections is 2004. Projections beyond this year will be heavily
influenced by the Government's decision on the future private sector participation in the sector.
7.    The financial model, expressed in current terms, is based on the assumptions that inflation will
be 4% in 1997 and will remain at this level through 2004. The exchange rates are also assumed to
remain constant at JD 0.70 = US$ 1.00.
8.    Production of water for municipal purposes is projected to grow from 238 million cubic meter
(MCM) in 19973 to about 394 MCM by 2004. Appendix B6 details the expected additional water supply
from the implementation of a series of projects during that period. Appendix B7 outlines WAJ's
investment program and expected funding for the period 1997 through 2004. Appendix B8 provides
details of fixed assets commissioning and depreciation for the same period.
Income Statements
A proforma income statement for WAJ (see Appendix B1) is constructed by consolidating proforma
income statements for the Service Area (see Appendix B2) under the project with the income statement
for the rest of WAJ (see Appendix B3) with the following assumptions (also detailed in Appendices B4
and B5):
Revenues
9.    WAJ water sales and wastewater surcharge revenues are forecast on the basis of: (i) the new
restructured tariffs which are to become effective in October 1997; (ii) no tariff increases through 2004;
and (iii) an expected net reductions in UFW for the Service Area attributed to the proposed management
contract and other network rehabilitation work from about 52% to about 22% by 2004. While lUFW for
the rest of WAJ (outside the Service Area) will drop from 52% to 40% by 2004. Other operating
revenues such as sewerage tax and service charges and fees are forecast on the basis of the increase in
connections and property values. Water tanker sales are assumed to maintain 1995 levels as there are no
plans to expand the existing tanker-fleet nor is there any policy change in licensing private tankers.
10.   Non-operating revenue items are assumed to remain at their historical averages of 1 and 2
percent of total revenues for interest income and other revenues respectively. There are no set guidelines
for managing these revenue items. Historically, they tended to vary form year to year.
11.   One of the main aspects of the proposed management contract which has a direct impact on the
revenues is assumed to be a reduction in UFW which increase billable water. It is expected that during
the first two years of the management contract much of the reduction in UFW will accrue from reducing
what is called "administrative losses." This is accomplished strictly by improving administrative systems
at relatively low cost.
Expenses
12.   The bulk of operational expenses are energy costs (primarily electrical) for running and
maintaining pumping stations. Electrical costs, which make up the largest portion of Amman and WAJ's
non-labor costs, provide a significant opportunity for savings. Restructuring of the system and improved
control of pumping operations would have a dramatic effect on electrical costs. For 1995, electrical costs
represented about 12% of operating costs for service within Amman while electrical costs for all of WAJ
are approximately 40% of total operating costs. A target to reduce energy consumption by 20% within
the management contract period is assumed. Maintenance costs of the existing facilities are estimated on
3     Unaudited.



Jordan                                                                                  Annex 5
Amman Water and Sanitation Management Proiect  Page 41                     Prolect Appraisal Document
the basis of their current value. Recent studies4 reported that non-labor operating and maintenance costs
have been JD 0.121 per cubic meter of water produced.
13.    Salaries and wages are based on 1996 levels and proposed targets for the Service Area under the
management contract area of 2.5 to 3.0 employees per thousand connections. The skill mix of the
manpower in the management contract area would reflect a wide range needed to operate an efficient
utility. The salaries of that staff would reflect competitive market rates. For the rest of WAJ a target of
11 employees per thousand connections is assumed. Their salaries will be increased by inflation.
14.    General and Administrative expenses will be increased in accordance with inflation.
15.    Depreciation will be calculated in accordance with Appendix B8. With respect to assets in
service as of December 31, 1996, these were assumed to be depreciated at an average rate of 5%.
Additions to assets in subsequent years will be depreciated in accordance with the expected lives of those
assets.
16.   Interest Expense was derived from WAJ's debt schedule (see Project File).
17.    Exchange Rate and Other Adjustments represent foreign exchange gains or losses as foreign
loans are translated into Jordanian Dinars using the Central Bank's prevailing exchange rates at year end.
A constant value of JD 2 mnillion is used in the projections.
18.    The electronic worksheets for all the above are available on disk in the Project File.
4      Operations Management Support (OMS) Project, Worldng Papers no. 36, 43, 44, 45 and 46 (all in 1996).



0
C_
O.        g~~~0
C)~~~~C
Projected Impact of Management Coptract on the Service, Area (curetJ'00 
U         ~~~~~~CDBC
Revenue                                                                                                      
1. Water Billed Withiin Service Area         22,998       24,794     27,014      28,392     29,804      23,336      23,674      24,312      24,655      0
2. Sewerage Surcharged                         6,258       6,747       7,351      7,726      8,111        6,350       6,443      6,616       6,709                    CD
3. Service Charges and Fees                    1,367        1,401      1,436      1,472       1,509       1,401       1,436       1,472      1,509      CD  '
Sub-total Revenue    30,623     32,943      35,801     37,591     39,424       31,088      31,553     32,401      32,873
Operating Cost
3. Salaries and Wages                          3,480       2,838       2,909      2,982      3,057        3,689       3,873      4,067       4,270      CO      t
4. Energy(electricity&fuel)                   12,656       12,855     13,175      13,867     14,721      13,668      14,762      15,943     17,218      C       C     -g
5. Consumables (including parts)                943                                                        945         947         947        947               v    o
6. Others (including G&A)                       641          592        546         503        464         657         674         691        708       P  o
7. Net Bulk Transfer to/from Service Area      4,146       4,421       4,714      5,026      5,359       4,421        4,714      5,026       5,359
Sub-total Operating Cost    21,866    20,706     21,344      22,378     23,602      23,381      24,969      26,674     28,502       O
Operating Surplus/(Loss)                       8,757       12,237     14,457     15,212     15,822       7,707        6,583      5,727       4,371      &
Management Contract Cost                                                                                                                                    CD
8. Operating Investment Fund                               6,564       6,564      3,282                       
9. Operator Base Fee                                       2,800       1,400      1,400      1,400                                                      E 
10. Opportunity Cost of MC Money (7.51%)                     702        597         351        105                                                      (D  d
Sub-total Management Contract Cost             10,066       8,561      5,033       1,505          0           0           0          0
Net Operating Surplus/(Loss)                   8,757       2,170       5,896     10,179     14,317       7,707        6,583      5,727       4,371          CD
Net Present Value of Net Surplus (@10% discount)          24,272                                        19,736
CD            a.
CDD



53
C-
cn
Assumptions used for Projecting the Impact of Management Contract on the Service Area (current JD, 000)
CD
I. Population Growth 3(%)                                                    .          3535353.                                          .          . 
2. Population (000)                             2,039        2,110       2,184       2,261       2,340       2,110        2,184       2,261      2,340         ,-h ,-4
3. Cost of Living Index                          120.7        123.8       126.9       130.0      133.3        123.8        126.9       130.0      133.3
4. Electricity Wholesale Price Index             142.0        153.4       165.7       178.9       193.2       153.4        165.7       178.9      193.2
5. Tariff Adjustment Composite Index             100.0        100.0       100.0       100.0       100.0       100.0        100.0       100.0      100.0 
6. Weighted Avg Water Tariff (JD/CM)             0.445        0.445       0.445       0.445      0.445        0.445        0.445       0.445      0.445             CJ
7. Weigthed Avg Surcharge (JD/CM)                0.173        0.173       0.173       0.173      0.173        0.173       0.173        0.173      0.173    ' 
8. Number of Households (000)                     22281                    291         301        312          281         291         301         312  ~t
9. Number of Subscribers (000)                    265          278         292         307        322          278         292         307         322          cb . 
10. Water Produced (000 CM)        ~95,000      95,000      95,000      95,000      95,000      95,000       95,000      95,000     95,000        
11. Per Capita Supply (LCD)                       128          123         119         115        III          123         119          115        III1
12. UFW (Technical) (%)                            323                       92                     5            13                      92 
13. Water Delivered (000 CM)                   64,600       65,550      67,450      69,350     71,250       65,550       66,500      67,450     68,400 
14 Per Capita Consumed (LCD)                       87           85          85          84         83           85          83          82          80             UQ
15. UFW (Administrative)(%                         20           1 5         10           8          6           20          20           19         19
16. Water Billed (000 CM)         ~~51,680      55,718      60,705      63,802     66,975       52,440       53,200      54,635     55,404
17. Per Capita Billed (LCD)                        69           72          76          77         78           68          67          66          65
18. Water Surcharged (000 CM)                  36,176       39,002      42,494      44,661     46,883       36,708       37,240      38,244     38,783          ( 
19. Sewerage Coverage(%                            78           78          78          78         78           78          78           78         78              0
120. Efficiency Gains in Operations (%)            -6 1                      5 13 12 1                          -                       --
CDBC
,
p~~
tn
CDX
co



C-
ii
to
M
t
0o3
Proforma Income Statement (JD thousand)
__________________________  Water Authortyof Jordan 
Actual Audited Data                  Estimate                                                         Projections                                                                                c
1994            1995            1996            1997             1998      1      1999            2000             2001            2002             2003             2004                                  C
Revenues                                                                                                                                                                                                                 l
Operating Revenues;                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0           ~0
1. Water Sales                                         24,269          25.197           29,278          37,219           44,682          48,135           53,832          57.903           73,609           95,841          103.070 
2. Sewerage Surcharge                                    4,516          4,876            5,371           7,194            9,225           10,368          11.826           13,038          15,765           22.533           24,800
3. Sewerage Tax                                         5,410           5,123            5.530           5,751            5,981            6,283           6.599            6,932           7,281            7,595            7,978
4. Service Charges and Fees                              4,238          3,948            4.122           4,360            4,614            4,884           5.172            5,479           5,807            6,156            6.528
5. Others (inc[luding tanker sales)                       333             347             438              400              400             400              400             400              400              400              400       5
Sub-total Operating Revenues         38,767          39,491           44.739          54,925           64,902          70.069           77.829          83,752          102.861          132.525          142.777       0
Other Non-operating Revenues:                                                                                                                                                                                                             o    C
1. Interest Income                                         48              Is               6                8               10              10               12              13               16               21              22        i~
2. Other Revenue                                         1,7          1J1116             1,387            1,76            2,117            2,28            2,5               ,4             3.488                    4,414884
Sub-total Non-operating Revenues          1,2             1,13             1.394           1.772      ~     2127            2.291           2,56             2,5              3,0              4,6              4~90.  CD
Total Revenues          48,090          40,622          48.123           88.697          67,029           72.361           88,291          86,598          108.365          137.088         147,683                             Di
Expenses
Operating Expenses: 
Working Expenses: 
1. Salaries &Wages                                      16,099         16,348           19,363          18.688           19,490           16,259          16,909           17.586          18.289           19,021           19,781 
2. Energy (electricity and tuel)                       25,188          29,788           30,839          31.654           33,237          33,768           35.528           36,692          47,863           59,637           64.885        t-z'
3. Consumabiles (including parts)                                                                        2,380            2.380           7,711            7,770            4.635           5,245            7,181            7.565       CD     '-
4. Others (tncludlrug GSA)                                833             723              805            1,024           LM4734,1                                            5             5.238            4,6              4.131.
Sub,total Working Expenses          41,929          4,8,96          80,886           53.726          862662,472                       65,017           63,768           76.634          89,901           96.362       c)3
5. Depreciation                                         275            2945             32,9866         33.5D0                            37,004055                        48.650          55AO             6950             74200
Sub-total Operating Expenses         698606          76,290           82,794          87.226           91,836          99,972          105,567         112.415          132,034          159,401         170.562        8
Interest                                                15,783         16.188           17,580          23,403           22,887          20,036           18,079           15,788          13.950           12,693           12,527
Excharnge Rate and other Adjustrments                   4,12            6,2             (3.887)          2,0DQ            2,0              2.000           2,0             2,00             2,0              2,002,0
Total Expenses          88,417          991,464         97.407          112.629         116,723          122,008          125.648         130,212          147.984          174.064         188,089
Net Income          (49,327)        (58.782)         (6i,334)        (55,932)         (49,694)        (49,040)         (45,255)        (43,704)         (411.6118)       (37,007)        (37,400)
A-ccu-mulate-d D-eficit,     (280,028),    (338,810),        (390.144         (446,076),      (495,770),       (W4,418)1       (590,672),       (634,376).       (675,995),      (713.001),       (750,407
CD
o,
0
lix
- E



Co
a
03
Ill
Proforma Income Statement (JD thousand)
Service Area 
Actual (Non-Audited Dee Data)            Estimate                                                     Proectons                                                                             3
1994           1995           1996            1997           1998            1999           2000            2001           2002            2003            2004                                Ct
Revenues                                                                                                                                                                                                    t    C
Operating Revenues:                                                                                                                                                                                                         i
1. Water Satfes                                     10,921         11,339         13,175          17,136         20,335          23,300         26,211          28,747          30,438          49,929         54,703       P
2. Sewerage Surcharge                                3,161          3,413           3,760          4.491          6,166           7,156          8,152           9,052           9,703          15,917         17,651                           CD
3. Sewerage Tax                                      3,787          3,586           3,971          4,026          4.187           4,398          4,620           4.852           5,097           5,301          5,568       '- 't
4. Service Charges and Fees                          1,908          1,777           1,855          1,920          1,987           2,057          2,129           2,203           2,280           2,360          2,443
5. Others (including tanker sates)                     150           156             197             200            200            200             200             200            200             200             200       '     b
Sub-total Operating Revenues       19,927         20,271         22.858          27,773         32,875          37,111         41.310          45,055          47,718         73,707          90,5695
Other Non-operating Revenues:                                                                                                                                                                                               C
1. InterestIncome                                      22              7               3              4               4              5               6               6              7              11              12
2. Other Revenue                                      574            502             624             812            964           1,104           1.242          1,362           *.442           2,366          2,592
Sub-totai Non-operating Revenues         595            50e             627            18i             968           1,109          1,248           1,388           1,449          2377            260              P
Total Revenues        20,522         20,780          23,485         28,i88          33,843         38.220          42,558         46.423          49,167          76,083          83,169      r-   i
Expenses                                                                                                                                                                                                                       to
Operating Expenses:
Working Expenses:                                                                                                                                                                                                           CD bO               a
1. Salaries& Wages                                   4.025          4,087          4.841           3,565          3,783           3,840          3,994           4.153           4,319          4,492           4,672                   ,6
2. Errgy (electricity and fuel)                     11,335         13,394          13,788         12,662         13,295          13.029          12,871         13,129          13,391          21,510         23,113                   W
3. Consumables (induding parts)                         0              0               0            952             952           6.283          6,270           3.135           3,135           4,937          5.201
4. Others (including G&A and MC Fee)                  285            325             362            471             559         4j050            4,050           4,050           4,050           2,800  .    2,80 2 80
Sub,total Working Expenses       15.644         17,807          18,991         17,650          18,688         27,202          27,185          24.467         24,896          33,739          35,788,1$, 
5. Depreciation                                     12.414         13,254          14.944         15,075          15,975         16,975          18,248         21,893          2490            31,275         33.390
Sub-total Operating Expenses       28.058         31.061         338.35          32.725         349654          44,077         45,433          46.360          48,826         85,014          694176       CI  (J
Interest                                             7,102          7,285           7,902         10,531         10,299          10,299          10,299         10,299          10,299          10,299         10,299       CD   CD
Exchange Rate and otherAdjjustrnents                 1,858          3,117          (1.749)         10              1,00_0         1,000         j0    ,j            D           j                1,000          1,000
Total Expenses        37,018         41,462          39,988         44.255          45,863         55,376          56,732         57,659          61,125          76,313         60,475          .
Net Income         (16,496)      (20,683)        (16,502)        (15,668)       (12,020)        (17,156)       (14,174)        (11,235)       (11,958)           (230)          2,694             CD
CD~~~~~D
Accumulated DefIcitl    (126,013)1    (145,695),         (163,198),      (178,865),     (190.886)1      1208,042)j    (;22.2"215       (233,5          (4,(245.638)1 -                 242,944
CO
6D
ID 
an



-9~~~~~~~>C
o                  S
0                   -
0~~~~~~0
|r           ~~~g)
Proforma Income Statement (JD thousand)                                                                                                      co 
All Areas of WAJ Except Service Area                                                                                                      C                    3
Actual Nson-Audited Deriv ed a)          Estimate                                                       Protectiens                                                                            Co o
1994           1995            1996            1997           1998            1999            2000            2001            2002            2003            2004
Revenues                                                                                                                                                              
Operating Revenues:
1. Water Sales                                       13,348         13,858          16,103          20,083          24,347          24,834          27,621         29,156          43,171          45,912          48,367                            CD
2. Sewerage Surcharge                                 1,355           1,463          1,611           2,703           3,059           3,212           3,674           3.986           6,062           6,616           7,149       >                   Q
3. Sewerage Tax                                       1,623           1,537          1.659           1,725           1,794           1,885           1,980          2,080           2,184           2,295           2,410       i
4. Service Charges and Fees                           2,331          2.171           2,267           2,440           2,627           2,828           3,044           3,276           3,526           3.7S6           4,086
5. Others lnCmuding tanker sales)                      '183            *91             241             2i0D           2i)0            2i)0            200             200             2NO             200             210        -F
Sub-total Operating Revenues       18,840          19,220          21,881         27,153          32,027          32,958          36,519          38,697          55,143         58,819           62,212
Other Non-operating Revenues:                                                                                                                                                                                         t  i
1. Interestincome                                        26              6               3              4               5               5               6               6               9              10              10       iJ 
2. Other Revenue                                        701            614             763             952           1,154           i,77            1,309           1,382       _  2,046           2,176            2,292
Sub-total Non-operating Revenues          728            622             767             956           1,169           t 182           f 315           1,38           2 055           2.185           2.302            I - CD  
Total Revenues         19,568         19,842          22.4B           28,109          33,186         349141          37,833          40,085          57,198          61.004          64,514       Fa    i ra
Expenses                                                                                                                                                                                            .          '                    m CD
Operating Expenses:                                                                                                                                                                                                             p     
Working Expenses:                                                                                                                                                                                                                     P
1. Salaries & Wages                                  12,074         12,261          14,522          15,103          15,707          12,419         12,916          13,432          13,970          14,528          15,100
2. Energy (elect6ic(ly and ruel)                     13,853          16,371         16,852          18,992          19,942          20,740          22.657         23,563          34,471          38,127          41,772
3. Consumables (Including parts)                          0              0               0           1.428           1.428          1i428            1.500          1,500           2110            2,244           2,364             1
4. Others (including G&A)                               348            398             443             553            670             983             760             802         1J1B8             1,283            1,331
Sub-total Working Expenses        26.276         29,629          31,817          36.078          37.747          35.270         37.832          39.297          51,738 -56.182                  60,576
5. Depreciation                                      15,172         16,200          18,142          18,425         19,525        20,625             22,303         26,758          30,470          38,225           40,B10 . t.Q
Sub-4otal Operating Expenses       41.448          45,229         49,959          64,501          57.272          55,895          6,o135          66,055          62.206         94,367          101,386      '    CD
Interest                                              8,680          8,903           9.658          12,872          12.588           9,737           7,780          5.498           3.650           2,394           2,228
Exchange Rate and other Adjustments                   2,271          3,809     /     2,138)         J 0I0                            1,000           1,000           1.000           1,000  .       ,000      1,000
Total Expenses         52,399         57.942          57,480         68,373          70,86           8B,632          68,915          72,553          86,859          97,781         104,614
Not Income         (32,831)       (38,099)        (34,832)        (40,264)        (37,674)        (32,491)       (31,081)        (32,468)        (29,661)        (36,777)        (40,099)
Accumulated DeficIt        (154,015)1    (192,1165)       (226,947)       (267,211)    (304,884)          (337,376)      (368,467)       (400,925)       (430,586)       (467,363)1      (807,463)
o CD
              b~~~'U
RC
03



0
Z
I~~~
CD
Assumptions for Prfrma Income Statement   ____________________
CD
19971        1998         1999          2000         2001         2002          2003         2004      81
Population Growth ()3.5%                                           3.5%         3.5%         3.5%          3.5%         3.5%          3.5%         3.5% 
General Price Inflation (%)                          4.0%          4.0%         4.0%         4.0%          4.0%         4.0%          4.0%         4.0%                    C
Water Produced (MCM)                                   95           95            95           95            95           95           150          158      0  ~
UFW (%)                                               52%          52%           45%          38%          32%           28%          25%           22%      "- I
0~~~~
Average Tariff Increase (%)                                                     0.0%          0.0%         0.0%         0.0%          0.0%         0.0%
Average Water Tariff (JD/m3)                         0.375        0.445        0.445        0.445         0.445        0.445         0.445        0.445          cn>
Average Sewerage Surcharge (JD/m3)                   0.126        0.173        0.173         0.173        0.173        0.173         0.173        0.173              Z
Sewerage Coverage (%)                                 78%          78%           79%          80%           81%          82%          82%           0.83             c
Growth in # of Water Connections (%)                 3.5%          3.5%         3.5%         3.5%          3.5%         3.5%          3.5%         3.5%                    0
Number of Water Connections                       265,000       274,275      283,875      293,810       304,094      314,737       325,753      337,154                    CD~ 
Number of Staff/1000 Connections                       5.5          5.5           2.8          2.7           2.6          2.5           2.5          2.5     C
Number of Staff                                     1,470         1,500          800          793          791           787          814           843         
Average Salary of Staff (JD/year)                   2,425         2,522        4,800        4,992         5,192        5,399         5,615        5,840 
Electricity Price Inflation (%)                                     5%            5%           5%            5%           5%            5%           5%
Efficiency Gains in Electricity (%)                                 0%            7%           6%            3%           3%            3%           3%          r
Average Electricity Cost (JD/m3 produced)            0.133        0.140         0.137        0.135         0.138        0.141         0.144        0.147     CD
Efriciency Gains in Operations (%)                                    0          0.02         0.02          0.02         0.02          0.02         0.02   ~ 
Average Other Operating Costs (JD/m3 produced)        0.01          0.01        0.066        0.066         0.033        0.033         0.033        0.033
G&A (including MC fee)                                                     2,800,000     2,800,000    2,800,000     2,800,000    2,800,000     2,800,000     " 
Ilncentive Fee                                _____ ______                  1,250,000    1,250,000     1,250,000    1,250,000   ____    _____ 
CD'
CD       ~a
>w
00
0
0
tS'S~~~~U



rj3 
Q~~~~
0~~~~~0
0
Ass mptions for Proforma Income Statement                                    2D
MO, "I'm                                  ~~~~~~~~1997   1998         1999         2000          2001         2002          2003          2004                    'U
Population Growth (%)                                    3.5%          3.5%         3.5%          3.5%         3.5%          3.5%         3.5%          3.5%       p            S
General Price Inflation (%)                              4.0%          4.0%         4.0%          4.0%         4.0%          4.0%         4.0%          4.0%
Water Produced (MCM)                                      143           143          143          150           150          211           224          236
UFW (%)                                                   52%          50%           49%          46%           43%          40%           40%          40%
Average Tariff Increase (%)                                                         0.0%          0.0%         0.0%          0.0%         0.0%          0.0%          C 
Average Water Tariff (JD/m3)                             0.293         0.341       0.341         0.341        0.341         0.341        0.341         0.341      CD  J
Average Sewerage Surcharge (JD/m3)                       0.116         0.126       0.126         0.126        0.126         0.126        0.126         0.126
Sewerage Coverage (%)                                     34%          34%           35%          36%           37%          38%           39%          40%              CD     X
Growth in # of Water Connections (%)                     3.5%          3.5%         3.5%          3.5%         3.5%          3.5%         3.5%          3.5%     CD   f
Number of Water Connections                           340,000       351,900      364,217       376,964      390,158       403,813      417,947       432,575          O X
Number of Staff/1000 Connections                          14.7          14.0         13.0           13            12           12            12           11     Zs
Number of Staff                                         5,000         4,927        4,735         4,901        4,682         4,846        5,015         4,758
Average Salary of Staff (JD/year)                       2,425         2,522        2,623         2,728        2,837         2,950        3,068         3,191      o   In
Electricity Price Inflation (%)                                          5%           5%           5%            5%           5%            5%            5%    
Efficiency Gains in Electricity (%)                                      0%           1 %          1 %           1 %          1 %           1 %           1 %
Average Electricity Cost (JD/m3 produced)                0.133         0.140        0.145        0.151         0.157        0.163         0.170         0.177      .  D
Efficiency Gains in Operations (%)                                      0%            0%           0%            0%           0%            0%            0%
Average Other Operating Costs (JD/m3 produced)            0.01          0.01         0.01          0.01         0.01          0.01         0.01          0.01     o - i
G&A (including MC fee)
Incentive Fee                                       __          _
CD
CD 
C~~~~~~~C
CD
CD>



Additional Water Supply Schedule
Total Additional                                                                                                                                                    c
Prq)ect Cost  Water Supplied                                           Annual Addriional Water Sunciled lMC           2           2
__________(JOmillion)  (CM M)   1997     1998       199        2000       2001       2002       2003       2004       2005       2006       2007 
Total Supply by 21/31/1996                                                                 218.0      218.0      218.0      218.0      218.0      218.0      218.0      218.0      218.0       218.0      218.0
Additons In 1997                                                 40.0                        10.0       10.0      10.0       10.0       10.0       10.0       10.0        10.0       10.0      110.0       10.0
Additions In 1998                                                40.0                        10.0       10.0      10.0       10.0       10.0       10.0       10.0       10.0       10.0        10.0       10.0
C)
MdttfioJns In 1999                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0O
1. Ongoing Water Rehabilitation - Various Oties                  53.0             7.0                                         7.0        7.0        7.0        7.0        7.0        7.0        7.0         7.0
2. Abu-Nusler Wastewater Upgrade & Expansion                      3.0                                                                                                                            .
3. Misc. Small Wastewater Projects                                5.0
Sub,ttal for 1999       61.0             7.0                _          _             7.0        7.0        7.0        7.0        7.0        7.0        7.0        7.8                          0
AddlUons In 2000
1 Ongolng Wastewater Rehabilitation - Various Ctitis             30.0                                                                                          .          .          .         
2. Ain Gazal Pre-treatment Plant & Conveyor                      65.0
3. irbid Wastewater Stage I                                      45.0                                                                    ..
4. Jordan Valley Sanitation - Septic Disposal                     7.0                                                                                                                .           .t
5, Madaba Upgrade & Expansion                                    10.0                                                                                                                                       -               ..
6. Misc. Small Wastewater Projects                                5.0 _                                          .          .                                                                    - '
Sub-total for 2000     162.0             .                     .          .          .          .          .
Addittons In 2001                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2.
1. Wadi Mousa Water                                               9.0                                                                               .-                    -          -           -          .                            t
2. SakebWater                                                     4.0              1.0                                                              1.0         1.0        1.0        1.0        1.0        1.0        ) 
3. Sakeb Wastewater                                               7.0                                                                                                                                                t    D 
4. Ramtha Wastewater                                              7.0                                                                                                                                                 C    Ei
5. Dead Sea Infrastructure                                        3.0                                                                                                                            .          .
6. Desalinatlon Conveyor to Urban Jordan (50+10 MCM)            100.0            80.0                                                              60.0       00.0       60.0        60.0       60.0       80.0       >2'   4
7. Misc. Small Wastewater Projects                                5.0    ..                                                                         .                     -          -  I 
Sub-total for 2001     135.0            61.0        .          .          .          .          .         61.0       61.0       61.0       61.0       61.0       61.0
Additions In 2002                                                                                                                                                                                                     ,-   
1. Amman Municipal Water Network Rehabilitation & Restructuring Ph  151.0         18.0                                                                        18.0       18.0        18.0       18.0       18.0      C-          D C)
2. Deep Groundwater                                              13.0                                                                                                                .                                O .  -i
3. Lajoon Wells                                                   5.0              5.0                                                                         5.0         5.0        5.0        5.0        5.0   i         -t    .
4. DIerAila -Zal -Amman II                                       85.0             45.0                                                                        45.0       45.0        45.0       45.0       45.0            o'-"*
5. Wadi Mousa Wastewater                                         14.0                                                                                          -                                            .              ,-i
6. AI-Ramtha Wastewater Upgading & Expansion                      9.0                                                                                                                                       .
7. Misc. Small Wastewater Projects                                5.0                                                                                                     -           -               -
Sub-total for 2002     262.0            66.0                                                                         68.0       68.0       68.0       68.0       68.0 0      2   l
Additions In 2003                                                                                                                                                                                          200
1. Wadi El Arab - trbid Municipal Water Supply                   28.0            20.0                                                                                    20.0       20.0        20.0       20.0 
2. Community Water Infrastructure Project                         8.0                                                                                                     .           .          .          .
3. Nau'r & Adjacent Area Wastewater                              12.0                                                                                                                                                       D
4. Community Wastewater Infrastructure Project                   14.0
5. Aqaba Wastewater                                              12.0
6. Matraq, Ma'an, Karak, Tafila Wastewater Construction, Upgrade &  17.0                                                                                                              .          .          -
7. Misc. Small Wastewater Projects                                5.0                              _________                                                                                       
Sub-total for 2003      94.0            20.0                                          _ _                                       20.0       20.0       20.0       20.0
Additions In 2004
1. Disi Amman Conveyor                                          340.0             55.0                                                                                              55.0        55.0       55.0
2. DesalinatIon Works - Pilot Project                            14.0              5.0                                                                                                5.0        5.0        50             0
3. Misc. Small Wastewater Projects                                5.0             6                                                                                                                                        C. 
Addition In 2005Sub-total for 2004                    359.0            80.0                   -                                                                           8    0.0    80.0       80.0
Additilons In 20055
1. Amman Municipal Water Network Rehab Phase It                  b0.0              7.0                                                                                                           7.0        7.0
2. Amman/Zarqa Wastewater                                       195.0                                                                                                                            .0
3. Misc. Small Wastewater Projects                                5.0                                 _                                                                                          -
Sub-total for 2005     250.0             7.0        .          .          .               .                .          .          .          .         92.0       92.0
Additions In 2006
t. Desalination at Aqaba                                         40.0             10.0                                                                                                                     10.0
2. lrbldWastewaterStage I6I 2.0                                                                                                                                                                                                            .
3. Peace Wastewater Treatment Plant                              50.0
4. Misc. Small Wastewater Projects                                5.0
Sub-total for 2006     157.0            10.0        .          .          .          .          .          .          .          .          .          .           .0 
AddItions in 2007                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
1. South Amman Phase 1                                           81.0                                                                                                                                                                   -3
2. Jordan Valley Sanitation - 3 Plants                           73.0                                                                                                                                                                    CD
3. MIsc. Small Wastewater Projects                                5.0                 I          I   _                                            _                      _
Sub-total for 2007     159.0             I          .          - _        .          .-                                              I      - 
Grand Total                            1,739.0           233.0      238.0      238.0      238.0      245.0      245.0      306.0      374.0      394.0      474.0      566.0      668.0



Water Authority of Jordan3
investm ntProgram   (JD million)
Totat       Total
Project    Additiontal                                                                                                                     Total 1997                            0
cost       Water                                              e Exastenditurer Calander Year                                               to 2007
NO.                              Project Name                                 (JD milt     MCM         1997      1999       1999      2000      2001       2002      2003       2004       2005       2009       2007     (JD mlt)
Technical Assistence Projects
1 Water Feasibility, Design &Assessmaent Studies                                  52                                 4         4          4         4          4          4         4          4          4          4         40
2  Wastewater Feasibility. Design & Assessment Studies                            14                                 I           1        1          I         I          I          1          1          1         1         11
3  tnstitufionat Restructunng                                                      5        -3                                 1          1                       ______5                                                                                     2.
Sub-total Technical Assistence Projects      71            0         1          8         6          6         5          5          5         5          5          5          5         56              ~o
Water Projects                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
Major Projects                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (
4Ongoing RehablOeatton - Various Cittes                                          53            7        26         27                                                                                                         53                             a
6  Dial Amman Conveyor                                                           340           55                                        50       100        100         90                                                   340        e3
6  Future Projects to be Defined (e.g.. Groundwater Reduction Program)           250                                                                                               25         25         30         30        110         a. 
7  Municipal Water Networks Rehab. (Several Cities)                              240           36                             20         20        20         20         20        20         20         20         20        150                             ( D
8  Amman Municipal Water Network Rehabilitation & Restructuring Phase I          151           18          4        32        39         39        37                                                                         1513
Smaller Size Projects                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      C
9  Wadi El Arab -Irbad Municipal Water Supply                                     26           20                                                  10        '16                                                               26
i0 Desalination Works - Pilot ProJec                                               14            5                                                             74 7                                                            14
11 Deep Gruundwater                                                                13                                3          4         3          3                                                                         13              C-t            CD
12 Water Fiarvesting, Badna Region                                                 20           15                                                   2         2          2          2          2          2         2         14              CDI 
13 Wadi Meusas                                                                      9       -1                       3          3    ~ 2                                                                                        9              '
14 Community Infrastructure Project                                                 9                                           2         2          2         2                                                                8 5P
15 Sakeb                                                                            4            1                              2         2                                                                                     4         11 
16 Lajoon Wells                                                                     5           5                                         3          2                                                                          5        C
17 Desalination at Aqaba                                                           40           10                                                                       15         15         10                              40                    >
Upgrade & ExpansIon Prjects
18 Misc. Small Projects - Network Expanvsion                                      130       -10                                10        10         10        10         10         10         10         10        10        100                   1
19 Misc. Small Projects - Supply ExpansIon                                        130       -10                                10         10        10        10         10         10         10         10         10       100               ~-
20 Dier Alla -Zal -Amman 11                                                        95          45                   25         35        20          5                                                                         55        r-0) 
21 Amman Municipal Water Network Rehab Phase tl                                    50            7                                                  lo__1     IS         15         10                                         50                .             I
Wastewater Proj                    ~~~~~~~~Sub-total Water Projects  1,568     223        31        110       125        161       211        182       169         82         77         72         72      1.302                   i-.       c
Wastewater Projects                                                                                                                                                    0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Major Projects"
22 Ongoing Rehrabilitalion - Various r4ties                                        30                     10        10         10                                                                                              30
23 AmamanaZarqa Wastewater                                                        195           30                             10        40         50        so         35         10                                        196 11
24 Ale Gazal Pre-treatment Plant & Conveyor                                        65       -20                     30         15                                                                                              6
25  ot ~Amman Phse1I                                                               81           15                                                             10        12         18         23         18                   81
26 Jordan Valley Sanitation - 3 Plants                                             73           12                                                                       15         20         20         1s                   73 
27 Irbd Stage I                                                                    45            8        15        20         10                                                                                              45CI
28 Irbad Stage 11                                                                  62           15                                                             10        20         20         12                              62
Smaller Size Prfct 
29 Future Projects lo be Defined                                                  195       -60                                                                                                           65         70       195        CD   e
30 Mlsc. Small Projecls                                                            65       -5                                  5         5          5         5          5          5          5          5         5         5
31 Sae                                                                              7            1                              4         37
32 Wadi Mous                                                                       14            2                   3          4         4          3                                                                         14 
33 Nau'r & AcJacent Ares                                                           12            2                                        4          4         4                                                               1
34 Jordan Valley Sanitation - Septic Disposal                                       7       -4                                  37I2
35 Community Infrastructure Project                                                14                                           2         4          4         4                                                               '
36 Ramtha                                                                           7            1         3         3          17
37 Aqaba                                                                           12            5                                        3          5         4                                                               12        CD~nt
38 Dead Sea Infrastructure                                                          3                                 1         1          1                                                                                    3        0
Upgrade & Expansfon Projects                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
39 Mafraq, Maan, Karak, Tafila Construction, Upgrade & Expand                      17            6                    1         1         5          5         5                                                               17        '1I
40 Madaba Upgrade & Exparksion                                                     10            1         3         5          2                                                                                              10
41 Al-Ramtha Upgrading & Expansion                                                  9            1                              3          3         3                                                                          9
42 Abu-Nusler Upgrade & Expansion                                                   3                      I 1       2                                            ______3____ 
Sub-total Wastewater Projects      926           89        52         84        71         72        79         92         87        73        128        106         75       911 
Peace ProjectsM
42 Desaliratbo Conveyor to Urban Jordan (50+10 MCM)                               100           60                  33         33        34                                                                                   150
43 Wastewater Treatment Plant                                                      50           10                                                   5        10         10         25                                         so
Sub.total Peace Projects      150           70         0        33         33         34         5        10         10         25          0          0          0       150
Grand Total                                     2,715 1        392        84        235       235       273        300        28  1     271        1 95       202 1      1s         152      2,419



Water Authority of Jordan
Fixed Assests Commissioning and Depreciation Schedule
Commissioned  Average
Asset Cost   Asset Life                                           Annual Fixed Assets D5                                                                                            C-cato
Assets In Operation Th31l1                                    (JD militon)    (year)    1997      1998       1999       200303    2001   1  2002        2003       2004       2005      2006       2007                                            a.
Assets In Operation 1213111M  ~670.0                                     33.5       23.5       33.5      33.5       33.5       33.0      33.5       33.5       33.5       33.5       33.5                                      m 3
Addtlons in 1997                                                      40.0       20                   2.0        2.0       2.0        2.0        2.0        2.0        2.0       2.0        2.0        2.0                                      fD
AddRitons In 1998                                                     40.0       20                              2.0       2.0        2.0        2.0        2.0        2.0       2.0        2.0        2.0                                      iD
Addttions in 1999                                                                                                                                                                                                                               :
1. Ongoing Water Rehabilitation - Various Ciffes                      53.0       20                                        2.7        2.7        2.7        2.7       2.7        2.7        2.7        2.7                                      0
2. Abu-Nusler Wastewater Upgrade & ExpansIon                           3.0       20                                         0.2       0.2        0.2        0.2        0.2       0.2        0.2        0.2                                      rD
3. Misc. Small Wastewater Projects                                     5.0       20                                         0.3       0.3        0.3        0.3       0.3        0.3        0.3        0.3                                      2.
Sub-total for 1999         61.0                                      -          3.         3.1       3.1        3.1        3.1        3.1        3.1        3.1                                     53
Addttlons in 2000                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CZ
1. Ongoing Wastewater Rehabilitaon - Various Cilies                   30.0       20                                                   1.5        1.5        1.5       1.5        1.5        1.5        1.5                                      3
2. Ain Gazal Pre-treatment Plant & Conveyor                           65.0       20                                                   3.3        3.3        3.3        3.3       3.3        3.3        3.3
3. irbid Wasteweater Stage I                                          45.0       20                                                   2.3        2.3        2.3       2.3        2.3        2.3        2.3 2.3
4. Jordan Valley Sanitanon - Sepfic Disposal                           7.0       20                                                   0.4        0.4        0.4        0.4       0.4      . 0.4        0.4                                      650f
5. Madaba Upgrade & Expansion                                         10.0       20                                                   0.5        0.5        0.5        0.5       0.5        0.5        0.5
6. Misc. Small Wastewater Projects                                     5.0       20                                                   0.3        0.3        0.3        0.3       0.3        0.3        0.3
Sub-total for 2000        162.0                 .         .                                6.1       6.1        8.1        8.1        8.1        8.1        8.1                 CD
Additions In 2001                                                      na
1. Wadi Mousa Water                                                    9.0       20                                                              0.0        0.5        0.5       0.5        0.5        0.5                 E
2. Sakeb Water                                                         4.0       20                                                              0.2        0.2        0.2       0.2        0.2        0.2                  Qo
3. Sakeb Wastewater                                                    7.0       20                                                              0.4        0.4        0.4       0.4        0.4        0.4                                      CD
4 . Ranitha Wastewater                                                 7.0       20                                                              0.4        0.4        0.4       0.4        0.4        0.4                                      C)1
5. Dead Sea Infrastrcture                                              3.0       20                                                              0.2        0.2        0.2       0.2        0.2        0.2                 i
6. Desalination Conveyor to Urban Jordan (50+10 MCM)                 100.0       20                                                              5.0        5.0        5.0       5.0        5.0        5.0
7. Misc. Small Wastewater Projects                                     5.0       20                           _0.3                                          03        06 083     083                  08-
Sub-total for 2001        135.0                 .         .          .          .                    6.8        6.8        8.8        0.8        8.8        8.8
Additions In 2002                                                                                                                                                                                                             *
1. Amman Municipal Water Network Rehablllta5on & Restructuring Pha   151.0       20                                                                         7.6       7.6        7.6        7.0        7.6
2. Deep Groundwater                                                   13.0       20                                                                         0.7        0.7       0.7        0.7        0.7
3. Lajwoon Wells                                                       5.0       20                                                                         0.3        0.3       0.3        0.3        0.3                 f-.*.-               p
4. Dim AIla -Zai -Amman I                                             05.0       20                                                                         4.3        4.3       4.3        4.3        4.3                  i 
5. Wadi Mousa Wastewater                                              14.0       20                                                                         0.7        0.7       0.7        0.7        0.7                 CiQ   . ;            tD
6. Al-Ramtha Wastewater Upgrading & Expansion                          9.0       20                                                                         0.5        0.5       0.5        0.5        0.5                          -   . *t
7. Misc. Small Wastewater Projects                                     5.0       20                                                                         0.3        0.3       0.3        0.3 14 0.3
Sub-total for 2002        282.0                                                                                14.1       14.1       14.1       14.1       14.1
1. Wadi El Arab - irbid Municipal Water Supply                        26.0       20                                                                                    1.3       1.3        1.3        1.3                             00
2. Community Water Infrastructume Project                              8.0       20                                                                                    0.4       0.4        0.4        OA 0D
3. Naur & Adjacent Area Wastewater                                    12.0       20                                                                                    0.6       0.6        0.6        0.6
4. Communrity Wastewater Infrastructure Project                       14.0       20                                                                                    0.7       0.7        0.7        0.7
5. Aqaba Wastewater                                                   12.0       20                                                                                    0.6        0.6        0.6       0.6                 Cb DYQ
6. Mafraq, Maan, Karak, Tatila Wastewater Construction, Upgrade&E     17.0       20                                                                                    0.9       0.9        0.9        0.9                 0
7. Misc. Small Wastewater Projects                                     5.0       20                                                                                    0.3       0.3        0.3        0.3 I
Sub-total for 2003         94.0                 .         .          .            .                                        4.7        4.7        4.7        4.7                   .  C)
AddtIlons In 2004 
1. Dins Amman Conveyor                                               340.0       20                                                                                             17.0       17.0       17.0                 0
2. Desallnatfon Works - Pilot Project                                 14.0       20                                                                                              0.7        0.7        0.7                       i
3. Misc. Small Wastewater Projects                                     5.0       20                                                                                              0.3        0.3        0.3                 C4
Sub-total for 2004        359.0                 .         .          .          .         .          .                               18.0       18.0       18.0                 0 1 0
AdditionsIn 2005                                                                                                                                                                            2           5'                       :
1. Amman Municipal Water Network Rehab Phase II                       50.0       20                                                                                                         2.5        2.5                       CD
2. AmmaslZafqa Wastewater                                            195.0       20                                                                                                         9.8        9.8        
3. Misc. Small Wastewater Projects                                     5.0       20                                                                                                         0.3        0.3             
Sub-total for 2005        250.0                 .         .          .          .          .         .          .          .          .         12.5       12.5                                      r
Additions in 2006                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CD
1. Desalinaton atAqaba                                                40.0       20                                                                                                                    2.0
2. Irbid Wastewater Stage II                                          62.0       20                                                                                                                    3.1                                      >
3. Peace Wastewater Treatment Plant           .                       50.0       20                                                                                                                    2.5
4. Misc. Small Wastewater Projects                                     5.0       20                                                                                                                    0.3
Sub-total for 2006        157.0                 .          .         .          .         .          .          .                                           7.9                                     fD
Additions In 2007
1. South Amman Phase 1                                                81.0       20                                                                                                                                                             o
2. Jordan Valley Sanitation -3 Plants                                 73.0       20                                                                                                                                                             ,  >
3. Misc. Smaff Wastewater Projects                                     5.0       20                                                                                            _ _
Sub-total for 2007!       1599.                                                                                                                                                                      3                 i
Grand Total        S                       2,409.0                33.5       35.5      37.5       40.6      48.7        55.4      69.5       74.2       92.2      104.7      112.5                                      t3
Assumpfions:
1. Fixed assets at 21131/96 were assumed. The actual amount has to be verified dureg appraisal.
2. Asset added in 1997 and 1998 were assumed. The atials need to be vedfed dudring appraisal.
3. The depreciabte lffe of all projects was auumed to be 20 years with nio residual value. Tha was based on tsstudcal avernae for WAJ.
4. Fixed assets are assumed tobe commissioned at end of the year of project compeltion. OtherwIse they are recorded as Work-in-progress.



Jordan                                                                             Annex 6
Amman Water and Sanitation Management Proiect  Page 52                 Proiect Appraisal Document
Annex 6
Amman Water and Sanitation Management Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Procurement methods (Table A)
1.    The Operator for the Management Contract is being selected through international competition
under a two-stage bidding process, which complies generally with the applicable provisions in the Bank's
Procurement Guidelines.'
2.    The Operator, as part of the services and under the Operating Investment Fund component, will
be have the responsibility to procure on behalf of WAJ and in accordance with the Bank's Procurement
Guidelines goods, works and services. No funds from the Operating Investment Fund will be used for
the services that are described under the Scope of Services of the Operator. In addition, with regard to
the Bank-financed portion of the CIP for restructuring of the Greater Amman Water Supply System,
WAJIPMU will procure goods, works and services in accordance with the Bank's Procurement
Guidelines.
3.    With respect to the above, works contracts above US$2.5 million will be awarded under
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures and would be subject to prequalification. Works
contracts below this threshold will be awarded using National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures up
to a maximum in aggregate of US$2.5 million. Contracts for goods above US$0.5 million will be
awarded under ICB procedures. Contracts for goods up to US$0.5 million will be awarded under NCB
up to a maximum in aggregate of US$1.5 million. For contracts for goods below US$250,000,
International Shopping procedures will be used up to a maximum in aggregate of US$8 million. Goods
below US$100,000 may be purchased using National Shopping Procedures up to an amount in aggregate
of US$2 million. The Bank's Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) will be utilized.
4.    Consultants will be contracted under the Bank's Guidelines for Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997).
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
5.    All contracts awarded through ICB and contracts for works, goods and services valued at over
US$500,000 are subject to prior review by the Bank. The threshold for prior review for consulting
services would be US$100,000 for contracts with consulting firms, and US$50,000 for contracts with
individuals. The contract review arrangements are summarized in Table B.
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
6.    The proposed loan would be disbursed against the project components as shown in Table C. The
proposed loan would be disbursed over a period of 4 years, and the project would be completed by
December 31, 2002.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
7.    Disbursements would be made on the basis of SOEs for contracts for works and goods below
US$500,000, for consulting services contracts with consulting firms below US$100,000 and US$50,000
for contracts with individuals. Documentation to support expenditures financed under SOEs would be
maintained by WAJ and made available for review by Bank supervision missions.
All references in the Guidelines of the World Bank to the Borrower shall apply to the Operator.



Jordan                                                                            Annex 6
Amman Water and Sanitation Management Proiect  Paae 53                Proiect Aporaisal Document
Special account (SA):
8.    To facilitate disbursement against eligible expenditures, the Government would open a Special
Account (SA) at the Central Bank, to be operated by WAJ, under terms satisfactory to the Bank. The SA
would be maintained by WAJ as a separate identifiable account to be used exclusively for project
expenditures. The Bank would, upon request, make an authorized allocation of US$4,500,000. Initially,
and until total disbursements reach US$10,000,000, the allocation would be limited to US$2,250,000.
Replenishment applications would be submitted on a monthly basis, or when about 20% of the initial
deposit has been utilized, whichever comes first. The replenishment applications would be supported by
the necessary documentation, i.e. a bank statement of the SA and a reconciliation bank statement of the
SA against Bank records. The SA would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank. The Audit report, in English, would be submitted to the Bank for review and approval within six
months of the end of each fiscal year.



Jordan                                                                                             Annex 6
Amman Water and Sanitation Management Proiect    Paoe 54                            Proiect Appraisal Document
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Total Cost
Procurement Method                  (including
Expenditure Category                ICB        NCB        Other    NF          contingencies)
1. Works
I .I Capital Investmnents:
EIB Packages # 1, 3, 4, and 6                                           40.96        40.96
IBRD Packages #2 and 5                15.38                                          15.38
(12.31)                                       (12.31)
Italian Package                                                         22.05        22.05
Rehabilitation Works and Others                                3.74     11.86        15.60
(3.05)                 (3.05)
Sub-total Works    15.38                  3.74     74.87        93.99
(12.31)                 (3.05)     -           (15.36)
2. Goods and Vehicles
2.1 OperatingInvestment Fund (OIF) 2/     12.11         2.00      10.00                  24.11
(12.11)     (2.00)    (10.00)                 (24.11)
2.2 Support for PMU                                                0.50                   0.50
(0.50)                 (0.50)
Sub-total Goods    12.11      2.00       10.50                  24.61
(12.11)     (2.00)    (10.50)                 (24.61)
3. Services
3.1 Management Contract Base Fee          10.03                                          10.03
(10.03)                                        (10.03)
3.2 Technical and Financial Auditors                               0.71                   0.71
(0.71)                 (0.71)
3.3 Support for PMU                                                1.61                    1.61
(1.22)                 (1.22)
3.4 Development of Regulatory Framework                                      0.49         0.49
3.5 Willingness-to-Pay Study                                                 0.28         0.28
3.6 Financial Management & Accounting                              0.25                   0.25
System
(0.25)                 (0.25)
3.7 Financial Auditors                                                       0.49         0.49
3.8 Future Project Preparation                                     2.83                   2.83
(2.83)                 (2.83)
3.9 Others (including preparation of                                         0.71         0.71
packages tender documents for CIP)
Sub-total Services    10.03                5.39       1.97        17.40
(10.03)                 (5.01)                 (15.04)
Total                                        37.52        2.00       18.55     67.94       136.01
(34.45)     (2.00)    (18.55)      -           (55.01)
Notes:
1/ Includes financing by EIB (US$43.4 million equivalent); EIB/METAP II (US$0.6 million equivalent); tied financing
by Italy (US$20.0 million equivalent); and part of the local counterpart funding related to the rehabilitation works.
This local counterpart funding would be used towards:
a.  Restructuring, rehabilitation, upgrading and extension works in the project area.
b.  Incentive compensation for the Operator and the seconded employees.
c.  Any additional funds required for works and goods beyond the Operating Investment Fund.
2/ Procurement from OIF is based on an approved yearly procurement plan in accordance with the Bank's Procurement
Guidelines.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.



Jordan                                                                           Annex 6
Amman Water and Sanitation Manaaement Proiect  Paae 55               Project Appraisal Document
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure        Contract Value      Procurement        Contracts Subject to
Category           (Threshold)          Method              Prior Review
1. Works         Up to US$2.5 million up    NCB         First and all subsequent
to US$2.5 million                     contracts larger than
aggregate                             US$0.5 million
More than US$2.5 million    ICB       All
2. Goods         Up to US$0.1 million up     NS 2/      None
to US$2 million aggregate
Up to US$0.25 million up    IS 2/     None
to US$8 million aggregate
Up to US$0.5 million up    NCB 1/    First
to US$1.5 million
aggregate
More than US$0.5 million    ICB       All
3. Services      Individual consultants up   Bank       Review will be confined to TOR
to US$50,000              Guidelines   provided the consultants are
recruited on a competitive basis
Individual consultants      Bank      Review will cover TOR, short
more than US$50,000       Guidelines   list and RFP
Consulting Firms up to      Bank      Review will be confined to TOR
US$100,000                Guidelines   provided the consultants are
recruited on a competitive basis
Consulting Firms more       Bank      Review will cover TOR, short
than US$100,000 but less    Guidelines   list and RFP
than US$200,000
Consulting Firms more       Bank      Review will cover TOR, short
than US$200,000           Guidelines   list, RFP and technical
evaluation report.
Notes:
1/ Using the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents.
2/ Usually a minimum of 3 quotes (with at least 2 countries if IS) for off-shelf and low value goods.



Jordan                                                                                     Annex 6
Amman Water and Sanitation Manaaement Prolect  Paae 56                       Prolect ADpraisal Document
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Financing
Expenditure Category                   Amount in                Percentage
US$million
1. Works                                                                      80%
1.1I Package #2                                   5.08%
1.2 Package #5                                    5.6
1.3 Others                                        0.9
2. Goods and Vehicles                                               100% of foreign
2.1 Operating Investment Fund                    22.0           expenditures, 100% of
2.2 Support for PMU                                1.1          local expenditures (ex-
2.3 Others                                         0.9          factory), 90% of local
expenditures for other
items procured locally
3. Services                                                                   100
3.1 Management Contract Base Fees                10.0                     1
3.2 Consultant Services                           3.0
3.3 Support for PMU                                1.5
4. Unallocated                                        5.0
Total                             55.0



Jordan                                                                                   Annex 7
Amman Water and Sanitation Management Proiect  Paae 57                      Proiect Appraisal Document
Annex 7
Amman Water and Sanitation Management Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                        Planned                    Actual*
(At final PCD stage)
$400                      $397
B. Project Schedule                               Planned                    Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)           17                        29
First Bank mission (preparation)                 10/20/1996                10/21/1996
Appraisal mission departure                       11/1997                  02/07/1998
Negotiations                                      02/1998                  02/23/1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness                     06/1998
Prepared by:                              Ministry of Water and Irrigation and the
Water Authority of Jordan
Preparation assistance:                   PHRD TF27144 for US$300,000
Bank staff who worked on the project      Jamal Saghir, Sector Leader (MNSID)
included:                                 Etienne Linard, Regional Procurement Advisor (MNAVP)
Fred Kranz, Senior Procurement Specialist (MNAVP)
Les Nemethy, Sr. PSD Specialist (PSDPS)
Andrew Macoun, Sr. Sanitary Engineer (MNSRE)
Alex McPhail, Sr. Economist (MNSID)
Suhail Jme'an, Financial Analyst (MNSID)
Allan Rotman, Environmental Specialist (MNSRE)
Elisabeth Sherwood, Operations Analyst (MNSID)
Sonia Wheeler, Team Assistant (MNSID)
Klas Ringskog, Peer Reviewer (LCSFP)
Mohammed Benouahi, Peer Reviewer (MNSID)
Consultants:                              Wiley Archer, Water Engineer
Judy Wilson, Lawyer
* As of 01/31/99



Jordan                                                                               Annex 8
Amman Water and Sanitation Manaaement Proiect  Paae 58                  Proiect Appraisal Document
Annex 8
Amman Water and Sanitation Management Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
1.  Amman Water and Sanitation Management Project, Project Implementation Plan. (February 1998).
2.  Environmental Analysis and Management Plan (February 1998).
B.  Bank Staff Assessments
1. Note on Water and Sewerage Tariffs Restructuring in Amman Governorate (July 1997).
2.  Economic Analysis.*
3.  Financial Model for WAJ.*
4.  Economic Analysis, Main Assumptions: Note to Files (February 15, 1998).
C.  Other
1.  TOR for Consulting Services for Tender and Detailed Design for Re-Structuring of Greater
Anmman's Water Supply System for Components Funded under Italian Co-financing (November
1997).
2.  TOR for Consulting Services for Tender and Detailed Design for Re-Structuring of Greater
Amman's Water Supply System for Components Funded under METAP Co-financing (April 1997).
3.  Detailed Design Study for Restructuring Greater Amnman's Water Supply System Draft Packaging
Report (October 1997).
4.  The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, Ministry of Water and Irrigation Jordan's Water Strategy (April
1997).
5.  The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, Prime Minister's Letter Approving the Proceeding with the
Greater Amman Water and Wastewater Management Contract Option (April 29, 1997).
6.  Greater Amman Water Supply and Sanitation Programme, Project Implementation Plan (February
1998).
7.  MOWI, WAJ and JVA's new Organization Charts (September 1997).
D. Performance-Based Management Contract
1.  Water Authority of Jordan, Request for Prequalifications for a Performance-Based Management,
Operations and Maintenance Contract for the Provisions of Water and Wastewater Service for
Amman Governorate (June 10, 1997).
2.  Greater Amman Service Area: Contract for Consulting Services Report by Arthur Andersen,
Andersen Worldwide (July 1997).
3.  Water Authority of Jordan, Request for Proposals for a Performance-Based Management,
Operations and Maintenance Contract for the Provisions of Water and Wastewater Service for
Amman Governorate (December 31, 1997).
4.  Water Authority of Jordan, Performance-based Management Contract for Water and Wastewater
Services in Amman Govemorate (draft, September 1997).
5.  Water Authority of Jordan, Initialed Performance-Based Contract for Water and Wastewater
Services in Amman Governorate (February 7, 1999).
*Including electronic files.



Jordan                                                                                                               Annex 9
Amman Water and Sanitation Manaaement Promect             Page 59                                  Proiect Appraisal Document
Annex 9
Amman Water and Sanitation Management Project
Statement of Loans and Credits and IFC Investments
A. IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
As of February 15, 1999
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions        and actual
disbursements a/
Loan or   Fiscal
Project ID   Credit No.   Year    Borower                 Purpose          IBRD    IDA       Cancel.    Undisb.       Osig   Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Loans/Credits: 52
Active Loans
35997       L42140    1998   GOVT OF JORDAN   SECOND TOURISM DEVEL           32.00    0.00    0.00        30.70       3.37        0.00
49581       L42150    1998   GOVT OF JORDAN   COMMUNITY INFRA. DEV.          30.00    0.00    0.00        28.40       3.24        0.00
52297       L43230    1998   GOVT OF JORDAN   TRAINING & EMPLOYMENT           5.00    0.00    0.00         4.75       -0.16       0.00
5323        L40710    1997   GOVT OF JORDAN   HOUSING FINANCEtURBAN          20.00    0.00    0.00        13.95       6.66        0.00
35995       L39930    1996   GOVT OF JORDAN   EXPORT DEVELOPMENT             40.00    0.00    0.00        14.31       3.25        0.00
5307       L3864A     1995   GOVT OF JORDAN   HUMAN RES. DEVT. SIL           60.00    0.00    0.00        29.37       14.70       0.00
5321       L3818A    1995   GOVT OF JORDAN   TA FOR AGRICULTURE               6.60    0.00    0.00         1.83       1.85        0.00
5322        L37380    1994   TELECOMM. CORP.  JORDANTELECOMM                 20.00    0.00    0.00         5.70       5.38        0.00
5284       L3568A    1993   GOVT OF JORDAN   TRANSPORT III                   35.00    0.00    0.00        12.53       12.39       0.00
5319       L3574A    1993   GOVT OF JORDAN   HEALTH II                       20.00    0.00    0.00        13.04       9.72       -0.85
Total                                                                       268.60    0.00    0.00       154.58      60.40       -0.85
Active Loans      Closed Loans           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                   114.02             1,321.99            1,436.01
of which has been repaid:                        0.99              622.09               623.08
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                   267.61              699.90               967.51
Amountsold        :                                 0.00               11.53                11.53
Ofwhichrepaid    :                                0.00                11.53               11.53
Total Undisbursed  :                              154.58                0.00               154.58
a. Intended disbursemients to date miinus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisaL.
B. Statement of IFC Investments
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of December 31, 1998
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                                      Disbursed
IFC                                           IFC
FY Approval             Company             Loan    Equity        Quasi   Partic         Loan      Equity       Quasi    Partic
0                    Pella                      0.00      1.50         0.00     0.00         0.00       1.50        0.00       0.00
1987/90/93/95        Al-Hikma                   3.20     0.00         2.70      0.00         3.20      0.00         2.36       0.00
1994                 Al-Keena Paper             6.29     0.00         0.00      0.00         6.29      0.00         0.00       0.00
1995                 Indo-Jordan               30.00     0.00         0.00      0.00       30.00       0.00         0.00       0.00
1995                 Jordan Telephone          15.00     0.00         0.00      0.00        15.00      0.00         0.00       0.00
1996                 MODAL                      3.86     0.00         0.00      0.00         3.86      0.00         0.00       0.00
1996                 Zara                      15.00     3.00         0.00      0.00        15.00      2.97         0.00       0.00
1997                 BTC                        4.00     1.00         0.00      0.00        4.00       1.00         0.00       0.00
1997                 El-Zay                     5.00     0.00         0.00      0.00         5.00      0.00         0.00       0.00
1998                 Jordinvest                 0.00     1.41         0.00      0.00         0.00      1.41         0.00       0.00
1998                 JHTC                      10.00     0.00         0.00      0.00        10.00      0.00         0.00       0.00
Total Portfolio:                   92.35     6.91          2.70     0.00        92.35      6.88         2.36       0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan      Eouity      Ouasi      Partic
1998                 AIHC                     0.00       3.17       0.00        0.00
1999                 JORDAN LIFE              0.00       0.74       0.00        0.00
1998                 JVC                      8.00       0.00       0.00        8.00
1999                 MAICO                    0.00       1.00       0.00        0.00
Total Pending Commitment:          8.00      4.91       0.00        8.00



Jordan                                                                                                                      Annex 10
Amman Water and Sanitation Management Proiect                  Paae 60                                     Proiect Appraisal Document
Annex 10
Amman Water and Sanitation Management Project
Jordan at a Glance
M.  Eas4t  L O wr     -__  ___
POVERTY; ad $Q(tIAi                                           &-00 Neiftt00000 is  iNortr middl.-;
Jordan      Airle         t :Incei    Development diamond*
Population. mid-ye  (millions)  40i;t760                          283 Z000 |  t000;i;0  00iC  002OS ;;t; tf$ - l0   Life expectancy
GNP!                      u t pe cait (Atlas me'd LAS$Yt W.L4&O  2,060    133tt '0S
P~~~p~~rlation (%J                       4.~~~~~~~~~~2  2.3   1.
Laborforce(%~~~~~~~~                     12.0   ~     mGNP                                              Gross
per  -k"              ~~~~~prmary
Mos ;reen esttrt te                1*9 0~ 00; l4   700:  ;0E1, 0 tt      t      per                              G        .
capita                       enrollment
Povert 7VO2p/fo  eo  n*    peyln)1
Life. eype    at br (yeas                               70         67 '.
4niant mortaity lpier    Jiveltls 3b 4l                           48        36
Child malnutriin 1%o chld dat5)                         17         10        ..                Access to safe water
Accessq: swate   of popolatiot                          89         7i       -84
Witeracy(   ipolaltrQn3ags-75+)<:         00:;h::::: 1.3          39 .1X0    -:9S
:Gross prinraryenrothnent (%hofsoag pr5o            t:0009:4tS t:-00 :9:i97.   i.      -     Jordan 
Male                         ;                          ;      : <0        - t        0: :94  t 0  :1ti X: i: :0;|:i t16::: :l4 102  -.-  Lower-middle-income group
T: Fem ale                   00      ;        ;  :;         iA    95.    005  91  | 0 01-t3ci5  __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ _
Economic ratios*
GOP (US$tfiulpn)                         1..                                   Dom6e7t7c
Gtrssydomesi4if pnvestment 353                         20.5      3         2                         rrade
ixor1s of ood s apd se :rvX- ; ices /:DP       : 33)B6  2 9.3    54-.5     50' :.9  t 
:savss..    l.r    DIestlc s vi gtlG-P -18  :jE0.t-:57:000!   5.7:          5.54f:0jE:iE: Saving
Grss naiwGt 0 ;000iona saIg/O  .; :.         37. 0    1ot        28.-00500A 2$S0 00000:\.
-Inter            :     : est:t::;y;g:    : ;;:,f  tX,g A41                        Indebtedness
G aO mn O                              0.,5     3.8      4,3      44P                                     Ine Jordanse
TNPpLer capial  .i 3.                                             Z                       . . ........ Lower-middle-income5group 9 
Toal  odtserOice/exprts2.i                         97        2.
Prsentva0lu i' 01,6it0090;0  eo0fde',0  br/GO   .,-.  ,.;  1. ......, ...gtS'h^05'e.3... 
Present~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ value-- i' 2i4'2""''i';.:    ''  i' of4 detepot  .., f s..  .133'-
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1986      1996       1997      Growth rates of output and investment (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                          80
Agriculture                                   8.8       6.3       4.0       3.5      60I
Industry                                     23.5     24.4       26.2      25.2              A
Manufacturing                                9.9     10.6       13.2      12.9     40 -
Services                                     67.7      69.3      69.9      71.3      30j
Private consumption                          79.0     79.4       69.0      69.3    -20      92   93   94   95
General govemment consumption                34.7      26.2      25.3      25.1                -GDI                GDP
Imports of goods and services                82.7     55.4       80.6      73.9
(average annual growth)                  '1976-86  198797       1996       1997      Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth7)
Agriculture                                   7.8       0.4       6.4       3.6    30
Industry                                     10.7       5.6      -5.8       2.0    26
Manufacturing                                7.0      6.8       -9.0       2.5    20
Services                                      8.2       2.9       4.1       2.1    10    
Private consumption                          11.1       4.3       3.1       3.1      5
General govemment consumption                 8.2       4.3       0.4        1.9     0
Gross domestic investment                     4.9       8.9      -9.6       -8.1                             95    9    97
Imports of goods and services                10.6       9.4       1.6       -0.7               -Exports    el Imports
Gross national product                        8.3       4.0       1.2       0.9
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Jordan                                                                                                                Annex 10
Amman Water and Sanitation Management Proiect              Page 61                                   Project Appraisal Document
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976    1986       1996     1997      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                        10
Consumer pnces                              11.4      0.0        6.5      3.0     6
ImplicitGDPdeflator                           1.0     0.1        2.3      2.7     6
4 
Government finance                                                                2
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                               o
Current revenue                             31.8    30.4        34.7     33.2            92   93   94   95   96   97
Current budget balance                       -2.2     4.0        4.2      4.1             -     GDP deflator  -CCPI
Overall surplus/deficit                     -16.2    -7.1       -3.1     -2.3
TRADE
(US$ millions)                              1976    1986       1996      1997     Export and import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                          207      731      1,817    1,834    5,000
Phosphorus                                  49      120        226      256
Metal X                                      ..    185         179      190
Manufactures                                32      237        741      757     3000
Total imports (cif)                        1,023    2,429      4,293    4,102     2000
Food                                       245      473       826       761
Fuel and energy                            112      317       513       528 1
Capital goods                              345      404       938       916        o
91  92  93  94  95  93  97
Export price index (1995=100J                 88       81       108       104
Importpriceindex(1995=100)                    89       93       116       114               flExports    mImports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                     99       87        93        91
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                              1976    1986       1996     1997      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                611    1,803      3,663    3,572      2 T
Imports of goods and services              1,330    3,316      5,416    5,186      0
Resource balance                            -719   -1,513    -1,753   -1,613      -2 i1
Net income                                    ..   -150        -301      -209     -6
Netcurrenttransfers                          771    1,617      1,832    1,851     -8t
Current account balance                       52      -46       -222       29    -12 -     
-14+
Financing items (net)                        -85      131       345       675    -16
Changes in net reserves                       33      -86       -123     -704    -18
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)       551      828      1,007    1,962
Conversion rate (DEC, locaLVUS$)             0.3      0.4        0.7      0.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976    1986       1996     1997
(US$ millions)                                                                    Composition of total debt, 1997 (US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         437    4,900      6,661    7,086
IBRD                                         0      281       777      784   |                                           |
IDA                                         39       81        67        65                     516    A:784 
Total debt service                            29      608       656                                              33 F: 39
IBRD                                         0       36       127       125
IDA                                          0        2         3         3
Composition of net resource flows                                                                               D:636
Official grants                            397      455       172
Official creditors                          91      179       448
Private creditors                            1      434      -159
Foreign direct investment                    ..
Portfolio equity                             0        0        25        ..              E: 4,343
World Bank program
Commitments                                 10       78       180         0     A- IBRD                      E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                6       83       169        79   | - IDA    D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                         0       16        80        73     C-IMF                        G - Short-term
Net flows                                    6       67        89         5   1                                          1
Interest payments                            0       22        49        54
Net transfers                                6       45        40       -49
10/16/98



Jordan                                                                                                 Annex 11
Amman Water and Sanitation Manaaement Proiect       Page 62                              Project Aoipraisal Document
Annex I 1
Amman Water and Sanitation Management Project
Government's Water Utility Policy
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN i
MINISTRY OF PLANNING                                                         .       *j13j
AMMAN
Ref.    ;/g/                                                                _
Oate      /                                                                                             II
Mr. Inder Sud
Diretor
Middle East Deparunent
Middle East and North Africa Region
The World Bank
I8s8 H. Srea N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A
Dear Mr. Sud,
Subject:      "Water Utlity Policy"
For your information, please find enclosed a copy of "Water Utility
Policy" prepared by the Ministry of Water and Irrigation and approved by
the Council of Ministers on July 23,1997.
Best regards.
Sincerely yours,
Rima Khalaf Hunaidi
NMinister of Planning
,,Yt A .  .e ,,1  ooo ,*  ,! NPC rlnti    $ *  NPC  uTrwt .  irmv/3tsrt   m . (Ita i) ittiV3/v. . ittrAA4 -LU
reL (9626)644466'70. 64431,85. Tclefax 649341:64'47 .Cable: NPC Jo .Tcle, 2319 NPC lo  P0. Box 55S Ammza(lt 111t18 30RDAN
*                                  1*JA Jf ~~~~~~~~~~~~.,,, .si



Jordan
Amman Water andSaniaaXn Management Proiect  eage 63                  Annex IcI
Prjc   prisal Document
The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
Ministry of Water & Irrigation
Water Utility Policy



Jordan                                                                        Annex 11
Amman Water and Sanitation Management Proiect  Pace 64             Proect Appraisal Document
Introduction
Water is a scarce and precxous resource that is of vital importance to the continued socio-
economic development of the Kingdom. It requires careful planning based on long-term
data of available water resources - surface water, groundwater including the deep aquifers,
brackish water and appropriately treated wastewater generated from the urban areas.
Limited available water resources must be used in an equitable way, taking into
consideration priority for reasonable domestic use, established socio-economic
development and other uses such as agriculture, industry and tourism.
1. The Water Strategy
Securing a reliable supply of water, adequate in quantity and quality, is one of the most
challenging issues facing Jordan today. Planning and policy formulation for the supply and
utilization of water resources will be based on comprehensive and reliable data, including
data on water quantity, quality, and utilization.  The supplies of surface water,
groundwater, and treated wastewater, and their utilizaton will be carefi&ly monitored.
The importance of shared surface water supplies and groundwater aquifers demands
carefil and consistent assessment and monitoring of these resources. Non-onventional
water resources, particularly brackdsh water resources, will be assessed, as desalination
becomes more economically feasible.
The fill potential of surface water and groundwater shall be developed based on the
economic feasibility and taling into consideration the relevant social and environmental
impacts. Investigation works of deep aquifers shall be conducted to support development
planning. The interactive use of ground and surface water with different qualities shall be
considered, and assessment of the available and potential resources shall be conducted
periodically.
A Water Strategy has been formulated by the Ministry of Water and Irigation, and was
adopted by the Council of Ministers on April 26th, 1997. The strategy stresses the need
for improved resource management with particular emphasis being placed on the
sustainability of present and future uses. Special care shall be given to protection against
pollution, quality degradation and depletion of resources. Furthermore, the Ministry of
Water and Irrigation shall continually aim at achieving the highest practical efficiency in
the conveyance, distribution, application and use, and shall adopt a dual approach of
demand management and supply management, with tools of advanced technology being
increasingly utilized to enhance the resource management capabilities. The interactive use
of multiple resources shall be targeted to maximize the usable flows, and maximize the net
benefit from the use of a unit flow of water. In conjunction with this, there will be a



Jordan                                                                      Annex 11
Amman Water and Sanitation Manacrement Proiect  Page 65           Proiect Appraisal Document
targetng of the minim   cost of operation and maiance with the cost of production
of fiutue industial, commercial, tourism and agricultral projects being measured alo in
terms of their reqirements of uits of water flow. Performance efficieny of the wat and
wastewater systems and the management thereof shall be monitored and rated, and the
improvements on performance shall be introduced with due consideration to resource
economics.
The Water Strategy ensues that the rightfuil shares of the Kingdom's shared water
resources shall be defended and protected through bilateral and multilateral conacts,
negodations, and agreements. Peace water and wastewater projects, including the scheme
for the development of the Jordan Rift Valley, shall be accorded special attention for
construction, operation and maintenance. Due respect will be given to the provisions of
international law as applicable to water sharing, protection and conservation, and those
applicable to territorial waters. Bilateral and multi-lateral co-operation with neighboring
states shall be pursued, and regional co-operation with appropriate mechanims shall be
advocated.
As part of the Ministry's efforts to manage the water resources more efficiently a long-
range plan shall be formulated for the development of the resources, and a revolving five-
year plan shall be extracted from it and updated as necessary. The revolving plan shall be
compatible with those formulated for the other sectors of the economy. A parallel
investment plan shall accompany the development plan.
2. Institutional Development
The Government will adopt the most efficient and effective means for optimizng national
objectives in the water sector. Among the main requirements for facilitating and
accelerating this achievement is an institutional framework compatible with the
complexities of water sector issues and a management system that best serves them. The
performance of the water sector, like that of any other sector, depends heavily on the
strength of its institutions. Institutional restructuring and the introducton of private
sector involvement must, therefore, be supported by adequate legislation, efficient law
enforcement, and strong human resources development.
A significant reorganization of the water agencies will be necessary to increase efficiency
and responsiveness. In this context a thorough assessment of the institutional setting and
constraint has been developed, and a program of implementation was adopted. The role
of the Ministry of Water and Inigation (MOWI) will be centered on planning,
development of the sector, formulation of policy framnework and on regulation of various
activities related to the water sector. The restrcturing program will produce an overall
framework articulated by the following three entities;
2



Jordan                                                                      Annex 11
Amman Water and Sanitation Management Proiect  Pame 66            Project Appraisal Document
The Ministy of Water and rigadon (MO W) will remain as a govemt entity
responsible for sector governance. The role ofthe Ministy wil cener on providing policy
formulation, decision making, centralized data collection, Geographic Infornnation Systm,
monitonng and national water planning for the water sector of Jordan. A comprehensive
national water data bank will be established and kept at the Ministry of Water and
Iriga on, and shall be aided by a decsion support uDit. Additionally, this data bank will
be supported by a program of monitoring and a system of data collection, entry, 'pdatin&
processing and  emination of information, and will be designed to become a termiral in
a regional data bank setup.
The Water Authority of Jordan (WAJ) is moving to separate its bulk water supply and
retail functions. The majonty of the retail water delivery functions in the Amman
Governorate will be managed by the private sector. BOT or similar private sector
mechanisms will be considered for new bulk water supply and wastewater treatment
facilities. The role of WAJ will change with the expected separation of bulk water from
the retail supply, and the adoption of cost accounting methods based on Generally
Accepted Accounting Principals (GAAP). WAJ will monitor retail supply contracts, and
will become a smaller organizaton of higher caliber with a major role in the operational
monitoring of a number of management contracts with private sector utilities and BOT
providers. WAJ will manage the resources as well as those bulk supplies, which are not
privatized. Furthermore, it will provide support to smaller retail distribution units, which
are not operated by the private sector. The intention is that these units will be operated
along commercial lines, with greater local autonomy and with higher stakes for the users.
The Jordan Valey Authority (JVA) has, over the past two decades, implemented a series
of successive integrated social and economic development plans. Its activities, particularly
in social infrastructure, have witnessed a slowdown over the past decade.  The
development of the Jordan Valley needs to be re-assessed, and the role of the IVA will be
defined accordingly. Future development will have to take a course that builds on the
achievements and charts new territories with more focus on such sectors as tounsm,
industry, manufacturing, advanced technologies, and others. The mandate of the IVA as
stipulated in Law No. 19 of 1988 will be sustained. The private sector will be cagled upon
to assume a proper role in development as well as operation and maintenance activities
that are being restructured on a more commercial basis. Furthermore, cost accounting
methods based on Generally Accepted Accounting Principals (GAAP), will be introduced.
JVA's responsibilities will be enhanced as more momentum is gained by the integrated
development of the Jordan Rift Valley (JRV) now being studied as a regional project.
3



Jordan                                                                       Annex 11
Amman Water and Sanitation Management Proiect  Paae 67            Project Aporaisal Document
3. Private SeCtor Participation
The Goverament is committed to securing water services at affordable pnces and
acceptable standards. t is also committed to extending these seices to remote and less
developed areas  Although in the fitre, demand and competition are expected to
increase for the avilable imited water resources, the government intends, through private
sector participatio, to ranfer management of i'nfratracte and services from the public
to the private sector, in order to improve performance and ensure the delivery of services
to the populaon.
The role of the private sector will be expanded with management contracts, concessions
and other forms of private sector participation in water utilities being considered and
adopted as appropriate. The concepts of BOT/ BOO shall be entertained, and the impact
of such concepts on the consumers shall be continually assessed, and negative impacts
mitigated. The private sector role in irrigated agriculture shall also be encouraged and
expanded. Emphasis will be placed on the social benefits in conjunction with the private
investments.
4. Water Pricing and Cost Recovery
In view of the increasing marginal cost of supplying water in Jordan, the growing demand
for water, the low rate of cost recovery and in fine with the Mnistry of Water and
Irrigation's policy towards private sector participation and privatization, the Ministry will
set municipal water and wastewater charges at a level which will cover at least the cost of
operation and maintenance by the first quarter of 1998. The Mistry will also move
towards the recovery of all or part of the capital costs of water infrastructure. Until the
cost recovery is fUll, and the national savings reach levels capable of domestic financing of
development projects, project financing wiU depend on concessionary loans, private
borrowing and/or BOO and BOT arrangements.
The water tariffs mechanisn shall be considered as a tool to recover the cost of water
projects, however, profitable undertaings in industry, tourism, commerce and agriculture
shall be made to pay the fair water cost. Moreover, the Ministry will attempt to set
differential prices for water based on water quality, the end users, and the social and
economic impact of prices on the various economic sectors and regions of the country.
The Ministry will also attempt to regularly review and adjust water tariffs based on the
costs of supply, operations, and the comprehensive analysis of economic data.
4



Jordan                                                                       Annex I11
Amman Water and Sanitation Management Proiect  Paoe 68             Proiect Appraisal Document
5. Human Resources
Although clear policies already exist concerning the terms of employment and benefit
packages of government workers, more transparent procedures concernmg recruitment
and jobs' terms of reference are required. Further clarity is also needed concerning
national pnorities for technical and management skills and the means through which they
will be tranderred. In order to better prepare for the twenty-first century, a National
Water Sector Training Strategy and implementable programs will be developed.
In light of the above, the Ministry of Water and Irrigation wfll endeavor to improve the
capability of Jordan's human resources in the water sector and maximize their efficiency
by giving priority to human resources development through continuous education, in-
service training, career development, and short- and long-term taining. In addition, the
Ministry shall strengthen the existing national water training center and provide it with the
necessary support in order to identify, encourage, promote, and organize human resources
activities and taining needs. Recruitment of new staff will be based on sound criteria thus
ensuring that staff qualifications meet job requirements. Human resources performance
will be continually appraised in order to upgrade capabilities, sustain excellence, and
provide job security to qualified personnel. Incentives for excellence will be introduced in
compliance with the needs for dedication, while over-employment will be trimmed to
reach optimum employment levels compatible with efficient management.
6. Water Resource Management
Since the shortage of water resources in Jordan was first widely recognized in the early
1970s, many strategies and measures have been proposed to alleviate and overcome it.
These have included supply augnentation measures involving the construction of various
hydraulic structures and the development of groundwater. However, no single action can
remedy the nation's water shortage. Rather, an integrated approach will be adopted to
enhance water availability, suitability, and sustainability.
It is estimated that in the year 2000 the renewable freshwater resources available per
capita in Jordan will be about 160 cubic meters per year. This is less than one third of the
widely recognized "water poverty line" of 500 cubic meters per capita per year. This
sobering observation requires that water be well managed and used as efficiently as
possible, that demand be proficiently managed, that all available sources of water be
developed, and that adverse impacts be mitigated through measures of environmental
protection.
5



Jordan                                                                          Annex 1
Amman Water and Sanitation Manaaement Proiect  Page 69              Project Appraisal Document
Suface Water
Development of the countr5s remainilg lmited surface wate potential can contribute to
meeting rapidly increasing demands for all categories of water use in the country. Surface
water supplies contrbute substantially to Jordan!s total water resources, and despite heavy
investment in the construction of storage reservoirs, there are still oppornities for fiurther
investment in surface water ficilities.
Surface water potential in Jordan is estimated at 692 Million Cubic Meters per year.
Because of the aridity in the eastern, southeastern and southern basins, and because of
other economic and geographic constraints, only about 475 Mllion Cubic Meters of this
potential can be developed economically.
In order to enhance the surface water resources the Ministry of Water and Irrigation is
implementing a comprehensive monitoring and assessment program for surface water
quantity, quality, and uses, as well as establishing an integrated development and
conservation program to increase the potential of surface water development in Jordan.
Since the surface water resources are extremely limited, the Ministry will optimize the
development and use of this resource through supply-enhancing measures, including
surface and subsurface storage, =rinimizing losses by surface evaporation and seepage, soil
and water programs, and protecting surface water supplies from pollution.
The Ministry is also pursuing the development of sustainable management plans for
surfice water systems in the Jordan Valley, conversion of open canal systems to a
pressurized pipe system, giving priority to modeniizing and upgrading systems, and
precedence to water projects which make significant contributions to meeting rising
municipal and industrial demands.
Groundwater
The unsustainable abstraction of groundwater and the depletion of groundwater aquifers is
one of the major problems facing .the water sector in Jordan. The reaction to the abrupt
surges in population levels has been over abstraction from groundwater aquifers. This
was exacerbated by the lack of enforcement of regulations on private sector drilling
operations, and the near absence of controls on licensed abstraction rates resulting in the
rapid depletion of aquifers and culminating in increased pumping costs due to the drastic
drop in the water table, as well as increased salinity levels. Groundwater aquifers are
exploited at more than double their sustainable yield in the average. The sustainability of
irrigation in the highlands and the Badia areas will be greatly endangered unless strict
measures are taken to address this issue. As such, the NMnistry is implementing a program
that sets out legal and financial measures aimed at controlling and gradually reducing
groundwater withdrawals with the final objective of maintaining the safe yield of aquifers.
Measures will also continue to be taken to protect the groundwater resources from all
sources of pollution.
6



Jordan                                                                          Annex 1I
Amman Water and Sanitation Manaaement Proiect  Page 70               Proiect Appraisal Document
In ordcr to improve the groundwater situatio  in the Kingdoms the Miiy of Watw and
Irrigation is establishing au integratd program to assess the availability and exploitabity
of all resources at rates th can be susained over long periods of time. The minin of
renewable groundwaer aquifers will be checked, controlled, and reduced to sustainable
extraction rates. la conjunction with this, the Ministry is pursuing planned and controlled
groundwater mining from promising, extensive fossil aquifers as an option to secure
incremental supplies for municipal and industrial uses. The groundwater use will take
place conjunctively with surface water in places where such joint use has the potential for
increasing the available groundwater supply.   There will also be improvement and
centralization of groundwater data collection, analysis, and monitoring, as well as the
strengthening of the enforcement of groundwater legislation and regulatons.  The
Ministry will fiuther encourage the application of applied research activities, including
artificial recharge to increase groundwater supplies, and the employment of new
technologies that will optimize the operation and development of groundwater systems
and promote its more efficient and feasible uses.
Wastewater
The Ministry presently provides wastewater collection and treatment services to fourteen
major populated areas. At present about 2 million people (about 50% of the population)
are served by sewerage systems and the effluent quantity is estimated at about 60 Million
Cubic Meters per year, being reused primarily in agriculture.
In view of the increasing population and the social and econoniic development of the
country, the amount of treated wastewater is increasing. It is estimated that by the year
2020 the volume of treated wastewater will be 200 Million Cubic Meters per year and as
such, more wastewater projects are planned. As available freshwater resources become
increasingly limited in Jordan, treated wastewater wi}l play an ever more important role in
the sector. To protect human health and the environment and to provide additional water
supply that meets the approved standards for its use, the Ministry of Water and Irrigation
will ensure that appropriate wastewater collecting systems and treatment facilities are
provided for all sources of wastewater, wherever feasible. It will also ensure that
wastewater is not managed as "waste" but is collected, treated, managed, and used in an
efficient and optimized manner. The Ministry will also ensure that treated effluent
complies with recently established national standards (JS893-1995) and that all treatment
is to a quality appropriate for use in agricultural activities and other non-domestic
purposes, including  groundwater recharge.    Appropriate  wastewater treatment
technologies shall be adopted with due consideration to sustainability, economy in energy
consumption, and quaity assurance of the effluent. Consideration shall also be given to
the blending of the treated effluent with fresher water for suitable reuse.
n light of this, the Ministry is developing a wastewater master plan, which will establish
targets for providing wastewater collection systems and treatment facilities to unserved
areas throughout the country.
7



Jordan                                                                             Annex 11
Amman Water and Sanitation Manaaement Proiect  Page 71                 Project Acoraisal Document
The Ministry is moving, throwgh restructumg, towards establishing the institutional
capability for moitoring, r   ting and enforcing wastewar regulatons. industies wHi
be encouraged to recyde part of their wastewater and to treat the rest to acceptable
standards before it is discharged into the sewer systems or elsewhere. This will help to
ensure that the treated effluent qualty eiting wastewater treatment plants conforms to
water quality standards for rese.
Due consideration  wi   be given to  environmental issues and  contamination of
groundwater aquifers in the development of wastewater reuse systems, and standards will
be set for the construction and management of septic tanks where it is not feasible to have
sewerage collection systems and treatment facilities. In addition, the Ministry will
establish a unit with welI qualified staff to be responsible for the planning, design,
construction and management of sewerage system projects and for the reuse of treated
effluent.
Bracidsh Water
Besides wastewater reuse, brackish water, either for direct use or afer desalination,
appears to offer the highest potential non-conventional means of augmenting the country's
water resources. Several brackish springs have been identified in various parts of the
country. Tentative estimates of stored volumes of braclish groundwater for the major
aquifers suggest immnense resources, but not all of these quantities will be feasible for
utilizaion. As such, when referring to statistics about brackish water, the quality, quantity
and location of this resource need to be carefiully studied in order to assess its potential for
utilization.
In order to fuirther pursue the bracidsh water option, the Ministry must first assess the
potential of brackish water resources in terms of sound technical, economic and
environmental feasibility in all groundwater basins within the Kingdom, and then conduct
research and studies on desalination and on optimization of brackish water use in
agriculture and industry.  Brackish water resources will then be allocated, -either
desalinated or in their natural condition, to their best uses in order to provide additional
water supply and to ensure water productivity and sustainability. They shall also be listed,
along with seawater, for desalination to produce additional water for municipal, industrial
and commercial consumption.
The Ministry has consistently encouraged regional and international cooperation for the
promotion of research, development, exchange of information as well as training in the
field of desalination and other non-conventional sources. Therefore, technology transfer
and the findings of advanced research in genetic engineering shall be introduced to the
extent possible for this purpose.
8



Jordan                                                                          Annex II
Amman Water and Sanitation Management Proiect  Paae 72               Proect Aoraisal Document
7. Water Qulity and the Environment
Jordan has witnessed some deterioation in its water quality in the last two decades due to
industrial pollution, overuse of agrochemicals, agricultura rnoff overloading of
wastewater treatment plants, ovepumping of aqu ,ers, seepage from landfills and septic
tanks, and the improper disposal of dangerous chemicals by certain industries. The added
population pressure, exacerbated by succeive waves of refugees and displaced people,
has firther degraded the effluent from the Khirbet As-Samra wastewater treatment plant
and has resulted in the degrdation of water quality in the King Talal Dam, requinng that
its reservoir be closed to public access.
Water quality criteria are physical, chemical, and biological characteistics, which reflect
tolerances and requirements for use of the resource in various sectors. For domestic uses,
they reflect human health considerations and people's intangible sense of aesthetics. When
these values are incorporated into enforced standards, the result will be water that is both
aesthetically pleasing and reliably safe. Water of this standard is the right of all citizens
and the responsibility of the Government. However, meeting these standards can be
complex and difficult.
Treated effuent from wastewater plants offers a different set of challenges. The
performance of many of the plants is inadequate, resulting in an effluent of low qpality.
This effluent may have an adverse effect on public health due to the presence of pathogens
or the accumulation of toxins in soils irrigated using effluent. Furthermore, pollution of
surface and groundwater due to seepage wil result in the deterioration of the water
quality of some water resources and wilI lirmit their use for drinldng purposes.
The quality of treated effluent and the performance of the wastewater treatment plants are
greatly affected by the influent water quality which may be of domestic or industrial
source. Thus, enforcing standards for wastewater discharges to sewers, treated effluent
and for water for other uses is essential.
Jordan, as well as many other countries, has adopted international water quality standards
or guideline values developed by'the World Health Organization (WHO), the United
States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), and others. This acceptance has been a
simple and safe way of setting water standards policy. However, these standards are often
stringent, based on "the worst case assumptions" or conditions, which may not be relevant
to local conditions, or even affordable in some instances. To achieve a desirable water
quality, it is not always necessary to adopt these standards.
When water is extremely limited, as is the case in Jordan, water standards must be
carefilly examined to assure that available resources are fiully and efficiently utilized.
Thus, the standards adopted should consider national priorities, economics, and
availability of water supplies, as well as health and other environmental implications.
9



Jordan                                                                         Annex I 1
Amman Water and Sanitation Management Proiect  Page 73              Proiect Appraisal Document
Iniplanentation of standards and their enforcenet require fcilities and expertise. which
involve significant costs.   Enforcement, pat mlary, requires commitment ad
coordnation between many agencies and at many levels within the goverment It should
be emphased that consideatons of policy and convenience must never be allowed to
jeopardize public health
In developing standards for drinking water, it is intended that when these sndards are
implemented, the safety of drining water supplies be ensured.   Adopting and
implementing standards for treaed effluent will result in minimizing health hazards, as well
as other environmental risks, such as biological and chemical pollution of surface and
groundwater.
Adopting standards and guidelines for water used in irrigation, in cooperation with the
Mmnisty of Agriculture, increases the availability of water that can be used in irrigation.
Setting standards for treated effluent according to its end use will have an economic
impact and makes the implemenation of these standards easier. To ensure that these
standards are achieved, an effective monitoring program has to be adopted. Such a
program  requires that analytical methodology, equipped laboratories and qualfied
personnel be provided.
In order to ensure the safety of drinking water supplies, to prevent chemical, biological
and physical pollution of water resources, and to maintain efflcient wastewater systems the
Mnistry of Water and Irzigation will survey and monitor all water resources for water
quality, and ensure that water quality standards are consistently being met. Furthermore,
the Miistry will continuously evaluate and update standards and guidelines for drining
water quality, while simultaneously strengthening the enforcement of standards so that
water supplies and wastewater do not endanger the public health.
Particular attention needs to be focused on adopting and enforcing effluent and sludge
standards for municipal and industrial wastewater treatment plants and for discharge from
laboratories, hospitals, slaughterhouses, and other businesses. Concerns for public health
and the health of workers shall be a focus in the programs of reuse of treated wastewater.
Laboratories shall be maintained and properly equipped to provide reliable data needed to
ensure safe supplies to the consumers.
8. Service Levels
Policy issues related to water distribution have to do primarily with questions of efficiency
and investment. Water distribution systems are the conveyance networks or water lifeine
of the country. The general objective of any water distribution system is to distribute
water to consumers in adequate quantity and quality and at the required time to meet the
demand in the most efficient manner. National efforts are required in Jordan to improve
existing systems, expand them to cover areas not being served, and to improve technical
and managerial capabilities.
10



Jordan                                                                       Annex 11
Amman Water and Sanitabon Management Proiect  Page 74             Proiect Appraisal Document
Specific improvements in Jordan's water distribution sysns inche the removal of
inadeqaes nm the vanous component of the existing  ytems, sich as operional
problems, metering problems, supply iterpitions, under deg of pipes, high operation
pressures, and absence of pressre zones.
In conjunction with the above, the Mnistry of Water andcnigation wi continu withthe
enhancement of the operation and maintnce of the exsting disriution sytems and
reservoirs, and the rehabilitaion of old and damaged components. Conjcely, the
Ministry will continue ensuring proper, safe, and high standards and specications for pipe
and other materials and for construction and operation and maintennce practices.
Since efficient water distibution systems are vital to conserve water, provide better
services to consumers, and reduce water costs, the Ministry wil improve the efficiency of
water distribution through improved planng and strengthened techicaL manageriaL and
financial capability of concerned institutions. The Ministry will also endeavor to meet
water demands in the most effective and efficient manner, fousing on proper planning,
improving operation and maintenance, and private sector participation, whenever possible.
Investments in municipal networks are inadequate. Although the level of services in the
water supply sector in Jordan is fairly high, with service to 97% of the population in the
urban areas and 83% in the mrual areas, distribution systems are still far from opfimal and
eficiencies are still low. The unaccounted for water in the municipal networks was
estimated to be 55% of the quantity supplied in 1995.
The most important parameters developed for service level assessment include:
Mintaning water quality in the networks to be within the standards.
* Frequency of summer water supply.
* Frequency of winter water supply.
3 Response time for repair of network leakages, pressure loss, and sewer blockage.
* Reduction in waiting times for water and wastewater connections.
* Reduction in waiting times for the resolution of customer complaints.
In the Jordan Valley, the overal irrigation efficiency of 57% in 1994 was raised to 68% in
1995 after significant improvements. In addition, and because of operational problems
and water shortages, about 16% of the total developed agricultural area is not regularly
supplied with irrigation water.
The priority criterion for project implementation, and for additional water allocation shall
be based on economic, social and environmental considerations. A critical path shall be
established for the allocation of each new source of water. Consideration shall be given to
the sustainability of the allocation in the light of the national water balance situation and
the economic, social and environmental opportunity cost of forgone alternative uses of
I1



Jordan                                                                       Annex 11
Amman Water and Sanitation Management Proiect  Paae 75            Proiect ADoraisal Document
water. First pioiity will be given to allocation of the basic hum    needs, ad as such, ist
priority is given to the allocation of a modest share of 100 liter per capita per day to
domestc water supplies  Expensive additional water has municipal purposes as a first
priority in allocation, followed by tourism and industrial purposes.
9. Public Awareness
Public awareness is primarily a means of informing and educating water users about the
seniousness of the water stuation in Jordan. In so doing, it is a tool for anaging water
demand and can be used to help rationalize water consumption and encourage
conservation at the household, business, or farm leveL Public awareness programs could
substitute for other demand management methods, including rising water prices,
introducing water saving devices, and rationmg water supply, which may be less
acceptable to the general public. Public awareness is also a means of directy confronting
the degradation of the resource by having end users understand its implications and seeing
themselves as caretakers who can protect the quality of water, neither contaminating it
themselves nor permitting others to pollute it. It also has critical institutional components,
since public awareness must be carried out within some organizational setting, which
involves budget allocations and determination of roles for government, nongovernmental
organizations, and the private sector.
Carrying out public awareness programs is important to Jordan for a number of reasons.
There is a general lack of understanding and concern about the value and scarcity of water
resources. Any significant changes in how water is conserved or protected will require
public support and participation. Public awareness programs seek to conserve and protect
water resources through understanding the water sitation and the shortages and scarcity
of the resource. They raise community understanding and support for water allocation
among competing subsectors and improve the likelihood of the public's helping to develop
and accept new policies. By providing information which seeks behavioral modifications,
these programs may assist in the reduction of illegal water connections and the general
misuse and damage of water measurement devices. There is also a need to increase
understanding of water conservation issues in Jordan among policy-makers and the private
sector.
The Government believes that public awareness programs are a successful way of reaching
the Jordanian populace as a way of modifIying undesirable behavior and reinforcing
positive efforts.  By supporting public awareness programs that encourage the
conservation and protection of the Kingdom's limited water resources and observation of
its regulations, the Ministry of Water and Irrigation can better achieve the Govermment's
objectives in the water sector through the direct involvement of the people.
12



Jordan                                                                         Annex II
Amman Water and Sanitation Manacement Proiect  Page 76              Proiect Aporaisal Document
Within the Ministy of Water and rigation, an active public awareness program is rapidly
gan  acceptanc  Policy implications are related primarily to how the Government wil
colaborate with nongovemenal and  other organizatio.   Given the already
collaborative relationships, at least at the policy level, it appears to be only moderaey
umportant With regards to the public however, there needs to be an educational cmpag
put into effect to inform the public about the value of water for them and the well being of
the country for the Lssinability of life, and for the economic and social development
Likewise, facts about water in Jordan need to be disinated such as the cost incurred to
provide the service, and the mounting pressure of population growth on the water
resources. Economic measures must also be adopted to reinforce public awareness.
10. Conservation and Efficiency Measures
The increasing gap between limited water supply and increasing demand in Jordan requires
carefil policies and programs to conserve and manage water properly.  Water
conservation is a means of enhancing water availability by managing both supply and
demand. Generally, this can be addressed by enhancing the efficiency of use through the
utlization of improved water saving technologies and management practices, and the
behavior modification of current practices through, in part, public awareness programs.
Water conservation by the Ministry of Water and Irrigation is expected to bring immediate
and sizable water savings. Fmancia}ly, conservation and efficiency measures will help to
reduce the need for expensive water supply projects that are primarily designed to provide
additional water.
Water conservation and efficiency improvement play a major role in mitigating the
problem of water scarcity and shall be given the proper consideration in the Kingdom's
water resources development and management programs. Therefore, the Ministry of
Water and Irrigation will endeavor to undertake all the necessary measures leading to the
establishment of comprehensive programs for water resources conservation, reduction of
water losses, and improvement of water use efficiency in all sectors.
11. Investment
Nearly all of Jordan's available renewable water resources have been developed. Current
use significantly exceeds the country's available renewable water resources, but still falls
well short of meeting demand. Options for increasing the supply are limited, and
development costs are increasing. Options including rehabilitation and replacement of
inefficient networks, of wastewater reuse, shared water resources, and non-conventional
water resources, pardcularly brackish water desalination, are being either practiced or
investigated.  Development and implementation of these options will require large
investments from the public and private sectors in the fiuture.
13



Jordan                                                                          Annex I11
Amman Water and Sanitation Management Proiect  Page 77              Proiect Aroraisal Document
Because of limited financial resources available in the water sector of Jordan, the process
of setting investmet pnorities has taken on added importance. Criteria for prioritinag
investments that take into account the current and expected needs of the county are
currently being developed. There is also a need to expand domestic water supply and
wastewater systems in urban areas and to expand water supply and provide wsstewater
systems to smaller towns and viUlages that are currently unserved. The same critena must
be applied to the integrated development of the Jordan Valley. New water' schemes
continue to be identified, and there is a serious need for periodic rehabilitation of exisng
schemes.
Traditionally, the public sector has invested heavily in the water resource developmen,
and water investments comprise a major share of Jordan's external borrowing. Although
public sector investments will continue, private sector investment will be sought. To the
extent possible, private sector investments will be channeled to priority areas set by the
Ministry. The investment criteria marently being developed are a means of assisting the
Ministry in setting priorities for investment that will apply to both the public and private
sectors. Economic evaluation methods such as cost-benefit analysis and rate of return
analysis have traditionally been used to rank investment options. The Mnistry of Water
and Irrigation will also take into consideration environmental, health, social and other
issues relevant to the water sector in Jordan.
Due to the strategic importance of water for the social and economic development of the
country, and considering the scarcity of financial resources, the Ministry of Water and
Irrigation will place a high priority on integrated planning and optimal investment in the
water sector, by both the public and private sectors, and establish appropriate critenia for
ranking and selecting water projects. The updating of the National Water Master Plan,
currently being undertaken, wiIl provide broad guidelines and the initial identification of
future investments in the sector.
14



PERFORMANCE BASED MANAGEMENT CONTRACT
FOR WATER AND WASTEWATER SERVICES                                                             CD
IN THE AMMAN GOVERNORATE
Co
PERFORMANCE STANDARDS REFERENCE CHART                                            0
AS OF APPRAISAL
CD
SECTION OF     ACTIVITY BY THE OPERATOR    PERFORMANCE STANDARD    APPLICABLE YEARLY PERFORMANCE TARGETS                  a
SERVICES                                            AND                                                         C         a
APPENDIX                                       MEASUREMENT                                                      O 
YR1   YR2   YR3   YR4   TOTAL FOR
.___________________    .____  _____        I   _____   CONTRACT
ARTICLE 3    WATER AND
WASTEWATER OPERATIONS                                                                       .      
3.1.1        Procurement                                                                                                  co
(1) Prepare and submit to WAJ the    30 days prior to the Starting
Operating Procurement Policy.  Date                              NOT APPLICABLE
For review and approval by
WAJ
Contents of Operating Procurement See Services Appendix
Policy.                     s.3.1.1(1)(b)           __a_i.
g~~~
CD
, 



SECTION OF        ACTIvITy BY THE OPERATOR        PERFORMANCE STANDARD        APPLICABLE YEARLY PERFORMANCE TARGETS                     a
SERVICES                                                    AND
APPENDIX                                               MEASUREMENT
YR 1   YR 2   YR 3   YR 4    TOTAL FOR                   9
CONTRACT                a
3.1.2          Testing and Laboratory Analysis
(1) Provide all testing and laboratory  1.   In accordance with the
analysis:                              Testing and Laboratory
Analysis Appendix
(a)   develop a water quality
monitoring program in      2.   30 days prior to the
accordance with the [Testing     Starting Date
and Laboratory Analysis                                                                                         B
Appendix], for             3.   For review and approval
by WAJ
(i) all raw water sources in the
Service Area
(ii) all main pumping stations                                                                                  0
and boosters;                                                    NOT APPLICABLE
(iii) all main reservoirs;
(iv) the water supply and
distribution system; and
(b)   develop a wastewater effluent
program in accordance with the
Testing and Laboratory
Analysis Appendix
(c)   develop a protocol for
immediate notification of any                                                                                    >
failure to meet water quality or
effluent quality standards.
0 M~



SECTION OF         ACTIVITY BY THE OPERATOR        PERFORMANCE STANDARD        APPLICABLE YEARLY PERFORMANCE TARGETS                     a
SERVICES                                                    AND
APPENDIX                                                MEASUREMENT
YR 1   YR 2   YR 3   YR 4    TOTAL FOR
CONTRACT
3.1.3           SafLeD
(1) Conduct a physical safety inspection   Beginning on the Starting Date
and review of the Facilities to identify
safety deficiencies.
Prepare a comprehensive safety   Within 30 days after the                  NOT APPLICABLE
deficiency report.               Starting Date                                                                          B
(2) Submit the occupational health and    Within 45 days after the
safety program to WAJ.           Starting Date
For review and approval by
WAJ
(3) Implement the occupational health and % of program implemented  50    100     100     100         100
safety program at the Facilities.
(4) Provide ongoing occupational health   Ongoing - in accordance with
and safety training for all staff.  approved safety program
(5) Regularly inspect the facilities for  Once every 90 days
deficiencies.
(6) Hold regularly scheduled safety  Once every 90 days
meetings for Management Staff and
Staff.                                                                     NOT APPLICABLE                               CD
(7) Keep detailed safety records of:
(a)   safety meetings;
(b)   safety inspections;
(c)   safety training; and
(d)   medical aid, lost time,                                                                                           C
accidents and safety incidents



SECTION OF        ACTIVITY BY THE OPERATOR        PERFORMANCE STANDARD       APPLICABLE YEARLY PERFORMANCE TARGETS
SERVICES                                                   AND
APPENDIX                                              MEASUREMENT                            _ . 
YR 1   YR2   YR3   YR4    ToTAL FOR
._________._______ _._ _                                                         CONTRACT                ,
3.1.4          Inventorv Management
Develop and implement an Inventory  % of program implemented  50     100    100    100          100
Management Program.              _                                       _         _        _ 
3.1.5          Emergency Response Plan
(1) Develop an Emergency Response   Within 90 days after the
Plan.                            Starting Date                                                                       3
(2) Contents of Emergency Response Plan See Services Appendix
(3) Provide training in the Emergency  Ongoing
Response Plan
3.1.6          Standard Operating Procedures                                                                                         v
(1) Prepare and submit to WAJ Standard  Within 90 days after the                                                         D
Operating Procedures             Starting Date
Submit to WAJ for review and
approval
(2) Contents of Standard Operating  See Services Appendix
Procedure.                                                               NOT APPLICABLE
(3) Provide training to Staff on Standard   Ongoing
Operating Procedures.
(4) Update and revise Standard Operating  Annually
Procedure as required. Provide                                                                                        .
updates to WAJ and provide further
training as required.
X
CD,



SECTION OF         ACTIViTY BY THE OPERATOR         PERFORMANCE STANDARD          APPLICABLE YEARLY PERFORMANCE TARGETS                      3
SERVICES                                                       AND
APPENDIX                                                  MEASUREMENT
YR1 YR    2    YR 3   YR 4    TOTAL FOR
.__________  I___   _CONTRACT
3.1.7           Operations and
Maintenance Manuals
(1) Prepare and submit to WAJ         Within 90 days after the                                                                  5
Operations and Maintenance Manuals  Starting Date
for the Facilities.                For review and approval by                                                               9
WAJ                                                                                      I
(2) Content of Operations and         See Services Appendix                                                                     -
Maintenance Manuals.                                                          NOT APPLICABLE                                 B
(3) Provide training to Staff, Management Ongoing
Staff
(4) Update Manuals                    Annually
3.1.8           Energy Management Plan
(1) Develop and implement an Energy   Within 180 days after the                  NOT APPLICABLE
Management Plan and submit a copy   Starting Date
of the Plan to WAJ.
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
0*
0.



SECTION OF         ACTmTY BY THE OPERATOR          PERFORMANCE STANDARD         APPLICABLE YEARLY PERFORMANCE TARGETS                      a
SERVICES                                                     AND                                                                         ID 
APPENDIX                                                MEASUREMENT                                                                       E
YR1    YR2    YR3    YR4    TOTALFOR                      -
CONTRACT         
3.1.9          Integrated GIS-Based Information
Management System 
(1) Update and maintain the computerized
information system known as ANIS    Ongoing
water supply and distribution facilities.
(2) Implement and update the ANIS-based
digitized mapping for the water                                                                                          D-
distribution and supply system for:
primary and secondary networks    % of Service Area as measured   100   100     100     100         100
in square kilometres in which
the primary and secondary
networks have been mapped                                                              ,
and updated
tertiary and service connections  Number of service connections  50,000  50,000  50,000  50,000   200,000
and associated tertiary                                            10%
networks which have been
mapped
(3) Implement and update the ANIS-based % of Service Area as measured    25  75    100      100        100
digitized mapping for the wastewater  in square kilometres in which
facilities.                      the Wastewater Facilities have
mapped and, where applicable,                                                          X
updated
(4) Develop and establish an ANIS-based  Enter all repair data within 90        NOT APPLICABLE
repair data base.                 days of the date of repair                                                             B
>D



SECTION OF        ACTIvITY BY THE OPERATOR        PERFORMANCE STANDARD        APPLICABLE YEARLY PERFORMANCE TARGETS
SERVICES                                                    AND
APPENDIX                                               MEASUREMENT
YR 1   YR 2   YR 3   YR 4    TOTAL FOR
___________________X___                        _CONTRACT                             O
3.1.10         Illegal Connections
(1) Develop a program for the       Within 90 days after the                  N
identification and conversion of illegal Starting Date                    NOT APPLICABLE
water connections and submit the  For WAJ's review and
program to WAJ.                  approval                                                                             n
(2) Implement the program for       Forthwith after receiving                                                             ,
identification and conversion.   WAJ's approval                                                                       2
3.1.11         Staff Training and Development
(1) Prepare and submit a training and  Within 30 days after the
development program for          Starting Date                            NOT APPLICABLE
For WAJ's review and
approval                                                                             Q
(2) Inplement the training and      In accordance with approved
development program              program
3.1.12         Vehicles and Equipment
(1) Repair and maintain vehicles in  Ongoing                                  NOT APPLICABLE
accordance with the Preventative
Maintenance Program
0 >
8=
(D X



>c-
SECTION OF         ACTIVITY BY THE OPERATOR        PERFORMANCE STANDARD        APPLICABLE YEARLY PERFORMANCE TARGETS                    3
SERVICES                                                    AND
APPENDIX                                               MEASUREMENT                                                                      E
YR1   YR 2   YR3   YR4    TOTAL FOR 
_____ _____   CONTRACT
3.2             Water Operations
3.2.1          Management of Sources of                                                                                                 _
Raw Water                                                                                                               O
(1) (a)   manage all sources of raw  (a)   raw water standards to
water, as identified in the      be attached to
Facilities Appendix,             performance Standards                .
Appendix as
Attachment 1                                                                    CD
(b)   produce water in accordance   (b)   maximum allowed
with the maximum allowed         production limits
water production limits set out  attached to Performance
in Attachment 2                  Appendix as
Attachment 2                                                                    O
CD1
en
(c)   manage all sources of raw
water in a fashion which
protects them from external
pollution;
(d)   ensure that all sources of raw
water are metered and that
accurate records are
maintained;
(e)   conduct raw water source   In accordance with the Testing                                                         v
sampling                   and Laboratory Analysis                                                                >
Appendix and provisions
(f)   monitor raw water quality and                                                                                     0>
discontinue the use of any                                                                                        Oc
source that does not meet
required standards                                             _



SECTION OF         ACTIVITY BY THE OPERATOR         PERFORMANCE STANDARD         APPLICABLE YEARLY PERFORMANCE TARGETS                     3 a
SERVICES                                                      AND
APPENDIX                                                 MEASUREMENT                                                                       E
YR1    YR 2   YR3   YR4    TOTAL FOR
CONTRACT                C,
(g)   manage all sources of raw
water, as identified in the
Facilities Appendix, giving
priority to the use of surface
water over the use of                                                                                               (
groundwater; and                                                                                                    3
(h)   manage raw water usage and                                                                                           o
quality by blending sources of
raw water to achieve quality
standards
(2) (a)   carry out all operations related
to WAJ's fleet of tankers;
(b)   manage all aspects of the                                                                                            O
tankers operations, including,
(i) the filling process;
(ii)  the customer service  Minimum 16 hours per day
office;
(iii) priority system for tanker
supply to priority
destinations;
(iv) supply of water for
livestock purposes, and
the collection of fees;
(v)  billing collections;                                                                                           0
(vi) produce a monthly and
annual and summary
report;                                                   l        l       l__ _  _     _M
CD -



SECTION OF        ACTIVITY BY THE OPERATOR        PERFORMANCE STANDARD    APPLICABLE YEARLY PERFORMANCE TARGETS                      3 a
SERVICES                                                   AND
APPENDIX                                              MEASUREMENT                                                      _             DE
YR1   YR2   YR3   YR 4    TOTALFOR
CONTRACT                X
(vii) deposit all revenues from
the tanker; and
(viii) water distribution to
accommodate water
supply problems.
(3) (a)  Inspect each of the wells  Within 90 days after the
defined in the Facilities  Starting Date                                                                       a
Appendix and correct any
deficiencies identified;
(b)  submit a "Well Inspection
Report";
CD
(c)   correct deficiencies; and
(d)   establish and implement
wellhead protection.
3.2.2          Pumping and Transportation of
Raw Water to Water Treatment Plant
CD
0*
CD
CD



SECTION OF         ACTIVITY BY THE OPERATOR        PERFORMANCE STANDARD        APPLICABLE YEARLY PERFORMANCE TARGETS                      EL
SERVICES                                                    AND
APPENDIX                                                MEASUREMENT                                                                     E
YR 1   YR2   YR3   YR4    TOTAL FOR
___________                                              _____                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CONTRACT  C
3.2.3           Water Treatment
(1) Treatment of raw water:          See Attachments 1 and 2 and
Testing and Laboratory
Analysis Appendix
(a)   chemical treatment of water;                                                                                      0
(b)   conduct water quality testing
program in accordance with the                                                                                    _
Testing and Laboratory                                                                                           CD
Analysis Appendix;
(c)   meter quantities of water
entering and exiting the water
treatment facilities; and
(d)   advise and implement new                                                                                         Cn
technologies as approved by                                                                                       X
WAJ
(2) Inspect existing disinfection    Within 90 days of the Starting
equipment and identify and correct any Date
deficiencies.
3.2.4          Water Supply and                  See Attachment - 3 and Testing
Distribution to Subscribers      and Laboratory Analysis
Appendix
(1) Supply treated water to Subscribers:
(a)   develop and implement a field
inspection program to monitor                                                                                     0
the supply and distribution of
water and Constancy of
Supply;                                                                                                           3
>__
w 



SECTION OF         ACTIviTY BY THE OPERATOR        PERFORMANCE STANDARD         APPLICABLE YEARLY PERFORMANCE TARGETS
SERVICES                                                     AND
APPENDIX                                                MEASUREMENT
YR1    YR2    YR3    YR4    TOTALFOR
CONTRACT
c,
(b)   monitor for leak detection and
water pressure measurement;
(c)   supply water to areas outside
the Service Area in accordance
with the Bulk Supply                                                                                               3
Appendix;                                                                                                          R
(d)   [install new connections to the                                                                                    a
water distribution system in
accordance with technical
specifications provided by
WAJ];                                                                 NOT APPLICABLE
(e)   manage all chemical treatment
of water in the water supply
and distribution facilities;
(f)   cooperate with the Civil
Defence Department of the
HKJ with respect to their
operation and maintenance of
fire hydrants; and
(g)   perform day to day repairs.
_ 
0*
3



>ec
SECTION OF         AcTivITY BY THE OPERATOR        PERFORMANCE STANDARD         APPLICABLE YEARLY PERFORMANCE TARGETS
SERVICES                                                     AND
APPENDIX                                                MEASUREMENT
YR1   YR2   YR 3   YR 4    TOTAL FOR
I__I__I__| CONTRACT
3.3             Wastewater Operations
3.3.1          Collection of Wastewater
(1) (a)   regularly inspect surcharged
sewers;
(b)   develop a program for the
periodic flushing sewers;                                             NOT APPLICABLE
(c)   monitor for and respond to
reports of flow blockages; and
(d)   [protect endangered sections in
Wadi beds]
3.3.2          Wastewater Treatment               See Attachment - 4 and Testing
and Transportation                and Laboratory Analysis                                                                o
Appendix
(1) (a)   carry out all chemical, physical
and biological processes to                                           NOT APPLICABLE
achieve the effluent standards;
and
(b)   carry out all physical, chemical
and biological laboratory
analysis in accordance with the                                       NOT APPLICABLE
[Testing and Laboratory
Analysis Appendix],
R
0
R M~



SECTION OF         ACTIvITY BY THE OPERATOR        PERFORMANCE STANDARD        APPLICABLE YEARLY PERFORMANCE TARGETS
SERVICES                                                    AND
APPENDIX                                                MEASUREMENT                                                                     E
YR 1   YR2   YR3   YR 4    TOTALFOR                      E
.___ _  _CONTRACT                 Q
ARTICLE 4       MAINTENANCE OF FACILITIES                                                                                               ,
0
4.1             Corrective Maintenance
4.2             Preventative Maintenance Program                                                                                        B
(1) (a)   Develop the Preventative   Within 30 days after the
Maintenance Program and    Starting Date
submit a copy to WAJ.                                                                                             -
(b)  Implement the Preventative  % of Program implemented      50      100     100     100         100
Maintenance Program.
(2) Contents of Maintenance Program.    See Services Appendix
4.3             CMMS
(1) (a)   Evaluate various CMMS's and  Within 90 days after the
make a recommendation to   Starting Date
WAJ.                                                                 NOT APPLICABLE
(b)   Implement the CMMS.        Within 180 days after the
Starting Date
(c)   Maintain the CMMS.         Ongoing
C-u
0*
CD



X o'
SECTION OF        ACTIVITY BY THE OPERATOR        PERFORMANCE STANDARD        APPLICABLE YEARLY PERFORMANCE TARGETS
SERVICES                                                    AND)
APPENDIX                                               MEASUREMENT                                                                    X
YR 1   YR 2   YR3   YR4    TOTALFOR
CONTRACT
ARTICLE 5    REPAIRS AND
REHABILITATION OF
THE FACILITIES                                                                                                         D
5.1            Repairs, Rehabilitation and
Improvement of the Facilities
5.2            Condition of the Facilities
5.2.1          Initial Condition Surve3
(1) Conduct the Initial Condition Survey   Within 90 days after the                                                       0
and recommend changes to the     Effective Date
Condition Survey Appendix.
5.2.2          Annual and Final Condition Surveys
(1) Conduct an Annual Condition Survey  In the last 30 days of each of
and submnit a report of the survey to   the first, second and third
WAJ.                             Contract Years                                                                       N
(2) Conduct a Final Condition Survey and 6 months prior to the End Date
submit a report of the survey to WAJ.                                     NOT APPLICABLE
(a)   Prepare and subrnit to WAJ a   90 days prior to the End Date
remediation plan to correct any
deficiencies.
(b)   Implement the remediation plan 30 days prior to the End Date
and correct any deficiencies.
0N



SECTION OF        ACTIVITY BY THE OPERATOR        PERFORMANCE STANDARD        APPLICABLE YEARLY PERFORMANCE TARGETS                   3
SERVICES                                                    AND
APPENDIX                                               MEASUREMENT                                                                    E
YR 1   YR2   YR3   YR4    TOTAL FOR
CONTRACT
5.3            Repairs, Rehabilitation and
Improvements
0
(1) (a)   Correct all deficiencies  Ongoing in accordance with
identified in the Initial  Operating Investment Fund
Condition Survey.          Plan                                                                                 CO
(b)  Increase Accounted for Water. Percentage point total      10     17      22      25          25
improvement by the end of the
Contract Year
(c)  Improve Constancy of Supply
of water to Subscribers.
(i) during peak season; and    Number of periods x Number   2x24   2x30    2x36   2x36     2x36
of hours
(ii) during the rest of the year.  Number of periods x number of  2x48   cont.   cont.  cont.    continuous     Q
hours
(d)   Repair and replace water
meters that are:
(i) not functioning; or    Turnaround time in days      60      30      30      30          30
(ii) have been in service for    Number of meters      50,000  50,000  50,000  50,000     200,000
greater than five years.
(e)   Develop and implement the    % implementation           50      100     100    100          100
rehabilitation program re:
hydraulics
(f)    Develop and implement a leak % of Service Area covered,  25    50      75      100         100
detection and repair program.  measured in square kilometres                                                    CD
B
co
ax



SECTION OF         ACTIVITY BY THE OPERATOR        PERFORMANCE STANDARD         APPLICABLE YEARLY PERFORMANCE TARGETS                      EL
SERVICES                                                     AND
APPENDIX                                                MEASUREMENT
YR 1   YR2   YR3    YR4    TOTAL FOR
CONTRACT                Q.
(g)   Reduce the overall number of
breakdown repairs to:
(i) water; and             % reduction                    20      50      70      80          80
(ii) wastewater.           % reduction                    20      30      40      50          50
(D
(h)   Reduce the volume of       Number of houses              1,000   2,000   3,000   4,000      10,000                 m
stormwater entering the    disconnected
Facilities by disconnecting                                                                                        a
existing stormwater
connections.
(i)   Reduce response time for
repairs to:
(i) water leaks            Hours to respond               24      12       6       6           6
(ii) wastewater complaints  Hours to respond              12      6        6       6           6
(j)   carry out sewer and water
connections in the Zoned Area.
(2)     Prepare and rehabilitate the Facilities  In accordance with technical
in accordance with the technical  specifications for WAJ's
specifications provided by WAJ.   capital program
CD
0>
x



3 a
SECTION OF          ACTIVITY By THE OPERATOR          PERFORMANCE STANDARD          APPLICABLE YEARLY PERFORMANCE TARGETS
SERVICES                                                        AND
APPENDIX                                                   MEASUREMENT
YRl1   YR 2    YR3    YR4    TOTAL FoR
_______________ _________   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _C O NTRACT                           C
cn
ARTICLE 6       CAPITAL INVESTMENT
PROGRAM 
0
6.1             Operator to Cooperate
(1) Co-operate with WAJ in
implementation of the Capital
CD
Investmnent Program.
-u
(2) (a) Recommend Capital Works
Improvements for the Facilities.
(b)   Review tender documents for
Capital Works.
(c)   Co-ordinate operations and
maintenance of the Facilities
with Capital Works.                                                                                                      C
CD
(d)   Provide convenient access to                                              NOT APPLICABLE
Facilities.
(e)   Provide comments and
suggestions on all aspects of
the Capital Works.
(i) standards, specs and
design;
(ii) general comments during
construction;
(iii) prioritization of Capital
D)
W orks;                   __ _  _ _ _  _D__    _ _ _
>
o



SECTION OF         ACTIVITY BY THE OPERATOR         PERFORMANCE STANDARD          APPLICABLE YEARLY PERFORMANCE TARGETS                       a
SERVICES                                                       AND
APPENDIX                                                 MEASUREMENT
YR I   YR 2    YR3    YR 4    TOTAL FOR
CONTRACT                Ca
(iv) operations and 
maintenance implications;
and
(v) work required to complete
Capital Works.                                                      NOT APPLICABLE
(f)   Attend regular meetings with                                                                                          R
WAJ to discuss the Capital                                                                                            S.
Investment Program.                                                                                                   C
ARTICLE 7       BILLING, COLLECTION AND
CUSTOMER SERVICE
7.1             Information Systems
(1) Update and maintain the computerized % of database completed and  80     100     100      100         100
database of Subscribers.          maintained                                                                                o
(2) Develop and implement a           % of system implemented and    50      100     100      100         100
computerized administrative system    maintained
for billing collection and receivables,
accounting and complaint tracking.
7.2             Billing
(1) Perform all billing functions:
(a)   read all meters which measure  Every 90 days as approved by
Subscribers' consumption;   WAJ.                                       NOT APPLICABLE
(b)   register all Subscriber meter
readings in computer data base;
0>
(D
0
B.
9)



SECTION OF         ACTIVITY BY THE OPERATOR         PERFORMANCE STANDARD         APPLICABLE YEARLY PERFORMANCE TARGETS                     3 
SERVICES                                                      AND
APPENDIX                                                 MEASUREMENT
YR 1   YR 2   YR 3   YR 4    TOTAL FOR
CONTRACT                 ,
(c)   develop a monitoring program                                                                      __,
to ensure the accuracy of the
meter reading process and
provide written reports to WAJ
on the results;                                                                                                      ,
(d)   develop and implement a plan                                                                                         ,
to ensure that,
(i) all Subscriber meters are
accurate;
(ii) all Subscriber meters are
read;
(iii) all meters are in suitable
locations;                                                                                                       C
(iv) resolve problems related to                                       NOT APPLICABLE
unprotected and unsealed
Subscriber meters; and
(v) all Subscribers are
registered
(e)   develop and implement a
program to estimate
consumption;
(f)  improve the meter reading
process to ensure greater                                                                                            -
accuracy and to reduce                                                                                               D'
Unaccounted for Water;                                                                                               >
(g)   convert all meter readings to                                                            l                           M
billings to Subscribers;                                                                 l ID
0 3
3 R
CD



SECTION OF         ACTIVITY BY THE OPERATOR         PERFORMANCE STANDARD         APPLICABLE YEARLY PERFORMANCE TARGETS                       a
SERVICES                                                      AND
APPENDIX                                                 MEASUREMENT                                                                       E
YR1    YR2    YR3    YR4    TOTALFOR
CONTRACT                 Q
(h)   identify consumption anomalies
in Subscribers' billings;                                                                                           o
(i)   identify meters which have not
been read;
(j)   issue bills to Subscribers; and   Once every 90 days                                                                 3
(k)   distribute bills to Subscribers.  By hand or as approved by                                                          -u
WAJ                                                                                    0C
(1)   ensure proper bills to      See Services Appendix
Subscribers
(3) (a)   Resolve Subscriber complaints Turnaround time in days     30      30       30      30          30
related to billing.         95% responded to in # of days
7.3             Collections                                                                                                                0
(1) Perform basic collection functions:
(a)   collect all amounts due from all
Subscribers.
(b)   identify, record and collect all
outstanding accounts.
(c)   submit a list of unpaid accounts Annually
with Subscriber names; and
(d)   develop collection procedures.  Review and approval by WAJ
(2) (a)   hnprove collection revenues    See accounts receivable                                                              -
from new sales.                                                                                                     C
(b)   Improve accounts receivable.   accounts receivable x 100   30      30      25      20          20
revenues
>
3CD



SECTION OF         ACTIVITY BY THE OPERATOR        PERFORMANCE STANDARD        APPLICABLE YEARLY PERFORMANCE TARGETS                       EL
SERVICES                                                     AND
APPENDIX                                                MEASUREMENT                                     .                                E
YR I   YR 2   YR3   YR 4    TOTAL FOR                     C
_________________________ _____                                                                 CONTRACT
7.4             Customer Service                                                                                          _              X
(1) (a)   carry out all customer services
related to new water and
wastewater connections;
(b)  receive and handle all                                                                                              a
(D
customers complaints;
(c)  receive and respond to all                                                                                          s
requests;
(e)   establish a customer service
office.
(2) (a)   Develop and implement a    % of approved program         100     100     100     100         100                  CD
customer service training   implemented                                                                            Co
program.                    For review and approval by
WAJ
(b)   Develop, submit and        % of approved programn         50     100      100     100         100
implement a public information implemented
program.                    For review and approval by
WAJ
0>
C7D
0
0



MAP SECTION



63 -! ,O. 0-
A                      AlbAM.
j;              \  Kufrjn aAU</    0  /            'T\ 1,. 
iAMMANM WATER A ND A
J  |    Asfi_BAtC) O       a qA                Z A R QA    -
/at                                           MANAGEMENT PROJECT
i Shuelv/~~~~~~~~~~~~-; D AMY AND FL\  -SLTI BASIN
\~~~~~~/                                 SEAETUforN ProedANTS/
N~~~~~~~~CNL
/  -  Mddabat ;//\t         A M M A N~~CONVYANC AIN
j - - + z AjE JORDAN \ f -
j   /   .  ) X   AMMAN WATER AND SANITAION
i    AL - KYA AK e               1/                 MANAGEMENT PROJECT A
Al Mrzra ah_,.--h                                    NATIONA M =ATERND WAGER   RESS
G N           BOUNDARIESWELLFIELDS
i    lK-r;<            51as|                                       IA MS AND FLCOO: 7ENTEI410N BASINS
bAs Sah   Wad                         -  PUMPING STATION
g      , \          ~~~~~~Abwa,                                CANALS
CONVEYANCE MAINS
/-<  /   v           t|       ;                        O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ SELECTED CITIES
i    t   v        . tl                                dB  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GOVERNORATE CAPITALS
/   fAtTalilsh   9                                 *   rI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r AT ONAL CAP TAL
/ A L         1I.     L   :             .MAIN ROADS
/   .0   ttRashadlyah  vJ                                 -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RA1RO11DE
/  /  f/ ,.    MUDFLATS AND WADI BEDS
/  /   >   . .  7                            X                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES
i/Sh-I k 
(    /                     /  AA~~~~~~~~ A  'A N 
.   |   PehaOJ   }}t                /                                 o  1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2  3     5  6 K,6--er
|            2     3      465156
A/r )   Ans, , _                                                                                 36  3',,
| di R-            Ad DRs  an, N ,b                                                              N
| 2  A   Q  4    A                                                              -32I                           ARAEA FMAP 
0=<                    -'                                                     , i  JORDAN        \
2   iGuli'd                                                                                                                                          h
Aqaba                                                          ToAl Bir                               _ . _



IBRD 29333
JORDAN
AMMAN WATER AND SANITATION
ARDA WATER
TREATMENT PLANT                                                       MANAGEMENT PROJECT
ZAI WATER                      PROJECT AREA WITH EXISTING
TREATMEPLANT                        WATER INFRASTRUCTURE
PROPOSED SE E ARAU NSEIR SEWAGE
/ AREA COVERED BY HYDRAULIC ANALYSIS PROJECT/  ;0 4'   ^ .   
-   EXISTING PRIMARY SEWVERAGE NETWORK    Hies W: -0  0 0
EXISTING PRIMARY PIPE NETWORKPLAkf
UNDEFINED PATH/PRIMARY PIPE NETWORK           S 0                      0    0;:S0A                    W;0 00
*    GROUND RESERVOIRS                                         0 0            t1
17   TOWER RESERVOIRSA  R 0
*    SOURCES :l;Wt
12   PUMPING STATIONS                                         0              )  
O     OS SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANTS
- - - , GREATERAMAN MUNICIPAULITY BOUNDARY SISPROJ
- '-' ~     GOVERNORATE ADMINISTRATIVE BOUNDARIES  WF U FIELD
0  S         5OURMAACAS
KILOMETERSRS
-   -- GEAE AMA  MUIIPLT BONDR
3?~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8
*AMMAN ---
I  JORDAN        \                                                                                                m |   pu  by
!         ,lse Aap l   -   K A  R A  K                                                                                  s QAT  or ony   of o.
$7'~  #~.   Wseld Bankbo-ndarift,
colors-, denominations .nd
3A'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'4 /JIopasaTe Bank
_                                                                                                  Os3nart any :W,t anL
/  A  A  QgoI                     A   1 m at7rilar
IAL         K/A  RA,4K               WELL FiELD          a= ny endr, ofruc
APRIL 1998



IBRD 29334
JORDAN
AMMAN WATER AND SANITATION
MANAGEMENT PROJECT
AMMAN WATER NETWORK
RESTRUCTURING
' 2^t          +//J            $         4                                                                                     +   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RESOURCE ZONES
W   _ 4 >     _>   KAWPUMPING STATION                       T    NEW TOWERS
NEW RESERVOIRS
~~MOTZA H PUM PING                                                                                                                                                                                  EXSTINGTOWERSti 
STATION                                                                     UM I G  T TIN/                                                                                        
EX STING PRIMAURY P PF NETWORK
5o4r8                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~NEW PRIMARY PIPE NETWORK
DISTERIBUYNON rE ROUNDARFES
G  REATER ARIMAN ADMTIN SIRATIVE BOUNEDARY
NOTEW    ~ Y
T--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                                                  '-- 
;S qh:reslsllrblrundnrles X _, _, _ / l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S 
WALA HIDAN IIIA~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ JORDAN                                                                                                    N
OANTAL OATRAKA SUNAGA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PILIS



