Report No. PID4428
Project Name                     Jordan-Amman Water and Sanitation (@+) ...
Management Project
Region                           Middle East and North Africa
Sector                           Other Water Supply and Sanitation
Project ID                       JOPE48521
Implementing Agency              Water Authority of Jordan (WAJ)
P.O. Box 2412-5012
Eng. Munther Khleifat, Secretary General
Tel:    962-6-680-100
Fax:    962-6-679-143
Environmental Category           B
Date of Initial PID              November 7, 1996
Date PID Updated                 May 19, 1998
Appraisal                        February 7, 1998
Projected Board Date             June 23, 1998
Sector Background
1.      Water resources are very limited - among the most scarce
resource of any country in the world. Due to high population growth
particularly in urban areas, and limited water supply, shortages now
extended throughout most of the year. Distribution systems suffer
from serious losses as a result of type of material used in the
tertiary and house connections and age accompanied by a corrosive
environment, excessive pressures, inadequate maintenance and delayed
rehabilitation investments. Unaccounted for Water (UFW) in Greater
Amman and across the country exceeds 50 percent and shows only a
slight decline due to limited investment in rehabilitation of
networks. Service efficiency is low due to high unaccounted for
water. Consequently, cost of water supply was not covered by
tariffs. Present inappropriate institutional arrangements in the
water sector are at the heart of the country's water resources
management problem.
Project Objectives
2.      The project development objectives are to:    improve the
efficiency, management, operation and delivery of water and
wastewater services for the Amman Governorate (AG); and to lay the
groundwork for a sustained involvement of the private sector in the
overall management of these services. These objectives will
contribute to the Government's goal of increasing private sector
participation in the provision of infrastructure services.
Project Description
3.      The proposed project would consist of the following components:



(a) provision of a private sector company (Operator) under a
performance-based management contract to manage the water and
wastewater services in AG; (b) providing the Operator with funds
built into the Management Contract, in order to fund essential
operation and maintenance; (c) provision of finance for capital
investment to rehabilitate and restructure the water supply system
as well as upgrading and extending water and sewerage services in
AG; and (d) Technical Assistance for institutional restructuring and
improving managerial capacities at WAJ as well as measures to
monitor and audit the Operator's performance.
Project Cost and Financing
4.      The estimated project cost is currently estimated at $149.2
million. This would be confirmed during appraisal. Financing is
expected from: IBRD for $55 million; EIB for $45.6 million; the
Government of Italy for $21.1 million; and METAP II for $0.8
million. The contribution of the Government is estimated at $26.7
million.
Project Implementation
5.      The Borrower will be the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, which
will on-lend to WAJ.
Project Sustainability
6.      The introduction of a private sector operator to manage and
operate water and wastewater services will ensure sound financial
management and improve cost recovery.
Lessons Leaned from Previous Bank Involvement in the Country/Sector
7.      The institutional autonomy and financial viability of WAJ
deteriorated during implementation of the Water Supply and Sewerage
Project (closed in June 1994), despite a specific objective and
legal covenants. The institutional, regulatory and ownership
structures of the public water and wastewater utility in Jordan have
not been conducive to sound financial performance. Another key
finding from previous lending is that despite the clear objective of
reducing UFW, losses actually increased to over 60t in 1992 before
showing some signs of improvement since then. The principal lesson
is that this problem cannot be solved through a project approach and
the use of specialist consultants working largely on their own as it
is the case now. It must become an internal, operational matter
with appropriate staffing and budgeting, accountability, regular
performance monitoring and award system. Direct involvement of the
private sector would help facilitate timely achievement of these
objectives. Another emerging lesson is that investments to reduce
UFW should receive priority.
Poverty Category
8.      The project would support the Government's program to improve
and protect the environment and increase private sector
-2 -



participation in the management of the water and wastewater in AG.
The project is not part of a core poverty program, but most of the
low income households added to the WAJ system will benefit from
access to reliable piped water supplies. These households will also
experience health benefits from improved access to water and
wastewater service.
Environmental Aspects
9.      The project has been placed in environmental screening Category
"B" consistent with Operational Directive 4.01 (see attached Annex).
Benefits
10.     The project is expected to produce financial, social and
economic benefits with regards to:
-- saved water and increased revenues as a result of leakage
repairs, repairing or replacing meters and reducing the amount of
accounts receivable;
-- improving service delivery with increased supplies of piped water;
-- improving the overall water resources management mainly through
metering of bulk supply and increasing sector efficiency (reduction
UFW); improved planning, project design, procurement and
implementation; and
-- assisting in restructuring the sector by promoting private
sector participation in the delivery of water and wastewater in AG.
Contact Point            Jamal Saghir, Task Manager
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-2789
Fax: (202) 477-0348
Note:   This is information on an evolving project.    The contents
of this document are subject to change and the components described
may not necessary be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending March 20, 1998.
- 3 -



Annex
ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
The project does not include any component with significant
adverse environmental impact. The proposed project would contribute
to improving the environment, primarily through expansion and
improved management of water and sewerage systems. Currently, there
are no known project proposals whose implementation would require
land acquisition or result in involuntary resettlement. No known
archaeological or historical sites would be affected by
rehabilitation of sub-projects to be supported, nor do the operating
and investment components of the project raise any international
water issues. The activities to be supported comprise small and
medium projects for the rehabilitation, upgrading and extension of
water and wastewater services. The project does not include new
water resource development and will not support expansion or
rehabilitation of existing wastewater treatment facilities, for
which bilateral funding would be used, but will ensure that any
expansion of wastewater collection facilities does not result in
unacceptable overloading of treatment facilities. The project does
not include any component with major environmental impact. Staffing
requirements of the Operator will require a sewerage engineer with
experience in regulation of industrial wastewater, wastewater
treatment and reclaimed water re-use. Contract documents for
construction works will include agreed provisions for mitigation of
short-term impacts due to dust, noise and traffic disruption. The
Government has prepared an Environmental Analysis and Management
Plan for this project. This plan meets the requirements of Annex C
of the Bank's Operational Directive 4.01 for Environmental Assessment.
- 4 -



