Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
CREDIT NUMBER 4070-CM 
 
Agreement Providing for  
Amendment and Restatement  
of the Development Credit 
Agreement 
 
(Education Development Capacity Building Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated June 9, 2010 
Page  2
3
3
Page  3
CREDIT NUMBER 4070-CM 
 
AGREEMENT PROVIDING FOR  
AMENDMENT AND RESTATEMENT OF 
THE DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated June 9, 2010 between REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON 
(“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”) (the Agreement providing for the Amendment and Restatement the 
Development Credit Agreement). 
WHEREAS the Recipient and the Association have agreed to amend and restate 
the Development Credit Agreement (the “DCA”) dated   August  1,  2005  between  the 
Recipient and the Association, in the manner hereinafter set forth. 
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
 
Section 1.01. 
As of, and with effect from, the effective date of this Agreement 
pursuant to Section 1.02 hereof, the DCA shall be (and is hereby) amended and restated 
in the form set out in the Annex hereto. 
Section 1.02. 
This Agreement shall become effective upon the execution and 
delivery hereof by the parties hereto (the “Restructuring Date”). 
Page  4
-2- 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Yaoundé, Republic of Cameroon, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON 
 
By  //s// Louis Paul Motaze 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By  //s// Mary A. Barton-Dock 
Authorized Representative 
Page  5
ANNEX 
To Agreement providing for Amendment and Restatement of the  
Development Credit Agreement
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4070-CM 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Education Development Capacity Building Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated August 1, 2005 
 
Page  6
-2- 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4070-CM 
 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT  
AGREEMENT dated August 1, 2005, between REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON 
(“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”).  The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement.  
ARTICLE II — FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to 
twelve million one hundred Special Drawing Rights (SDR 12,100,000). 
(variously, “Credit” and “Financing”) to assist in financing the project described 
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are February 1 and August 1 in each year. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with the 
repayment schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is the currency of the French Republic. 
Page  7
-3- 
 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions. The Recipient shall in particular, for the 
purpose of the Project: (i) provide facilities for Global Development Learning 
Network (GDLN), ICRD, IITC and the PCU; (ii) mobilize MINEDUB and 
MINESEC expertise at the central, provincial and department levels to 
implement the activities under Parts A, B and C of the Project; and (iii) undertake 
surveys on the performance indicators under Schedule 2 of this Agreement. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
3.03.  
Without limitation to its obligations under Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the 
Recipient shall, for the purposes of the Project: 
(a) 
open and thereafter maintain, for the duration of the Project, an account 
in CFA Francs (the Project Account) in a commercial bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association; 
(b) 
deposit into the Project Account an initial contribution of CFA Francs 
30,000,000; 
(c) 
thereafter deposit in the Project Account, at the end of each calendar 
quarter, until the completion of the Project, such amounts as shall be 
required to timely replenish the Project Account back to the amount of 
CFA Francs 60,000,000, or whenever the balance of the Project Account 
shall be less than CFA Francs 30,000,000; and 
(d) 
ensure that amounts deposited into the Project Account shall be used 
exclusively to make payments to meet expenditures made or to be made 
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services for the 
Project in addition of those financed from the proceeds of the Credit. 
3.04.  
The Recipient shall, within six months of the Effective Date, adopt a regulation 
for the establishment of DC satisfactory to the Association. 
3.05.  
The Recipient shall, within twelve months of the Effective Date, legally establish 
the GDLN Center in a form satisfactory to the Association. 
Page  8
-4- 
 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that the 
Project Implementation 
Arrêté
 or any text governing the operations of SC, PCU, 
TSCCM, Operational Monitoring Units, MINEDUB, MINESEC, MINESUP, 
Governance Committee, GIS and any other entity involved in Project 
implementation, shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so to materially and adversely affect the implementation of the Project.  
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that any 
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue 
for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the 
Association to the Recipient. 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
(a) 
the Project Account has been opened and the initial contribution referred 
to in Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement has been deposited therein; 
(b) 
the Recipient has established an accounting and financial management 
system for the Project satisfactory to the Association and adopted a 
Project Administrative, Financial and Accounting Manual (PAFAM) 
satisfactory to the Association; and 
(c) 
the Recipient has employed the independent auditors referred to in 
Schedule 2 of this Agreement, in accordance with the provisions of 
Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
Page  9
-5- 
 
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Minister of the Recipient responsible for 
economy and finance. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
Yaoundé 
 
Republic of Cameroon 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
237
223
37
17
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
 
Page  10
-6- 
 
AGREED at in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day 
and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON 
 
By: 
    
/s/ Jérôme Mendouga 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By: 
 
 
 
 
    /s/ Ali M. Khadr 
Authorized Representative 
Page  11
-7- 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
As of the Restructuring Date, the objective of the Project is to develop and apply 
management and learning tools for use by the Recipient and communities of the 
Recipient to improve the efficiency and accountability of the Cameroon education sector. 
 
As of the Restructuring Date, the Project consists of the following parts, subject 
to such modifications thereof as the Recipient and the Association may agree upon from 
time to time to achieve such objectives: 
 
Part A:  Develop and update the strategic vision for the education sector
 
Create capacity for continuous development of Cameroon’s Education Sector Strategy by 
supporting knowledge exchange, the production of relevant studies and the establishment 
of the GDLN and ICRD, all through the carrying out of Training programs and the 
provision of studies, goods and services. 
 
Part B:  Strengthening the education information system and planning capacity 
 
Improve management of the education system at all levels by reinforcing the information 
systems and planning capacity for the production of timely and accurate statistical data 
and the production of sector action plans, through the development of management 
information systems that improve the collection, compilation, analysis and dissemination 
of statistics to support the decision making and accountability of each level of the 
education system.   
 
Part C:  Reinforcing sector monitoring 
 
(i) Reinforce sector norms, (ii) improve capacity to monitor compliance with norms and 
regulations, and (iii) improve education resource management at the primary and 
secondary levels, through activities that reinforce the capacity to evaluate management 
reforms and support the development of tools and instruments to improve the 
implementation of the new private education law.  
 
Part D:  Improving public participation 
 
Improve public participation to support and monitor education reforms, through public 
awareness campaigns and governance workshops and the implementation through the 
Technical Support Agency of School-projects in the EPZ regions with beneficiary 
participation. 
 
Part E:  Project Management 
Assistance to Project management by the PCU through the acquisition of 
vehicles and provision of Operating Costs. 
Page  12
-8- 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. Project Implementation
1. SC 
(a) 
The Recipient shall maintain the SC in form and with functions and 
resources satisfactory to the Association. 
 
(b) 
The SC shall be responsible for Project oversight. 
(c) 
The SC shall be chaired by the Minister of Basic Education with the 
Minister of Secondary Education and Minister of Higher Education as co-chairs, and 
shall include representatives of the Presidency, the Prime Minister’s office, the Ministry 
of Economy and Finance and the Ministry of Planning. 
2. TSCCM
(a) 
The Recipient shall maintain the SC in form and with functions and 
resources satisfactory to the Association. 
 
(b) 
TSSCM is established within SC and shall ensure project supervision and 
technical coordination of project activities. 
3. PCU
(a) 
The Recipient shall maintain within the MINEDUB the PCU, in a form 
and with functions and resources satisfactory to the Association, and with the following 
staff with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Association: a project 
coordinator, a technical coordinator, a financial management specialist, an accountant 
and a procurement specialist. 
 
(b) 
The PCU shall be responsible for technical coordination, operational and 
environmental monitoring of Project activities and management of implementation, 
procurement, financial and environmental management of Project operations including 
supervising the implementation of Subprojects.  
(c) 
The PCU shall maintain a financial and accounting system, satisfactory 
to the Association, for the Project. 
Page  13
-9- 
 
4. Operational 
Monitoring 
Unit
(a) 
The Recipient shall maintain an Operational Monitoring Unit in each of 
three participating ministries, namely MINEDUB, MINESEC and MINESUP, in a form 
and with functions and resources satisfactory to the Association.  
 
(b) 
Each of the three Operational Monitoring Units shall be chaired by the 
relevant ministry’s permanent secretary and shall include representatives of the technical 
departments involved in Project implementation. 
 
(c) 
The Operational Monitoring Units shall be responsible for technical 
implementation of the Project including, preparation of action plans, terms of reference 
and technical specifications for equipments. 
B. Delegated 
Management 
Contract
1. 
The Recipient shall implement School-projects under Part D of the Project 
through a Technical Support Agency recruited pursuant to terms of reference satisfactory 
to the Association, and in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2, Section III of 
this Agreement under contracts in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, 
describing 
inter alia
 the functions to be undertaken by such contractor, setting forth dated 
objectives to be attained and performance indicators, and requiring the service provider to 
comply with disbursement, financial management, procurement requirements and 
environmental and social safeguards, all in accordance with the PAFAM, this Agreement, 
the EMP and any additional instruments to be required to be adopted and implemented 
pursuant to the terms of the EMP. 
C. 
Reports and Mid-Term Review
1. The 
Recipient 
shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about October 31 of each year of Project 
implementation, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, and including community, School 
Council and Technical Support Agency feedback reports and Subproject completion 
reports on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
Page  14
-10- 
 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date; 
 
(c) 
review with the Association, by November 30, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations 
of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter; and 
(d) 
comply with auditing and reporting obligations provided for under the 
EMP. 
2. Midterm 
Review
(a) 
On or about twelve months after the date of the Agreement Providing for 
the Amendment and Restatement of the Development Credit Agreement, the Recipient 
shall carry out jointly with the Association, SC, PCU, the technical committees involved 
in project implementation, a midterm review of the progress made in carrying out the 
Project (hereinafter referred to as the Midterm Review). 
 
The Midterm Review shall cover, amongst other things: 
(i) 
progress made in meeting the Project’s objective; and 
(ii) 
overall Project performance against Project performance 
indicators. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall cause PCU to prepare and, at least four weeks prior 
to the Midterm Review, furnish to the Association a separate report describing the status 
of implementation of each component of the Project and a summary report of Project 
implementation generally. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient shall, not later than four weeks after the Midterm Review, 
prepare and submit to the Association an action program, acceptable to the Association, 
for the further implementation of the Project having regard to the findings of the Midterm 
Review and, thereafter, implement such action program. The Association shall provide its 
comments on said report within 15 days from its presentation to the Recipient 
D. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that, as of the Restructuring Date, the Project is 
carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
Page  15
-11- 
 
E. Manuals; 
Safeguards
 
1. 
The Recipient shall implement the Project, or cause the Project to be 
implemented, in accordance with the Project Implementation Plans, Project 
Administrative, Financial and Accounting Manual and the EMP. The Recipient shall not 
amend, abrogate, repeal, suspend, waive, or otherwise fail to enforce, or permit to be 
amended, abrogated, repealed, suspended or waived, the Project Implementation Plans, 
Project Administrative, Financial and Accounting Manual and the EMP or any provision 
thereof without the prior written approval of the Association. In case of inconsistency 
between this Agreement, on the one hand, and the Project Implementation Plans, Project 
Administrative, Financial and Accounting Manual or the EMP, on the other hand, the 
terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
2. 
Without limitation upon its other reporting obligations under this Agreement, the 
Recipient shall collect, compile and furnish to the Association on a quarterly basis reports 
on the status of compliance with the EMP, giving details of:  
 
(a) 
measures taken in furtherance of such instrument;  
(b) 
conditions, if any, which interfere or threaten to interfere with the 
smooth implementation of such instrument; and  
(c) 
remedial measures taken or required to be taken to address such 
conditions. 
3. 
The Recipient shall promptly take all remedial measures referred to in 
paragraph 2 of this Section as shall have been agreed by the Association. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
1. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and 
prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 4.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators 
set forth below in sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph.  Each Project 
Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be 
furnished to the Association not later than one month after the end of the 
period covered by such report.  
(b) 
The performance indicators referred to above in sub-paragraph (a) 
consist of the following:   
Page  16
-12- 
 
(i) 
Preparation of budgets 
at the primary, 
secondary and higher levels of the 
education system 
based on statistical 
analysis;  
(ii) 
Improved efficiency and equity in 
teacher deployment;  
(iii) 
Biennial update of the sector strategy 
based on analytic work conducted 
during preceding two years;  
(iv) 
Beneficiary participation in school 
functioning and accountability in 86 
selected EPZ schools.   
2. 
For purposes of Section 4.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Association not later than six (6) months after  the Closing 
Date. 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of each 
calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the 
quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Recipient, 
commencing with the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal was made under 
the Preparation Advance for the Project.  The audited Financial Statements for 
each such period shall be furnished to the Association not later than six months 
after the end of such period.
 
Page  17
-13- 
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
 
1. 
Goods and Works
 
(i)  Except as provided in paragraph (ii) below, all goods, works and services 
(other than consultants’ services) shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans 
and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule; and 
(ii) In the case of contracts financed or to be financed in whole or in part, using 
the proceeds of the Credit and for which the invitation to bid was issued after 
the Restructuring Date, goods and works shall be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in October, 2006 
(the 2006 Procurement Guidelines). 
2. 
Consultants’ Services
 
(i)  Except as provided in paragraph (ii) below, all consultants’ services shall be 
procured in accordance with Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection 
and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Recipients” dated May 2004 
(the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this Schedule.   
(ii)  In the case of contracts financed or to be financed in whole or in part, using 
the proceeds of the Credit and for which the invitation to bid was issued after 
the Restructuring Date, all consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in 
accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Recipients” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in October 2006, 
and with the provisions of this Section (the 2006 Consultant Guidelines).  
3. Definitions.
 The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, Consultant Guidelines, 2006 Procurement Guidelines, 
or 2006 Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
Page  18
-14- 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. 
Except as otherwise provided in 
paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used: 
 
Procurement Method
 
(a)  National Competitive Bidding   
(b)  Limited International Bidding   
(c)  Shopping   
(d)  Direct Contracting   
(e)  Procurement from UN Agencies   
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 Except as otherwise provided in 
paragraph 
2
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
 
(a) Quality-based Selection 
(b)  Selection Under a Fixed Budget   
(c) Least-cost Selection 
(d)  Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(e)  Single Source Selection 
(f) Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Association’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review 
by the Association.
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
Page  19
-15- 
 
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated 
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made 
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible 
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing both prior to and as of the 
Restructuring Date, (“Category”), the allocations of the amounts of the Financing 
to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category: 
 
Category 
 
Credit Allocated 
(Expressed in 
SDR Equivalent)
prior to the 
Restructuring 
Date 
 
Credit Allocated 
(Expressed in SDR 
Equivalent)
as of 
the Restructuring 
Date 
 
%
of 
Expenditures
to be 
Financed 
 
(1) Works 
300,000 
70,000 
100% 
(2) 
Goods and vehicles
 
1,800,000 1,614,000 100% 
(3) Consultants’ 
 Services 
1,317,215  
2,815,000 
100% 
(4) Training, 
study 
tours, workshops 
4,300,000  
3,163,000 
100% 
(5) School-projects 
2,500,000 
 
(a)  Consultant Services
under Part D
 of the 
Project 
 
450,000 
 
100% 
(b) Goods, works under 
Part D of the Project 
-
2,255,000
100%
(6) Operating 
costs 
1,250,000 
1,261,000 
100% 
(7) 
Refunding of Project 
Preparation Advance 
450,000 450,000 
Amount 
due 
pursuant to 
Section 2.02 
Page  20
-16- 
 
(b) of this 
Agreement 
 
(8) Unallocated 
182,785 
22,000 
 
12,100,000 12,100,000 
 
Page  21
-17- 
 
3. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “Operating Costs” means the incremental expenses incurred by 
PCU and, on a decreasing base, the GDLN Center on account of Project implementation, 
management and monitoring, including office supplies, vehicles operation and 
maintenance, communication costs, rental expenses, utilities expenses, consumables, 
transport, travel and accommodation, 
per diem
,
supervision costs and salaries of local 
support staff, but excluding salaries of officials of the Recipient’s civil service; and 
(b) 
the term “Training” means the expenses incurred on 
per diem
,
travel, 
purchase of training materials and rental of facilities, and includes workshops and 
seminars. 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.
 
2.
 
The Closing Date is September 1, 2012. 
Page  22
-18- 
 
SCHEDULE 3
 
Repayment Schedule 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each February 1 and August 1 
 
commencing August 1, 2015 to and including 
February 1, 2025 
1% 
commencing August 1, 2025  to and including 
February 1, 2045 
2% 
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be 
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of 
the General Conditions. 
Page  23
-19- 
 
APPENDIX 
Section I. 
Definitions 
1. 
“2006 Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised 
in October, 2006. 
2. 
“2006 Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment 
of Consultants by World Bank Recipients” published by the Bank in May 2004 
and revised in October 2006. 
3. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
4. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
5. 
“CFA Francs” or “CFAF” means 
Franc de la Coopération Financière en Afrique 
Centrale
,
the currency of the Recipient. 
6. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Recipients” published by the Bank in May 2004.  
7. 
“Departmental Committee” or “DC” means each of the Recipient’s Departmental 
Committee (
Comité Départemental
)
to be established by the Recipient 
composed, 
inter alia
,
of MINEDUB regional delegate and the primary education 
inspector, in charge of approving Subprojects (as hereinafter defined). 
8. 
“Environmental Mitigation Plan” or “EMP” means the plan, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association adopted by the Recipient on 
November 19, 2004, describing measures for the mitigation, reduction and or 
offset of the environmental and social impacts of activities under the Project, 
including environmental guidelines for contractors where works are required and 
environmental guidelines for the carrying out of School-projects. 
9. 
“EPZ” means education priority zones (
Zones d’Education Prioritaire
 )
established in the following provinces of the Recipient:  Adamaoua, North, Far 
North and East. 
10. 
“GDLN Center” means the center connected to the Global Development 
Learning Network to be supported under Part A of the Project. 
Page  24
-20- 
 
11. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006), with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
12. 
“GIS” means the Recipient’s general services inspection (
Inspection Générale 
des Services
)
of
MINEDUB (as hereinafter defined) and MINESEC (as 
hereinafter defined). 
13. 
“Governance Committee” means the Recipient’s governance committee 
(
Observatoire de la Gouvernance
)
established pursuant to 
Arrêté
 
No. 
6466/B1/1464/MINEDUC/CAB dated October 17, 2003 “
portant création 
du comité de suivi de la mise en oeuvre du programme national de gouvernance 
au sein du Ministère de l’Education
”.  
14. 
“ICRD” means the Recipient’s Inter-university Center for Resources and 
Documentation (
Centre Inter-Universitaire de Ressources Documentaires
)
to be 
supported under Part A of the Project. 
15. 
“IITC” means Inter-University Information Technology Center (
Centre Inter 
Universitaire des Technologies d 'Information
). 
16. 
“MINEDUB” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Basic Education (
Ministère de 
l’Education de Base
). 
17. 
“MINESEC” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Secondary Education (
Ministère 
des Enseignements Secondaires
). 
18. 
“MINESUP” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Higher Education (
Ministère de 
l’Enseignement Supérieur
). 
19. 
“NGO” means a non-governmental organization, established and operating in the 
territory of the Recipient. 
20. 
“Operational Monitoring Unit” means each of the operational monitoring unit 
established in each of MINEDUB, MINESEC and MINESUP pursuant to the 
Project Implementation 
Arrêté
,
and referred to in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
21. 
“PCU” means the Project Coordination Unit (
Unité de
 
Coordination du Projet
)
established and operating pursuant to the Project Implementation 
Arrêté
 (as 
hereinafter defined). 
Page  25
-21- 
 
22. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
23. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan, dated 
April 18, 2005 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines 
and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated 
from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
24. 
“Project Administrative, Financial and Accounting Manual” means the manual 
outlining the administrative, financial and accounting arrangements for the 
implementation of the Project referred to in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to 
be adopted by the Recipient pursuant to Section 5.01 (b) of this Agreement as the 
same may be amended by agreement of the parties from time to time, and such 
term includes any schedules to the Project Administrative, Financial and 
Accounting Manual. 
25. “Project 
Implementation 
Arrêté
”
means the Recipient’s 
Arrêté
 No. 066/CAB/PM 
dated April 8, 2005 “
fixant les modalités d’exécution du programme d’appui au 
système éducatif ”
.
26. 
“Project Implementation Plans” means the plans established for each set of 
Project activities outlining operational modalities for the implementation of each 
said set of activities including, 
inter alia
,
the institutional, disbursement, 
procurement and environmental mitigation arrangements for the implementation 
of the Project, referred to in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and adopted by the 
Recipient on February 21, 2005, as the same may be amended by agreement of 
the parties from time to time, and such term includes any schedules to the Project 
Implementation Plans. 
27. 
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance granted by 
the Association to the Recipient pursuant to the letter agreement signed on behalf 
of the Association on November 26, 2003 and on behalf of the Recipient on 
December 9, 2003. 
28. 
“Restructuring Date” has the meaning set forth in Section 1.02 of the Agreement 
Providing for the Amendment and Restatement of the Development Credit 
Agreement for the Project. 
29. 
“SC” means the Steering Committee for the Project established and operating 
pursuant to the Project Implementation 
Arrêté
,
and referred to in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
Page  26
-22- 
 
30. 
“School-project” means a school rehabiliation-specific activity to be carried out 
through a Technical Support Agency in an EPZ and financed, or proposed to be 
financed under Part D of the Project. 
31. 
“Technical Support Agency” means an NGO or other entity recruited by the 
Recipient through a delegated management contract to implement activities 
under Part D of the Project. 
32. 
“Technical Sub-committee for Coordination and Monitoring” or “TSCCM” 
means the committee established within the SC pursuant to the Project 
Implementation 
Arrêté
 and referred to in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Section II.   
Modifications to the General Conditions 
The modifications to the General Conditions for Credits and Grants of the Association, 
dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as follows:   
1. 
Section 2.07 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 2.07. 
Refinancing Preparation Advance 
 
If the Financing Agreement provides for the repayment out of the 
proceeds of
 
the Financing of an advance made by the Association or the Bank 
(“Preparation Advance”), the Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the Financing Account on or after the Effective Date the amount 
required to repay the withdrawn and outstanding balance of the advance as at the 
date of such withdrawal from the Financing Account and to pay all accrued and 
unpaid charges, if any, on the advance as at such date. The Association shall pay 
the amount so withdrawn to itself or the Bank, as the case may be, and shall 
cancel the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
 
2. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 6.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 6.02. 
Suspension by the Association 
 
... (l) 
Ineligibility
.
The Association or the Bank has declared the Project 
Implementing Entity ineligible to receive proceeds of any financing made by the 
Association or the Bank or otherwise to participate in the preparation or 
implementation of any project financed in whole or in part by the Association or 
the Bank, as a result of a determination by the Association or the Bank that the 
Project Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or 
collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing 
made by the Association or the Bank.” 
 
Page  27
-23- 
 
3. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) The 
term 
“Project Preparation Advance” is modified to read “Preparation 
Advance” and its definition is modified to read as follows:  
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Financing 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.07.”
 
