Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15431-BD
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BANGLADESH
POVERTY ALLEVIATION MICROFINANCE PROJECT
August 14, 1996
Private Sector Development and Finance Division
Country Department I
South Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(July 29, 1996)
Currency Unit     =      Bangladesh Taka (Tk.)
Tk  1.00          =      US$ 0.0239
US$ 1.00         =      Tk 41.9
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASA       -       Association for Social Advancement
BB        -       Bangladesh Bank
BRAC      -       Bangladesh Rural Advancement Committee
CAS       -       Country Assistance Strategy
FY        -       Fiscal Year
GOB       -       Government of Bangladesh
HES       -       Household Expenditure Survey
MFI       -       Microfinance Institution
NCB       -       National Competitive Bidding
NCBs      -       Nationalized Commercial Banks
NGO       -       Non-Governmental Organization
PKSF      -       Palli Karma Sahayak Foundation
POs       -       PKSF's Partner Organizations
RNF       -       Rural Non-Farm
SLA       -       Subsidiary Loan Agreement
SOE       -       Statement of Expenditures
TORs      -       Terms of Reference
GOB FISCAL YEAR
July I - June 30
Vice President:             Mr. D. Joseph Wood
Director:                   Ms. Mieko Nishmizu
Division Chief:             Ms. Marilou Uy
Principal Operations Officer:  Mr. Abid Hasan



BANGLADESH
POVERTY ALLEVIATION MICROFINANCE PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY  ..................................................... i
CHAPTER 1: THE SECTOR ..................................................... I
CHAPTER 2: FINANCE AND THE POOR  ....................                                                     ................................. 2
Overview   ..................................................... 2
The Formal Financial Sector .....................................................                                              2
The Semiformal Sector .....................................................                                                    3
The Palli Karma Sahayak Foundation  (PKSF) ................................................... 4
CHAPTER 3: MICROFINANCE PROGRAMS AND INSTITUTIONS ..............                                                                   .................... 6
Operational Features .....................................................                                                     7
Financial Aspects .....................................................                                                        8
Institutional Capacity ............1.........................................  1
Accounting  and Auditing  ..................................................... 12
Socioeconomic Impact .....................................................  12
Constraints to  Expansion  of the MFIs' Financial Services ..............                                ....................  13
CHAPTER 4: THE PROJECT  ..................................................... 14
Country  Assistance Strategy  Objectives .....................................................   14
Project Concept .....................................................                                                         14
Project Objectives .....................................................  14
Rationale for IDA  Involvement .....................................................                                          15
Lessons from  Previous IDA/Bank Operations .................................................    16
Coordination  with Other Donors .....................................................                                         16
Project Scope and  Description .....................................................                                          16
Project Costs and  Financing  Plan ............................                             .........................  16
Credit Component .....................................................  17
Credit Size .....................................................  17
Credit Use .....................................................                                                  18
Institutional Eligibility  Criteria .....................................................    18
Credit Terms and Conditions .....................................................                                 19
Rationale for Lending Terms and Conditions ........................................ 20
Institutional Development Component .....................................................   21
PKSF's Institutional Development Program   .....................                           .................... 21
Strengthening  Regulation  and Promotion ............................................. 23
CHAPTER 5: IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS .................................................  23
Credit Institutions ..................................................... 23
Procurement Arrangements ..................................................... 24
Disbursement .....................................................  25
Monitoring  and Reporting  Requirements .....................................................  26
IDA  Supervision .....................................................                                                       27



Page No,
CHAPTER 6: PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND IMPACT ............................................. 27
Rationale for Publicly provided Concessional Funding ...................................... 27
Project Impact ........................................................ 29
Risks ........................................................ 32
CHAPTER 7: AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS .......................................... 35
ANNEXES:
1.     THE DIMENSIONS OF POVERTY ......................................6................    ....... 36
2. FINANCE AND THE POOR .39
3. THE APEX AGENCY: PKSF .49
4.     SOCIOECONOMIC IMPACT OF MICROFINANCE PROGRAMS:
A SUMMARY OF FINDINGS .62
5.  INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT .68
6. IDA DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE .71
7.     MONITORING AND EVALUATION PLAN AND PROJECT
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS .73
8.  DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILE .77
LIST OF TABLES
TABLRS
2.1  Microcredit Programs: Annual Disbursements.                                                  2
3.1  Viability Analysis of MFI's Credit Programs .10
3.2  Welfare effects of Grameen Bank Loans .12
4.1 Project Costs and Financing .17
5.1 Procurement Arrangements .25
5.2 Disbursement by Category .26
6.1  PKSF's Projected Financial Performance .31
This report is based on findings of an appraisal mission to Bangladesh in October 1995. Project team members
included: Mr. A. Hasan (Principal Financial Specialist, SAIPF), Task Manager; Ms. Sona Varma (Economist,
SAIPF); Mr. T. Ahmed (ACTDR); Ms. S. Sharmin (Consultant); and Mr. Reazul Islam (Program Officer,
RMB). The project is endorsed by Ms. Mieko Nishimizu, Director, Country Department 1, South Asia Region,
and Ms. Marilou Uy, Chief, Private Sector Development and rinance Division. The Peer Reviewers comprised
Messrs./Mmes. S. Khandker (PSP), M. Ravallion (PRDPH), L. Bennett and C. Cuevas (ASTHR), and M.
Malhotra (CGAP). The Report was processed by Annie Andrianasolo and Soon-Won Pak, with assistance from
Agnes Evidente, Ceny Sauz and Anthony Stanley.



- i -
BANGLADESH
POVERTY ALLEVIATION MICROFINANCE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                  People's Republic of Bangladesh
Implementation Agencies:   Palli Karma Sahayak Foundation (PKSF), a quasi-governmental apex
financing intermediary for NGOs in Bangladesh; and Bangladesh Bank
(BB).
Beneficiaries:              NGO-based Micro-Finance Institutions (MFIs) and about 1.2 million
poor, mostly rural women.
Poverty Category:           The Project is included in the program of targeted intervention for
poverty alleviation, given its focus on the poor.
Amount:                     SDR 72.7 million (US$105 million equivalent)
Terms:                      Standard, with 40 years' maturity
Commitment Fee:             Standard (a variable rate between 0 and 0.5% of the undisbursed credit
balance set annually by the Executive Directors of IDA).
On-lending Terms:          GOB will onlend IDA funds to PKSF at 1 % for 20 years, with 5 years'
grace. PKSF will relend to its Partner Organizations (Pos)-eligible
MFIs-at interest rates ranging from 3-5 %. The POs will be free to set
the final lending rate to the beneficiaries (expected to be in the 25-30%
range).
Financing Plan:             See para 4.10
Financial Return
to Final Beneficiary:       Annual financial return of the final beneficiary, after payment of loan
and cash inputs, is expected to range from 100-150% of the amount of
micro-loan. This is mostly return to own labor.
Map:                        Not applicable
Project Identification No:    BD-PA-40985



- I -
1. THE SECTOR
1.1    With a 1995 per capita income of US$230 per annum, Bangladesh is among the poorest
countries in the world. About half the people are below the poverty line, with over 80% in the rural
areas (Annex 1). The poverty situation has deteriorated in the last decade, primarily due to the rapid
increase of the working age population, increasing landlessness, and slow growth in productive non-
farm employment. The burden of poverty falls disproportionately on women, who on average had
88% of nutritional intake of males and 40% of the wage rate earned by males; also declining homestead
based activities have exposed women to serious economic pressures.
1.2    The present production structure, accompanied by sound macro-economic and incentive
policies can help increase GDP growth rate above 5 %; but even this will be insufficient to productively
employ all new entrants to the labor force. Robust growth in agriculture could probably absorb about
25 % of new entrants, and industry and services another 40%. The remainder would have no choice
but to turn to the rural non-farm (RNF) sector for employment opportunities and involve themselves in
marginal activities; this would swell the ranks of the very poor, unless action is taken to diversify the
rural economy and expand targeted efforts to help the landless. However, the ability of the landless to
engage in productive non-farm employment is severely limited by their illiteracy, lack of skills and
inadequate financial resources.
1.3    Poverty alleviation and rural employment are top priorities in the development agenda of
Government of Bangladesh (GOB). The GOB has adopted a broad based approach to poverty
alleviation, that emphasizes macroeconomic stability and economic liberalization, and supports a
number of targeted programs. It has also assigned top priority to increasing foodgrain production, and
more recently to developing labor-intensive export industries in order to increase employment and
incomes. A salient feature of many such targeted programs is the provision of microcredit for self-
employment, by a number of government agencies as well as by various non-government organizations
(NGOs). In most instances good progress has been made in implementing these microcredit schemes,
and the scope for efficient expansion is enormous. The proposed Project is the result of a participatory
initiative between GOB, IDA and the NGOs, and is based on detailed studies and reviews of successful
poverty-oriented microfinance programs.



- 2 -
2. FINANCE AND THE POOR
Overview
2.1    Bangladesh's financial sector comprises the formal financial institutions (15 commercial and
specialized banks, and two cooperative networks), the semi-formal institutions (over 150 NGO-based
microfinance institutions), and the informal institutions (family, friends and money lenders). For the
most part, these institutions have operated in segmented markets. The informal sector dominates rural
finance in Bangladesh, with the semi-formal sector occupying second place and the formal sector third.
In FY94, Grameen Bank and other NGO-based Microfinance Institutions (MFIs) provided about Tk 17
billion in microcredit, compared with Tk 11 billion of rural credit provided by the agricultural banks
and nationalized commercial banks (NCBs) combined. Table 2.1 below provides estimates of
microcredit disbursements, in recent years, by the different institutions.
Table 2.1: Microcredit Programs: Annual Disbursements
(Tk million)
1990-91    1991-92  1992-93   1993-94  1994-95  No. of
borrowers,
1994 (000)
1. Formal Sector
Grameen Bank                        2,642    5,200    10,622   13,912   15,000          1,861
BRDB*                                 205      352       688       878    1,647          521
NCBs                                   53       43        52        80      104          n.a.
11. Multi-purpose NGOs
ASA*                                   19      195       573       887    1,156          386
BRAC*                                 421      605       733    1,368    2,035           706
Proshika*                             121      127       224       303      423          417
PKSF POs*                             n.a.      44        198      399      675          290
Swanirvar                              45       44        62       109      132          598
Total                               3,506    6,610    13,152   17,936   21,172         4,779
In million US$                         98      173       336       448      520
Source: MFIs and Staff Estimates.
* ASA-Association for Social Advancement; BRAC-Bangladesh Rural Advancement Committee;
BRDB-Bangladesh Rural Development Board; PKSF's POs: PKSF's Partner Organizations or MFIs.
The Formal Financial Sector
2.2    This comprises the public sector financial institutions (NCBs and specialized banks), private
banks and the Grameen Bank. Apart from the latter, few other institutions in the formal sector have
been a major source of microfinance. Although the NCBs and specialized banks have a large rural



- 3 -
credit program and some have initiated microcredit programs, for the most part their rural credit
programs are neither targeted to the poor nor do they reach the poor. Their programs are mainly for
small rural enterprises and farmers, rarely include the landless, and their average microcredit loan size
is 3-5 times that of MFIs. Also, when NCBs have provided microcredit. their rather low lending rates
of 16% compared to MFIs' rates to the final borrower (para 3.4) suggests that these banks are making
such loans perhaps to fulfill their social obligations and provide work for underutilized staff in rural
branches. While they have high collection rates (90% +) on their microcredit portfolios, overall the
portfolio quality of these institutions has been very unsatisfactory because of pervasive "default
culture"; a recent World Bank study indicates that non-performing loans (according to international
standards) are over 50 % of the total portfolio. Private banks have largely stayed away from the rural
credit sector, due to the high cost of intermediation and perceived risk.
2.3    Several factors militate against lending by commercial banks to MFIs or directly to the poor;
these include the predilection of commercial banks to shy away from the asset-less, and their operating
culture and procedures which are geared to the relatively well off, well connected and more vocal
segments of rural society. While there are no regulatory or interest rate barriers to voluntary lending,
getting commercial banks involved in MFI financing would require the "heavy hand' of government, in
addition to offering credit guarantees.' The banking sector would also have to undergo a sea-change to
lend on an uncollateralized basis, given that collateralized lending is the norm; in the interim it would
require forcing banks to relax their collateral requirements which would be imprudent in the present
environment of "default culture". Commercial banks, thus, are unlikely to become a major player in
microfinance in the foreseeable future.
2.4    The most important and internationally well-known example of a formal sector institution
providing microfinance is the Grameen Bank. It began as an NGO, but was formally established as a
specialized bank under a special charter in 1983. Grameen's shareholders are its' borrowers and the
Government. It is the largest provider of microcredit in Bangladesh and has so far disbursed about Tk
48 billion to around 2 million poor.
The Semi-Formal Sector
2.5    The semi-formal sector comprises largely NGOs which operate microfinance programs targeted
to the rural poor. There are over 150 NGOs in Bangladesh offering regular financial services-
microcredit and savings, and majority of these programs are less than 5 years old. Most of these NGO-
based MFIs are social welfare non-profit organizations formed to provide nonlending services such as
social empowerment, education, family planning, relief, sanitation, and health. Recognizing the
importance of stable income and capital accumulation for a permanent escape from poverty, these
NGOs initiated targeted savings and credit programs for income generating self-employment activities.
Over time, these institutions also recognized that provision of nonlending services was not, in itself,
leading to alleviation of poverty and that lending and nonlending services sustain and reinforce each
other. MFIs see financial services as a vehicle to achieve multiple objectives: enhance the poor's
consumption; empower them to access health and education services; as a social safety net for the very
poor; and as a means to establish a permanent income-generating asset base for the poor. These
programs have grown rapidly and are a major source of finance for the poor (Annex 2). During the
last five years, these MFIs have disbursed, on a cumulative basis, about Tk II billion to over 2.5
In early 1995, through moral suasion, GOB made NCBs buy Tk 6 billion of Grameen Bank bonds. These
were underwritten by GOB and were also eligible securities to meet statutory liquidity requirements.



- 4 -
million borrowers. 80% of credit recipients are women and repayment rates are mostly above 95%;
this is a stark comparison to the pervasive loan "default culture" in the formal system. In addition to
the NGO-based MFIs, the Bangladesh Rural Development Board (BRDB) has a well performing
microcredit program financed by external donors.
2.6    The microfinance market structure is bipolar; almost 95% of the market is serviced by
Grameen Bank and a few large national MFIs, such as BRAC, ASA, and Proshika, with annual credit
programs ranging from Tk 0.4-2.0 billion. These institutions are professionally managed and staffed,
and have so far received a majority of their funds as grant from overseas donors. The large MFIs
operate on the basis of 3-5 year business plans, which are fully funded at commencement of the plan.
The remaining 5% share of the market is serviced by small, local MFIs with annual credit programs
ranging from Tk 1-100 million. They have flexible organizational structures and have grown according
to the availability of funds; most of these rely on PKSF (para 2.7) for financial support. Despite the
bipolar market structure, there is increasing competition among service providers as the number of
institutions increase. With some of the large MFIs (e.g. Grameen and BRAC) slowing down their
expansion in new areas, the small/medium MFIs are expected to become the major institutions for
increasing outreach in areas not covered currently.
The Palli Karma Sahayak Foundation (PKSF)
2.7    A major institutional innovation in Bangladesh was the establishment in FY90 of the Palli
Karma Sahayak Foundation (PKSF), an apex financing institution to assist promising small and medium
NGOs expand their poverty targeted microcredit programs. Detailed institutional and financial analysis
of PKSF is given in Annex 3. The PKSF is registered under the Companies Act of 1913 as a private
non-profit organization. It has a General Body of 15 people, of which majority are from outside the
Government and are leading personalities and social workers of national and international repute. The
General Body, which meets a few times a year, provides broad policy direction. In addition, there is a
seven member Governing Body, comprising the Chairman, Managing Director and five other
members. The Governing Body meets more frequently and is responsible for overall policies and
operations (including loan approvals). The Chairman and two other members are appointed by the
Government; the former, however, cannot be a serving official. In the past the Managing Director was
appointed by the Government, but in late-1995 PKSF's Articles of Association were changed to give
this authority to PKSF's Governing Body. The other three Board members are selected by the General
Body from private sector, and represent knowledge professionals with interest in the field of NGO
activities and poverty alleviation. The Governing Body currently includes Professor Yunus of Grameen
Bank.
2.8    PKSF's Governing Body has full autonomy on staff compensation and recruitment/termination.
PKSF's salaries are higher than those of government and large national NGOs. Importantly, it has
rigorous staff selection criteria-professional staff must have masters degree with above average grades
(i.e., First Class). It has a staff of 72 of whom 37 are professional staff.
2.9    As of December 1995, PKSF has financed 124 Partner Organizations (POs)2, almost all of
which started as social service organizations, adding microcredit subsequently as a new service to their
nonlending activities. PKSF proactively solicits new POs but maintains tight entry standards as
2   PKSF uses the term "Partner Organization" (PO) for MFIs borrowing from PKSF.



reflected by its very high rejection rate-of the 690 NGOs who have applied for loans, PKSF has
approved only 124. To be eligible to borrow from PKSF., POs are required to have a demonstrated
track record of microfinance or a potential capacity; while PKSF does not exclude POs with newly
established credit activities, it gives priority to those with on-going programs. Thus of the 18 new POs
it accepted in FY95, 15 had been operating a credit/savings program for over 2 years. while all the
remainder had credit operation for one year. So far, PO's borrowing from PKSF have mnobilized 1.2
mnillion poor women into groups; however, only 25% of these have been provided microcredit because
offinding shortages and cautious lending policies.
2.10   PKSF makes uncollateralized fixed-rate loans, at rates ranging from 3-4.5% p.a.. with a
maturity period of three years. It periodically reviews its rate structure and raised rates by 0.5-1.0% in
end-1994. Even though POs need long-term funds (para 3.8), PKSF provides three-year loans to
ensure adequate accountability and monitoring of fund use: at the same time, it has a policy of
automatically providing repeater loans of higher amounts, as long as the repayment rate is satisfactory
(i.e. 95% +) and PO continues to have good manag.ment.
2.11   PKSF's overall operating policies and procedures are quite satisfactory. Its credit approval
policies are sound and conservative, credit supervision intensive, accounting/MIS systems reasonably
satisfactory and its own external audit quite comprehensive. PKSF's main focus of attention with
regard to its POs is on loan collections (which have been over 99.8% since inception), satisfactory
bookkeeping of disbursements and repayments, routing of PKSF-financed transactions through banks.
and ensuring that microcredits are made to the target group. POs are required to conduct all
transactions of PKSF-funded programs through banks and submit monthly bank statements and MIS
reports. Loans are approved on the basis of POs' annual needs, but disbursed generally at intervals of
1-2 months after field supervision and bank statements confirm that the earlier tranche has been
satisfactorily used. To further strengthen its monitoring and internal accountability capabilities, PKSF
has recently established an Internal Audit Cell which would undertake compliance audit of each PO
twice a year.
2.12   PKSF has established a prudent exposure limit; maximum loan to a PO generally canlot exceed
10% of available funds. In addition, it follows a conservative policy for first-time POs by starting with
a small loan and gradually increasing loan sizes. For example, in regard to the 18 POs approved in
FY95, the loan size ranged from Tk 100,000 (for 12 POs) to Tk 1.2 million. As of June 1995. the
average loan outstanding per PO amounted to about Tk 24 million, while the size distribution was as
follows: 57% of loans, by number, were below Tk 2 million, 34% between Tk 2-5 million and
remainder 9% higher. Loans in the last category accounted for 60% of outstandilng loans with the
maximum loan outstanding being Tk 80 million.
2.13   PKSF encourages its POs to at least fully cover the recurring credit administrative/fundinig
costs from interest income; it also imposes a minimum lending rate of 16% to ensure that POs do not
lend below commercial bank rates and to promote cost recovery from operations. PKSF also
encourages POs who have outside sources of income to set aside a portion of interest income as
reserves. PKSF mandates that all POs must have a member savings program and generally requires
that these savings be kept in a regular bank; only for those POs which have a good track record and
high standards of financial accounting does PKSF allow them to use savings in credit programs. It
follows this strict policy to protect savings of the poor. In general, it does not impose any specific
performance or sustainability target. PKSF's main objective is to ensure accountability of its funds and
member savings. As long as POs meet its stringent requirements for targeted lending, repayment and



- 6 -
accounting, PKSF neither monitors nor imposes its view on: (a) PO's product mix; (b) cross-
subsidization of nonlending services from lending profits or lending services from grants and other
income: (c) loan pricing and loan loss reserve policies; (d) level of mandatory savings; and (e)
separation of accounts for different services, etc. Considering the pervasive loan default culture, the
higlh priority PKSF attaches to loan collections is well-placed and should remain as its predominant
concern. In addition, but without sacrificing the above noted emphasis. it needs to pay attention to
issues of sustainability and its own role as an apex financial institution. Thus, a major institutional
developmenit objective of the Project is to enhance PKSF's financial planning and monitoring
capabilities, incorporate forward looking performance targets in PKSF's credit policies, and strengthen
field-level financial accountability including accounting/auditing standards of POs.
2.14   PKSF has so far been fully funded on a grant basis by GOB, which has provided it with Tk 750
million: of this, over half was provided a year ago. PKSF's annual disbursement increased from Tk 3
million in FY 90, to an estimated Tk 500 million in FY 96. PKSF's assets increased from Tk 239
million in 1991 to Tk 844 million as of June 30, 1995. Loans outstanding increased during the same
period from Tk 3 million to Tk 456 million, or about 55% of assets. The remaining 45% of assets are
mostly investments in term deposits which yield about 6% compared to a yield of about 3.5% on loans.
With expansion of loan portfolio. PKSF's operating costs, as % of loans, declined from 10% in FY93
to 2.7% in FY95. Since inception, PKSF has been profitable, mostly on account of interest income
from term deposits and has pursued a policy to project itself as a sustainable institution-for staff
morale and to the POs, and to avoid decapitalization. The high percentage of assets in investments is,
thus, partly a reflection of the profitability objective and partly on account of its conservative lending
policies. While this policy has obviously led to sacrificing the poverty objective, i.e. higher lending,
for the reasons noted earlier it seems appropriate. With the profitability objective now well ensured,
the share of loans in assets is expected to increase to 80% in five years (Table 6.1). Beginning FY96,
PKSF intends to start making loan loss provisions amounting to I % of annual disbursements; with close
to 100% recovery rate, this level of provisions appears satisfactory. However, with the impending
expansion, and associated potential risks, PKSF needs to adopt a provisions policy appropriate for its
contingent risks; a new policy wouid be developed under the Project (para 4.33).
2.?15   Overall, PKSF's independent and autonomous governance structure and prudent operating
policies provide a good foundation for rapid and sustainable expansion of its lending to POs. It has
nurtured over 120 MFIs whose financial service programs have good potential for becoming financially
viable, and as a result significantly increased access of the poor and competition among MFIs.
3. MICROFINANCE PROGRAMS AND INSTITUTIONS
3.1    All MFIs are multipurpose, providing both credit and non-credit services. Not only there is a
wide range in the scope of services offered by each MFI, but there is also large variation in the
microcredit programs pursued by each. While the key operational and financial features of the credit
programs are similar and credit is usually multi-dimensional (i.e., combined with skills development,
marketing assistance, etc.), MFIs operate with differing objectives, methodologies and scope of multi-
dimensionality in credit. At one end of the spectrum there are institutions like Grameen Bank and
ASA, where credit activities dominate the institutions' business. At the other end are MFIs like BRAC
and Proshika, which believe that an integrated strategy focused on community and human resource



- 7 -
development is necessary to assist the landless; for these institutions credit is only about half of their
activities with the remaining accounted for by social sector programs, livestock/fisheries, social
forestry, social empowerment, etc. Institutions at both ends of the spectrum have experienced
tremendous success in terms of horizontal (i.e., new borrowers) and vertical outreach (i.e. larger loan
size) and repayment performance, though the MFIs which are "credit-only" and whose credit has
fewer multi-dimensional elements have lower operating costs.
WHO ARE THE BORROWERS?
The target group includes:
I .    Landless women such as Bedana, age 35, who initially received Tk 1,000 to purchase goats and chickens.
This enabled her to improve her four children's diet, and earn some income from the sale of eggs and chicken. In the
following years, she received larger loans, and was able to purchase and operate a small grocery shop. A
development education class taught her basic skills in math, and also increased her awareness of the impact of health,
nutrition, and the environment on her family's well-being.
2.      It also includes women such as Sokhina, age 27, whose family lost everything in the 1988 floods. An initial
loan of Tk 500 helped her family survive and resume their business of paddy husking. The family also purchased a
goat for fattening, and profits from its sale and from paddy husking enabled Sokhina's husband to buy a rickshaw,
and further increase the family's sources of livelihood. A second loan of Tk 1,000 helped Sokhina start a mat
business. Finally, a Tk 3,000 loan, combined with Sokhina's personal savings, allowed the family to purchase land,
which was used for jute-cropping.
3.     Often, the recipients of these loans are poor, young widows. Such was the case of Rahima Begum, age 31.
After her husband's death, Rahima learned sewing in an effort to sustain herself, but was unable to get credit to
purchase a sewing machine. An initial loan of Tk 1,000, combined with personal savings, permitted her to buy a
basic sewing machine. She began a tailoring business, which gradually expanded. With a further loan of Tk 2,000,
Rahima bought another sewing machine and employed an assistant. Profits from the business financed much needed
repairs in the house and Rahima's tailoring business is now worth Tk 6,000.
Source: "Voices from the Lower Depth: Impact Assessment through Case Analysis," Association for Social
Advancement (ASA), Dhaka.
Operational Features
3.2    The MFIs' credit model has the following key features : (a) it is targeted to the landless/asset-
less; (b) all borrowers have to be part of a group, and groups meet regularly once a week; (c) women
borrowers are given preference. In fact, most MFIs only lend to women, and overall women
borrowers make up over 80% of the total borrowers; (d) loans are collateral-free, and generally have a
maturity of 50 weeks with weekly repayments; (e) savings is an integral part of the program; (f)
borrowers have full freedom to choose the activity to be financed by the loan; (g) all financial
transactions are recorded in individual passbooks and done in presence of the entire group to enhance
transparency and self-monitoring; (h) all MFIs start with a small loan (Tk 1-3 thousand) and provide
repeater loans of increasing amounts as long as repayment of earlier loan is satisfactory. This repeater
feature is critical to the excellent repayment performance, but more importantly the basic premise is
that the poor need to have continuous access to credit, in increasing amount, for 8-10 years to
accumulate enough savings/assets (net of debt) to escape from the poverty trap and maintain reasonable



- 8 -
consumption once loan is withdrawn; (i) most MFIs have maximum loan limits of Tk 8-12 thousand.
but few have a policy to "graduate" a borrower from the program since borrowers with large loans are
low risk-having been in the system for several years-and provide ability for cross-subsidy (para 3.4);
() most of the credit provided by MFIs finances rural non-farm production. This includes activities
such as poultry farming, petty trade and shopkeeping, cow fattening, pottery, and other related
activities-mainly activities with short gestation and daily sales; and, (k) MFIs use fairly comprehensive
loan forms to select beneficiaries. In the absence of land records and objective means test, the selection
is largely subjective. However the following features of the program provide a reasonable degree of
assurance that only the poor get the loans: self-selection process; very small loan sizes and high
interest rates; rigorous enforcement of repayment; weekly meetings; MFI staff's knowledge of local
commllunities and unlikelihood of the better-off to subject themselves to the rigors of the program and
be seen sitting with the poor in open meetings.
Financial Aspects
3.3    Following from their overriding poverty and social welfare objectives, most institutions operate
on a non-profit basis and emphasize increasing borrowers' incomes rather than making profits. Within
the constraints imposed by the resource envelope comprising grants, concessional funds and voluntary
services of key organizers, MFIs' attempt to maximize nonlending services and horizontal outreach,
minimize interest rates, and pursue a loosely defined goal of achieving financial sustainability on their
credit programs. There is wide variation among MFIs on the relative priority attached to each of these
objectives. The usual pattern is described below.
3.4    Iiiterest rates. These are much higher than rates in the formal sector. Effective interest rates
range from 25-30%3 per annum; this is 15-20% in real terms and 50-100% higher than the highest
lending rates of private banks. Interest rates are set such that within 3-5 years of initiating lending to a
group, interest revenues from each group fully cover the operating costs (administrative costs, interest
cost on borrowed funds and borrower savings, and 2-3% loan loss provisions). By this time average
loans are around Tk 5-6 thousand and 80-90% of the group members are borrowing. Beyond this
point, and as loan sizes increase, interest income exceed costs which enables the MFI to cross subsidize
new groups. MFIs charge a uniform rate for all borrowers which allows them to cross-subsidize loss-
making first time borrowers through profits originating from mature borrowers who have been in the
system for several years and whose loan size is generally 2-3 times that of a first time borrower. The
availability of low-cost funds enhances the ability for cross-subsidization, and hence horizontal
outreach. While loan pricing is generally on a cost-plus basis, the interest rates fall within the above
band because of: (a) pricing policies of market leaders like Grameen/BRAC; (b) "social consensus" on
this rate band; (c) MFIs' poverty objectives and reluctance to charge higher interest rates which they
consider usurious; and (d) increasing competition and a growing pattern of beneficiaries switching
between MFIs. This latter behavior has also put pressure on MFIs to enhance cost effectiveness.
3.5    Credit Delivery Costs. These usually range from 10-20% of loan amount, and vary
considerably; for example, per borrower, they are annually Tk 330 (Grameen), Tk 400 (Proshika). Tk
Most institutions charge a nominal rate of 12-15% with interest due calculated on the basis that the principal
amount is outstanding for the entire 50 week period; e.g., at an interest rate of 12%, interest collected on a
loan of Tk 100 would be Tk 12, even though because of weekly repayments, average loan outstanding is
around Tk. 50. Because of this feature and other fees (e.g. emergency fund, etc.), the effective interest rate
amounts to around 25-30%.



380 (BRAC) and Tk 240 (ASA). They are higher for smaller MFIs and whose credit is more multi-
dimensional and lower for larger MFIs and those which provide limited nonlending services as part of
credit; also they decline over time with increase in volume of lending.
3.6    Credit Risk Management. Most MFIs incorporate a 2-3 % loan loss provision in their
interest rate. Many also operate mandatory credit insurance schemes to enable borrowers to repay
loans in case of natural disasters, death, sickness, etc. The grants and the mandatory savings also
provide MFIs adequate cushion to absorb credit risks over and above the 2-3 % provisions.
3.7    Funding Strategy. The MFI's strategy has been to seek low cost and long term funds. Rough
estimates indicate that grants, concessional loans and borrower savings account for 37, 30 and 33 %
respectively, of the MFIs' total funding base at end-1994. MFIs basically act as "pass-through"
institutions in terms of the benefits of the lower cost funds.
3.8    MFIs prefer grants (or interest-only borrowings) rather than borrowings which require regular
principal repayments, as this enables them to pursue an important feature of the program-assured
repeater loans-without fear of a break in the cycle. Prior to a situation where all of MFIs' borrowers
have completed the 8-10 year cycle (para 3.2), withdrawal of funds from the MFIs in form of principal
repayment would necessitate withdrawal of an equivalent amount from the final beneficiary-this would
break the virtuous cycle of higher consumption/savings accumulation and push the poor back into
poverty. Moreover, withdrawal of principal would also diminish MFIs' capacity to increase outreach.
3.9    The use of borrower savings by the MFIs falls into two categories. Those MFIs (e.g. Grameen
and ASA) which tend to emphasize lending services use borrower savings for this purpose and pay
deposit rates equal to rates on savings accounts at NCBs; borrowers are not allowed to withdraw
savings until their loans are fully paid. Other MFIs, such as Proshika, do not use borrower savings for
credit, though they mandate that borrowers regularly save and monitor savings which are kept by the
borrowers in a bank. PKSF's POs are required to follow this latter policy (para 2.13). Although
accurate data is not available, there is a definite pattern for the savings mobilized by MFIs. As MFIs
begin operations, savings are quite high as proportion of loans outstanding and range from 40 to 60%.
With credit expansion this ratio drops to around 15-20%, and then starts to increase as voluntary
savings increase for borrowers who have been in the system for several years. For mature MFIs, like
Grameen, savings are about 30% of loans outstanding.
3.10   So far retained earnings have not been a major source of funding. MFIs prefer to maximize
borrower income rather than build up equity and believe that until the time their horizontal outreach
objectives are met, and mature borrowers exceed new first time borrowers, they would not have the
ability to build up equity from operations.
3.11   Determinants of Viability and Sustainability. Table 3.1 on the next page highlights for a
range of MFIs, key operational information and the MFIs' financial evolution with respect to the
following three broad viability indicators: (a) operational viability , i.e. interest income exceeds
administrative costs; (b) financial viability, i.e. interest income exceeds administrative, loan loss and
subsidized financial costs; and (c) economic viability, i.e. interest income exceeds administrative, loan
loss and market-priced financial costs. Because of the lack of good accounting information separating
costs of lending and nonlending services, and unaudited financial statements of small/medium MFIs,
Table 3.1 is, at best, rudimentary and indicative



- 10 -
Table 3.1: Viability Analysis of MFI's Credit Programs
Loan Dis- Borrowers   Average   Savings/              Viability Ratios (%)
bursement              Loan Size  Loan
Outstanding Operational4 Financial5   Economic.6
(Tk M)    ('000)       (Tk '000)      %
I. Mostly Credit
Large
Grameen         1992      5,200        1,280        4.1        34           89        88          56
1993    10,622        1,680        6.3        27          114        93          66
1994    13,912        1,861        7.5         30         137        98          75
(0.22)
Medium
ASA              1992       195          86         1.9        22          160        160        121
1993       573          198        2.9        34          143        139        101
1994       887         262         3.4        41          145        113        102
Small
SUS             1992        0.1          0.1        0.7         18          --         --         --
1993       1.6          0.8        2.0         14         148        115         98
1994       3.7          1.4        2.6         18         166        109        109
11. Multi-12urpse
Proshika        1992        224         272        0.7          --          61        61          38
1993       303         368         0.8         --          58        58          36
1994       423         495        0.9          --          74        74          41
(3.16)
BRAC             1992       733         287         2.5         32         111        89          69
1993     1,368         476         2.8         29          90        73          60
1994     2,035         706         2.8        30          120        96          72
(1.06)
Source:  MFIs and staff estimates.  Figures in parenthesis are Subsidy Dependency Index (SDI) for 1994
estimated by another study. An SDI of 1.0 implies that interest rates would have to increase by 100% to eliminate
all forms of subsidy.
3.12   From the above table, the general pattern that emerges is that as loan portfolio increases,
financial viability improves and dependence on external funds declines while economic subsidy
prevails. Thus, in case of Grameen, financial viability indicator was 98% in 1994, having increased
from 88% in 1992. Similarly, in case of Proshika, the financial viability indicator increased from 61 %
in 1992 to 74% in 1994. The "mostly credit" institutions (e.g., Grameen, ASA) are financially viable,
4   Interest Income as % of non-financial operating costs (total non-financial costs for "mostly-credit" MFIs and
estimated credit-related costs for "multi-purpose" MFIs).
5   Interest Income as % of operating cost including financial expenses.
6   Interest Income as % of operating cost plus imputed economic cost (10% p.a.) of entire funding base
comprising grant funds, concessional loans, and borrower savings.



- 11 -
albeit on the basis of subsidized funding; on the other hand, the multipurpose institutions (e.g.,
Proshika) are loss making on account of their emphasis on horizontal outreach and greater multi-
dimensionality in their credit program. Few of the institutions would be profitable if opportunity cost
was imputed to grants/ concessional funds; thus, in 1994, interest income as percentage of economic
costs was 75% (Grameen), 102% (ASA), 41% (Proshika), and 72% (BRAC).
3.13   Overall, most MFIs currently operate at or below operational viability stage because they are of
recent origin (para 2.5); very few are economically viable. They use grants from donors and income
from commercial activities (e.g. fish ponds, handicrafts) for providing nonlending services, financing
up-front costs of establishing new groups and initial losses incurred until the lending volume builds up
to a break-even level. The time frame for an MFI to move from one viability stage to the next
depends on the following factors, many of which result from development choices made by MFIs:
*  Volume of lending, with viability improving as the portfolio expands.
*  Unit loan size, per beneficiary, is also a critical determinant. Those MFIs which emphasize
vertical outreach tend to move faster along the viability continuum compared to those that
emphasize horizontal outreach. MFIs optimize this trade-off (Annex 2, para 22) based on
availability of grant/own funds to cover losses. In general, for a typical MFI having multi-
dimensional credit and operating cost (para 3.5) like Grameen, it appears that the MFI
attains operational, financial, and economic viability once unit loan reaches Tk 3-5
thousand, Tk 4-6 thousand, and Tk 7-9 thousand respectively.
-  Scope of multi-dimensionality of credit and other nonlending services provided has a
direct impact on viability. MFIs whose credit does not include non-lending services (e.g.,
ASA) has much better ratios than MFIs whose credit is more multi-dimensional (e.g.,
Grameen). Similarly "mostly credit" MFIs (e.g., Grameen and ASA) have higher viability
ratios compared to multi-purpose MFIs (e.g., BRAC and Proshika).
-  Wage level of staff is an important determinant of operating costs. Wages paid by small
MFIs are much lower than large MFIs like Grameen or BRAC. As MFIs' lending volume
increases, wage costs (as % of loans) decrease; beyond a certain scale the wage costs start
to increase as they have to compete with the large MFIs for better qualified staff.
* Standardization of products. Those MFIs, like ASA, which follow rigid product
standardization-all loans in multiples of Tk 1000 and savings in multiples of Tk 5-have
lower administrative costs compared to those which offer borrowers a choice.
*  Percentage of group members borrowing. MFIs which are able to finance a high
percentage of group members have lower unit costs.
Institutional Capacity
3.14   So far institutional capacity has not been a constraint to lending, as evidenced by the rapid
horizontal and vertical expansion of these programs without any adverse effect on repayment. The
large/medium MFIs, in particular those which have had generous access to funds have been able to
expand rapidly due to the simplicity of the system, tried and tested credit model and the large pool of
unemployed college graduates available to work at the field level. Thus, over the last five years, each



- 12 -
of the large institutions-BRAC, Grameen, ASA and Proshika-have expanded their programs five
times (Table 2.1). PKSF's POs have experienced even higher growth rates. Most MFIs are dependent
on dynamism of original organizer and lack depth of management. Evidence indicates that over time
institutional viability improves-there is well developed organization and professional management.
Accounting and Auditing
3.15   The accounting, MIS and external audit policies and standards followed by the large MFIs,
particularly those funded by external donors, are good and comprehensive. While PKSF monitors very
closely the credit programs of small/medium MFIs financed by it. for the most part the latter's
accounting, MIS and audit systems need to be substantially upgraded. MFIs can, to some degree,
separate cost of credit delivery from costs of nonlending services; few have a cost allocation system
which accurately tracks these costs or is able to differentiate the direct cost of credit delivery from
associated costs, i.e., group mobilization, training, empowerment, etc. An important objective to be
pursued under the Project is improving the financial and cost-accounting systems, while recognizing the
genuine concerns of MFIs about the administrative/reporting burdens of even a rudimentary cost
accounting system.
Socioeconomic Impact
3.16   There have been several studies to measure the impact of microfinance on the socioeconomic
status of the beneficiaries (Annex 4). The quality, coverage, independence and analytical robustness of
these vary considerably. Most however, do indicate that households which received microcredit have
better living standards, higher human development status and greater assets. A more rigorous study by
Bank staff shows that MFIs place their programs in poorer areas and that program participation among
the poor is self-selective. The study also shows that microfinance programs, such as those of Grameen
Bank, have desirable impact on the poor, program impact is statistically different for male and female
borrowers, women benefit from program participation, and the larger the loan the more significant the
socioeconomic impact.
Table 3.2: Welfare effects of Grameen Bank Loans
(percentage change)
Indicators                Effect of male borrowing        Effect of female borrowing
Participation rates
- Boys' schooling                           7.2                              6.1
- Girls' schooling                          3.0                              4.7
Weekly Per capita expenditure                  1.8                             4.3
Recent fertility of women aged                -7.4                            -3.5
15-49 years
Women's labor supply to cash-                  0                               10.4
income earning activities
Women's nonland assets                         0                               19.9
Source: Pitt and Khandker, 1995
3.17   The above table, based on the Bank's study, highlights the welfare effects for those Grameen
borrowers who have been receiving loans for about four years and whose average loan is about Tk



- 13 -
3500; a 1 % increase in their loan size would: (a) increase per capita consumption (a weekly increase
of 4.3 % among female borrowers and 1.8 % increase among male borrowers); (b) enhance school
participation rate for boys (7.2 % increase among male borrowers and 6. 1 % increase among female
borrowers) and girls (3.0 % increase among male borrowers and 4.7 % increase among female
borrowers); and (c) reduce recent (over the last five years) fertility of women aged 15-49 (7.4 %
reduction for male borrowing and 3.5 % reduction for fema!e borrowing).
3.18   The Bank study also indicates that: (a) earnings, from microcredit, of an average female
borrower of Grameen Bank can take the family out of poverty (i.e. per capita consumption exceeds
poverty level consumption) within five years of continuous borrowing; (b) the total assets of a borrower
are about 140- 240% higher in 4 years compared to asset holding prior to participation in the program;
(c) women benefit from program participation mainly through increasing labor supply to cash-income
earning activities (by 10.4%) and holding more nonland assets (by 19.9%); (d) these programs have
created positive externality in the village economy. The nonfarm income of an average household is
14.8 % higher in Grameen Bank villages than nonprogram villages, with a resulting 10.2% increase of
average household total annual income; (e) rural wage workers also benefit from program placement.
The average daily wage rate is at least 5.2% higher in Grameen Bank villages than in non-program
villages: and (f) the credit programs have generated positive externality in the case of both informal
lendinig (reduction of 54.5%) and informal interest rate (a reduction of 8.0%).
3.19   Due to the MFIs' active involvement in social issues, differentiating the impact of credit versus
the impact of other nonlending services that they provide is difficult. According to one study, as much
as 75 % of the increase in income can be attributed to nonlending services7. However, it is important to
recognize that the credit and non-credit activities are an integral part of a development paradigm
focused on poverty alleviation and that microfinance programs should not be viewed in isolation merely
as a financial intermediation activity. In comparison to other targeted programs in Bangladesh for
poverty alleviation (e.g., Food-for-Work, etc.) experience is gradually revealing that microfinance
offers much greater potential for poverty reduction as it has a proven track record, is the most
transparent method of reaching the poor, especially rural women, and results in positive externalities at
the village level.
3.20   Despite the positive contributions of these programs at the individual, group and village levels,
the enormous magnitude of poverty in Bangladesh has dwarfed this contribution in aggregate statistics.
With only a low percentage of the poor being covered so far under these programs, the highly positive
impact has not led to a drop in aggregate levels of the poor. Also, the impact has been masked by the
increase in the ranks of the poor. Any meaningful and observable change would require both a
quantum increase in the size of these programs and higher growth of the rural economy, and overall
economic growth.
Constraints to Expansion of MFI's Financial Services
3.21   The potential demand for credit is enormous (para 4. 11). The main constraint facing MFIs in
expanding outreach and attaining economic viability is funds, particularly concessional funds. As
external grant funds shrink, even large MFIs like BRAC and Proshika with strong connections to
external donors face funding constraints. While the large MFIs have developed their credit
Impact of Micro-Credit Program: Signe-Mary McKernan, Brown University 1995.



- 14 -
management, monitoring and evaluation capabilities in tandem with their rapid expansion, the
accounting and credit management skills of smaller MFIs is weak. These institutions and PKSF need to
develop this capacity, if they are to continue expanding as they have over the last few years.
4.  THE PROJECT
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) Objectives
4.1   IDA's overriding objective in Bangladesh is to support the country's efforts to accelerate the
rate and improve the pattern of growth, so as to reduce the absolute number of people living in
poverty. The CAS envisages a two pronged approach that comprises: (a) direct support for programs
which benefit the poor, and (b) programs which support overall economic growth particularly that
originating in labor-intensive economic activities. Within these themes, the CAS gives priority to
fostering the participation of the poor in the growth process, and supporting the emerging collaboration
between the Government and the NGOs. In particular, it places emphasis on increased involvement of
the communities and stakeholders in the design and monitoring of development programs.
Project Concept
4.2    The basic concept behind the Project is to enable successful MFIs to expand their financial
services programs through increasing the level of resources available to them, and to assist them in
attaining financial and institutional sustainability of these programs. Resources will be provided
through the apex intermediary, PKSF, which will onlend the funds to small, medium and large POs.
The Project was conceived by a GOB Task Force comprising key stake-holders-GOB, PKSF and
MFIs, and its design incorporates the recommendations of the Task Force and the results of a Bank
research project (RPO-676-59) under which detailed institutional and financial sustainability studies
were undertaken for three large MFIs: Grameen Bank, BRAC and BRDB's RD-12 program. The
Project design is based on a tested approach and has strong ownership features resulting from: (a) the
active involvement of key stakeholders in project preparation; (b) the high priority attached by GOB to
supporting such programs (as evidenced by its Tk 750 million grant contribution to PKSF, and
underwriting of Tk 6 billion of bonds of Grameen Bank); and (c) wide acceptance by the final
beneficiaries of the credit component's key features.
Project Objectives
4.3    The Project has two key objectives: (a) reduce poverty through expanding horizontal and
vertical outreach of on-going successful microfinance programs; and (b) enhance institutional and
financial sustainability of PKSF and PO's credit programs through (i) financing expansion of lending;
(ii) enhancing the role of PKSF from being a financier of small and medium POs to becoming an apex
organization that lends funds to POs of all sizes, and acts as a catalyst in mobilizing enhanced levels of
financial support from other donors and eventually from the market; (iii) assisting in institutional
strengthening of PKSF and its borrowers by providing resources for training and institution building;
(iv) providing insight and possible solutions to several issues/problems (e.g., strengthening linkages
between MFIs and the formal financial sector) currently facing the microfinance system in Bangladesh
by conducting a range of special studies and associated training; and (v) disseminating best practices for
increasing cost effectiveness of these programs.



- 15 -
Rationale for IDA Involvement
4.4    The proposed Project supports the twin CAS objectives of poverty alleviation and broad based
economic growth. Recognizing microfinance's potential as an instrument for poverty reduction, the
proposed Project is part of IDA's comprehensive poverty alleviation strategy comprising this initiative
and investments in social sectors and rural infrastructure. It will be the first of its type for IDA's
targeted assistance to the poor in Bangladesh. While the Project would benefit people from all layers of
the poverty pyramid, the majority of the clients would be rural women. The Project would thus have a
significant impact on women's economic status and empowerment, with its attendant benefits on health
and education status of children and fertility rates.
4.5    The Project is also an important element of IDA's overall strategy for the financial sector. The
overarching objective for the sector is to establish an efficient and sound financial system in order to
achieve the economic growth goals. IDA has a three pronged strategy for the sector. Thefirst is to
reform the commercial banking system which is repressed, facing enormous portfolio problem and
where loan defaulters and irresponsible bank managers/owners have so far avoided any penalties. The
key elements of the strategy involve privatization of NCBs, strengthening of regulations, and
enforcement of sanctions to overcome the "default culture" and irresponsible governance behavior.
The second is to deepen the financial system through supporting non-bank financial institutions and the
capital market, which are insignificant at present. Finally, the third is to establish a financially
sustainable market-based mechanism for provision of financial services to the poor. This would be
achieved through assisting the credit programs of the MFIs become financially sustainable and fostering
the development of linkages between the formal and informal systems. Achieving these objectives
would, of necessity, take a long time on account of: (a) the deep seated institutional problems facing
the formal financial system (para 2.3); and (b) balancing the difficult trade-off between enhancing
consumption/asset build up of the poor and removing concessionality in funding, the latter being
necessary to establish a market based microfinance system. The above not withstanding, IDA's
underlying strategy is to establish an integrated and seamless financial services market over the long
run. IDA's vision on the Project-induced evolution of the MFI sector is discussed in paras 6.13-6.17.
4.6   IDA support will also: (a) bring about a fundamental shift from a grant based system to a loan
based system. As a result of this Project, GOB has decided that all future budgetary funding to PKSF
would be in the form of loans, not grants. In addition, two large MFIs (Proshika and BRAC) would be
using loan funds for the first time; (b) enable GOB to significantly enhance its financial support to
NGO-based microcredit programs, (c) play an important institution building and dissemination role
(para 4.3); (d) assist grassroots institutions to strengthen their credit operations, as a means to sustain
and enhance nonlending services to the poor and to support those willing to move along the
organizational continuum from informal social service organizations to full service formal financial
institutions; and (e) establish an efficient mechanism to transfer subsidized funds without penalizing the
banking system. Provided Project objectives are met and achievement of outcomes is as envisaged,
IDA support for the microcredit programs is expected to continue over the foreseeable future as part of
IDA's poverty assistance strategy.
Lessons from Previous IDA/Bank Operations
4.7    This would be IDA's first microfinance operation in Bangladesh. A somewhat similar
operation in the late 1980s was aborted at negotiations after IDA was informed that PKSF's Governing
Body declined to borrow IDA funds, partly because it found IDA's conditions too onerous. At that



- 16 -
time, the GOB was also not as entlhusiastic about channeling IDA funds to NGOs. Now GOB is very
keen on supporting microcredit programs in light of their success and the enormous need for funds. To
avoid a repetition of the past. and recognizing the importance of participation of key stake-holders to
successful design and ownership, PKSF and MFIs were involved in, and extensively consulted by, the
GOB Task Force and IDA. In a recent communication to IDA, the NGO Association of Development
Agencies in Bangladesh praised this Project as a "historical initiative" by IDA. The Project
incorporates the emerging lessons-importance of good credit information/supervision and emphasis on
achieving financial sustainability-of successful microfinance programs in Bangladesh and other
countries.
Coordination with Other Donors
4.8    During project preparation, IDA staff liased closely with official bilateral donors and
international NGOs who have generously supported these programs. Their views and experience have
been reflected in Project design. With grants shrinking and all donors emphasizing financial
sustainability and greater accountability, they see the Project as a path breaker in shifting microcredit
away from a grant based system and in sharpening the emphasis on financial sustainability. Since IDA
funds would be at higher cost and in form of loans, IDA would be the lender of last resort and
therefore not displace available donor funds. Moreover the continued provision of low-cost funds by
donors would not pose any problem of underutilization of Project funds given the enormity of the need.
Project Scope and Description
4.9    An IDA credit of US$105 million and GOB loan of US$10 million is to be provided under the
Project for: (a) a line of credit (US$109 million) for loans to the poor through POs that meet
predetermined criteria; and (b) technical assistance (US$6 million) for capacity and institution building
of the POs, PKSF and Bangladesh Bank (BB). The GOB loan of US$10 million and US$100 million of
IDA funds will be on-lent to PKSF on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA (para 4.17). The GOB
will provide US$5 million of IDA funds, on a grant basis, to PKSF and BB to implement the various
components for institution building and for deepening and broadening the microfinance market.
Project Costs and Financing Plan
4.10   The proposed IDA credit of US$105 million will finance 77% of the total Project cost of
US$137 million, with GOB contributing 7% (US$10 million) and POs/beneficiaries the balance of 16%
(US$22 million) . The Project costs and financing plan are summarized in Table 4.1. GOB has already
provided to PKSF its initial contribution of US$5 million.
With the inclusion of large POs and expected institutional improvements in small/mediulIl POs as a result of
the Project, it is estiniated that about S22 million of meniber savings is likely to be used for credit programs
(para 2.13).



- 17 -
Table: 4.1 Project Costs and Financing
Local  Foreign     Total      Local  Foreign   Total       %
(Tk billion)               (US$ million)
Project Costs
Credit Component            5.47        --     5.47         131       --    131       96
Institutional Development   0.21     0.04      0.25           5        1       6       4
Total                       5.68     0.04      5.72         136        1     137     100
Financing Plan
IDA                         4.34     0.04      4.38         104        1     105      77
GOB                         0.42        --     0.42          10       --      10       7
PO/Beneficiaries            0.92        --     0.92          22       --      22      16
Total                       5.68     0.04      5.72         136        1     137     100
Credit Component
Credit Size
4.11   The size of the credit component is only about 10% of the estimated potential demand for
credit. A recent study indicates that only 18% of the target group (all landless poor in the rural areas)
has been covered so far by MFIs. Bringing the remaining 82% into the program would require almost
US$1.5 billion9. Looked at another way, it would require over US$200 million to extend loans to
group members who have already been mobilized by POs borrowing from PKSF, but have not been
provided credit. The large difference in average loan size per borrower-Grameen (Tk 7500), ASA
and BRAC (Tk 2900), small POs (Tk 1500-2000)-for recipients having generally similar abilities and
market opportunities, provides an indication of the large room for credit expansion. The size of the
credit component is also much smaller than the total amount, about US$250 million, included in the
1996-2000 business plans presented to the appraisal mission by PKSF, BRAC, Proshika and ASA. On
an aggregate basis, the Project will not result in a significant increase in the availability of total funds,
given the total volume of microcredit disbursed by all institutions (US$492 million in FY95). Annex 2,
Table 1 shows the projected annual disbursements of the major MFIs between FY96 and FY2000,
roughly the period of the IDA Project. In relation to these, IDA funds will finance approximately 12%
of total annual microcredit disbursements in Bangladesh by FY2000. The Project's overall impact on
credit availability will be modest, which is prudent; however, the Project's potential impact on
strengthening PKSF and the small/medium POs and enhancing sustainability and accountability of their
credit programs, is large. In addition, the Project should significantly increase coverage of new
borrowers over the four-year implementation period.
4.12   As a result of the Project, PKSF's annual disbursements would increase from Tk 0.5 billion in
FY96 to about Tk 2.4 billion in FY2000. This growth is not out of line with past pattern (para 2.14).
9   Assuming average loans of US$ 150 per family to 10 million target families which are yet to be covered.



- 18 -
Moreover, PKSF's past low disbursement level is a reflection of both scarcity of loanable funds and its
policy of gradually increasing loan size in line with PO's absorptive capacity. Thus, the POs have not
only had to limit lending to no more than 25% of group members already mobilized but also had to
lower unit loan size to expand horizontal outreach. PKSF's borrowers, and in turn PKSF, could easily
triple their lending in 2-3 years just by increasing coverage to 70-75% of the existing group members-
the norm for Grameen/BRAC is 85-90%-without much risk of poor lending, lowering of PKSF's
appraisal standards or creating a "disbursement" mentality. The simplicity of the system permits its
rapid replication; moreover, the enhanced monitoring and accountability arrangements proposed under
the Project should reduce the above risks further.
Credit Use
4.13   Under the Project, funds will be channeled as follows. GOB will lend IDA funds (and its own)
to PKSF which in turn will re-lend these to eligible POs; the latter will on-lend to the beneficiaries.
Recognizing the segmentation of the market into a few large institutions and numerous small/medium
POs, the various aspects - credit allocation, eligibility criteria, terms and conditions-have been tailored
to suit this market structure.
4.14   About half of the credit component is notionally earmarked for the small/medium POs, with the
remaining for the large POs. This would ensure that the large POs, who have better access to external
funds, do not crowd out the equally efficient and promising small/medium POs. At the same time, a
predetermined allocation for the large POs would assure them of stability of funding for their medium-
term business plans and encourage them to use available scarce grant resources for mobilizing new
groups. In anticipation of the Project, PKSF has recently approved loans to two large POs-a loan of
Tk 1.4 billion (US$34 million) to BRAC and Tk 0.8 billion (US$19 million) to ASA. The allocations
between small/medium and large POs would be reviewed at mid-term, taking into account actual
experience.
4.15   The Project funds will enable POs to expand both horizontal and vertical outreach; except for
BRAC, all other POs will use the funds for general portfolio expansion. BRAC intends to use Project
funds exclusively for expanding its credit program for women participating in its Vulnerable Group
Development Program (Annex 1, para 10). By supporting this particular program, IDA funds would
reach the poorest segments of the rural population.
Institutional Eligibility Criteria
4.16   The eligibility criteria described below would apply to institutions implementing the Project.
4.17   PKSF would need to meet the following criteria to be eligible to borrow IDA (and GOB)
funds: (a) continue to have an independent Governing Body, professional management and staff and
sound operating policies; (b) maintain a strong and transparent accounting, MIS and internal audit
system; (c) continue to have its accounts audited by reputable external auditors on annual basis; and (d)
maintain a loan recovery rate of 98% on a continuous basis.
4.18   Small/Medium POs borrowing from PKSF. The following criteria, currently used by PKSF in
selecting POs, will be used under the Project: (a) the PO has a demonstrated track record of running a
successful microcredit program, or in the view of PKSF demonstrates the potential to do so after
technical assistance and capacity building; (b) the minimum loan recovery rate is 95%; (c) the PO



- 19 -
possesses adequate skilled, salaried staff for intensive supervision, and has a good management
committee; and (d) the PO is using a standard double entry accounting system, or is willing to adopt it
with PKSF's assistance.
4.19   Large POs (such as BRAC, ASA, etc.) would be eligible to borrow from PKSF provided:
(a) the institution has been operating a successful microcredit program for a minimum of 5 years; (b) it
has at least 100,000 borrowers with a strong potential for expansion; (c) the institution has at least Tk
100 million of equity (including foreign grants, retained earnings etc.) of its own in the program; (d)
the debt-equity ratio does not exceed 2.5:1 to avoid excessive leveraging. This would not apply to
Grameen Bank or POs which become banks and which would need to meet prudential capital adequacy
standards established by the central bank; (e) the institution maintains a strong and transparent
accounting, MIS and internal audit system; (f) the institution has its accounts audited by reputable
external auditor on an annual basis; and (g) it maintains a loan recovery rate of 95 %.
4.20   At present, while PKSF mandates savings mobilization and financial viability, it has not
established any targets that POs should meet for their credit programs in the short, medium or long
term in respect of sustainability indicators such as: savings mobilization, coverage of credit operating
costs from interest income, profitability, equity build-up, etc. Under the Project, PKSF will study and
incorporate forward-looking financial indicators in the eligibility criteria (para 4.33) to ensure that POs'
credit programs are moving along the continuum to full financial sustainability.
Credit Terms and Conditions
4.21   GOB Loan, and IDA funds, on-lent to PKSF would have an interest rate of 1 %, and a
maturity period of 20 years (including a 5-year grace period).
4.22   PKSF Loan to Small/Medium POs would have a maturity of three years and differentiated
interest rates (referred to as service-charge by PKSF) as follows: (a) 3% for POs with cumulative
borrowing from PKSF of Tk 5 million; (b) 4% for POs with cumulative borrowing from PKSF of Tk
5-75 million; (c) 4.5% for POs with cumulative borrowing from PKSF above Tk 75 million.
4.23   PKSF Loan to large POs would carry an interest rate of 5 %, and PKSF would decide on the
maturity and grace period, based on review of the PO's ability to repay from its income and reflows.
These loans will have the following features: (a) they will be approved on the basis of medium-term
business plans submitted by the POs to provide a firm planning horizon for them, since their programs
are large-scale and require considerable up-front preparation; (b) the loans will be of longer maturity
(10-14 years including grace) in line with needs of the program, with PKSF deciding on the final terms
of each loan based on the PO's overall cash flow projections. Unlike PKSF's small/medium POs which
require much tighter control and monitoring over fund flow (and hence the three-year funding cycle),
the large POs do not need to be subjected to this policy because they have a sound track record and
well developed internal controls/MIS; (c) disbursement will be made at a minimum on a quarterly basis
to these POs since they are dealing with larger volumes and more borrowers and, after the first
advance, disbursement would only be made provided the institution continued to meet eligibility criteria
(para 4.19).
4.24   During the Project period, it is conceivable that a large PO (e.g., Grameen) may issue bonds.
While PKSF's policies do not allow it to subscribe to bonds, it might decide to change this policy in
future. If PKSF does so, and subject to prior consultation with IDA, it would be allowed to use Project



- 20 -
funds, up to $10 million, to subscribe to PO bonds provided that: (a) the bonds are intended to finance
expansion of inicrocredit portfolio; (b) institution meets the above eligibility criteria; and (c) the interest
rate on bonds is not lower than prevailing interest rate on loans to large POs.
4.25   PO Loans to the Final Borrowers. Interest rates will be market determined, and the POs will
have full autonomy to set their loan maturity periods (usually 52 weeks) and onlending rates; the
effective interest rates are expected to range between 25 and 30% (para 3.4). With the greater
availability of funds, competition among POs will increase which could possibly result in a reduction of
rates.
4.26   Currency of Loans. All loans-from GOB to PKSF, from PKSF to POs and from POs to the
poor-will be denominated in local currency, with GOB bearing the exchange risk without any fee
(para 6.18).
Rationale for Lending Terms and Conditions
4.27   The interest rates at the beneficiary level are much higher than interest rates in the formal
sector; however, they have an element of subsidy resulting from GOB providing IDA funds to PKSF at
less than market rates. The proposed project financing strategy-low cost, long maturity external
funds-is appropriate and fully justified on account of the poverty objective and is necessary to allow
these well functioning poverty oriented institutions sufficient time to enhance the financial viability of
their financial services, while at the same time pursuing their outreach goals and nonlending services.
The rate structure would enable GOB to cover foreign exchange risks (up to 5% p.a., para 6.18) and,
avoid the need for PKSF/PO to raise current onlending rates.
4.28   A significant part of the high operating costs, which necessitates large margin to POs, is on
account of bringing banking to the poor and "non-commercial" operating costs-group mobilization,
nonlending services provided to groups, costs incurred on group members who do not borrow.
Largely for administrative ease and partly for inability to easily allocate costs between "normal costs"
of providing credit and these costs, GOB and donors have financed these costs mainly through
subsidized funding. Donors and POs have explored the possibility of providing grants for
noncommercial costs, and market-priced loans for regular lending. There is a consensus that the
present approach is working very well, and that changing to a loan-cum-grant system would impose
large administrative and reporting burden on POs, require changing the whole operating and
monitoring system built around the present method of financing, and possibly lead to abuse.
Importantly, PKSF does not want to be seen as a grant giving agency since it believes that this would
undermine financial discipline. That is why it strongly rejected the GOB Task Force proposal that the
pilot program for funding equipment acquisition (e.g., computers) by POs (para 4.34) be on a grant
basis and insisted that it be a loan even if is interest free.
4.29   It is proposed to continue the present fixed interest rate policy considering that neither POs nor
borrowers have the ability to manage interest rate risks. In addition, it is proposed to follow PKSF's
differentiated interest rate policy-lower rate for small POs and higher rate for larger POs-under the
Project. This "ability-to-pay" pricing policy is meant to promote newer POs and lower their costs
while their lending volume builds up. While the best policy would be to have a risk-differentiated rate
structure combined with a grant for smaller POs, the current approach is easier to manage
administratively and avoids the risk of abuse. With operating costs amounting to 3 % of loans



- 21 -
outstanding in FY96, and expected to decline to 1.6% in FY99, PKSF would have a positive operating
margin even at its lowest lending rate of 3 %.
4.30   While the proposed relending interest rate structure is fully justified, nevertheless it should be
comprehensively reviewed periodically (Para 4.33), to assess the appropriateness of the rate structure
in light of poverty and sustainability objectives and prevailing rates in the formal sector. The first
comprehensive rate review would be undertaken prior to mid-term (para 5.13).
Institutional Development Component
4.31   The Project includes a US$6 million institutional development component, of which US$5.85
million has been allocated for strengthening institutional capacity within the PKSF and its POs and the
remaining US$0.15 million to Bangladesh Bank. PKSF is a well run, autonomous and efficient
organization; however, it will need further institutional strengthening and changes in its operating
policies to enable it to effectively handle a large increase in its loan portfolio. It also needs institutional
development to effectively handle its mandate as the apex financial institution with responsibility for
nurturing and monitoring POs. For the most part, Project-supported training and institution building
would be focused towards PKSF and small/medium POs. The institutional development needs of the
large POs are covered under their donor-financed programs, which have a large staff development and
institution building components; therefore, they would not need technical assistance resources from
PKSF for expansion of Project financed lending. Of the US$5.85 million, US$0.5 million will used by
PKSF to provide interest free loans to its POs for consultants and hardware for program expansion, and
the remaining US$5.35 million for its own institutional development including capacity to assist
small/medium POs borrowing from it.
PKSF's Institutional Development Program
4.32   This will include measures to enhance financial sustainability of PKSF and POs, strengthen
accountability, improve staff skills and assess socioeconomic impact of POs' programs, as discussed
below with details in Annex 5. At negotiations, agreement was reached with GOB and PKSF that this
program would be initiated in tandem with the credit component.
4.33   PKSF would undertake studies and thereafter change its policies in the following two areas: (a)
to enhancefinancial sustainability, PKSF would: (i) establish a policy that the level of PKSF support
to all POs in the future would also depend, among other factors, on the POs' progress towards financial
sustainability of their credit operations. To implement this policy, PKSF would establish forward
looking financial performance standards that it would use to measure POs' progress in regards to
sustainability; (ii) establish a loan classification and provisioning policy for itself, and guidelines for the
POs, taking into account past experience and potential future risks; and (iii) periodically reviewing
appropriateness of it's relending rate structure; (b) to strengthen accountability, PKSF would: (i)
establish audit standards/requirements for POs and (ii) formulate guidelines for its POs on uniform
accounting policies, particularly those for reporting repayment rates, arrears, rescheduling, portfolio
quality, etc. Another aspect on which guidelines would be developed is a better cost accounting system
to separate and measure the costs of delivering lending and nonlending services for the multipurpose
POs, without imposing excessive burden/cost on them. Terms of Reference (TORs) for all the above
studies were agreed at negotiations.



- 22 -
4.34   PKSF would also undertake the following Institution Building programs/measures to strengthen
skills of PKSF/PO staff and institutional capacity:
(a)    Establish a new unit-large PO Window-to enable PKSF to appraise and supervise
large POs. PKSF has recently established the new unit, which would enable it to
effectively and efficiently handle the special characteristics of these large organizations,
and avoid diluting the needed attention to small/medium POs.
(b)    Strengthen MIS and expand coverage of the system to: (i) quickly identify POs facing
unsatisfactory repayment rates at the field level; (ii) enable PKSF to track repayment
performance of entire credit operations of those POs (e.g., ASA) that have other
sources of funding; (iii) and enable it to evaluate financial performance, on a regular
basis, of all its POs and monitor their evolution.
(c)    Establish a small training unit which would develop and undertake comprehensive
training programs for PKSF and PO staff. It would use PKSF's own center, to be
established under the Project, and existing training centers of large POs.
(d)    Recruit staff to strengthen its own financial planning capacity.
(e)    Strengthen financial accountability at PO level through: (i) expanding its own internal
audit cell. The cell staff would audit each PO twice a year and would visit POs, field
offices, and borrowers, on a representative sample basis, to review: use of funds;
integrity and quality of accounting/MIS records at the field level and those submitted to
PKSF; loan collection rates, etc.; (ii) expanding TORs of PKSF's statutory external
auditor and require it to audit one-third of the POs each year; and (iii) requiring all
POs, with loans over Tk 3 million, to have audits according to TORs, and by audit
firms, acceptable to PKSF.
(f)    Establish a Technical Assistance Fund to: (i) initiate a pilot program of interest-free
equipment loans (e.g., for computers, motorcycles, etc.) to help successful POs with a
good track record expand their operations. These interest-free loans would be
channeled along with loans that PKSF would provide for the POs' microcredit
program; and (ii) finance technical assistance needs (e.g., accounting/MIS consultants)
of individual POs.
(g)    Establish Impact Evaluation Program. Many POs periodically assess socioeconomic
impact of the programs. Except for large institutions, like BRAC and Proshika, the
impact evaluation capacity and quality is, at best, rudimentary. While PKSF's Charter
requires it to periodically undertake impact evaluation, it does not have a systematic
and regular program; under the Project this capacity would be developed. It is
envisaged that PKSF would enter into a contract with a local socioeconomic research
institute which would establish, in consultation with POs, base line surveys and regular
data collection and analysis.
(h)    Undertake external training and study tours, for PKSF and PO staff, to study and
review microfinance related matters. One area of emphasis would be to review



- 23 -
experience of MFIs in other countries which have become formal financial sector
institutions.
(i)    Construct a head office/training center, with covered area of about 40,000 sq. ft.
PKSF currently operates out of a residential house.
Strengthening Regulation and Promotion
4.35   Measures need to be taken to proactively promote economically viable MFIs graduate to formal
financial institutions, and to regulate MFIs raising deposits, particularly those raising deposits from
nonmembers. These initiatives would be developed and managed by Bangladesh Bank (BB), and for
this an amount of US$150,000 has been allocated to it. Specifically BB would undertake the following
studies in collaboration with PKSF and POs, and upon completion initiate a program including staff
training and study tours to implement recommendations of the studies: (a) regulatory reforms and
proactive measures to enhance linkage of MFIs with formal financial sector (e.g. developing market for
securitization of MFI assets, voluntary lending to MFIs by commercial banking system, etc.), and
measures to promote interested MFIs become formal financial institutions along with guidelines that
should be used by GOB/BB for determining their readiness; (b) appropriate regulatory framework and
institutions for regulating and monitoring MFIs engaged in deposit taking, while recognizing: (i) the
special nature of these institutions; (ii) the inherent strong self regulation in the system, which
minimizes the need for regulatory oversight; and (iii) that unlike formal financial institutions, depositors
of MFIs are usually net borrowers from the system which obviates the need for depositor protection.
TORs for these studies were agreed at negotiations.
5.  IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
Credit Institutions
5.1    The PKSF would be the apex financial intermediary onlending IDA funds to the POs. It has
recently entered into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement (SLA) with GOB, under which IDA/GOB funds
would be on-lent to it; the SLA spells out PKSF's responsibilities under the Project, the lending terms
and conditions, reporting and auditing requirements and details of PKSF's institutional development
program. In all, around 130 MFIs are currently eligible to borrow IDA funds through PKSF.
5.2    Small/Medium POs. Presently there are 124 small/medium POs which meet the eligibility
criteria and are borrowers of PKSF in good standing. Over the next four years, PKSF envisages that no
more than 60-70 additional NGOs (out of existing 200-250 NGOs who are non-borrowers of PKSF and
profess to have credit operations) are likely to meet the eligibility criteria. Thus, in all, the Project is
likely to finance about 200 POs.
5.3    Large POs. At present there are four institutions, Grameen Bank, Proshika, BRAC and ASA,
which potentially meet the eligibility criteria for large POs. Grameen's medium-term program does not
envisage any borrowings from PKSF, as it has recently received a loan from Japan OECF (US$30
million at I % for 30 years). In addition, BRDB's successful microcredit program is a potential
program that appears to meet a number of the large-PO criteria. While BRDB as an institution is
excluded from the Project in light of chequered performance of its general rural credit programs



- 24 -
through cooperatives, its group-based microcredit scheme under the Canadian funded RD-12 program
has been operating successfully. However, access to Project funds would be conditional on the
program's institutional arrangements being changed (i.e. RD-I' becoming a legally independent MFI)
in accordance with measures outlined by Canadian CIDA and the program meeting the Project's
institutional/financial eligibility criteria. CIDA has been the main financier of the program and has
indicated that while it would be willing to support RD-12's institutional strengthening program, it
cannot support the credit component any longer because of unavailability of funds.
Procurement Arrangements
5.4    The procurement arrangements for goods and services would be undertaken in accordance with
standard World Bank Procedures as follows (Table 5.1).
5.5    Credit Component. The final borrower's use of loans will be determined by the borrower in
consultation with the PO providing these loans. POs' procedures, high interest rates on loans, stringent
repayment requirements and borrower's self-interest all ensure that the procurement is economic and
efficient. Most loans will be used for non-farm activity. Goods and services purchased with loan
proceeds will all have close to 100% local content. Through its own supervision and strengthening of
field level financial accountability arrangements, PKSF would ensure that the microcredit loans are
used productively.
5.6    Civil Works. The estimated cost of the civil worKs for the Head Office building and training
center, is about $3.0 million. This contract would be awarded through national competitive bidding
(NCB), using bid documents and procedures satisfactory to IDA.
5.7    Goods and Equipment. These are expected to cost about $1.05 million, spread over four
years. No contract is expected to exceed $75,000, and most contracts will range from $5-20 thousand.
These include items such as office furniture, motorcycles, personal computers and training equipment
in small quantities which would not attract the interests of foreign suppliers, and therefore would be
procured on the basis of prudent shopping (at least three priced quotations). For all contracts over
$20,000, these would be procured through national competitive bidding, using bid documents and
procedures satisfactory to IDA.
5.8    Consultancies. The estimated costs of consultant contracts and training study/tours is about
$1.95 million. Consultancies would be procured in accordance with the World Bank Guidelines for
Use of Consultants.
5.9    Prior Review. Each individual contract over $100,000 (for civil works) and $75,000 (for
goods and equipment) would be subject to IDA's prior review. About 80% of the total estimated civil
works and goods procurement would be subject to IDA's review. Consultant assignments exceeding
$100,000 (for firms) and $50,000 (for individuals) would be subject to prior review. Post review
would be undertaken of the remainder.



- 25 -
Table 5.1: Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
Procurement Methods
Project Elements             International      National          Other*          Total
Competitive      Competitive
Bidding          Bidding
Credit Component
Goods and works                                                            131.00         131.00
(100.00)       (100.00)
Institutional Development
Component
(i)   PKSF  Head Office/Training
Center
Civil Works                                            3.00                             3.00
(2.23)                          (2.23)
Equipment                                              0.10             0.05            0.15
(0.08)          (0.04)         (0.12)
Transport                                              0.10                            0.10
(0.08)                          (0.08)
(ii) PKSF/BB Strengthening
Computer Equipment (PKSF)                              0.40                            0.40
(0.31)                         (0.31)
Studies & Evaluation (PKSF)                                             1.40           1.40
(1.40)         (1.40)
Studies & Training (BB)                                                0.15            0.15
(0.15)         (0.15)
Ext. Trng., Study tours                                                0.30            0.30
(PKSF).                                                               (0.30)          (0.30)
(iii) POs Inst. Strengthening
Equipment                                                              0.40           0.40
(0.31)         (0.31)
Consultancies                                                          0.10           0.10
(0.10)         (0.10)
Sub-total Component                                        3.60             2.40           6.00
(2.70)          (2.30)         (5.00)
Grand Total                              (0.00)           (2.70).         (102.30)       (105.00)
Norim;ia shopping prilcficc of crodit receivcrs, anod IDA Guidelines for Consulancies.
Noc: Arniouniis in parenlhesis are IDA finianiced
Disbursement
5.10    Disbursement would largely be made on the basis of Statement of Expenditures (SOE) along
the lines indicated in Table 5.2 below.



- 26 -
Table 5.2: Disbursement by Category
Category            Amount of Credit Allocation    % of Expenditures to be
(US$ million)                 Financed
Microcredit Loans                     100.0              92% of credit disbursed.
Civil Works                             2.2              75% of expenditures
Goods and Equipment                     0.8              100% of foreign expenditures,
or 100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory) and 80% of local
expenditures for other items
procured locally.
Technical                               2.0               100% of expenditures
Assistance/Consultancies
5.11   To facilitate disbursements a Special Account with an authorized allocation of US$8 million
would be opened in BB, into which IDA funds would be disbursed. PKSF would be responsible for
managing the Special Account and handling all disbursement matters. SOEs would be used for: (a) all
expenditures under the microcredit component; (b) civil works below $100,000; (c) goods below
$75,000; and (d) consultant contracts below $100,000 (firms) and $50,000 (individuals). The basis for
reimbursement on account of the microcredit component would be the net increase (i.e. increase in loan
outstanding) in POs microcredit loans financed from funds provided by PKSF; Annex 6 provides the
SOE format that PKSF would use for this purpose. GOB has already provided $5 million of its
contribution (US$10 million) to PKSF and would provide the remainder at the beginning of FY97/98.
The Project funds are expected to be fully disbursed in about four years, by June 30, 2000 (Annex 6).
Monitoring and Reporting Requirements
5.12   PKSF has a well-developed monitoring system; its monthly report to its Governing Body and
the Annual report it publishes are sufficient to monitor the IDA credit, given a few additions to these
reports. PKSF will submit the following reports to Ministry of Finance (and through them, to IDA):
(a) a quarterly report detailing progress of IDA credit and review of Project's performance indicators
(Annex 7); (b) an Annual Report, including review of evolution of the MFI system and progress of its
POs towards increasing borrower outreach and enhancing their financial sustainability; (c) an external
audit report within 6 months of the close of the financial year. The auditor's report would include
auditor's opinions on: quality of PKSF's general accounting practices, adequacy of MIS and internal
audit/control systems, adequacy of loan classification and provisioning policies, accuracy of loan
recovery rates and overdues reported in the quarterly reports, and accuracy of SOEs submitted to IDA
for fund withdrawal; and (d) at the beginning of each year, it's business plan outlining detailed
financial, operational, and institutional plans for the following year and broad goals in these areas for
the following 3-4 years.
5.13   Annex 7 details the Project monitoring and evaluation plan and performance indicators which
were agreed at negotiations. These indicators will enable tracking of the Project's twin objectives-
poverty reduction and financial sustainability of credit programs. A mid-term review will be held in
July 1998 or after 50% of the funds are disbursed (whichever is earlier) to review overall progress of



- 27 -
the Project and lessons learned, and agree on changes, if any, to Project scope and design. Prior to
mid-term, PKSF would prepare a comprehensive review report.
IDA Supervision
5.14   The project is expected to require, on average, about 18-20 staff weeks per year of supervision,
or about 90 weeks over the four year implementation period, including the time for project launch
workshop and mid-term review. This reflects: (a) the innovative nature of the project; (b) the
logistical challenges of the dispersed area of operations of POs; and (c) that this is IDA's first project in
the sector. A supervision plan, including the project launch workshop, formal reviews, and regular
supervision missions is shown in Annex 7. Given the nature of the Project, in due course supervision
responsibility would be devolved to the resident mission.
6. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND IMPACT
6.1    As discussed below, the Project is justified on the following grounds: (a) it would be
instrumental in furthering the paramount economy-wide objective in Bangladesh-namely alleviation of
poverty-by enabling the poor to undertake micro-investments that have a high return and fostering
social empowerment; (b) traditional sources for expanding microcredit programs-donor grants and
member savings-are inherently limited; and (c) it promotes institutional and financial sustainability of
the microcredit program and the institutions.
Rationale for Publicly Provided Concessional Funding
6.2    Overall, microcredit programs have demonstrated their potential for being a successful
intervention and NGO-based institutions as effective and efficient delivery vehicles for: (a)
overcoming failure of the formal financial sector to provide financial services to the poor; and (b)
reducing poverty and correcting gender inequality (paras 3.16-3.18). Therefore, scaling up of NGO-
based microcredit programs is fully warranted within the context of a comprehensive poverty
alleviation strategy comprising other complementary investments.
6.3    Traditional sources of financing-mandatory savings by borrowers and grants from
bilateral/NGO donors-will continue to be a funding source for the program; however, there are
limitations to these sources and there is growing uncertainty about the availability of donor funds in the
amounts available in the past. Thus, for the programs to expand significantly and reach a large
percentage of the poor in Bangladesh, majority of the funding would have to come from other sources
outside the system-market and/or publicly provided funding. Voluntary market-based provision of
funding from the financial system-in form of POs borrowing from the banking system, raising
deposits from non-members or banks lending directly to the poor-could potentially provide large
amounts of funding, and would be promoted under the Project (para 4.35). However, they are only
likely to materialize in any significant way, over the long term, for the following reasons: (a) the
urgent priority for the banking system is to complete much needed sector reforms, restore the system's
financial health and overcome the pervasive default culture before encouraging banks into new lines of
business which require uncollateralized loans; (b) commercial banks are unlikely to voluntarily get into
microcredit business on account of their predilection to shy away from the asset-less, and their
operating culture and procedures which are geared to the relatively well off, well connected and more



- 28 -
vocal segments of rural and urban society; (c) allowing POs to raise deposits from non-members would
give rise to a host of regulatory and supervision issues which the central bank is not in a position to
deal with at the present time; (d) most POs are not keen to raise deposits from non-members as they
perceive that this shift could lead to diversion of staff efforts away from social and human development
to deposit mobilization, and (e) using market-based mechanism would raise final lending rates and
adversely affect consumption/asset build up of the poor. Thus over the foreseeable future, pending
fundamental reforms and "institutional culture" change in the financial sector to overcome market
failure, rapid expansion of POs' microcredit programs can only be sustained through publicly provided
loans through the well functioning PKSF apex mechanism.
6.4    Concessional funding is needed to support the following objectives: (a) enable POs to bring
banking to the doorsteps of the poor, and pursue their credit-cum-social empowerment approach to
poverty alleviation; (b) provide PKSF and POs the ability to build up their equity base, and hence the
long-run financial sustainability of their lending services; (c) increase profitability of PO's financial
services, thereby enabling them to provide multidimensional credit, nonlending services and pursue the
costlier strategy of horizontal outreach expansion; and (d) increase the poor's consumption and savings
since the POs are mostly pass-through organizations. Given the incidence and depth of poverty and
gender inequality, a policy of leaving money in the hands of the poor, particularly women, as against
generating reflows back to the government through higher relending rates, is fully justified.
6.5   It is unlikely that there will be a direct fiscal cost arising from the concessional funding ( para.
6.18), even though it will result in an economic subsidy. The size of the subsidy depends on what is
considered an appropriate benchmark rate. If all the POs were allowed to raise deposits from the
general public, their average cost of funds would be the same as that of commercial banks, i.e. 6-7%.
On this basis, the economic subsidy ranges from 1-2% (for large POs) to 3-4% (for small POs) of loan
amount. For those POs that cannot raise funds from the market because of perceived risks and had to
rely on a wholesaler like PKSF, the costs of funds would be higher. Thus if PKSF had to raise funds
from the market for onlending, the cost to the POs would be about 8-9%. POs would also face this
interest rate if they borrowed from commercial banks. On this basis, the economic subsidy amounts to
5-6%. Assuming an eight year lending cycle-with initial loan of Tk 2,000 increasing to Tk 9,000 in
eight years-and implicit subsidy of 5 %, the lifetime subsidy would amount to about US$55 per
beneficiary or about US$7 per annum. In aggregate the annual economic subsidy would amount to
about US$5 million, once the credit is fully disbursed.
6.6    There has not been a comprehensive cost-benefit or welfare analysis of whether the implicit
subsidy in the microcredit mechanism is the most appropriate and cost-effective mechanism to achieve
objectives identified in para 6.4. However, if government programs were taken as alternatives, a study
is not needed to convincingly demonstrate that the multi-dimensional MFIs are much better at service
delivery-quality and client responsiveness-and importantly have low levels of abuse. The Food-for-
Work program, which is single dimensional, has significant leakages amounting to about 40-45 % of
food provided to the program.
6.7    The desirability and level of concessional public funding needs to be regularly revisited, in line
with the changing poverty status of beneficiaries, improving financial position of POs and PKSF and
development of linkages between the POs and the formal financial system. The comprehensive impact
evaluation system, to be established under the Project, and the PKSF's monitoring of financial
evolution of the PO system would enable GOB and IDA to review this issue periodically.



- 29 -
Project Impact
6.8    The impact of the Project has been assessed in five ways: (a) impact on program outreach and
the beneficiaries; (b) impact on sustainability of microfinance programs of POs; (c) impact on the
budget; (d) impact on the RNF sector; and (e) environmental impact.
6.9   Impact on Program Outreach and Poor. As a result of the Project., POs would be in a
position to increase their lending, thereby increasing coverage of the poor who are eligible for credit.
It is difficult to estimate with any degree of accuracy how many people will be covered by the Project,
given that some part of the funds will be used for vertical as opposed to horizontal outreach; however,
rough estimates based on past pattern of outreach growth suggest that the Project funds would benefit
roughly 1.2 million borrowers-over 90% of whom would be women. Most of them would need credit
support beyond the Project period to move out of poverty. The average loan of current borrowers of
PKSF's POs is about Tk 2,500. By the end of the Project the average loan is expected to be about Tk
6-7 thousand, compared to minimum loan of Tk 8-10 thousand that a borrower needs to have for a few
years to cross the poverty line. Thus, as long as Project beneficiaries continue to receive loans of
increasing amounts and rural economy grows as in the past, majority of them should be moving out of
poverty in about 4-6 years after the Project period.
6.10   The financial returns to Project beneficiaries are expected to be substantial. Based on a survey
of beneficiaries by the appraisal mission and impact evaluation studies by PKSF and MFIs, the annual
net income (after payment of loan and costs of cash inputs) is expected to range from 100% to 150% of
the loan amount, on activities such as basket weaving, poultry and livestock rearing, street vending and
retail trade, rickshaw plying, rice husking, etc. These are returns to own labor and non-cash inputs
and are typical in service and low capital intensive activities. Moreover, the 95 % + repayment rates at
very high interest rates are also an indication of the high profitability of these activities; while
repayments may be coming from other activities (and payments by group members in case of inability
to pay), the consistently high repayment rates year-after-year and low drop-out rates from the
programs is a clear indication that microcredit financed activities must be yielding returns much higher
than interest rates. While the returns are high, in percentage terms, they do not account for risks such
as natural disasters, sickness, etc. Also, given the small size of loans, in absolute amounts the cash
incomes resulting from these investments are very small. They are, however, a major supplement to
the household income of those who live below the poverty line. Thus the additional income from a
typical microcredit financed activity may bring in up to Tk 3,500, raising the household income of the
landless by 15% annually; with loan amount increasing over time, the income would grow at around
this rate annually.
6.11  Impact on Sustainability of PKSF and its POs. The Project would significantly increase
PKSF's profitability and long-term sustainability, and will be instrumental in moving the PO system
towards financial and economic viability stages ( para 3.11). The Project will also push the frontiers of
microfinance by supporting studies on various issues affecting microfinance in Bangladesh, identify
appropriate regulatory framework for prudential supervision, increasing knowledge on deposit
mobilization, and improving understanding of the impact of program design on sustainability.
6.12   POs. All available evidence clearly indicates that the basic microcredit model is intrinsically
viable and that availability of concessional funding should enable the POs to move along the viability
continuum (para 3.11). At present, majority of the PKSF's POs are at or below the operational viability
stage. As highlighted in para 3.13, the time frame for financial maturity of these POs and the duration



- 30 -
for providing subsidy and budgetary funding would depend upon several factors, many related to their
development objectives. As an example, it has taken Grameen Bank over a decade to reach financial
viability stage as it pursued a rapid horizontal outreach objective. In addition, PO's sustainability is
closely linked to poverty status of the borrower. Thus, as long as most borrowers are below the
poverty line and institutions are in the rapid horizontal outreach phase where new loss-making
borrowers far outstrip profit yielding borrowers, concessional funding would be needed. Once average
loans for all borrowers reach Tk 8-10 thousand, their incomes will have crossed the poverty line and
justification for providing concessional funding to POs on poverty grounds would no longer remain.
6.13   The following Project-induced evolution-which is at best very tentative given the large
number of POs with wide differences in their initial conditions, policies, outreach objectives and scope
of services-is envisioned for the PO system, and would be nurtured and tracked by PKSF. While a
few small POs might wither away because of weak management and/or poor lending, most POs will
grow and are likely to follow two distinct institutional tracks: (a) the Project's focus on financial
sustainability will wean many institutions towards the "mostly-credit" mode, many of whom may well
become full fledged financial institutions once they reach economic viability stage for the credit
program as well as the institution as a whole; and (b) a large number of POs will continue to emphasize
multi-dimensional credit and retain their multi-faceted quasi-commercial and quasi-formal character-
and for good reason. While these institutions will have profitable credit programs, the institutions as a
whole will be loss making on account of substantial nonlending services and in some cases (e.g.
Proshika) totally dependent on outside funds because their development model requires borrowers to
keep savings outside the institutions. Considering that the development model of these institutions
results in similar, if not better, poverty reduction and social empowerment achievements, continued
public support would be fully warranted even if the institutions as a whole are loss making or rely on
outside funding.
6.14   By the end of the Project period, average loans are expected to be around Tk 6-7 thousand per
beneficiary, and the two track evolution (para 6.13) is likely to be as follows: (a) POs having loans of
PKSF's above size or higher (i.e. those emphasizing vertical outreach) would have reached the
fiinancial viability stage, albeit on the basis of subsidized funding. A selected few such POs would be
economically viable and ready, and should be allowed, to become regular or specialized banks; the
setting of PKSF's onlending interest to these POs at close to the average cost of deposits of the banking
system and the mechanism for periodic rate review should prepare them for becoming banks. By this
time, the initiatives to correct market failure as well as the efforts to establish a sound regulatory
framework and prudent eligibility guidelines (para 4.35) would also be in place. Moreover, the
Project's efforts to improve financial sustainability of these POs would enhance the confidence of the
banking system to lend to the POs on a voluntary basis and to their ability to securitize their loans; and
(b) majority of those POs emphasizing horizontal outreach and greater multi-dimensionality in credit
will have operationally viable credit programs, but most will continue to be loss making as institutions.
6.15  In 4-6 years after the Project, if continued concessional funding is provided, average loans
should reach Tk 9-10 thousand and incomes of the majority of the Project beneficiaries would have
crossed the poverty line. By this time: (a) majority of the "mostly credit" POs emphasizing vertical
outreach would be close to becoming economically viable, have a favorable capital structure-maiily
grants/long term concessional funding-and a portfolio comprising mostly profit-yielding borrowers;
this should provide them with the ability to borrow commercial funding for incremental increase in
vertical outreach, and consequently concessionality and public funding for these POs could be gradually
replaced by market-based and market-provided funding. Also by this time the "market correction"



- 31 -
initiatives would start having a significant impact and reach a point which would enable the level of
public support to be phased out; and (b) most POs emphasizing horizontal outreach and multi-
dimensionality, would have financially viable credit programs.
6.16   PKSF. As a result of the Project, PKSF's annual disbursement would increase from Tk 0.5
billion in FY96 to about Tk 2.4 billion in FY2000; during the same period, its assets would increase
from Tk 1.0 billion to Tk 6.0 billion, while net income from Tk 65 million to Tk 46 million. The
following table highlights key financial indicators for the period FY95-FY2005. Detailed analysis is
provided in Annex 3.
Table 6.1: PKSF's Projected Financial Performance
(Tk million)
FY ending          FY95         FY96        FY97         FY98         FY99        FY2000       FY2005
June 30           Actual     Estimated    Projected   Projected    Projected     Projected   Proiected
Loans Disbursed           302          497         856         1337          1851         2362        5728
Loans Outstanding         456          735         1242        2151          3414         4914        13509
Total Assets              844          1009        1495        2575          4037         6023        14587
Long-Term Debt             0            0          436         1462         2853          4730        12486
DebfEquity                 0            0          0.4          1.3          2.4          3.7          5.9
As % of Average Assets
Totallncome(%)            3.8          4.9         4.1          4.1          4.1          4.1          5.6
Operating Costs (%)        1.4         2.0         2.4          2.1          1.5          1.1          0.6
Int. & Provision Expe.(%)  0.4         1.3         1.2          1.5          1.8          1.7          3.5
Net Income (%)            2.0          1.7         0.6          0.5          0.8          1.3          1.5
6. 17   PSKF is projected to maintain a reasonable profitability and a sound financial position. The
drop in profitability during FY97 and FY98 is a combination of the following factors: a shift from
higher yielding investment assets into lower yielding loan assets; an increase in loan loss provisions
from 1 % to 2 %; and increase in administrative expenses on account of scaling up of operations.
PKSF's long term sustainability is closely tied to that of its POs and their borrowers. Longer term
projections indicate that after FY 2000, it should be possible to gradually phaseout concessionality in
interest rate (both on the borrowing and lending side) in line with the following: the evolution of the
PO sector with a large number of POs having crossed financial viability stage; and PKSF having built
up a large pool of concessional funds. Thus, PKSF could start to pay higher rates on incremental
borrowings and by FY 2015 it could pay 8% interest rate (7% higher than at present and 2% higher
than average cost of funds of the banking system) on all its borrowed funds and earn a satisfactory
1.9% return on assets, while raising the average lending rate only 4% points-from the 4.4% in FY
2000 to 8.5% in FY 2015. Because of higher cost of funding, the average interest expense (as % of
borrowed finds) increases from  1.0%  in FY 2000 to 6.3%  in FY 2015. The favorable debt:equity
ratio, which hovers around 7:1 beyond FY 2005, would enable PKSF to operate on a thin interest
margin and yet earn a satisfactory return on assets. By FY 2015, PKSF would be earning a return on
equity of about 15%, which should be sufficient to attract private capital.
6.18   Impact on the Budget. While most of the grant element of IDA resources is passed on to the
POs, and in turn to the poor, there is unlikely to be a direct fiscal cost of providing IDA funds at below
market rates. The grant element of GOB loan to PKSF is 55%, at an opportunity cost of capital of 8%,
compared to grant element of about 85 % in IDA loan to GOB. The grant element that GOB retains-
by charging 0.25% higher than IDA rate and having a shorter maturity of loan to PKSF-is adequate to



- 32 -
compensate it for incurring the foreign exchange risks, unless the annual rate of depreciation of the
Taka against the US dollar exceeds 5%, p.a. and as long as GOB could earn a 8% return on reflows
from PKSF. A potential fiscal cost, over and above exchange rate depreciation exceeding 5%, would
result from the possibility of default; i.e., PKSF is not able to repay the GOB loan as per the agreed
terms and maturity. This in turn may arise due to a default by the POs. PKSF's and POs' loan
provisioning policies, present and to be developed under the Project, and other risk management
measures (para 6.21) would ensure that default risks remain within acceptable limits and do not get
passed on to GOB.
6.19   Impact on the Rural Economy: The Project is expected to have a positive impact (para 3.18)
on the rural economy by increasing participation in productive non-farm activities and increasing labor
force participation rates, particularly employment of women. By supporting and expanding PO
programs, the Project will increase participation in activities which are dynamic and productive and
that typically yield returns that are higher than the prevailing unskilled wage rate. Based on a World
Bank study that estimated capital-output ratios for representative MFI programs (Khandker, 1996), the
Project should lead to an increase in RNF output by US$250 million a year; this would amount to about
3 % of current output in the RNF sector. The high rates of return in RNF activities also suggest that
there is no evidence of a demand constraint for rural non-farm products. This implies that there will be
a continuing strong demand for microcredit in the rural areas.
6.20   Environmental Impact. The Project will have a beneficial impact on the environment by
reducing the pressure of agricultural activity on land, which is slowly leading to environmental
degradation in Bangladesh. As people move from agriculture to non-farm activity, this pressure will be
lessened; none of the major RNF activities promoted by the POs are known to have a negative impact
on the environment. The Project will, indirectly, also promote activities like sanitation, health and
family planning; this would have a positive impact on the environment. Moreover, the Project would
provide support to many POs who are conscious about preserving the environment; one such PO is
PKSF's third largest borrower and is managed by women. This institution lists protection for the
environment as an important objective, and implements this through its social forestry programs.
Risks
6.21   The Project is building upon success, a system that works and a program that has tremendous
ownership of all stakeholders-government, institutions and beneficiaries. Nevertheless, the program
faces two potential major risks: higher loan default risk, and risk of poor socioeconomic impact. i.e.,
the anticipated increase in socioeconomic and empowerment indicators does not materialize. So far,
loan default risks have remained less than 4-5 % for the system as a whole. Moreover all impact
evaluation studies conducted to-date, attest to the positive socioeconomic impact of the development
model pursued by the Bangladesh MFIs. Nevertheless as the program is scaled up, particularly for the
small/medium POs, many of the factors contributing to keeping the above two risks at acceptable levels
could diverge from the past pattern. These contributing factors and potential risks are:
(a)    horizontal expansion risk, which could increase because of inclusion of greater number
of vulnerable borrowers who live on the edge;
(b)    institutional risks, considering that many of the small/medium POs, and even large
POs, are dependent on the motivation and dynamism of one person and there is no
management succession plan;



- 33 -
(c)    marketing risks, in that the local markets are unable to absorb the increased level of
production for the typical products produced by the beneficiaries;
(d)    concentration of risk, in that 3-4 POs would be absorbing over half the credit amount;
(e)    governance risks, which would result from appointment of poor management at PKSF
and/or politicization of the P0 selection and loan approval/disbursement processes;
(f)    under-disbursement risks, which could result from lower than expected demand for
credit and/or POs face capacity constraints or are unable to meet eligibility criteria on a
continuous basis; and
(g)    proliferation risks, which happened in many countries when availability of credit led to
proliferation of new institutions whose main goal was gaining access to cheap funds
rather than poverty alleviation.
6.22   Together with measures being taken under the Project, the following features of the microcredit
model, individually and collectively, ensure that the above contributing factors are kept in check
thereby ensuring that the system-wide default risks are kept within the 4-5% range and the risk of poor
impact is minimized:
Borrower Level:
(a)    the self-selection of activities, gradual build-up of individual loans, borrowers'
closeness to the markets and ability to switch easily among activities reduce the
marketing risks. Nevertheless, growth in the rural economy will be a major
determninant of market opportunities;
(b)    very high lending rates and rigors of the program prevent capture by the rural elites,
(c)    the transparent incentive of repeater and larger loan linked to full repayment of earlier
loans, and inability to get credit in the amount and regularity (and price) from other
sources, provides a powerful motivation to maintain high repayments. That is why,
even during natural disasters, the loan repayment rates remain high. In fact during the
1995 floods, other than a 4-5 week delay in repayments during the flooding period, the
MFIs did not experience any significant drop in the repayment rates;
Institutional Level:
(d)    PKSF's rigorous selection process, emphasis on proven track record, and starting with
very small loans to new POs provide adequate safeguards against proliferation of
institutions. Moreover, even for existing POs the gradual build-up of loans keeps
default risk manageable;
(e)    in case of small/medium POs, PKSF proactively encourages them to have management
succession plans, and in fact includes this as a specific factor while making a decision
to expand lending to the P0;



- 34 -
(f)   the large institutions have well-developed governance and management structure, with
strong presence of donors, and sound internal controls and information processes;
(g)    Government's ability to politicize management or interfere in PKSF is severely
curtailed by PKSF's independent Governing Body and separation between Government
and PKSF built into PKSF's Charter. Moreover, Government's ability to influence
lending by POs is also very limited. Thus, unlike in the case of its own banks which
have frequently written off rural loans at Government's request, Government cannot
exercise its writ on these NGO-based POs. Even if Government was able to force
PKSF to write off its loans to POs, the latter have so much of their own/donors funds
involved that they would not be willing to loan write-off at the beneficiary level. Loan
write-off is anathema to POs, and they have an unwavering policy of on-time
repayments, except for emergencies;
(h)   the emphasis on training and institutional development of PKSF being undertaken under
the Project will enhance its capacity to implement the large credit program;
(i)    weekly repayments and good information system provide needed early warning to POs
of impending problems. In addition, PKSF's rigorous practice of requiring monthly
bank statements and linking disbursements closely to field supervision and repayments
is a strong safeguard. The strengthening of PKSF's internal audit cell will further
strengthen the existing risk minimization mechanisms;
(j)    the loan loss provisions in the system-2 % at PKSF level and 2-3% at the PO level-
should be able to absorb the expected default risk. Moreover, PKSF's risk of loan
default is reduced by the cushion provided by low debt:equity ratio of many POs;
(k)    the razor thin slippage allowance which would make institutions ineligible, e.g. PKSF's
collection rate has to drop from 99.5% to 98% to become ineligible, is an important
risk minimization measure.
Overall:
(I)    the financial risks are diversified over: a million borrowers, a hundred activities and as
many institutions, and geographically all over the country;
(m)   the establishment of a comprehensive impact evaluation system would start providing,
in 2-3 years, indications about outcomes and benefits of the project. A positive feature
of the Bangladesh MFIs is their willingness to incorporate impact results into program
design;
(n)    while there is always the risk of under disbursement, this would be an attestation that
the safety features-emphasis on repayments, early warning system, rigorous approach
of PKSF-are indeed working. Moreover, the credit size has been kept much smaller
than that proposed by PKSF/POs to avoid "disbursement mentality;" and
(o)    finally, a major strength of the system is convergence of Project's key goal-poverty
alleviation-and raison d'etre of all POs.



- 35 -
6.23   The most critical factor to Project success and risk minimization is the Governing Body and
management of PKSF. As long as PKSF's Governing Body remains independent and continues to
comprise eminent non-government Bangladeshis with interest in poverty alleviation and PKSF has
strong professional management, probability of Project success is high-credit disbursement will remain
closely linked to absorptive capacity and performance. At negotiations, GOB provided assurances that
PKSF's governance arrangements would remain unchanged and its autonomy protected. During the
Project implementation period, this aspect would be a major focus of attention of IDA Supervision
Mission. The most likely worst case scenario is that POs' social welfare objectives overshadow the
financial sustainability goals, and repayments drop significantly. This has not happened so far for the
system which has disbursed over $1.5 billion, and there is no reason to believe that it would breakdown
as a result of a $100 million IDA operation. On balance, the risks of Project-financed PO programs
deviating from the past pattern is highly unlikely.
7. AGREEMIENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.1   At negotiations, agreements were reached on the following:
(a)    The institutional eligibility criteria and lending terms and conditions (paras 4.17-4.26);
(b)    The Subsidiary Loan Agreement between GOB and PKSF, under which IDA/GOB
funds would be on-lent to PKSF and which spells out the latter's responsibilities under
the Project and its lending terms and conditions (para 5. 1);
(c)    Disbursement mechanisms and procedures (paras 5.10-5.11);
(d)    Project Reporting, Accounting and Auditing arrangements and Project Performance
Monitoring Indicators (paras 5.12-5.13); and
(e)    Assurances that PKSF's Governing Body and management would continue to be
allowed full autonomy in line with its Charter, and that Governing Body membership
would continue to comprise eminent non-government persons with experience and
interest in poverty alleviation and microcredit (para 6.23);
(f)    PKSF and BB Institutional development component, including the TORs and
implementation timetable (Annex 5);
7.2    Condition of Effectiveness. A special condition of effectiveness is that the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement (para 5.1) has been duly authorized or ratified, and is legally binding upon the GOB and
PKSF.
7.3    Recommendation. On the basis of the above agreements, the proposed Project is suitable for
an IDA Credit of SDR 72.70 million (US$105 million equivalent) to the Government of Bangladesh.



- 36 -
ANNEX I
Page 1
BANGLADESH
POVERTY ALLEVIATION MICROFINANCE PROJECT
THE DIMENSIONS OF POVERTY
1.     Largely Rural. Bangladesh is predominantly rural; of the 118 million people, over 80% live
in rural areas. Of these, close to half are below the poverty line, as highlighted by Table I which is
based on Household Expenditure Survey (HES) data. The table highlights changes in poverty levels
using two different measures; the Head-Count Index, measuring incidence of poverty, i.e., percentage
of population below the poverty line', and the Poverty Gap index, measuring depth of poverty
(Ravallion and Sen, 1995)2. Despite problems in measurement of poverty, the HES data clearly
demonstrate that poverty has increased. This was largely due to rising poverty in the rural sector,
which saw steadily worsening poverty measures from 1985/86 onwards. More importantly, the sizable
increase in the poverty gap index in rural areas from the mid-1980s suggests falling living standards of
those near the poverty line and the poorest of the poor. In 1991/92, 53% of the rural and 34% of the
urban people lived below the poverty line.
Table 1: Dimensions of Poverty
Urban Pover                   Rural Poverty                National
Head Count   e                HaCun   Poverty Ga             Head Count Pove  Gap
1985/86     30.8          7.3              45.9        10.9               43.9       10.4
1988/89     35.9          8.7              49.7        13.1               47.8       12.5
1991/92     33.6          8.4               52.9       14.6               49.7       13.6
2.     The high growth of population is leading to increasing landlessness, and therefore unequal
access to the most important means of production. In 1990/91, nearly half the rural households were
landless or near landless (owning less than half an acre of land); 17% of these were completely
landless. Most of the land sales are made by small owners in distress and purchased by large owners.
Land is often mortgaged by the poor, which most likely ends up being appropriated. Furthermore, the
average farm size is also declining. 3
Poverty line is defined as monthly per capita expenditure which permits a daily intake of 2,122 calories; in
taka terms, the line was equivalent to a monthly income of Tk 469 and Tk 535 in rural and urban Bangladesh
respectively.
2   For a detailed explanation of these measures, see Ravallion and Sen (1 995) "When Method Matters; Toward
A Resolution of the Debate about Bangladesh's Poverty Measures" Policy Research Working Paper No. 1259,
The World Bank, Washington D.C.
3   According to the Agricultural Census of 1982, the average farm size had declined from 3.5 acres in 1971 to
2.4 acres.



- 37 -
ANNEX I
Page 2
3.    The nature of rural poverty masks an important differentiation within the poor who fall into
three distinct bands. Households living just below the poverty line may be characterized as the
moderate poor. A major proportion of the rural poor, however, live significantly below the poverty
line, by as much as 40% according to the baseline data of 1989/90. These households constitute the
extreme poor. The third category of rural poor are technically located above the poverty line. These
are producers/entrepreneurs, who are not in formal poverty but are highly vulnerable to threats of
income erosions and consequent descent into moderate or extreme poverty.
4.     Mostly Women. The burden of poverty is seen to fall disproportionately on women. In 1989-
90, females on average had a nutritional intake only 88 % of that of males, and 40% of the wage rate
earned by males. Only 22 % of women were literate compared with 45 % of males. The incomes of
female-headed households is 40% lower than male-headed households; while 8% of the latter fall
within the category of extreme poor, the corresponding figure for female-headed households is 33%.
Female headed households without access to land (nearly 25 % of the landless households) perhaps
represent the most vulnerable poverty group in Bangladesh. In addition, women have limited access to
services that can equip them for gainful employment.
5.    About 86% of women live in rural areas. Women are responsible for most of the post-harvest
work which takes place in the homestead, and keep livestock, poultry and kitchen gardens; many work
as part-time or seasonal laborers in the homesteads of others. The economic contribution of women is
substantial, if largely unacknowledged. The rising incidence of landlessness and declining homestead
based economic activities have exposed women to serious economic pressures. Consequently, women
are moving out of the confines of the household in search of jobs. An estimated 7 million rural women
are seeking employment in a labor market where access has been restricted to date.
Income Generating Opportunities for the Poor
6.     GOB has adopted a broad based approach to poverty alleviation, that emphasizes
macroeconomic stability and economic liberalization, and supports a number of targeted programs. It
has also assigned top priority to increasing foodgrain production, and more recently to developing
labor-intensive export industries in order to increase employment and incomes. The present production
structure, accompanied by sound macro-economic and incentive policies can help increase GDP growth
rate above 5 %; but even this will be insufficient to productively employ all new entrants to the labor
force. Robust growth in agriculture could probably absorb about 25 % of new entrants, and industry
and services another 40%. The remainder would have no choice but to involve themselves in marginal
activities, swelling the ranks of the very poor, unless action is taken to diversify the rural economy and
expand targeted efforts to help the landless.
7.     With agriculture holding little prospects for employment of the growing rural labor force,
which is expected to reach 100 million by year 2000, a larger share of the rural population will turn to
the rural non-farm (RNF) sector for employment opportunities. The RNF sector currently employs
39% of the rural population (Labor Force Survey, 1991), up from 34% in 1984, mostly in
manufacturing, fisheries, and livestock. Employment in this sector grew at an average annual rate of
4.1 % between 1984 and 1991. Expansion in RNF production and employment is crucial to promote
broad-based economic growth since RNF activity is labor-intensive and generates employment for a
larger number of people than urban industry or agriculture. However, the ability of the landless to
engage in productive non-farm employment is severely limited by their illiteracy, lack of skills and
inadequate financial resources.



ANNEX I
Page 3
8.     Safety Net and Targeted Programs. GOB is supporting a number of safety net and targeted
programs which provide employment through labor-intensive infrastructure construction programs, and
self-employment created through microcredit. These targeted programs for the landless include Food
for Work (FFW), Vulnerable Groups Development (VGD) and microcredit programs. Rough estimates
suggest that government's average annual expenditures for these programs has been around Tk 6.5
billion during the first half of the 1990s. In 1994/95 these programs amounted to about 16% of the
total budget for the social sectors and human capital development.
9.     The FFW program uses food resources to provide relief from severe food shortages and
employment for the landless. Labor is paid in kind to construct needed infrastructure which includes
unpaved roads, bridges, embankments, culverts, canals etc.
10.    The VGD program is targeted to destitute women who receive 31 kg. of wheat (or rice) per
month for a two year period. A savings system (Tk 25 per month), deposited in the beneficiaries'
individual bank account, enables VGD women to draw a lump sum amount anytime after the eighteen
months of the program and use it for income generating enterprises. Preference is given to poor
women with young children, who are heads of households.4 The program helps develop the earning
capacity of women by providing training in occupational skills, encouraging savings accumulation, and
providing access to credit. The program is implemented using local government institutions. Between
1990 and 1995, 0.8 million metric tons of wheat was distributed among 2.4 million VGD women. The
VGD program has collaborated with BRAC to provide VGD women with training and microcredit, in
addition to the wheat, adding a new dimension to the intervention. BRAC trains women in various
activities, especially poultry and silk-worm rearing; its annual microcredit disbursements have
increased rapidly, from Tk 13 million in 1990, to Tk 162 million in 1995, while recovery rates have
been close to 100%. The program has so far provided loans to 400,000 women, with average loan per
borrower of Tk 1,500. Expansion of BRAC's microcredit program for VGD women is an important
element of the proposed Proiect.
II.    While targeting the poorest of the poor, the programs for rural works only provide short-term
succor to the poor in gaining access to income and employment opportunities. These programs have
been inadequate in sustaining the productive means of the poor and thus have a limited impact on
permanent escape from poverty. In contrast, the experience of Grameen Bank and other microcredit
programs shows that when lack of access to affordable credit is a major constraint for self-employment,
providing credit and other organizational inputs to the poor can help them become self-employed on a
sustainable basis in familiar income-generating activities.
These women belong to the poorest 5% of the Bangladesh population. A recent study reveal that half these
women were unmarried, divorced, widowed or abandoned, and in half the VGD households, there is only one
income-earning member.



- 39 -
ANNEX2
Page I
BANGLADESH
POVERTY ALLEVIATION MICROFINANCE PROJECT
FINANCE AND THE POOR
Overview
1.    Bangladesh's financial sector comprises the formal financial institutions, (15 commercial and
specialized banks, and two cooperative networks), the semi-formal institutions (over 120 NGO-based
MFIs), and the informal institutions (family, friends and money lenders). For the most part, these
institutions have operated in segmented markets. While little information is available on loans by the
informal sector, loans outstanding by the formal system amount to Tk 274 billion compared to about Tk
13 billion by the semi-formal institutions, at end 1994. However, the semi-informal sector provides
financial services to over 4 million people, compared to a fraction of that number who have had access
to formal sector credit.
2.    The informal sector dominates rural finance in Bangladesh. The semi-formal sector occupies
second place as providers of rural credit, while the formal sector ranks third. In FY94, Grameen Bank
and other large MFIs provided around Tk 16.60 billion in microcredit, compared with a total volume
of Tk 11 billion provided by the agricultural banks and nationalized commercial banks (NCBs)
combined. The informal sector has traditionally met a large share of the credit needs of the rural poor;
for the most part, the poor borrow to overcome drop in incomes arising from emergencies -- death,
sickness, natural disasters -- and for consumption expenditures such as dowry, weddings, etc. The high
interest rates (10 to 15% per month) and the nature of these borrowings -- often in distress and for
income maintenance -- does not provide the rural poor an opportunity to accumulate savings or fixed
assets.
The Formal Sector
3.     The formal sector comprises of the public sector financial institutions (NCBs and specialized
banks), private banks', and the Grameen Bank; the latter began as an NGO, but was formally
established as a specialized bank under a special charter in 1983. Apart from Grameen Bank, few
other institutions in the formal sector have been a major source of microfinance. Although the
government owned commercial and specialized banks have a large rural credit program, and some have
initiated microcredit programs, for the most part their rural credit programs are neither targeted to the
poor nor do they reach the poor. Moreover, the performance of their rural credit programs is absymal.
The formal system is under severe strain, due to huge non-performing portfolios, and is unable and
unwilling to provide microfinance and/or link to the semi-formal system, which is relatively robust and
growing rapidly. Private commercial banks have largely stayed away from the rural credit sector, due
to the high cost of intermediation and perceived risk.
4.     Nationalized Commercial Banks. While the NCB's main focus is on urban-based lending to
the formal sector, they also provide agricultural credit and microcredit through their rural branch
network. Agriculture credit (mostly crop loans) disbursement amounted to Tk 4.5 billion in 1994/95;
collection rates have generally been below 20%. NCB's most significant contribution to the
microfinance sector was the purchase of about Tk 15 billion of 3-10 years bonds issued by Grameen
Bank in early 1995. These have been bought by NCBs, because they are eligible for statutory liquidity
I   Private banks largely operate in urban areas, and mainly lend to the corporate sector.



- 40 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
requirements, guaranteed by GOB and provided the banks a partial outlet for their excess liquidity at
that time. Recognizing the immense needs of Grameen and its inability to finance such large amounts
from the budget, GOB supported this distortionary method of financing.
5.     Some NCBs have also teamed up with Swanirvar, Bangladesh's oldest NGO, to provide loans
to their members; however, this program is not working well (para 15). Recently, an NCB has
provided a loan of about US$1 million to a large MFI, after almost two years of protracted processing
and only after the MFI offered its premises in Dhaka as collateral and the NCB waived its standard
requirements that the directors of the MFI provide personal guarantees. A few NCBs have started pilot
microcredit programs; one of them runs a "Special Investment Scheme" under which it provides non-
collateralized loans for various non-farm activities, at an annual interest rate of 12% for 3 years.
Loans averaging Tk 50,000 have been lent so far to over 6,000 entrepreneurs. Another provides small
loans, largely for the urban poor; as of June 1995, about Tk 3.0 million had been disbursed for 13
projects.
6.     Several factors militate against NCB's lending directly to the poor: the predilection of
commercial banks to shy away from the asset-less, and their operating culture and procedures which
are geared to the relatively well off, well connected and more vocal segments of rural society.
Moreover, given that collateralized lending is the norm, banks are very hesitant to make
uncollateralized loans to MFIs, without full guarantees from government. When NCBs have provided
microcredit, their rather low lending rates of 16% to the final borrower suggests that these banks are
making such loans, perhaps to fulfill their social obligations and use underutilized staff in rural
branches. While they have well-performing microcredit portfolios, overall the portfolio quality of these
institutions has been very unsatisfactory; a recent World Bank study indicates that overdues (according
to international standards) are about 50% of the total portfolio. These banks are unlikely to become a
major player in microcredit on account of the problems noted above. Moreover, their average loan
sizes are 3-5 times that of MFIs and really not targeted to the poor. These are mainly for small rural
enterprises and farmers, and rarely include the landless.
7.     Specialized Banks. The most important and internationally well-known example is the
Grameen Bank. It is a special purpose financial institution with borrowers and the Government as its
shareholders. Government equity and loans from public financial institutions forms the bulk of its
funding base. Bilateral and international donors have also supported it generously. Grameen is the
largest provider of microcredit in Bangladesh; it has so far disbursed about Tk 48 billion to over 1.9
million poor. As of June 1994, total loans outstanding stood at 11 billion, and number of borrowers at
1.8 million.
8.     The two specialized agricultural banks, Bangladesh Krishi Bank and RAKUB, have not been
involved in microcredit lending; their focus has been on larger crop sector loans. Total loans
disbursed, in 1994/95, amount to about Tk 9.6 billion; as in the case of NCBs, recoveries on these
loans are absymal. Almost 50% of the portfolio is in arrears and collection rates are around 25%.
Private commercial banks have largely stayed away from the rural credit sector, due to the high cost of
intermediation.
The Semi-Formal Sector
9.     The semi-formal sector comprises largely of NGOs which operate microfinance programs
targeted to the rural poor. There are over 150 NGOs in Bangladesh offering financial services --
microcredit and microsavings. Many of these are social welfare non-profit organizations formed to



- 41 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3
provide non-lending services such as social empowerment, education, family planning, relief,
sanitation, and health. Recognizing the importance of stable income and capital accumulation for a
permanent escape from poverty, these NGOs initiated, in the 1970's, targeted savings and credit
programs for income generating self employment activities. Over time, these institutions also
recognized that provision of non-lending services was not, in itself, leading to alleviation of poverty
and that lending and non-lending services sustain and reinforce each other. MFIs see financial services
as a vehicle to achieve multiple objectives: enhance the poor's consumption; empower them to access
health and education services; as a social safety net for the very poor; and as a means to establish a
permanent income generating asset base for the poor. These programs have grown rapidly and are a
major source of finance for the poor (Table 1). During the last five years, these NGOs have disbursed,
on a cumulative basis, about US$280 million to over 2.6 million borrowers. 80% of credit recipients
are women and repayment rates are mostly above 95 %.
10.    The microfinance market structure is bipolar; almost 95 % of the market is serviced by
Grameen Bank and a few large national MFIs with annual credit programs ranging from US$25 - 50
million. These institutions are professionally managed and staffed, and have so far received a majority
of their funds as grant from overseas donors. The remaining 5 % share of the market is serviced by
small, local MFIs with annual credit programs ranging from US$10 - 50 thousand, with flexible
organizational structures that can be tailored to the availability of funds. The large MFIs usually
operate on the basis of 3 - 5 year business plans, which are fully funded (mostly by grants from donors
) at commencement. The small/medium MFIs grow according to the availability of funds. Many of
the small/medium MFIs rely on the PKSF for financial support, and need to be intensively monitored to
ensure that they are utilizing funds well. Despite the bipolar market structure, there is increasing
competition among service providers as the number of institutions increase.
11.    While there is diversity in the organization/management style and scope of non-lending services
between large and small MFIs, the basic model of the credit programs is quite similar. A brief
description of several noteworthy MFIs, some of whom will be participating in the project, is given
below:
12.    BRAC began as a relief organization in 1972 and has grown to be the largest NGO in
Bangladesh. In aggregate, BRAC handled over Tk 2.5 billion in 1995; about 57 % of this was on
account of disbursements of microcredit loans, with the remaining 43 % on account of expenditures for
social sector programs (non-formal primary education, health programs etc.); commercial activities and
relief work. Around two thirds of funding for these programs came from donors, as grants, with the
remaining from interest income, loan-repayments and sales from commercial activities. BRAC has a
total full time staff of 14,000. BRAC's credit program comprises its Rural Development Program
(RDP) and Rural Credit Program (RCP). When BRAC initiates a credit program in a new area, it
classifies it as an RDP activity. At the start of RDP, the poor are mobilized, organized and trained;
members have to participate in the mandatory savings program, and reach an acceptable level of
readiness (usually six months after mobilization) before credit is provided. Once a RDP area
branch/unit office reaches breakeven status (i.e., interest income covers all financial and administrative
costs including allocated head office costs, market interest rate2 on funds provided from head office and
loan loss premium of 2%), it is classified as a Rural Credit Program (RCP) branch; this usually takes
about four years. In all, there are 115 RDP and 120 RCP branches. Annual credit disbursement of
2   RCP branches are charged 9%, which is close to the rate for 3-year deposit, even though BRAC's own cost
of funds are close to zero. This enables RCP branches to subsidize RDP branches.



Table 1: Microfrinance Programs: Annual Past and Projected Disbursements (Million Taka)
Name of                                                                 Cumulative        Projected
Organization        1990-91   1991-92   1992-93   1993-94   1994-95   Disbursed  %          1995-96   1996-97   1997-98   1998-99  1999-2000
Grameen Bank         2,642      5,200    10,622     13,912     15,000      47,376    76    15,500    16,052    17,087       17,920     18,772
BRAC                   421        605       734      1,368      2,035       5,163     8      2,646     3,774      4,591      5,202      5,720
ASA                     19        195       573        887      1,156       2,830     5      2,000     2,400      3,000      3,600      4,200
Proshika               121        127       224        303       423        1,198     2        794       864        935      1,007      1,200
PKSF POs*              n.a.        44       198        399       675        1,316     2      1,275     2,533      3,909      5,618      8,000
BRDB                   205        352       688        878      1,647       3,770     6      3,770
NCBs                    53        43         52         80       104         332      1
Swanirvar               45         44        62        109       132         392      1
Total                3,506      6,610    13,153     17,936    21,172       62,377   100    25,985    25,623    29,522    33,347        37,892
In million USD          98        173       336        448       520        1,560              650       641        738       834        947
Additional IDA Credit Disbursement at MFI level, on Account of Project                                     10        34         67        100
Percent of annual credit disbursement excluding Grameen                                                 4%        12%        18%       25%
Percent of annual credit including Grameen                                                              2%         5%        8%         12%
* These figures are estimates, actual data on field disbursement by POs is not available.
SOurce: F7s and Staff Esnmates
m:\abid\povalIev\sars\graycvr.rpt\anxO2tb1 .xis



- 43 -
ANNEX2
Page 5
RDP and RCP increased from Tk 421 million in FY90 to Tk 2.0 billion in FY95, to almost 1.3 million
borrowers. Although the recovery rate was around 94% in the early 1990s, it subsequently increased
to above 98% after 1994. From 1994, the RDP and RCP program together are close to financially
viability stage (Attachment 1), albeit on subsidized funding basis. BRAC expects to expand its RDP
and the VGD program (Annex 1, Para 10), and expects that all current RDP branches will reach
operational viability by year 2000. It has initiated a five year (1996-2000) program amounting to
US$135 million. This is funded by donors, and would enable BRAC to expand its credit program by
US$50 million -- from US$90 million in 1995 to US$140 million in 2000 -- and its non-credit program
by US$81 million. The proposed Project will help BRAC expand its VGD credit programs.
13.   Proshika. This is the second-largest multi-purpose NGO operating in Bangladesh. In
aggregate, Proshika handled over Tk 0.6 billion in 1994. About half of this was accounted for
microcredit disbursement with the remaining on account of expenditures for education, health and
livestock fisheries programs. Around 60% of funding for these programs came from donors, as grants,
with the remaining from interest income and loan repayments. Proshika has a staff of 1459. It puts a
major emphasis on its social development program; credit has only recently become an important part
of its activities. It provides a variety of services to the poor, both in rural and urban areas, and
operates through village coordination committees. Proshika's lending program is group and project
based. The viability of these projects is established by Proshika through pilot programs and field
research; often, they consist of pioneering activities such as bee-keeping and silk-worm rearing.
Unlike other NGOs, it extends loans to both farm and non-farm activities and provides intensive
training to its groups before providing loans; loan disbursements have increased from Tk 120 million in
FY91 to Tk 423 million in FY95. Recovery rates were low in the early stages of the credit program,
since social development and not credit was the main objective of Proshika's operations. Since FY94,
recovery rates have been higher, and cumulative recovery as of FY95 was 96 %. Because of its heavy
emphasis on training, Proshika's cost of delivery is much higher compared to most MFIs; consequently
it is unable to fully cover costs from interest income. In FY95, operational viability ratio (interest
income as % of administrative costs) was 74 %, having increased from 61 % in 1992. Proshika has
initiated a five year (FY95-99) program amounting to US$75 million funded by donors; about 40% of
this would go towards expansion of its credit program -- from US$10 million in 1995 to US$37 million
in 2000, and the remaining for expansion of the non-credit programs. The proposed Project will help
Proshika further expand its overall credit programs, as well as reduce dependence on subsidies for
covering credit delivery costs.
14.   ASA. Unlike BRAC and Proshika, ASA, mainly provides financial services to the rural poor
and is the third largest MFI in terms of its credit program. In aggregate, ASA handled over Tk 1.2
billion in 1995. About 90% of this was accounted for microcredit disbursement with the remaining
10% on account of social sector programs, and relief work. Around 10% of funding for these
programs came from donors, as grants, with the remaining from savings, loan repayments and interest
income. ASA has a staff of 2745, with 425 branches/unit offices. ASA does not provide much
training, and believes that its members are best suited to choose income generation activities in which
they possess skill and perceive market opportunities. ASA members are given loans within 3 - 6
months of group organization; its microcredit program has seen phenomenal growth, with annual
disbursements increasing from Tk 19 million in FY91 to Tk 1,156 million in FY95. ASA's microcredit
program is different from other MFIs, in that: (a) it pursues a strategy of aggressive growth using
simple, low-cost unit offices that can be easily replicated; (b) it does not offer too much choice and its
loan and saving products are standardized in terms of size. Unit offices are required to be financially
viable within 9 months and operate using 5 staff where most other NGOs would require 12-15 staff.
Heavy emphasis is put on loan recovery, and recovery rates have been close to 100% since inception.



- 44 -
ANNEX2
Page 6
ASA's financial performance has been commendable - it has been able to generate profit since 1993,
largely due to its low-cost operations and, of course low cost of funds. Net surplus is expected to be
Tk 1 million in 1995, or about 0.5% of loans disbursed. ASA has initiated a five year (1995-1999)
US$20 million program, funded by donors, to expand its microcredit program by US$16 million, and
its non-credit program by US$4 million. The proposed Project will help it further expand its
microcredit programs.
15.   Swanirvar Bangladesh, operates its microcredit program in conjunction with NCBs.
Swanirvar is responsible for the costs of group mobilization, loan monitoring and collection, while the
NCBs provide the finance. However, the bureaucratic procedures and culture of the NCBs has proved
to be a severe bottleneck in the system, and loans can take almost 6 months to process, compared to the
two-week approval time by other MFIs. As of July 1995, NCBs had disbursed Tk 0.3 billion to
600.000 Swanirvar beneficiaries. Repayment rates, however, are only 60%.
16.   Small/Medium MFIs. These institutions provide both financial and non-financial services; the
latter, though, are not as significant as the large NGOs because of shortage of funds. Their financial
services programs have grown significantly over the past few years, many due to continued support
from the PKSF. While there is little difference in design of the financial programs between large and
small MFIs, there is considerable difference in management structure. A short hierarchy in the
management structure and low personnel costs help increase cost-effectiveness and facilitate the move
to sustainability. While precise numbers on disbursements by small/medium MFIs are difficult to
obtain, PKSF estimates that field disbursements by its MFI borrowers increased from Tk 44 million in
1991-92, to Tk 675 million in 1994-95, indicating the high magnitude of growth being experienced by
small/medium MFIs. Available rough information suggests that most operate at or below operational
viability stage (Attachment 1), because of small size of programs.
17.   In addition to the above NGO institutions, there are two cooperative networks operated under
the Bangladesh Rural Development Board (BRDB) and Bangladesh Sambaya Bank Limited; they have
mainly provided agricultural credit. In addition, the BRDB operates six income generating
projects/programs targeted to the landless, for self-employment. These programs have been as
successful as the NGO programs in terms of outreach and repayment rates. Of these, the Rural
Development 12 (RD-12) project, funded by Canadian International Development Agency, is the single
largest program and has been very successful. As of June 30, 1995, RD-12 provided Tk 2.2 billion
to 521,000 members, with recovery rate as high as 95%. Canadian support for expansion is contingent
on the program being spun out of BRDB and operated as a separate, autonomous MFI.
Operational Features of MFIs
18.   The MFIs' basic model has the following key features:
*   it is targeted to the landless/asset-less, specifically those who own less than 0.5 acres of
land. Some MFIs also use an income criteria, including only those people with annual
incomes less than Tk 15,000 (US$375).
* all borrowers have to be part of a group whose size ranges from 20-30, with group
members guaranteeing each other's loans.
* women borrowers are given preference. In fact, most MFIs only lend to women. Overall,
women borrowers make up over 80% of the total borrowers.



- 45 -
ANNEX 2
Page 7
*  loans are collateral-free, and have a maturity of 50 weeks, with weekly repayments after 3-
5 weeks grace period. Weekly repayments ensure that repeater loans are not paying the
prior loan. As a result of the relending opportunity arising from weekly repayment feature,
with every additional Tk 100 available to it, an MFI can make loans of about Tk 150-200
during the year.
*  savings is an integral part of the program. A borrower has to save regularly and most
MFIs have mandatory weekly savings ranging from Tk 5-10 (US$12-20 cents ).
*  borrowers have full freedom to choose the activity to be financed by the loan. Some MFIs
provide training to support these activities.
*  groups meet regularly once a week. These meetings are used to conduct weekly
savings/loans transaction and are a focal point to ensure tight sense of community
participation. Apart from loan transactions, social issues are discussed and training on
health, basic literacy and other social aspects is often provided.
i  all financial transactions are done in presence of the entire group to enhance transparency
and self-monitoring.
*  as long as borrowers repay on time, they are assured of repeater loans, generally of a
higher amount. This assurance is critical to the excellent repayment performance. The
basic premise is that the poor need to have continuous access to credit for a period of 8-10
years to accumulate enough savings/assets (net of debt) to escape from the poverty trap and
maintain reasonable consumption once credit is withdrawn. All MFIs start with a small
loan (US$50-75) and provide repeater loans of increasing amounts as long as repayment of
earlier loan is satisfactory. Most MFIs have upper loan limits of US$200-300, but few
have a policy to "graduate" a borrower from the program; since large loan borrowers are
low risk - having been in the system for a few years - and provide ability for cross-
subsidy.
19.    Most of the credit provided by MFIs finances rural non-farm production. This includes
activities such as poultry farming, petty trade and shopkeeping, beef fattening, pottery, and other
related activities; mainly activities with short gestation and daily sales. Non-farm activities are
performed largely by the landless, especially women. However, a number of agricultural workers
undertake non-farm production in the slack seasons, or to supplement their incomes. Some of these
activities (such as trade and commerce, poultry farming) are highly productive, while others are low-
productive activities which provide self-employment and primarily help supplement the family income.
These activities require small, short -term loans of the kind provided by MFIs, and their growth has
been seriously hindered by the limited availability of this type of finance.
20.    MFIs use fairly comprehensive loan forms to select beneficiaries. In the absence of land
records and objective means tests, the selection is largely subjective. However, the self-selection
process ensures that those who enter the program are truly credit constrained, and are unable to tap
formal sources of finance. The following features of the program also provide a reasonable degree of
assurance that only the poor get the loans: very small loan sizes and high interest rates; rigorous
enforcement of repayment; weekly meetings; NGO staff's knowledge of local communities and low
probability of the better-off to subject themselves to the rigors of the program and be seen sitting with
the poor in open meetings. Despite these features, the programs often do not reach the very poorest,



- 46 -
ANNEX 2
Page 8
who are usually migrant/destitute, and do not possess the ability to make weekly repayments (which in
some cases need to be made from other sources).
21.    All MFIs are multipurpose, providing both credit and non-credit services. Not only there is a
wide range in the scope of services offered by each MFI, there is also significant variation in the
microcredit programs pursued by each. While the basic model is similar, there are a wide range with
differing objectives and methodologies. At one end of the spectrum there are institutions like Grameen
Bank and ASA, where credit activities dominate the institutions' business. At the other end of the
spectrum are MFIs like BRAC and Proshika, who believe that an integrated strategy, focused on
community and human resource development is necessary to assist the landless. Both strategies have
worked well, though the latter has higher costs, and diverse organizations have all experienced
tremendous success in terms of outreach and repayment performance. 3
Sustainability Trade-Off
22.    Table 2 below provides on indicative basis trade-offs between key variables of sustainability--
unit loan size and horizontal outreach -- for three institutions, namely BRAC, Grameen and ASA. The
table shows the increase needed in unit loan size for existing borrowers, to maintain breakeven status
under different scenarios for horizontal outreach and unit loan size of new borrowers. The Table
shows trade-offs among three variables: % increase in unit loan of existing borrowers; % increase in
new borrowers; and loan size of new borrower as % of loan size to existing borrower. New loans are
usually much smaller, 25-30% of loans of current borrowers.
Table 2: Sustainability Trade-off
Outreach                     40%                                        60%
Grameen      BRAC          ASA             Grameen      BRAC          ASA
Loan Size            ---------------- % increase in unit loan of existing borrower ----------------
(New
borrower's
as % of
existing
borrower's)
20%           127          151           115             142          170           128
30%           123          147           111             136          164           122
40%           119          143           107             130          158           116
50%           115          139           103             124          152           110
23.    Thus in the case of BRAC, the table shows (in bold numbers) that if BRAC wants to increase
outreach by 40%, and unit loan size of new borrowers is 20% of loan size of existing borrowers, to
maintain financial breakeven BRAC has to increase unit loan size of existing borrowers by 151 %. If
outreach was higher than 40%, BRAC would incur losses unless loan size increases for new and old
3   Outreach refers to the central purpose of microfinance - to provide large number of people with access to
credit.



- 47 -
ANNEX 2
Page 9
borrowers. In general, to maintain breakeven: (a) the higher the unit loan size of new borrowers, the
lower unit loan size of existing borrowers has to increase; and (b) the higher the outreach, the higher
has be the unit loan size of existing borrowers. The trade-offs for Grameen and ASA follow similar
pattern, except that since they have operating profits, the unit loan size increases are much lower than
BRAC (which has operating losses) for the same changes in other variables.
The Informal Sector
24.    Informal markets continue to be the primary source of credit for a large proportion of the rural
population; it is also lender of the last resort for many. Contrary to popular opinion, informal lending
activity is not dominated by money lenders; a majority of transactions are between friends and relatives
at zero or nominal rates of interest. Also, a large part of informal loans are for "productive" purposes,
including capital investments. A recent World Bank Survey found that the overall interest rate in the
informal sector was 48%; if only interest bearing loans were counted, the rate was as high as 106%.
Not all loans are recovered on time, but almost 100% of the loans are eventually repaid (within 3
years). The average recovery rate was estimated to be 62 %, with small borrowers showing better
4
repayment.
4   See Gautam, Madhur " Bangladesh: Rural Finance", World Bank (draft) 1996.



- 48 -
ANNEX2
Attachment 1
THE CONCEPT OF SUSTAINABILITY
1.     The term "program sustainability" means the ability of a microfinance program to continue
operating as a development finance institution for the rural poor. Since these programs often use
loanable funds from various sources to finance productive activities, they can only sustain their
operations if they remain financially sound. On the other hand, since these programs function as
programs for the poor, they can be sustainable only if the benefits that the poor receive from program
participation result in a sustainable reduction in poverty. The main determinants of program
sustainability are financial, economic, and institutional viability of the MFI as well as of its borrowers.
2.     An MFI's credit program is operationally viable once interest income covers direct costs
(salaries, administration, etc.) of credit delivery. It isfinancially viable once interest income exceeds
direct costs of credit delivery, bad debt expenses and financial expenses, which are often subsidized. It
is defined as economically viable once interest income exceeds all operating costs including bad debt
expense and the economic cost of funds (the opportunity cost). Finally, an MFI is institutionally viable
if it has effective and well-institutionalized procedures for ensuring administration and management
succession, so that it is not dependent on the leadership of a particular person. Institutional viability
also depends on the viability of the borrowers.
3.     MFIs' financial and economic viability depends on the level of subsidies they require. There
are two types of subsidy - financial and economic. Financial subsidy results when a program is not
cost effective (or cannot break even), and is measured by the losses made by the MFI. Economic
subsidy results if the cost of funds is cheaper than the opportunity cost, i.e., the market cost of funds
and one way of measuring it is by calculating the subsidy dependence index. Many credit programs
receive both kinds of subsidy and this is a concern for their long-run sustainability.



- 49-                                 ANNEX-
Page 1
BANGLADESH
POVERTY ALLEVIATION MICROFINANCE PROJECT
THE APEX AGENCY: POVERTY FOUNDATION (PKSF)
A. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
History, Legal Framework, and Relationship with the Government
1.    The Poverty Foundation (i.e., the Palli Karma-Sahayak Foundation or PKSF) was established
in May 1990 under the Companies Act of 1913 as an autonomous and non-profit organization charged
with "helping the poor, the landless, and the assetless in order to enable them to gain access to
resources for their productive self-employment, to encourage them to undertake activities of income
generation and poverty alleviation for enhancing their quality of life" (PKSF's Memorandum of
Association). The formation of PKSF was prompted by the fact that a number of small NGOs were
engaged in promoting income generating activities within their local areas in Bangladesh. While many
of these NGOs were competently managed, they generally suffered from a perennial shortage of funds.
Thus, PKSF was formed with a view to financing such NGOs. In support of this objective, PKSF
received an initial grant of Tk 32 million from the GOB. Since then, it has received additional grants
from the GOB for a total of Tk 750 million; very recently, it has received additional Tk 200 million, as
GOB's contribution to this Project. The only other source of funds has been net income. At end 1995
the total equity of PKSF was Tk 844 million, of which Tk 94 million (or 11 %) was generated by net
income and the remainder from grants from GOB.
2.    The principal objectives of PKSF, as mentioned in the Memorandum of Association of the
Foundation, are to help the poor by providing them with resources for the creation of productive self-
employment opportunities. This is achieved through: (a) provision of credit to various partner
organizations (POs) that are engaged in promoting such income-generation activities for the poor; (b)
institutional strengthening of these organizations; (c) encouraging new ideas, generating new
technologies for poverty alleviation, and initiating and undertaking research activities; and (d)
developing proper management information systems, so that the poverty alleviation activities may be
monitored and evaluated in a regular manner.
Management
3.    A General Body provides over-all policy guidance, approves the annual budget, and reviews
the annual report and audited accounts of PKSF. The General Body may have up to 25 members (with
up to 15 members being nominated by government from government employees, NGOs, etc.)
appointed on the basis of their record of service with respect to poverty alleviation and income
generation activities for the poor; the other 10 members may be from POs and/or private individuals.
4.    In addition, there is a seven member Governing Body, comprising the Chairman, Managing
Director and five other members. The Chairman and two other members are appointed by the
Government; the former, however, cannot be a serving official. In the past, the Managing Director
was appointed by the Government, but in late-1995, PKSF's Memorandum of Articles was changed to
give its Governing Body the full authority. The other three members are selected by the private sector
members of the General Body, and represent knowledge professionals with interest in the field of NGO
activities and poverty alleviation. The Governing Body currently includes Professor Yunus, of
Grameen Bank. All the shares of PKSF are held, equally, by the seven Body members. The



- 50 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2
Governing Body reviews progress, set policies, and take decisions as needed on matters related to the
registration of new Partner Organizations, changes in maximum staffing levels, and so on. It also
reviews and approves the annual budget and the annual report prior to their being presented to the
General Body.
5.     The General Body and the Governing Body thus provide the control framework within which
the Managing Director carries out his responsibilities as the Chief Executive Officer of PKSF.
Organization
6.    In undertaking his duties, the Managing Director is supported by two General Managers, one
for Operations and the other for Administration. The Operations wing of PKSF is responsible for the
initial screening of organizations applying for registration as POs, the initial screening of loan
applications, for authorizing disbursements, and for tracking scheduled vs. actual repayments. The key
functionaries in Operations are the Loan Officers who maintain close linkage with their POs through
regular field visits. The Administration wing includes separate sections for Finance, Administration
and Internal Audit. PKSF has recently established a new unit, "Large PO Window," to handle the
lending and suspension related to large POs.
Staff
7.     As of December 1995, PKSF had a total of 72 staff, consisting of 37 professional staff (of
whom 16 are responsible for field visits) and 35 support staff. The compensation package offered by
PKSF is geared to attract bright and motivated young graduates, being 50% higher than the public
sector and 20% higher than other large NGOs in the country. Although the salary structure is
competitive, there is a need to introduce a comprehensive training program for staff.
B. OPERATIONS
Policies
8.     The operations of PKSF are governed by written policy guidelines that relate to (a) credit terms
and conditions, and (b) rules and modalities concerning final borrowers.
9.     With respect to credit terms, the guidelines currently set minimum interest rates charged to the
POs (2%), and rates charged by POs to the final borrowers (16%). PKSF current rates range from 3-
4.5 % p.a., with maturity period of three years. Even though POs need long-term funds, PKSF
provides three year loans to ensure adequate accountability and monitoring of fund use; at the same
time, it has a policy of automatically providing repeater loans of higher amounts, as long as the
repayment rate is satisfactory (i.e., 95 % +). Loans by POs to the final borrowers are to be repaid
within one year.
10.   With respect to final beneficiaries, the guidelines specify that lending by POs must be basically
directed towards borrower groups, and also describe the basic rules for these groups. These rules state
that each group must have at least 5 members, and that these members must be basically "assetless-
landless" (that is, they must include only people with families having total assets not exceeding one
acre of land in that area). Each group must elect a Chairperson and Secretary who may liaise with the
PO on behalf of the group. The group must meet weekly, with attendance required of all members.
In addition, potential borrowers must deposit at least two taka as saving deposit in weekly meetings,
these being kept in a bank account in the name of the group.



- 51 -
ANNEX3
Page 3
11.   It has established a prudent exposure limit; maximum loan to a PO cannot, usually, exceed
10% of available funds. In addition it follows a conservative policy for first-time POs by starting with
a small loan and gradually increasing loan sizes once there is a satisfactory track record. For example,
in regard to the 18 POs approved in FY95, the loan size ranged from Tk 100,000 (for 12 POs) to Tk
1.2 million. As of June 1995, the average loan outstanding per PO amounted to about Tk 24 million,
while the size distribution was as follows: 57% of loans, by number, were below Tk 2 million, 34%
between Tk 2-5 million and remaining 9% higher; loans in the last category accounted for 60% of
outstanding loans with the maximum loan outstanding being Tk 80 million.
Activities
12.   PKSF's activities in support of it's over-all objectives noted above have to-date largely focused
on ensuring a rigorous screening of applications from various NGOs for registration as Partner
Organizations, and the subsequent processing of loan approvals, disbursements and repayments. This
work involves regular field visits by loan officers. In addition, PKSF has provided technical assistance
towards the institutional strengthening of the POs (this last being primarily focused towards ensuring a
uniform system of accounting and controls for the credit activities of the POs). There is however a
need to strengthen management information systems to ensure transparency, provide early warning on
portfolio problems and information with respect to poverty alleviation activities.
Procedures
13.    PKSF's credit operations center around the loan officers in the Operations wing, each of whom
has clear responsibility with respect to individual POs. Organization seeking to register as POs
complete a comprehensive application form, providing information about their own financial status as
well as the status of the borrower groups they service. This is supplemented by field visits by a loan
officer to verify the information provided. The Managing Director and the General Managers control
credit operations by forming a Loan Committee, which includes the Loan Officer in addition to these
three senior managers, and which reviews PO registration and loan applications forwarded by the Loan
Officer. Applications approved by the Loan Committee are presented to the Governing Body for final
approval. POs are required to conduct all transactions, of PKSF funded programs through banks,
submit monthly bank statements and MIS reports. Loans are approved on the basis of POs' annual
needs, but disbursed, generally at intervals of 1-2 months, after field supervision and bank statements
confirms that the latter transaction has been satisfactorily used Loan officers make field supervision
visits once every two or three months.
Overall
14.    PKSF's overall operating policies and procedures are quite satisfactory. Its credit approval
policies are sound and conservative, credit supervision intensive, accounting/MIS systems reasonably
satisfactory and its own external audit quite comprehensive. PKSF's main focus of attention with
regard to its borrowers is on loan collections (which have been over 99.8% since inception),
satisfactory bookkeeping of disbursements and repayments, routing of PKSF financed transactions
through banks and ensuring that loans made to the target group. To further strengthen its monitoring,
and internal accountability capabilities, PKSF has recently established an Internal Audit Cell.
15.   While PKSF encourages its POs to, at least, fully cover the recurring administrative/funding
costs from operating income, and also imposes a minimum lending rate of 16% to ensure that POs do
not lend below commercial bank rates and promote cost coverage from operations, it does not impose
any specific performance or sustainability target. PKSF's main objective is to ensure accountability of
its funds, and as long as POs meet its stringent requirements for repayment, accounting and targeting,



- 52 -
ANNEX&3
Page 4
PKSF neither monitors not imposes its view on POs product mix, cross-subsidization of non-lending
services from lending profits or lending services from grants and other income, loan pricing and loan
loss reserve policies, level of mandatory savings, separation of accounts for different services, etc.
PKSF encourages, but does not mandate, POs who have outside sources of income to set aside a
portion of interest income as reserves. Considering the pervasive loan default culture, the high priority
it attaches to loan collections is well-placed and should remain as its predominant concern. In addition,
but without sacrificing the above noted emphasis, it needs to pay attention to issues of sustainability and
its own role as an apex institution. Thus, a major institutional development objective of the Project is
to enhance PKSF's financial planning and monitoring capabilities, incorporate forward looking
performance targets in PKSF's credit policies, and strengthen accounting/auditing standards of
small/medium POs.
C. PAST AND PROJECTED OPERATIONS
16.   The past (FY91-95) and projected (FY96-2005) financial results are given in Tables 1 to 5.
Lending
17.   PKSF has so far enlisted 124 POs as borrowers. A brief description of a few representative
POs is given in Attachment 1. PKSF's gross disbursements to POs rose from Tk 3 million in FY91
(second year of operations for PKSF) to Tk 26 million in FY92 and to Tk 302 million in FY95. Credit
disbursement grew at an average rate of 63 % between FY93-95. Loans outstanding as a percentage of
total assets rapidly increased from 1 % in FY91 to 9% in FY92 and stood at 54% in 1995. The
remaining are current assets, mainly term deposits in banks which yield about 6%. As of June 30,
1995, loans outstanding (net of a Loan Loss provision of Tk 3 million that was applied for the first time
in 1995) was Tk 456 million, or over a three-fold increase from 1993.
18.   Disbursement are projected to increase from about Tk 500 million in FY96 to Tk 2.4 billion in
FY2000, as a result of the IDA credit, at an average rate of 50% per annum. About 63 % of the
disbursement would be on account of small/medium POs, with the remaining on account of the large
POs, e.g., ASA, BRAC, etc. As a result of this lending, total assets will increase from Tk 1 billion in
FY96 to Tk 6 billion in FY2000. Total loan outstanding as a percentage of total assets will grow from
73% in FY96 to 82% in FY2000. Loans to large POs are projected to grow from zero, currently, to
over Tk 2.3 billion, or about 40% of the total loan portfolio. For the FY2001-2005 it is expected that
the level of disbursement will increase by 20% a year.
Financial Performance
19.   PKSF's total income doubled from Tk 12 million in FY91 to Tk 26 million in FY95. The
share of interest income in total income grew from 0 in FY92 to 39% (Tk 10 million) by FY95 while
the share of income from current assets (i.e., interest income on deposits) declined from 100% to 61 %
during the same period. Operating expenses as a percentage of average assets came down from 3.5 %
in FY91 to 1.4% in FY95. Net income dropped from Tk 29 million to Tk 14 million between FY92-
95; this was caused by the drop in income from current assets (resulting from liquidating deposits and
increasing lending ) and a first time loan loss provision of Tk 3 million in FY95.
20.   As a result of expanding loan portfolio, 5 % interest rate on loans to large POs, and increasing
yield on loans to small POs (as cumulative loans to these increase lending rate shifts to higher rate
slabs), total income would increase from Tk 46 million in FY96 to Tk 205 million in FY2000. At the



- 53 -                                ANX
ANNEX 3
Page 5
same time, total expenses would increase from Tk 30 million in FY96 to Tk 140 million in FY2000; a
large part of the increase is on account of higher loan loss provisioning and interest expense on IDA
loans. Total expenses as percentage of assets remains at around 3 % between in FY96 to FY2000.
Administrative expenses as percentage of assets declines from 1.2% in FY96 to 0.6% FY2000. Net
income initially drops from Tk 16 million in FY96 to Tk 7 million in FY97, due to higher provision,
and scaling - up costs in these years, but thereafter gradually increase to Tk 65 million in FY2000 and
Tk 204 million in 2005.
21.    The IDA credit increases PKSF's debt to equity ratio from 0 in FY96 to 3.7 in FY2000.
Return on average assets drops from 2% in FY95 to 1.3% in FY2000, as net income does not grow as
fast as the asset base but increases to 1.6% by FY2005. Finally, return on equity increases from 1.6%
in FY96 to 5.1 % in FY2000 and reaches 9.7 % by FY2005.
22.   Longer term projections indicate that, after FY2005 PKSF could start to pay higher rates on
incremental borrowings and that by 2015 it could pay 8% interest rate (7% higher than at present and
2% higher than average cost of funds of the banking system) on all its borrowed funds and earn a
satisfactory return on assets, while raising the average lending rate only 4% -- from the 4.4% in
FY2000 to 8.5 % in 2015. Because of higher cost of funding, the average interest expense (as % of
borrowed finds) increases from 1.0% in FY2000 to 6.3% in FY2015. The favorable Debt:Equity ratio
which hovers around 7:1 beyond FY2005 would enable PKSF to operate on a thin interest margin and
yet earn a satisfactory return on assets.



- 54 -
ANINEX 3
Page 6
Table 1: PKSF- Fnancial Statements- (Actual)
1990     1991      1992      1993      1994      1995
BALANCESHEhT
Assets
Current Assets                                 32       230      273       318       258       382
Fixed Assets
Opening Balance: Purchases                                                                      II
Less: Accumulated Depreciation                                                            5
Plus: Purchases                                                                            2
Less. Depreciation Expense                                                                 I
Fixed Assets (net of drpreciation)             0         5        5         6          5        6
Large PO Loans (gross)
Less: Cumulative Loan Loss Provision
Large PO Loans (net)
Small PO Loans                                           3        29       131       268       459
Less: Cumulative Loan Loss Provision                                                       3
SnallPOLoans(net)                              0         3        29       131       268       456
Total Assets                              32       239       307       455       530       844
Liabilities
Borrowing   IDA credit
Additional Borroving
Equity: Funds and Reserves                     32       239      307       459        530      844
Total Uabilities                          32       239       307       459       530       844
Performance Ratios
I Debt/Equity                                   0         0        0         0         0         0
Average lending rate                                             2%        2%         3%       3%
Interest Margin/Assets                                                     2%         3%       3%
Total income/average assets                             9%       9%        10%        8%       4%
Interest expense and provisions /average assets         0%       0%        0%         0%       0%
Administrative Expenses/Average Asmets        0%        3%       2%        2%         1 %       l%
Operating costs /Average assets               0%        4%       3%        2%         2%        1 %
Total expense /Average assets                 0%        4%       3%        2%         2%       2%
Return on Average Assets                      1%        5%       7%        8%         5%       2%
Return on Equity                              0%        3%       6%        6%         5%       2%
Loan Portfolio as %Total Assets               0%         I %     9%        29%       51%       54%



- 55 -                                              ANX
Page 7
Table 2: PKSF- Financial Statements- (Actual)
(Tk million)
1                                              1990      1991     1992       1993      1994      1995
I|. SOURCES AND USES OF FUNDS
Sources of Funds
GOB Grant                                      32        200       50        118       50        300
Institutional Development (IDA grant)
IDA credit
Additional borrowings
Net Income                                      0         6        18        29        25        13
Non-Cash Expenses (Depr-Loan Loss)                        I        1          I         1         4
Repayment by POs                                                   0         10        49        110
Total                                      32       2X17       69        159       125       428
Uses of Funds
Purchase of Fixed Assets:
Institutional Development (IDA grant)
Other                                      0         5                   2         0         2
Disbursements:
Disbursements: Large POs                       0         0        0         0          0        0
Disbursements: Srnall POs                                3        26       113        185      302
Total Disbursement                                                                           302
Repayments:
IDA credit
Additional borrowings
Sub-total                                    0         8        26        114       185       304
Change in Working Capital                      32        198       43        45        -60       124
Total                                      32        2Q2       69       15         15       4
II. INCOMESTATEMENT
1990     1991      1992      1993       1994     1995
Income
Operating Income: Interest on Large PO Loans                                                     0.0
: Interest on Small PO Loans             0         0         2         5         10
Other Income: Income from Current Assets        0         12       25        36        32        17
Total Income                                             12        25        3         3Z        26
Ecpenses
Interest Expense                                0         0        0         0          0         0
Interest on IDA credit
Interest on Additional Borrowing
NET INTERST INCOME                                                                     37        26
Administrative Expenses                                   4        6         6          6         7
Other Expenses                                  0                             1         1         1
Training Rbrkshops and Seminars                                              0          0         0
Research and Publications                                                    0          0         0
Evaluation and Monitoring                                                    I          1         I
others                                                                                  4
Depreciation                                              I        I         I          I         I
Loan Loss Provision (Large PO loans)                                                              0
Loan Loss Provision (Snall PO Loans)                                                              3
Total Expense                                Q         _        7                   1a        131 
iNet Income                                      0         7        18        29        25        14



- 56 -
ANNEX 3
Page 8
Table 3: PKSF- Disbursement and Requirement of Funds (Tk million)
Small POs                                                   96          97           98          99            2000
I      NumberofPOs attheendofFY                                    135.0       155.0       170.0        185.0          2000
2      Numberofborrowers (inMdlon)                                 0.38        0.41        0.50         0.63           075
3      Average loan/borrower(thousandtaka)                         3.00        3.75         4.50        5 50           6.75
4      Targetedloandisbursementat field levelbyPOs (milltaka)2    1125.0       1522.5     2250.0       3437.5         5062.5
5      Fund retuired by POs to meet the tarnet (4/ 1.51            750.0       1015.0      1500.0      229[7          3375.0
5.a    Savings (20%of5)                                                        203.0       300.0        458.3          675.0
6      Funds Required this year (5- 5A)                            750.0       812.0       1200.0      1833.3         2700.0
7      Borrowings from PKSF-beginningofyear                        459         750          812         1200           1833
S.     Repayment to P KSF
(i)from previous year                                      108         174         140          278            414
(ii)From 2years befbre                                     74          123          S99         159            318
(ii) from 3 years before                                   28          46           77          124            100
8.     Total Loan repayment (during the year)                      206         337          407          551           815
9      Annual Disbursement from  PKSF (6-7+8)                      497         399          795          1184          1682
10     Borrowings from PKSF -endofYear(7-8+9)                      750          812        1200         1833           2700
Large P0O
I.    Targeted Disbursement by POs to coverdemand                             97           9S          99            2000
BRAC                                                                  357         830           300          2000
P ROS HlKA                                                            250         475          825            1075
AS A                                                                  250         570          1000           1300
11     To tal                                                                  857         1875        3125           4375
12.    Fund required by POs to meet the dis bursement target (11 1.5)
BRAC                                                                  238         553          867            1333
PROSHIKA                                                               167         317         550            717
ASA                                                                    67         380          667            867
12     Total                                                                   571         1250        2083           2917
13     Savings ( 20%of 12)                                                     114         250          417            583
14     Funds Required this year(12-13)                                         457          1000        1667           2333
15     Borrowings from  PKSF-beginningofyear                                    0           457         1000           1667
Repayment to P KS F
(i) from previous year                                                  0           0            0              0
(di)From 2years before                                                  0           0            0              0
(iii)from 3years before                                                 0           0            0             0
16     Total Loan repayment (durmg the year)                                    0            0           0              0
17     Annual Disbursement from  PKSF ( 14-15+16)                              457          543         667            667
18     Borrowngs from PKSF -endofYear(15-6+17)                                 457          1000        1667           2333
P KS F:
9S- 96     96- 97       97-'98      98-'99        99-2000
19     Funds Needed to meet Target (LPOs and SPOs- 5    750                    1586        2750         4375           6292
19.a    LAss Savings of POs (20%of 19)                                         317          550         875            1258
19.b   Funds Needed by POs from  PKSF (19-19a)                     750         1269        2200         3500           5033
20     L an Outs tanding-- Beginning (7+15)                        459         750          1269        2200           3500
21      Repayment (8+16)                                           206         337          407          551           815
22     Disbursement (19b -20+21))                                  497         856          338          1851          2349
23     Loan Outstanding-- Ending (20-21+22)                        750         1269        2200         3500           5033



- 57-                                                       ANNEX-
Page 9
Table 4: PKSF- Financial statements - projected
(Tk million)
1996      1997    1998    1999   2000    2001    2002    2003           2004       2005
|L SOURCES AND ISES OF FUNDS
Sources of Funds
OBBGrant                                        150        0       0        0       0        0        0        0          0         0
Institutional Development (IDA grant)                     43      43       43      43       43
IDA credit                                       0        436     1026    1391    1877
Additional borrowings                                                                      1200      1700     1700      1700       2600
NetIncome                                        16        7       11      28       65      106      134       148       173       204
Non-Cash Expenses (Depr+Loan Loss)               16       21       34      53       67      78       88        99        114       129
Repayment by POs                                206       337     407      551     815     1348      1908     2436      2927       3276
Total                                       387       844    1521    2066    2867    2775        3829     4383      4914       6209
jUses of Funds
Purchase of Fixd Assets:
Instrutional Development (IDA grant)         0        43      43       43      43       43        0        0         0          0
Other                                       32        10       5        5       5
Disbursements:
Disbursements:LargePOs                          0        457     543      667     680      810      980      1170      1400       1540
Disburserrments:SmailPOs                       497       399     795     1184    1682    2010      2420      2900      3490      4188
Total Disbursenment                          497       856    1337    1851    2362    2820       3400      4070      4890      5728
Repayments:
IDA credit                                                                                      286       286       286       286
Additional borrowings
|  Sub-total                                 529       909    1385    1899    2410    2863        3686     4356      5176       6014
Change in Working Capital                       -141      -65     136      167     457      -88      143       27       -262       195
Total                                        87 844    1521    2               2867    2775      3829     4383      4914       6209
IL INCOMESTATE1IENT
1996     1997    1998    1999   2000    2001    2002          2003      2004       2005
Inconie
Operating Income: Interest on Large PO Loans     0         11      36      66       99      156      215      285        376       477
: Intereston SnmallPO Loans      21         27      36      55       84      117      142       163       187       220
Otherlncome: IncomeffmmCurTentAssets            25         14      13      15      22       48       38        42        38         49
;Total Income                                    4                 84      135              321      395       491       600        746
Expenses
Interest Expense                                 0         2       9       22       38      95       128       193       258       352
jinterest on IDA credit                          0         2        9       22      38       47       46       43        40         37
Pinterest onAdditional Borrowing                 0         0        0       0        0      48        82       150       218       315
NETINTERSTINCOME                                46        50       75      114     168      226      267      298       342        394
iAdministrative Expenses                         11        17      23       25      28       31       34        37        41        45
(Other Ebpenses                                   3         4       7       7        8       11       12        13        15         16
Training Workshops and Seminars                  I        2        2       2       2        3        3         4         4          4
'Research and Publications                       0         2        2       2        2       3        3         4         4          4
i Evaluation and Monitoring                      2         4        4       4        5       5        6         6         7          7
iDepreciation                                    4          9      13       16      19      22        20       18         16        14
jLoanLoss Provision(LargePOloans)                0         5        5       13      14       16       20       23        28         31
Loan Loss Provision (Snall PO Loans)            12         8       16      24      34       40       48        58        70        84
Total Expense                                 L         44      73      107      140     2        21       342       427        542
Net Incone                                      16         7       11      28      65       106      134      148       173        204



ANNEX 3
Page 10
Table 5: PKSF- Financial statements - projected
(Tk million)
1996      1997    1         1999     2000    2001      2002       2003      2004         2-
IIL BALANCESHEET
Assets
Currenit Assets                                    240        175     310      478      935      847       991       1018       755        950
Fixed Assets
Opening Balance: Purchases                         12         44       97      145      193      241       284       284        284        284
L.es3  Accumsulaied Deprecialion              6         /0       19       31      48        6-       89        /08        126        142
P/Nu: Purchases                               32         53       48       48      48        43        0         0          0          0
Le.%s: Deprecialioll Expense                   4         9        13       16      19        22       20        18         16         14
FixedAssets(netofdepreciation)                     34         79      114      146      174      196       176       158        143        128
Large PO Loans (gras.)                              0        457      1000    166      234-    315-    413-         530-       6-0-       824-
Les.s. ('uniulaiheLoa,, Los.vPror,isioni       0          5       10       23       3'       53        -3        96        124        155
LargePOLoans(net)                                   0        453      990      1643    2310      3104     4064       5211      6583       8092
llall PO Loanis                                   -50       812      1200    1833    2700       3362     3873      4338       4901       5813
Le.%%: (nnitulalmieeLoanLovssProvivion         15         23      39       63       96       136       185       243       313        396
Small PO Loans (net)                               735       789      1161     1771    2604      3225     3689      4095       4588       5417
Total Assets                                  1009       1495    2575    4037    6023       7372      8919      10482     12069       14587
Liabilities
Borrowing   IDA credit                              0        436      1462    2853    4730       4730     4444      4158       3872       3586
Additional Borrowing                  0          0       0        0        0       1200     2900      4600       6300       8900
Equity: Funds and Reserves                        1009       1059    1113    1184    1293        1442     1575       1723      1897       2101
Total Liabilities                             1009       1495    2575    4037    6023       7372      8919      10481     12069       14587
Performance Ratios                                1996       1997    1998    1999    2000        2001     2002      2003       2004       2005
Debt/Equity                                        0.0        0.4      1.3     2.4      3.7       4.1      4.7       5.1        5.4        5.9
Average lendiig rate                              3.5%       3.8%     4.2%    4.3%     4.4%      4.8%     5.1%      5.3%       5.5%       5.6%
Avergae Interest expense                                     1.0%     1.0%     1.0%     1.0%     1.8%     1.9%      2.4%       2.7%       3.1%
linterest Margin/Average Net Loan Ouststanding     3.5%      3.6%     3.7%     3.6%     3.5%     3.2%      3.2%      3.0%      3.0%        2.8%
iTotalincome/average assets                        4.9%      4.1%     4.1%     4.1%     4.1%     4.8%      4.8%      5.1%      5.3%        5.6o
Iiuterest expense and provisions /average assets   1.3%      1.2%     1.5%     1.8%     1.7%     2.3%      2.4%      2.8%      3.2%        3.5%
lAdminiistrative Expenses /average Assets          1.2%      1.4%     1.1%     0.8%     0.6%     0.5%      0.4%      0.4%      0.4%        0.3%
S0peratingcosts/Averageassets                      2.0%      2.4%     2.1%     1.5%     1.1%     0.9%      0.8%      0.7%      0.6%        0.6%
Total expense/Average assets                      3.3%       3.6%     3.6%     3.2%    2.8%      3.2%     3.2%      3.5%       3.8%       4.1%
'Return on Average Assets                          1.7%      0.6%     0.5%     0.8%     1.3%     1.6%      1.6%      1.5%      1.5%        1.5%
:Retirn oni Equity                                 1.5%      0.7%     1.0%     2.4%     5.1%     7.3%     8.5%      8.6%       9.1%        9.7%
Loan Portfolio as % Total Assets                  72.8%     83.1%    83.5%    84.6%    81.6%    85.9%    86.9%      88.8%     92.6%       92.6%
PROJECTION ASSUMPTIONS
Ilterest received from Small POs                  3.5%       3.5%     3.7%    3.8%     3.9/    4.0%      4.1%      4.2%1      4.3%       4.4%
Interest received from Large POs                  5.0%       5.0%     5.0%     5.0%     5.0%     5.0%     6.0%      6.0%       6.5%       6.5%
Interest received on Cuirrent Assets              6.5%       6.5%     6.5%    6.5%     6.5%      6.5%     6.5%      6.5%       6.5%       6.5%
Interest paid oni IDA Credit                      1.0%       1.0%     1.0%     1.0%     1.0%     4.0%     4.0%      4.0%Y      4.0%       4.5%



- 59 -                                   ANNEX
Attachment I
Page l
PROFILE OF PKSF PARTNER ORGANIZATIONS (POs)
PO                     DESCRIPTION OF OPERATION                          CREDIT AND
SAVING
OPERATION
Thengamara    - Established in 1964; Programs extend over 475 villages; it has  - Group savings is Tk
Mohila Sabuj    organized 35,800 landless-assetless women                   7.3 million
Sangha         - Programs include savings and credit program, education   - Cumulative credit
(IMSS),         program, health and family planning, training, relief and   disbursement is Tk
Bogra           rehabilitation, agroforestry, pisciculture, nursery, mother and  180 million
child health care, poultry and livestock, sericulture, handicraft,
etc.
Association for  - Commenced its operation in 1978; Programs include group based   - Group savings is Tk
Social          savings and credit, health, education, training, afforestation and  31 million (PKSF);
Advancement    post disaster relief and rehabilitation                      116 million (other)
(ASA), Dhaka                                                              - Cumulative credit
disbursement is 226
million (PKSF) Tk
1. I billion (other)
Rangpur        -Initially started relief and rehabilitation in 1972; it is the  -Group savings is Tk
Dinajpur        Bangladesh chapter of Lutheran World Federation             44 million
Rural Service   - The activities are now being carried out under: Comprehensive    - Cumulative credit
(RDRS),         Project (CP) and credit program. The comprehensive project  disbursement is Tk
Rangpur         assists people in developing sustainable new skills in different  210 million
areas like education, agriculture, health, women's' development,
environment and disaster preparedness etc.
- Has so far organized 248,289 members
Jagorani       - Established in 1976; Programs include mass education, health and  - Cumulative credit
Chakra          family planning, women's development, development of schedule   disbursement is Tk
caste sweepers, income generation and rural credit         56.2 million
- It has 13,075 organized members                              .-
Society for    - Established in 1986; Programs include group formation, training,  - Group savings is Tk
Social Service    social afforestation, supply of tube-wells, non-formal child  4.7 million
(SSS)           education and hygiene program                             - Cumulative credit
- SSS has organized 13,017 members                           disbursement is Tk
37.5 million
Adarsha Samaj  - Established in 1984; Programs include conscientisation, group  -Group savings is Tk
Seba Samity     formation, adult education, family planning and health care, and  78.3 thousand
(ASSS),         providing credit facility for self employment;            - Cumulative credit
Mymensingh    - Working area extends over 29 villages                       disbursement is Tk
-Consists of 1,306 members                                   2.9 million
Kotwai Thana   - Established in 1962; Programs include diversified services and  - Group savings is Tk
Central         credit support, training, agricultural extension including technical    1.5 million
Cooperatives    assistance for mechanized cultivation and irrigation.     - Cumulative credit
Association                                                                 disbursement is Tk
(KTCCA)                                                                     16.8 million
Limited,
Comilla



- 60 -
ANNEX3
Attachment I
Page 2
PO                     DESCRIPTION OF OPERATION                          CREDIT AND
SAVING
OPERATION
Rural          - Established in 1984; Programs include health, education,  - Group savings is Tk
Reconstruction    women's development, plantation, water and sanitation, savings  3.6 million
Centre Jessore   and credit program                                       - Cumulative credit
- The operational area covers eighty villages                disbursement is Tk
_ 27.9 million
Uttara        - Established in 1987; Programs include savings and credit,  -Group savings is Tk
Development     education, training, mother and child health care, afforestation  2.3 million
Programme,      etc.                                                      - Cumulative credit
Thakurgaon     - Working area covers 248 villages                           disbursement is Tk
- Consists of 9,724 members                                  22.4 million
Palli Progoti   -Established in 1981; Programs include child education, adult  -Group savings is Tk
Shahayak        education, training, supply of tubewells and latrines, group  3.7 million
Samity          formation, and credit program                              - Cumulative credit
(PPSS),       - Working area includes 158 villages                          disbursement is Tk
Faridpur       - Consists of 10,760 members                                 31.1 million
Srizony,       - Established in 1985; Programs include slum development, model   -Group savings is Tk
Jhenaidah       village development, adult education, pisciculture, road side  1.1 million
plantation, MCH&FP, mass education, children school attracting   - Cumulative credit
program, group formation saving and credit program         disbursement is Tk
-Has 6,540 members                                           8.9 million
Uddipan,      - Established in 1984; Programs include group formation, relief  - Group savings is Tk
Dhaka           and rehabilitation, training of the group members, credit health  5.3 million
and sanitation, and village & farm forestry program       - Cumulative credit
- Working area extends to 260 villages                       disbursement is Tk
-Consists of 10,500 members                                  3.8 million
Amra Kaj Kori  - Established in 1985; Programs include non-formal primary  - Group savings is Tk
(AKK),          education and adult education                               254 thousand
Faridpur       - Working area extends to over 36 villages                  - Cumulative credit
- Consists of 1,456 members                                  disbursement is Tk
4.4 million
Karmajibi      - Established in 1982; Programs include group formation,    - Group savings is Tk
Sangstha,       conscientisation, child education, savings generation and credit  1.3 million
Jessore         for self employment of the rural poor                      - Cumulative credit
- Working area extends to 25 villages                        disbursement is Tk
-Consists of 3,080 assetless female members                  6.1 million
Muktipath      -Established in 1991; Programs include poultry rearing, cattle  -Group savings is Tk
Unnayan         rearing, vegetable and fruit business, grocer's shop, paddy  762 thousand
Kendra,         husking, parched rice, knitting, tailoring                 -Cumulative credit
Chittagong     - Consists of 1,629 members                                  disbursement is Tk
5.4 million
Samakal        - Established in 1979; Programs include group formation, savings   - Group savings is Tk
Samaj           mobilization, non-formal education, afforestation, supply of  706 thousand
Unnayan        tubewells for fresh drinking water, sealed latrine for health and    - Cumulative credit
Sangstha,       hygiene and credit support for the rural poor               disbursement Tk 7.9
Rangpur        - Working area extends to over 21 villages                   million
-Consists of 1,995 members



- 61 -
ANNEX 3
Attachment I
Page 3
PO                     DESCRIPTION OF OPERATION                     |   CREDIT AND
SAVING
OPERATION
Service        - Established in 1988; programs include savings and credit,  - Group savings is Tk
Emergency for   education, afforestation, pisciculture, and integrated community  447 thousand
Rural People,    development.                                             - Cumulative credit
Thakurgaon     - Working area extends to over 35 villages                   disbursement is Tk
- Consists of 2,120 members                                  3.1 million
Shishu         - Established in 1985; programs include group formation and  - Group savings is Tk
Unnayan         conscientisation, child education, training on handicraft making,  670 thousands
Sangstha,       adult literacy program, primary health care, charitable dispensary  -Cumulative credit
Dhaka           and credit program                                          disbursement is Tk
-Working area extends to over 36 villages                    4.8 million
- Consists of 2,685 members
Shaldair       -Established in 1988; programs include group formation, savings    -Group savings is Tk
Renaissance     generation, credit for self employment, education and training on    774 thousand
Club (SRC)      poultry                                                   - Cumulative credit
- Working area extends to over 75 villages                   disbursement is Tk
-Consists of 3,100 members                                   2.7 million
Grameen Seba  - Established in 1990; programs include formation of groups, adult  - Group savings is Tk
Sangstha,       and child education, livestock development, family planning,  107 thousand
Manikganj       supply of fresh drinking water through tube-wells, sealed latrines,  - Cumulative credit
fuel efftcient earthen ovens and primary health education.  disbursement is Tk
- Working area extends to over 30 villages                   1.1 million
- Consists of 610 members.
Organization    - Established in 1988; programs include group formation, group  -Group savings is Tk
for Social      based savings and credit, supply of tubewells, training, and  1.2 million
Development     education                                                  - Cumulative credit
and Research   - Consists of 2,380 members                                  disbursement is Tk
(OSDER),                                                                    9.8 million
Munshiganj
Resource       -Established in 1981; programs include leadership training, non-    -Group savings is Tk
Integration     formal education, income generation program, medical        1.8 million
Centre (RJC),    assistance, housing assistance, skill development training and  - Cumulative credit
Narshindi       rehabilitation                                              disbursement is Tk
-Working area extends to 319 villages                        20.3 million
-Consists of 6,625 members
Unnayan,      - Established in 1983; programs include group formation and  - Group savings is Tk
Khulna          credit, nursery, sanitation, and handicrafts                456 thousand
- Working area extends to 13 villages                      - Cumulative credit
- Consists of 2,000 members, all of whom are women           disbursement is Tk
3.3 million
SETU, Kustia   - Established in 1983; programs include integrated health and  - Group savings is Tk
development, village and farm forestry, non-formal primary  2.4 million
education and credit                                      - Cumulative credit
-Working area extends to 168 villages                        disbursement is Tk
-Consists of 6,461 members                                   6.6 million



- 62 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1
BANGLADESH
POVERTY ALLEVIATION MICROFINANCE PROJECT
SOCIO-ECONOMIC IMPACT OF MICROFINANCE PROGRAMS:
A SUMMARY OF FINDINGS
1.    Most large MFIs have conducted in-depth analyses of the impact of their programs on the
borrowers. Most of these evaluations have been performed by reputed international experts, using a
large sample of the borrowers, and comparing progress in various socio-economic indicators against a
control group of non-borrowers. Some of the findings from these studies, and those done by the Bank
staff, are summarized below. As the MFIs use different approaches, their evaluations are also
different in design and are not comparable. Notwithstanding weaknesses in methodology (e.g.,
endogeneity bias, inability to capture dropouts vs. graduates, difficulties in sampling a suitable control
group, lack of time-series data, etc.), these independent studies have revealed that participation in
microfinance programs yields not only material benefits, but important social benefits to the rural poor.
Bank Study
2.    A more rigorous household and individual data-based study has recently been completed by
World Bank and BIDS (Khadker and others, 1996; Khandker and Chaudhry, 1995; Pitt and Khandker,
1995; Rahman and Khandker, 1995). The results show that microfinance programs place their
programs in poorer areas and that program participation among the poor is self-selective. Thus,
Grameen Bank program covers villages where 65.3 % of households belong to target groups (having
less than 50 or less decimal of land) compared to 52.1 % of target households in village without such a
program and that the program participation rate among the target group in Grameen Bank villages is
only 44.3% (Table 1).
Table 1: Extent of target groups and credit programs
Percentage of target households   Program participation rate among
target households
Grameen Bank villages                      65.3                           44.3
Non-program villages                       52.1                            0
Source: Khandker and Chaudhury, 1995.



- 63 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2
Table 2: Welfare effects of Grameen Bank Loans among borrowers
(percentage change)
Indicators               Effect of male borrowing       Effect of female borrowing
Boys' schooling participation rate           7.2                            6.1
Girls' schooling participation rate          3.0                            4.7
Weekly per capita expenditure                1.8                            4.3
Recent fertility of women aged              -7.4                            -3.5
15-49 years
Women's labor supply to cash-                0                              10.4
income earning activities
Women's nonland assets                       0                              19.9
Source: Pitt and Khandker, 1995
3.     Microimpact results shown in Table 2 indicate that microfinance program such as Grameen
Bank has desirable impacts on the poor and that the program impacts are statistically different for male
and female borrowers and that women benefit from program participation. For example, for those
borrowers with average loan size (about Tk 3,500), a 1% increase in their loan size would: (a)
increases per capita consumption (a weekly increase of 4.3 % among female borrowers and 1.8 %
increase among male borrowers); (b) boys' schooling (7.2% increase among male borrowers and 6.1%
increase among female borrowers), and girls' schooling (3.0% increase among male borrowers and
4.7% increase among female borrowers); and (c) reduce recent (over the last five years) fertility of
women aged 15-49 (7.4% reduction for male borrowing and 3.5% reduction for female borrowing).
Thus, the impact on fertility and boys' schooling is more pronounced for male than for female
borrowers, while the impact of borrowing on household per capita consumption and girls schooling is
more pronounced for female than for male borrowers. When poverty (measured on the basis of per
capita consumption requirement) is evaluated based on the weekly per capita consumption increase of
female borrowing, the results indicates that an average female borrower of Grameen Bank can take the
family out of poverty within five years of borrowing, provided that the same percentage increase of
consumption is maintained. This study also shows that women benefit from program participation
mainly through increasing labor supply to cash-income earning activities (by 10.4%) and holding more
nonland assets (by 19.9%). Also the program participants household assets increased by 140-250% as
a result of receiving repeated loans.
4.     Microfinance programs have also created positive externality in the village economy (Table 3).
Microfinance supports mainly nonfarm production and thus, the nonfarm income of an average
household is 14.8% higher in Grameen Bank villages than nonprogram villages with a resulting 10.2
increase of average household total annual income. Rural wage workers also benefit from program
placement. The average daily wage rate is at least 5.2% higher in Grameen Bank villages than in no
program villages. Grameen Bank's subsidized finance operation through microfinance lending to the
poor has also generated positive externality in the case of both informal lending (reduction of 54.5%)
and informal interest (annual) rate (a reduction 8.0%). These results clearly show that a microfinance
program such as Grameen Bank has not only reached the poor (more than 2 million borrowers) but also
helped reduce poverty among the borrowers and generated positive externality in the village economy.
Nevertheless, because of some 25 % coverage of poor among the target households in rural Bangladesh
by these niicrofinance programs, the overall positive effect of microfinance programs on rural poverty



- 64 -                                    ANNEX
Page 3
reduction is yet marginal. But there is still room for further expansion of microfinancing through
increased outreach and horizontal program expansion.
Table 3: Village level welfare effects of Grameen Bank
Welfare change                                 Percentage change
(Annual)
Household nonfarm annual income                                        14.8
Household total annual income                                          10.2
Individual labor force participation                                   2.1
Average daily wage                                                     5.2
Informal lending volume                                               -54.5
Informal interest rate                                                -8.0
Source: Khandker and Others, 1996.
5.     The above study found that in addition to its financial services, Grameen Bank has devised and
implemented diverse programs to promote social development. It encourages members to open nursery
schools at its centers, distributes seeds and seedlings to promote gardening and planting, and helps its
members improve health , nutrition, and productivity by encouraging them to practice "sixteen
decisions "'. Overall, the growth recorded for various aspects of this program reflects a remarkable
achievement in social development, affecting the living and social conditions of its members and the
environment ( Table 4).
Table 4: Grameen Bank - Trends in Achievement of Social Development 1985-94
Year        Number of schools    Number of students    Marriage without dowry    No. of seeds distributed
run by groups
Women      Men      Women        Men      Women        Men        Women         Men
1985         2,23       1,03     39,098     32,369      1,807       931        459,170     322,458
1990       10,636       585    236,946      78,862     10,267      1,907     2,534,000     544,540
1992       14,894       675    319,817    117,246      14,099      2,144     4,196,928     630,601
1994       14,413       391    284,675    111,614      27,798      2,329     6,134,539     724,780
Average
Growth      21%       -10%       22%        13%        31%         10%         30%          8%
*
* Average Annual Growth (1985-1994).
Source: Khandker and Others, 1996.
These include guiding rules such as "we will keep our families small", "we will build and use pit-latrines"
etc., which define the social behavior expected of all Grameen members.



- 65 -                                   ANNEX 4
Page 4
Proshika
6.     Proshika evaluated its borrowers, using external evaluators, on various social and economic
empowerment indicators, that were designed to capture major aspects of the intended impacts of
Proshika's empowerment programs. The survey used a random sample from two separate groups:
project participants and non-participants. These two groups were surveyed twice over the period.
7.     The survey found that female Proshika members tended to have higher levels of literacy than
their non-Proshika counterparts. Children of these members also demonstrated higher levels of
literacy, partly due to the Proshika non-formal primary education program. Proshika members were
more likely to consult health practitioners, and received significantly higher levels of health education
and training. They had higher access to pit latrines and water sealed latrines than their counterparts.
Female members were more likely to use contraceptives even though they had the same access to
supplies as non-members. Infant mortality rates were lower among Proshika members as the mothers
were getting better nutrition, and the percentage of dowryless marriages among Proshika members was
higher (Table 5).
Table 5: Social Development Indicators: Proshika vs. Non-Proshika Households (HHs)
Proshika HHs        Non-Proshika HHs
Adult literacy (female)                        22.5%                17.9%
Primary school enrollment (Govt.)              40%                  38.8%
Use of Thana health complex                     12%                 3.6%
Under one year immunization                    68.7%                66.9%
Use of Pit Latrines                             24.7%               13.2%
Percent of contraceptive users                 45.7%                38.2%
Infant Mortality ( per 1,000 live births)      94                   164
% of dowryless marriages in last 2 years       22.9%                6.2%
BRAC
8.     BRAC's impact assessment conducted in 1993-94 did not use a "before and after" approach;
instead it analyzed the economic and social status of different categories of RDP members (Annex 2,
para 12) according to their length of membership. The results indicate that BRAC members are
consistently moving along the path to greater wealth and expenditure, according to loan size and
membership age. Moreover, BRAC's RDP is impacting on less well-off households to a comparatively
greater degree than better-off households; and the focus on female members is more effective in
bringing benefits to BRAC's target group than would be the case with a higher proportion of male
membership.
9.     Changes in nature of household assets, along with increases in the monetary value of capital
suggest both greater economic security and an improved standard of living for "older" members of the
RDP (Table 6). This enhanced security is confirmed by reduced seasonal fluctuations in income,
expenditure, food consumption, and stocks, for these members who joined RDP more that two and a



- 66 -
ANNEX 4
Page 5
half years ago and have more than Tk 7,500 of cumulative RDP loans. Moreover, there is a tendency
to withdraw from the informal credit market, and the use of loans for consumption or hardship
purposes declines with length of membership.
10.    The study reveals that BRAC membership has brought about gradual changes in women's lives.
After receiving loans, women's status within the household has increased, and some have experienced
greater mobility, and have more control over the household income. When BRAC has provided
support to women close to their homes, they have productively used the loans themselves, without the
assistance of male members of the household.
11.    A separate survey of the IVGD program revealed that the women in these programs have
higher cash incomes, purchased a higher quantity of consumer and production durables, and tended to
send a higher proportion of their girls to school than women in other targeted programs.
Table 6: BRAC Membership: Indicators of Material Well-being
Indicator       BRAC Membership age in Months ( & years)
1- 11 (< 1)     12-29 (1 < 2.5)    30-47(2.5 < 4)    48+ (4+)
Avg. value of gross H/h  10,959        14,037          20,282           23,230
assets (taka)
Avg. % (and value) of   32.9%          39.1%           31.6%            31.0%
revenue-earning assets   (3,606)       (5,488)         (6,409)          (7,201)
Avg. H/h weekly exp.    419            455             560              528
(taka)
Avg. per capita weekly   55.5          60.8            63.0             64.1
food expenditure
ASA
12.    An evaluation of ASA's program in 1993/94 revealed that apart from conducting a profitable
credit operation, ASA has made a significant impact on the lives of its mostly female members. It runs
several socio-economic programs, such as the Education for Empowerment program, the Human
Development Training program, and the Integrated Health program. For example, the Integrated
Health Program comprises sub-projects in nutrition improvement, feeding of malnourished children,
and traditional birth attendant training. Interviews with participants in these programs revealed that
their total food consumption increased, the nutritional status of malnourished children improved, and
most of the beneficiaries were aware of maintaining personal hygiene.
PKSF's Small/Medium POs
13.    Table 7 shows the results of a study conducted by PKSF that covered 14 POs. Apart from
increases in incomes to the borrowers, the PKSF study revealed that there is significant improvement in
certain social indicators, such as the ability to write names, children's school enrollment, and use of
drinking water among PO members. While there is a need to put in place an analytically robust system
to regularly track impact of microfinance programs, they have, in general, been successful in
expanding opportunities for self employment, increasing labor force participation of women, and
shifting borrowers away from the moneylenders to microcredit programs.



- 67 -
ANNEX 4
Page 6
Table 7: Changes in Social Indicators from Membership in PO
Before PO    After PO     Total
Membership  Membership   Respondents
Percent of respondents who could:
Write their names           53           98            460
Use sanitary latrine        30           61           460
Are aware of family planning   56        85            315
Children attend school      82           99            292
Use pure drinking water     68           98            460
Source: Alamgir, 1994.



- 68 -
ANNEX 5
Page I
BANGLADESH
POVERTY ALLEVIATION MICROFINANCE PROJECT
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT
A. PKSF COMPONENT
Objective                              Actions/Steps/Completion Date
Expanding coverage of MIS system to (a) quickly  *  Approval by Board/Management to enhance
identify POs facing unsatisfactory repayment rates at  MIS - [October 1996]
the field level; (b) enable PKSF to track repayment   *  Engage full time system analyst and/or outside
performance of entire credit operations of those POs  expertise (e.g., Grameen Trust, BRAC, etc.) -
(e.g., ASA) that have other sources of funding, and  [November 1996]
(c) enable PKSF to evaluate financial performance,   *  Review existing Database - [January 1997]
on a regular basis, of all its POs.              *  Develop Detailed System Design, Reports,
Forms, etc. - [January-March 1997]
*  Approval of System Design by Management -
[May-June 1997]
*  Convert Detailed Design into Computerized
System - [July-December 1997]
*  Staff Training - [October-December 1997]
*  Make system operational - [February 1998]
Establish and tightening audit                   *  Establish in-house Working Group along with
standards/requirements for medium/large MFIs        outside expert (e.g., staff of PKSF external
auditor) - [October 1996]
*  Draft Guidelines - [October-December 19961
*  PKSF Governing Body/Management review and
approval of Guidelines - [January 1997]
*  Issue Guidelines - [January 1997]
Establishing a loan classification and provisioning  *  Establish in-house Working Group along with
policy, for itself and POs, taking into account past  outside expert (e.g., staff of PKSF external
experience and potential future risks.               auditor) - [October 1996]
*  Draft Guidelines - [October-December 19961
*  PKSF Governing Body/Management review and
approval of Guidelines - [January 1997]
*  Issue Guidelines - [March 1997]
Strengthening PKSF's financial planning capacity.    *  Engage staff - [October 1996]
*  Prepare first medium-term financial projection
- [March 1997]
Establish a policy that the level of PKSF support to   *  Establish in-house Working Group along with
all POs in the future would also depend, among      outside expert (e.g., staff of PKSF external
other factors, on the POs progress towards financial  auditor) - [January 1997]
sustainability of their credit operations, and establish  *  Draft Guidelines - [January-April 1997]
financial performance standards that PKSF would  *  PKSF Governing Body/Management review and
use to measure POs progress in regards to           approval of Guidelines - [May-July 1997]
sustainability.                                  *  Issue Guidelines - [August 1997]



- 69 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2
Objective                         Actions/Steps/Expected Completion Date
Establishing a program for periodically assessing  *  PKSF Research Committee finalizes TORs -
impact of microcredit on social/economic status of  [October 1996]
borrowers.                                       .  Invite proposals from research firms/institutions
- [October 1996]
*  Establishment of a small research unit within
PKSF - [December 1996]
. Award contract - [December 1996]
. First Base-Line Survey - [January 1997]
Expanding the training and staff development     .  Full-fledged small training unit has been
program for PKSF and PO staff.                      established
*  Establish staff Working Group to develop, with
help of outside expert, medium-term training
program for PKSF and PO staff - [September-
December 1996]
*  PKSF Governing Body/Management review and
approval of program - [January 1997]
*  Initiate Program - [April 1997]
Establishing a program of interest-free loans to help   *  Establish in-house Working Group to develop
successful PO with a good track record to expand    Program - [October 1996]
their operations.                                *  Formulate Program and Draft Guidelines -
[October-December 1996]
*  PKSF Governing Body/Management review and
approval of Program/Guidelines - [February
1997]
* Initiate Program - [April 1997]
Undertaking a study in collaboration with POs to  *  Establish PKSF/PO Working Group - [October
formulate guidelines on uniform accounting policies,  1996]
particularly those for reporting repayment rates,  *  Finalize TORs - [October 1996]
arrears, reschedulings, portfolio quality, etc.  *  Undertake study with help of outside expert
(e.g., PKSF external auditor) - [November
1996-January 1997]
* Discuss Draft Guidelines with POs - [February
-March 1997]
* Issue Final Guidelines - [April 1997]
* POs initiate Implementation - [July 1997]



- 70 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3
Objective                              Actions/Steps Completion Date
Comprehensively review, once a year, PKSF's      .  PKSF Research Committee review of issues and
onlending rate structure taking into account        IDA provided guidelines - [July 19971
prevailing deposit rates, financial sustainability goals  .  Establishing PKSF/PO Working
of PKSF/POs and poverty objectives of the            Group/Consultant - [August 1997]
microcredit program. Review would also cover     *  Development of Framework and Methodology
examination of rate structure which is differentiated  for review - [September-October 1997]
according to average unit loan size of institution,  a  Approval of methodology/framework by
rather than cumulative borrowing from PKSF.          Research Committee - [November 19971
a Study Period - [December 1997-March 1998]
. Report submitted to PKSF Governing
Body/MOF - [May 1998]
a Appropriate changes to rate structure - [July
1988]
* Annual Review thereafter
With the help of consultants and PKSF staff,
preparation of a comprehensive analysis of project
performance, prior to mid-term review.
B. BB COMPONENT
Objective                              Actions/Steps Completion Date
Study, and establish appropriate regulatory      *  Establishing BB Working Group - [October
framework and institutions for regulating NGOs       1996]
engaged in deposit taking/lending, while         *  Finalize TORs - [November 1996]
recognizing: the special nature of these institutions;  *  Engage Consultant - [January 1997]
the inherent strong self regulation in the system. and  *  Study Period - [February-July 1997]
that unlike formal financial institutions, depositors of *  Report submitted to BB/MOF - [September
MFIs who do not raise funds from non-borrowers       1997]
are net borrowers from the system which reduces the  *  Initiate Program - [December 1997]
need for depositor protection.
Study in collaboration with PKSF and MFIs:       *  Establishing BB/PKSF Working Group -
(a) regulatory reforms and proactive measures (e.g.,  [October 1996]
securitization of assets, voluntary lending by   *  Finalize TORs - [November 1996]
commercial banks to MFIs, etc.) to enhance linkage   *  Engage Consultant - [January 1997]
of microcredit institutions with formal financial  *  Study Period - [February-July 1997]
sector; and (b) financial and institutional measures to  *  Report submitted to BB/MOF - [September
promote MFIs becoming formal financial institutions  1997]
and guidelines that should be used by GOB/BB for    *  Initiate Program - [December 1997]
determining their readiness.



- 71 -
ANNEX 6
Page I
BANGLADESH
POVERTY ALLEVIATION MICROFINANCE PROJECT
IDA DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
IDA              Cumulative
Fiscal Year       Semester           Disbursement          Disbursement            Percent
ending           (US$ Million)        (US$ Million)
FY97          December 1996                 5.0                 5.0                   5.0
June 1997                     5.0                 10.0                  9.0
FY98          December 1997                11.0                 21.0                 20.0
June 1998                    13.0                 34.0                 32.0
FY99          December 1998                18.0                 50.0                 48.0
June 1999                    16.0                 67.0                 64.0
FY00          December 1999                18.0                 85.0                 81.0
June 2000                   20.0                 105.0                 100.0



- 72 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2
BANGLADESH
POVERTY ALLEVIATION MICROFINANCE PROJECT
SOE FORMAT FOR WITHDRAWALS UNDER CATEGORY 1
Period
TK millions
Net Loans Disbursed by POs
off which:
(i) Financed from PKSF
(ii) Financed from Other Sources
2.     PO Loans Financed by PKSF [same as I (i)]
off which:
(i) Financed from PKSF's Own Sources
(ii) Financed from Other Sources
3.     Loan Disbursement Eligible for IDA financing [same as 2 (i)]
4.     Amount Requested for Withdrawal [92% of (3)]



- 73 -                               ANNEX 7
Page 1
BANGLADESH
POVERTY ALLEVIATION MICROFINANCE PROJECT
MONITORING AND EVALUATION PLAN AND PROJECT PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
A. MONITORING AND EVALUATION PLAN
1.    The proposed Project would be monitored and evaluated from the perspectives of input, output
and impact. Input evaluation would focus on whether the required resources are in place to implement
the program activities and services. Input information would be monitored and assessed continuously
(reported quarterly, semi-annually, or annually) to identify problems in the delivery of inputs so that
they may be resolved before causing significant delays in implementation. Output evaluation would
focus on the immediate results of activities, as demonstrated, for example, increase in the number of
borrowers. This evaluation would be undertaken annually or semi-annually (depending on specific
output indicator). Impact evaluation would focus on program outcomes in terms of the socio-economic
impact on the beneficiaries and non-targeted households. This evaluation would review the program's
effects on indicators such as sustainability of PKSF, POs and borrower viability and well-being. The
Project Launch Workshop would specifically focus on monitoring and evaluation.
2.    During negotiations, agreement was reached that: (a) quarterly and annual progress reports
would be prepared by the PKSF and submitted to MOF, who in turn will submit them to IDA; (b) a
joint Government, PKSF and IDA mid-term review would be conducted by July 1998 or when 50 % of
the funds are disbursed, whichever is earlier. PKSF will prepare a comprehensive report before the
mid-term review; and (c) an Implementation Completion Report would be submitted by the
Governments to IDA within six months of the closing date of the Project. The scope of the quarterly
and annual progress reports were agreed at negotiations.
3.    A summary of performance indicators for the proposed Project is provided in Section B.
Except for the impact indicators, the input, output and financial indicators can be monitored with
information generated by the existing PKSF/POs MIS system. The PKSF would develop detailed
guidelines for tracking and performance-monitoring at the PO level. The guidelines would be designed
so that the reporting burden on PO is minimized.
4.    To monitor impact indicators, baseline surveys would be conducted by POs. Terms of
reference for research studies used for evaluation have been agreed with IDA. Evaluations would be
undertaken by using sample surveys, supervisory visits, review of audit/evaluation reports, the
management information system and drawing upon data already collected by other agencies. An
important independent source of information, to supplement project statistics, for impact evaluation
would be the Bangladesh Household Expenditure Survey; this is undertaken periodically and would
help monitor levels of poverty in the urban/rural areas.
IDA Supervision Requirements
5.    The nation-wide coverage of the project means that standard supervision arrangements,
particularly led from headquarters, would not be feasible. In due course, much of the responsibility
would be taken by IDA's Resident Mission in Bangladesh, supported by local consultants. During the



- 74 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2
start up phase, RMB staff would meet with PKSF regularly at least once a month. Formal project
supervision would be conducted semi-annually. In addition, a mid-term review will be conducted.
6.     Table 1 summarizes resource needs for supervision. These inputs are in addition to resource
needs for the review of progress reports, procurement, supervision report preparation and
correspondence (which are estimated at six staff weeks per year throughout project implementation).
Table 1: Bank Mission Schedule
Approximate                       Activity                        Staff Input
Dates                                                            (Staff Weeks)
HQ  RMB
monthly      Monthly Supervision                                   -      1
10/96        Project Launch/initial supervision mission           4       6
1/97         Mid-year review mission                              2       3
7/97         Annual review mission                                 3      4
1/98         Mid-year review mission                              2       3
7/98         Mid-term review mission                               4      8
1/99         Mid-year review mission                              2       3
7/99         Annual review mission                                 3      4
1/00         Mid-year review mission                              2       3
5/00         Final supervision/Implementation Completion Report    4      8
mission
7.     Formal semi-annual supervision missions would: (a) require at least two weeks of field work,
(b) once a year require the services of specialists in microfinance; and (c) review progress of program
components and procurement, financial statements and disbursements, loan covenants, and the
implementation of technical assistance,. Specialized skill requirements would be added to the missions
according to needs identified by previous supervision missions.



- 75 -
ANNEX 7
Page 3
B. SUMMARY OF PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Frequency
Objective                  Measure (Performance Targets)            of Evaluation
__________________________               A.  PROJECT  INPUT
Increase funds available to POs         Loans disbursed to POs             Monthly
Increase funds for Institutional        Grant funds disbursed              Monthly
Development
B. BENEFICIARIES: OUTPUTS, OUTCOMES AND IMPACT
Increase outreach                       No. of borrowers reached           Quarterly
l__________________________________  (1.2 million by June 2001)
Increase loan size                      Average loan size                  Annually
Increase in borrower welfare            Monthly consumption expenditure    Annually; first one by 6/98
Health Indicator                  Annually; first one by 6/98
Education indicator               Annually; first one by 6/98
Increase in income and assets     Annually; first one by 6/98
(10% increase in family income
per year)
C. PKSF: OUTPUT, OUTCOMES, AND IMPACT
Financial Aspects
Enhance financial sustainability        Collection rate (98%)              Monthly
Principal and Interest on Loans   Monthly
Overdue over 30 days
Principal and interest on loan    Monthly
overdue over 60 days
Principal and interest on loan    Monthly
overdue over 90 days
Bad debt/loans written off        Annually
Administrative costs as % of loans    Annually
disbursed
Interest income on loans as % of  Annually
total expenses (130% by FY2000)
Net income as % of total assets   Annually
review on-lending rates           Annually
Institutional Strengthening
Improve MIS                             Conversion of existing database to    Semi-annually/Quarterly
computerized system by February
I _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  199 8
Tighten audit standards                 Issuance of audit guidelines by    Semi-annually
January 1997
Establish loan classification policy    Issuance of guidelines by March    Semi-annually
1997
Strengthen PKSF's financial planning    Preparation of medium term         Semi-annually
capacity                                financial projections
Establish financial sustainability      Incorporate performance indicators   Semi-annually
performance standards for POs           in eligibility guidelines by August
______ _____ ______ _____ ______ ____  1997



- 76 -
ANNEX 7
Page 4
Frequency
Objective                  Measure (Performance Target)             of Evaluation
Establish impact evaluation program     Periodic Survey reports            Semi-annually
Increase training                       No. of persons trained and type of    Semi-annually
training imparted
Establish program of interest-free loans to   Initiate interest-free loan program by  Monthly
POs, for institution building           April 1997
Formulate guidelines on uniform         Implementation of guidelines to POs  Semi-annually
accounting policies                     by July 1997
Strengthen audit                        Internal Audit Cell to audit each PO   Quarterly
twice a year
External auditor to audit one-third  Annually
POs each year
D. POs: OUTPUT, OUTCOMES, AND IMPACT
Financial Aspects
Enhance Financial Sustainability of     Loan collection rates (95%)        Monthly
Financial Services Programs             Total admin/operating costs as % of  Semi-annually
loan disbursed
Interest income on loans as % of  Semi-annually
total admin/ operating costs
Interest rates charged to         Annually
beneficiaries
No. of POs attaining financial    Semi-annually
viability (60% by FY2000)
Savings as % of loan outstanding  Semi-annually
Institutional Indicators
Improve Accounting and Audit Standards    No. of POs meeting accounting    Quarterly
standards
No. of POs using external auditors    Annually
No of POs following loan          Annually
classification/ provisioning
guidelines
Number of Participating POs                                                Annually
E. BANGLADESH BANK
Establish proactive policies and regulatory   Complete study by July 1997 and
framework for MFIs wanting to be formal  initiate implementation program
financial institutions.
Establish appropriate regulatory framework  Complete study by July 1997 and
for deposit-taking NGOs                 initiate implementation program



- 77 -
ANNEX 8
BANGLADESH
POVERTY ALLEVIATION MICROFINANCE PROJECT
DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILE
1.    Gautam, M. "Rural Finance in Bangladesh." (draft).
2.    Islam, Reazul. "Profiles on BRAC, ASA, Proshika, and PKSF."
3.    Khalily, M.A. Baqui. "Note on the Sustainability of Large and Small NGOs."
4.    Khandker, Shahidur R.. and Baqui Khality. "Credit Programs in Bangladesh: Performance
and Sustainability." World Bank Discussion Paper No. 323, Washington, D.C.
5.    Khandker, Shahidur R., and Osman H. Chowdhury, 1996, "Targeted Credit Programs and
Rural Poverty in Bangladesh" Forthcoming World Bank Discussion Paper, Washington, D.C.
6.    Pitt, Mark M., Shahidur R. Khandker. 1996. "Household and Intrahousehold Impacts of the
Grameen Bank and Similar Targeted Credit Programs in Bangladesh." World Bank Discussion
Paper No. 320, Washington D.C.
7.    Rahman, Rusidan I., and Shahidur R. Khandker. 1995. "Role of Targeted Credit Programs in
Promoting Employment and Productivity of the Poor in Bangladesh." The World Bank,
Washington D.C.
8.    Sen, Binayak. "Rural Non-Farm Growth, Poverty and Inequality in Bangladesh, 1983-84."
Background Paper for Rural Non-Farm Sector Study.
9.    Syedduzaman, M. 1995. Report on "Poverty Alleviation Microfinance Programs." GOB
project proposal.









