Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22320-BD
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-29220)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$105 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR A
POVERTY ALLEVIATION MICROFINANCE PROJECT
June 15, 2001
Finance & Private Sector Development Unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 05/01/2001)
Currency Unit = Bangladesh Taka
Bangladesh Taka 1.00 = US$ 0.0182
US$ 1.00 = Bangladesh Taka 55.00
FISCAL YEAR
July 01  to  June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADAB                       Association of Development Agencies in Bangladesh
ADB                        Asian Development Bank
ADP                        Annual Development Program
ASA                        Association for Social Advancement
BIDS                       Bangladesh Institute of Development Studies
CAS                        Country Assistance Strategy
CEO                        Chief Executive Officer
ERR                        Economic Rate of Return
FRR                        Financial Rate of Return
GOB                        Government of Bangladesh
HIRD                       Human Resource Development
IGA                        Income Generating Activities
IGVGD                      Income Generation for Vulnerable Groups Development
MES                        Monitoring and Evaluation Study
MFI                        Microfmance Institution
Microfmance I              Poverty Alleviation Microfmance Project
Microfinance II            Second Poverty Alleviation Microfinance Project
hRRU                       Microfinance Research and Reference Unit
MTR                        Mid Term Review
PDR                        Public Demand Recovery
POs                        Partner Organizations
PROSHIKA                   Proshika Manobik Unnayan Kendra
VGD                        Vulnerable Groups Development
Vice President:    Mieko Nishimizu
Country Manager/Director:    Fredrick Temple
Sector Manager/Director:    Marilou Uy
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Reazul Islam



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
Poverty Alleviation Microfinance Project
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                        1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                2
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                  6
6. Sustainability                                                                      7
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                       8
8. Lessons Learned                                                                    12
9. Partner Comments                                                                   12
10. Additional Information                                                            14
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  15
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  25
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  26
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                     27
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 28
Annex 8. Comparison of Impacts of Microcredit on Borrowers of Partner Organizations   30
of PKSF
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P040985                                        Pro ect Name: Poverty Alleviation Microfinance
Team Leader: Md. Reazul Islam                              TL Unit: SASFP
ICR Type: Core ICR                                         Report Date: June 15, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: Poverty Alleviation Microfinance                L/C/TFNumber: IDA-29220
Country/Department. BANGLADESH                                            Region: South Asia Regional
Office
Sector/subsector: FY - Other Finance
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  04/26/1995                               Effective:  10/03/1996         10/03/1996
Appraisal:  11/01/1995                                 MTR: 08/01/1998            04/06/1999
Approval:  09/17/1996                               Closing:  12/31/2000          12/31/2000
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOB/MOF
Other Partners: NONE
STAFF                 Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:       Mieko Nishimizu                           Joseph Wood
Country Manager:      Frederick Temple                           Pierre Landell-Mills
Sector Manager:       Marilou Uy                                 Marilou Uy
Team Leader at ICR:   Joseph Pemia                               Abid Hasan
ICR Primary Author:   Reazul Islam
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HIU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Peiformance: HS
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                         S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
Quality of Supervision        HS



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project had two key objectives: (a) to reduce poverty through expanding horizontal and vertical outreach of
on-going successful microfinance programs; and (b) to enhance institutional and financial sustainability of PKSF
and its Partner Organizations' (POs) credit programs through (i) financing expansion of lending, (ii) enhancing the
role of PKSF from being a financier of small and medium-size POs to becoming an apex organization that lends
funds to POs of all sizes, and acts as a catalyst in mobilizing enhanced levels of financial support from other
donors and eventually from the market, (iii) assisting in institutional strengthening of PKSF and its borrowers by
providing resources for training and institution building, (iv) providing insight and possible solutions to several
issues/problems currently facing the microfinance system in Bangladesh by conducting a range of special studies
and associated training, and (v) disseminating best practices for increasing cost effectiveness of these programs.
3.2 Revised Objective:
None.
3.3 Original Components:
The project consisted of the following components: (a) a credit component for loans to the poor through eligible
POs; and (b) an institutional development component to strengthen PKSF and its POs, enhance their institutional
and financial sustainability, and undertake broader microfinance development initiatives. The project had an
estimated total cost of US$137 million, with a foreign exchange component of US$I million. It comprised a credit
component of US$131 million and an institution building component of US$6 million. The proposed IDA credit of
SDR 72.7 million (US$105 million equivalent) would finance 77% of the project cost; the government's
contribution would finance 7% (US$10 million equivalent); and the POs/borrowers' savings contributed the
remainder 16% (US$22 million equivalent). Of the IDA credit, US$100 million was allocated to the credit
component and the remaining US$5 million to help finance the institutional development component.
3.4 Revised Components:
Although the initial IDA allocation for the Credit component and Institutional Development (ID) component was
US$ 100 million and US$5 million respectively, the allocation for these components was subsequently revised. This
was because PKSF could not utilize the amount allocated for construction of the PKSF office complex, allocated
under the ID component. A transfer of US$2.42 million was made from the ID component to the Credit
component. The revised amounts of the Credit and ID components were as follows:
Credit Component: US$102.42 million
ID Component: US$2.58 million
Total Allocation: US$105 million
3.5 Quality at Entry:
N.A.
3.6 Quality at Supervision.
The Quality Assessment Group (QAG) review rated the quality of the project as highly satisfactory (ref: Quality of
Supervision Assessment (QSA4): Final Assessment dated November 16, 2000). The QAG review found the project
to be well designed in terms of stakeholders involvement, focus on beneficiaries and in anticipating problem areas
to ensure that the objective of expanding vertical and horizontal outreach of the on-going microfinance program
could be successfully achieved. Main features of project design were: (a) it had sufficient flexibility to adjust
outreach, it allocated resources to build institutional capacity of POs and the price of lending funds was set so as to
attain PKSF and POs' sustainability; (b) credit delivery methods were designed to ensure outreach and outcome; (c)
it focused on institutional strengthening of the implementation agency; and (d) it established stringent criteria for
participating non-government organizations (NGOs) to ensure performance in microcredit delivery.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
-2-



4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
4.1.1 The development objectives of the project were met in full. The first objective -- to reduce poverty through
expanding horizontal and vertical outreach of microfinance programs -- was met. Microcredit was extended to the
target poor to undertake income-generating activities (IGAs) to help increase income and improve quality of life,
resulting in poverty reduction. The staff appraisal report (SAR) target was to extend outreach to 1.2 million people,
but the actual outreach was 2.1 million, of which 90% were women. Hence, the actual target achievement was 75%
higher than the SAR target.
4.1.2 The second objective -- to enhance institutional and financial sustainability of PKSF and the POs' credit
program -- was also met (as discussed in para 4.2.2 and 4.5). Each of the sub-objectives of the second objective
were fully achieved of which:
(a) PKSF expanded its financing in terms of loanees (para 4.1.1) and, in terms of credit volume, its
microcredit financing increased from Tk.470 million in FY96 to Tk.2,272 million in FY00. During the same
period, cumulative disbursements increased from Tk. 1,100 million to Tk.7,937 million and loans outstanding
in the field rose from Tk.732 million to Tk.5,848 million;
(b) PKSF's role as a financier of small and medium-size POs has been exemplary. It has firmly established
itself as a leading and successful apex organization to extend fund to microfinance institutions of all sizes. As
a result, the donors now consider IDA as the main channel to extend funds for microcredit through PKSF to
ultimate borrowers for meeting the objective of poverty alleviation. PKSF worked as catalyst to help mobilize
funds for a number POs. A large number of PKSF POs obtained credit funds from the Central Bank to extend
soft loans to POs' borrowers for housing improvement. BRAC. Proshika and ASA obtained funds from leading
commercial banks (Agrani Bank and Sonali Bank) to extend microcredit. PKSF is also examining the options
of providing guarantee for funds lent by commercial banks to NGOs for microfinance. These initiatives have
helped towards the integration of MFIs into the formal financial market;
(c) PKSF's effort to enhance its own institutional capacity and assist in the institutional strengthening of POs
has been satisfactory. PKSF has built a Management Information System (MIS), which is capable of
efficiently processing credit and other financial information to help the decision making process. A successful
pilot has been completed to integrate the MIS of PKSF and POs to facilitate efficient data processing and
information flow. MIS integration will be extended to all POs under the next project, the Second Poverty
Alleviation Microfinance Project (Microfinance II), which became effective from March 5, 2001. PKSF's
initial training implementation performance was marginally satisfactory due to: (i) program overreach, and (ii)
efforts to implement the in-house training program. However, since early 1999 the training implementation
performance has been satisfactory and during the last two years, PKSF had built adequate training
implementation capacity. PKSF's internal capacity has been strengthened to undertake efficient financial
management through creating separate Accounts and Audit Departments. The Accounts Department has
adequate professional staff and is supervised by an Advisor who is a senior Chartered Accountant with
adequate professional experience. A full-fledged Internal Audit Department has been created with adequate
staff of required professional competence. The department head, a Deputy General Manager (Audit) now
ensures 100% audit of all PKSF POs during the financial year;
(d) PKSF has been playing a leadership role to help develop the microfinance sector in Bangladesh. It has
taken active part in organizing CEOs' meetings of leading NGOs (ASA, Proshika and BRAC) during the 1998
flood to implement various measures helping confront a crisis in the microfinance sector due to property
damages to the borrowers. It has developed a number of standards in the microfinance industry which are
currently being implemented by its POs and other MFIs/NGOs. It is currently working closely with the
Government to formulate a legal and regulatory framework for the microfinance sector. Besides, it has
developed a number of guidelines and policies with active participation of POs and stakeholders, to improve
portfolio quality, accountability and sustainability of the microfinance industry, including: (i) management of
savings, (ii) management of service charges, (iii) reduction in multiple member loans (overlapping), (iv)
provisioning and default, and (v) utilization of disaster management funds; and
(e) PKSF has been actively involved in disseminating examples of best practices within and outside the
- 3 -



country. For example, the microfinance standards and guidelines designed by PKSF are being used by many
NGOs/MFIs which are not participating in PKSF's program. It has firmly established itself as a leading and
successful apex organization to finance microfinance institutions of all sizes. In fact, a number of countries
are now learning from PKSF on how to set up apex financing organizations, including Kenya, Mexico, Brazil,
Argentina and Nepal. PKSF has provided technical assistance to the Pakistan Poverty Alleviation Fund
(PPAF) to strengthen its institutional capacity and to the Nepal Rural Microfinance Development Centre
(RMDC) to develop its microfinance operations.
4.2 Outputs by components:
(See 3.3)
4.2.1 Credit component: The implementation of the credit component was satisfactory in terms of outreach,
supervision and monitoring, loan collection and impact (see para 4.1). The outreach in terms of borrowers was
75% greater than the target established at project appraisal (para 9.3.1). The supervision and monitoring of POs
and borrowers was regular and effective. PKSF designed a POs' Ranking System in terms of their performance to
optimize the use of supervision and monitoring resources. Major supervision resources were employed to supervise
POs, which showed performance average or below the norms established by PKSF, while POs with high
performance were more lightly supervised. PKSF has been very stringent about POs' performance. Because of their
low operational, management and collection performance, it dropped 17 POs after collecting all loans from them
and suspended loans to 12 POs, from which it is now collecting loans. As a result of this strategy, PKSF's
collection rate from the POs increased and has been maintained above 98%, on average, as per requirement of the
financial covenant.
4.2.2 Institutional development component:
(i)    Overall implementation of the institutional development component was satisfactory. PKSF now has a
very strong MIS, as this component was implemented in full. Its training achievement was above 80% of target,
although the target was ambitious and the emphasis on internal implementation of training provision was not
appropriate [Para. 4.1.2 (c)]. This was corrected after the project's mid-term review (MTR) through substantial
outsourcing. This lesson has been a guiding factor to implement training under Microfinance II. The interest free
loan component to strengthen POs' logistics and supervision and monitoring capacity was met with very high
success. The entire allocated funds have been disbursed. Repayment was as high as 100% and the findings from
the various workshops showed that it significantly enhanced POs' supervision and monitoring capacity.
(ii)    The final monitoring and evaluation study (MES) was received by the Closing Date of the project. The
Bangladesh Institute of Development Studies (BIDS) was, however, late by 12 months in submitting the MES'
interim report. The supervision of MES improved after the MTR and the final report was received in time.
However, the international workshop that BIDS was supposed to organize in December, 2000 will be held on June
27 and 28, 2001. The construction of the PKSF's office complex has also been delayed due to complicated
government procedures of transferring land title, grant of permission on an exceptional basis to let PKSF construct
its own building and lack of procurement capacity of PKSF. However, delay in the construction of PKSF's office
complex had very little impact on the project objectives and outcome, rather the saving from the building
component had been used for microcredit which helped to increase the project's outreach. PKSF has improved its
procurement capacity, benefits of which will be realized under Microfinance II implementation.
(iii)   IDA supported a Bangladesh Bank-executed study to formulate a Legal and Regulatory Framework for the
Microfinance Industry (1999). This study led to the formation of a Task Force. Based on the Task Force's report,
the Government constituted a Steering Committee on June 18, 2000. This committee consists of eleven members,
six from NGOs/MFIs or related sector and five from the Government or its agencies and is chaired by the
Governor, Bangladesh Bank. It will be responsible for developing the legal and regulatory framework for the
microfinance industry within the next three years (by June 17, 2003). To support the work of the Steering
Committee, a "Microfinance Research and Reference Unit (MRRU)" was created in the Bangladesh Bank. MRRU
will be supported by PKSF through the Ministry of Finance to undertake wider consultations and in-depth analysis
in the formulation of the legal and regulatory framework for the microfinance sector.
- 4 -



4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
It is not meaningful to calculate NPV/ERR for microfinance activities, since all loans are for a maximum of one
year and activities complete several cycles within this time period.
4.3.1   As microcredit loans are typically for one year, calculation of net present value (NPV) or economic rate of
return (ERR) is not appropriate. Cost benefit analysis (CBA) of microcredit activities is complex. Cost and benefit
streams are not totally accounted for and the costing of resources employed is often difficult. It is, therefore,
meaningful to calculate the benefits of microcredit in terms of: (a) evaluation of the impact of microcredit activity
at the household level, in terms of surplus to household income; and (b) calculation of annual return on investment
for a number of major microcredit investments by assuming investments as one-year investments and comparing
their retums with the microcredit effective rate of interest (see Annex 3).
4.3.2  Impact on households: A study of 84 families conducted for the purpose of project appraisal shows that
all families generated surplus (receipts minus payments) during the year. This was calculated by taking into
account the micro-investments already made, the loan installment already paid and the remaining loans to be paid
off fully during the year. Since these families are generating surplus, it is expected that they will be able to repay
the remaining loan installments as well. The contribution of microcredit to the family income has been found to be
significant. Families spent on an average Tk.21,751 as micro-investment. On average microcredit contributed
about Tk.83,000 per year as additional income in the form of family labor and profit. Contribution of microcredit
as percentage of total family income has been found to be quite significant, in some cases as high as 90%.
4.3.3   Annual return of microcredit investments: All 84 microcredit investments studied have produced profits.
The annual return on investment varied from 36% to 226%. The overhead cost and hired labor in most of these
investments were zero leading to very high annual returns. Activities with short business cycles, where money
could revolve over and over within the year (e.g. trading, grocery shops, and restaurants) showed very high retums,
while activities having long business cycles like poultry, fish farming, cattle fattening showed lower annual returns
during the project period. However, the annual return in all cases has been found to be higher than the effective
rate of interest of microcredit, which varies from 18% to 26% annually.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
4.5.1   The institutional development impact of the project has been satisfactory. Enhanced capacity to implement
the credit program has been reflected in the quality of the portfolio. This is evident at three levels: (a) at the level
of PKSF, (b) at the level of partner organizations; and (c) at the level of borrowers. Under the project, efforts were
made to strengthen institutional capacity in various areas. These are: (a) enhancing the capacity to implement and
monitor the credit program; (b) strengthening govemance and accountability; (c) improving the financial
management system; (d) creating capacity to assess the impact of the program; and (e) designing policies to
strengthen the institution's effectiveness.
4.5.2   Conceming PKSF, institutional strengthening had a clear impact on its operations and overall
management. PKSF has been maintaining a strong and sound portfolio through better supervision and monitoring,
and continuous POs skill upgrading. As a result, it has been able to consistently maintain a recovery rate of above
98%. Recruitment of the chief executive officer (CEO) from the private sector improved PKSF's management and
accountability. Improvement of financial management provided sound intemal and extemal controls, which
increased financial accountability and disclosure policies. PKSF's sponsorship of a longitudinal study and the
design of an Impact Assessment Toolkit helped enhance PKSF's program focus on poverty targets. As a result,
emphasis of Microfinance II has been to cover one-third of the target borrowers who fall under the purview of
hard-core poor. Various guidelines and policies designed by PKSF, with active participation of POs and the
stakeholders, had profound impact on operations, portfolio quality, accountability, and sustainability of the
microfinance industry in Bangladesh [see para 4.1.2 (d)].
- 5 -



4.5.3   At the PO level, institutional development had a direct impact on portfolio quality. Only 10% of PKSF
POs representing a 3% share of total PO's outstanding had recovery rates below 95%. Improved govemance has
ensured selection of competent individuals as POs' Board members and exclusion of relatives of the Chief
Executive as members. Moreover, regular Board meetings were ensured with proper agenda and recording of the
minutes of meetings. These measures had a positive impact on governance, accountability and disclosure policy,
which helped reduce irregularities in operations and financial management. The improved financial system had an
impact on intemal and extemal financial management. Accounts and records up-keeping have improved and
almost all POs now have their accounts audited by extemal auditors. POs have also initiated measures to assess the
poverty focus of their program. As a Pilot, a few POs have already added Impact Assessment Toolkits to their MIS
and initiated data gathering for impact analysis.
4.5.4   At the borrower level, POs' institutional development had a positive influence on them. Skills and
capacity of the borrowers were enhanced under the project, which helped in utilizing increased amount of loans
more productively. As a result, borrowers experienced increased levels of income and economic wellbeing. With
regard to social impact, borrowers have increased their awareness about the need to improve their quality of life in
terms of self-literacy, enrollment of children to schools, use of better sanitation, clean drinking water and
improvement of housing. Overall empowerment of borrowers has been accomplished by their participation in
social and family decision-making, and in community work. IDA carried out a repeat study of the same set of
borrowers in March 1999 and March 2001 to assess the project's impact on borrowers. The following results show
sustained socio-economic improvement of the borrowers compared to the time they received the first credit (for
details see Annex 8):
*   income increased in 1999 for 97.93% of borrowers and in 2001 for 98.72% of borrowers. Only 7 borrowers
(1.28%) in 2001 reported the same level of income and none reported any decrease in income;
*   quality and quantity of food intake by the family members improved for 88.59% of the borrowers in 1999 and
98.72% of borrowers in 2001;
*   clothing improved for 87.85% of borrowers in 1999 and by 98.91% of borrowers in 2001;
*   housing conditions improved for 75.26% of borrowers in 1999 and for 85.97% of borrowers in 2001;
*   child education improved for 75.41 % of borrowers in 1999 and for 87.7% of borrowers in 2001;
*   sanitation conditions improved for 68.74% of borrowers in 1999 and 83.24% of borrowers in 2001; and
*   quality of life improved for 94.96% of borrowers in 1999 and 95.63% of borrowers in 2001.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5. 1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Two activities that suffered delays in implementation were: (a) formulating a Legal and Regulatory Framework for
the Microfinance Industry; and (b) procurement of the land for building PKSF's office complex. The first activity
suffered delays as the stakeholders were reluctant to regulate the industry since they believed it would hinder
innovation and impose controls on NGOs/MFIs [Para. 4.2.2 (iii)]. Concerning the second activity, land laws and
possession laws are so cumbersome that these substantially delayed PKSF's land procurement and hence the
construction of PKSF's office [Para. 4.2.2 (ii)].
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The govemment exerted no control on PKSF's operations and management, which had a positive impact on project
implementation. However, since PKSF is a govemment-sponsored agency, the govemment required that its
construction activities should be carried through the Public Works Department (PWD). It took considerable time
for PKSF to lift this restriction and as a result, the initiation of the office building construction process was delayed
by about 24 months.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Further delays in the construction of the office building were due to lack of PKSF's procurement capacity.
Although, some capacity was acquired through Procurement Training sponsored by IDA, the effort should have
been extended to cover larger numbers of PKSF staff. To address this, under Microfinance 11 a consultant has been
hired on a retainer basis to improve procurement performance and impart further procurement training to PKSF's
- 6 -



Procurement Core Team (PCT) members.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Of the total IDA contribution of US$105 million equivalent, there was an exchange loss of US$5.93 million due to
exchange rate fluctuations between SDR (loan currency) and US dollars. As a result, the net amounts available
were US$ 96.49 million and US$ 2.58 million equivalent for credit component and institution development
component respectively. The entire amount has been disbursed.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
6.1.1   The project's sustainability rating of satisfactory was determined based on the following criteria: (a)
borrower's graduation from the microcredit program (as a result of increased income, training, and empowerment);
(b) POs' institutional and financial sustainability (ability to absorb increased lending cost and raise capital in the
financial market); and (c) PKSF's decreased dependence on soft loans (i.e. increased ability to mobilize funds from
financial markets).
6.1.2   The process towards graduation of borrowers is reflected on their increased capacity to absorb higher loan
amounts. The average loan size at the initiation of Microfinance 1 (1996) was Tk.2,500 per borrower. This average
loan size has now increased to Tk.5,800 per borrower, with the maximum loan per borrower increasing to
Tk. 15,000. Apart from the routine group-based training imparted during the weekly group meeting, some
borrowers obtained skill development training to improve their capacity to undertake enhanced economic activities.
As a result, borrowers' demand for higher loan amounts to set up microenterprises increased. Such activities will
generate growth and employment opportunities for the hard-core poor. The social development outcome of the
borrowers was profound in terms of their empowerment. Increased income and mobility, and greater involvement
in major decisions of the households by women showed their increasing empowerment, relative freedom from
domination by the family, and enhanced social awareness (para 4.5.4).
6.1.3   PKSF's institutional capacity has been enhanced [see para 4.1.2 (c)]. An institutional audit of PKSF,
conducted by a team of consultants, sponsored by IDA and PKSF, showed that PKSF attained a significant degree
of institutional stability in terms of better management, improved MIS, and training program implementation.
However additional enhancement of its capacity would further increase its effectiveness and reduce transactions
costs. Increased sustainability of POs' institutional capacity has been achieved through a comprehensive
institutional development plan (Business Plan), implemented by PKSF under the Project. PKSF's organization and
functioning has attracted the interest of many countries.
6.1.4   Through institution building of the small and medium-size POs, their portfolio quality and absorption
capacity have been enhanced resulting in a reduction of intermediation costs. This has enabled POs to absorb
higher lending rates as they progress toward sustainability. This is evident by the resilience shown by POs in
maintaining their portfolio quality in the 1998 flood, in which about 90% of POs maintained a collection rate of
above 95% and improved govemance and accountability through reconstitution of the executive body and
improved disclosure policies. A study of 24 representative POs conducted by IDA and PKSF in 1999 concluded
that most POs were profitable albeit under the subsidized interest rates from PKSF funding. Out of 24 POs, 23 POs
were meeting their full operational costs and 18 POs were meeting their full operational and financial costs
(financial costs being the interest on savings at the rate of 6% and the borrowing rate at 3 - 4.5% per annum, plus
the provision of bad debt). A break-even analysis shows that 8 POs could sustain a borrowing rate of interest
between 5-9% and 9 POs above 9%.
6.1.5   The decline in dependency of PKSF and POs on soft loans is also a sign of progress toward sustainability.
This is evident from the following trends: (a) PKSF's reliance on soft funds will be substantially reduced from the
Year 2005 because of increased capitalization of surpluses. PKSF's document Vision 2010 shows a substantial
decrease in the subsidized credit and grant components compared to its annual disbursements. For example, the
ratios of annual subsidized credit and grant funds (cash inflow) to annual loan disbursement to POs (cash outflow)
are 62%, 36% and 17% for FY99-00, FY04-05 and FY09-10 respectively; (b) PKSF has been consistently
- 7 -



generating surplus since FY90. During the implementation of the Project, its income increased from Tk.59 million
(US$1.2 million) in FY97 to Tk.273 million (US$5.46 million) in FY00. A projection of PKSF's financial
situation to FYI 0 shows that these surpluses would allow PKSF to reduce its spread from the current 5% down to
2% by 2006, which is typical of efficient financial institutions; (c) a number of POs are accessing funds from
commercial banks. For example, Proshika has negotiated a loan from Agrani Bank for their microcredit program,
BRAC is taking a loan from Sonali Bank and Agrani Bank for their microenterprise program, and ASA has taken
a loan from Agrani Bank for its program expansion. PKSF is also considering the possibility of providing
guarantees for POs loans from the commercial banks for large-size POs and helping POs issue marketable bonds;
(d) POs' absorption capacity to sustain higher capital costs has increased. For example, PKSF has increased the
lending rate to small and medium-size POs from 3.5% (as was under Microfinance I) to 4.5% (under Microfinance
II) and to large-size POs, from 5% to 7%. Hardening of borrowing costs from PKSF to POs will gradually promote
their graduation to the formal financial market.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
N/A
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
7.1.1   Microfinance I supported the GOB and CAS objectives of poverty alleviation, institutional development
and broad based economic growth. The project design was sound in terms of stakeholder involvement, focus on
beneficiaries and anticipating problem areas to ensure that the objective of expanding vertical and horizontal
outreach of ongoing microfinance programs could be successfully achieved. The preparation of the project was
careful to build in flexibility in design, which improved implementation readiness. There was strong ownership of
the project from the government and PKSF (borrower), which was reflected in their commitment to implement the
project successfully [QAG review].
7.1.2   The Bank's assessment of PKSF's capacity to implement the project was realistic. PKSF was established
in 1990 under the sponsorship of the government to directly play a role in poverty alleviation by providing
financial services to the rural borrowers through NGOs/MFIs. It already attained a high level of competence at the
time of appraisal of the project in early 1996. Bank's assessment showed that PKSF has established a system of
financial intermediation and its outcome was commendable. PKSF's staff competence was high as it recruited
people with high caliber and good motivation to work in rural microcredit. PKSF's strength also lay in its
independent and strong Governing Board, comprised of microfinance practitioners, notable civil society members
and government representatives. Bank's assessment included a comprehensive institutional and management
evaluation. This led to the design of an institutional development package to enhance PKSF's capacity. Review of
the management structure showed the need for a Chief Executive Officer (CEO), not nominated by the
govemment, but recruited from the private sector. The Memorandum and Articles of Association were amended to
recruit the CEO from the private sector. The private sector CEO directly participated in processing the project
through the Board. The efficient monitoring and supervision, improved system of accountability and strengthening
of the internal audit unit were included within the project design to ensure effective project implementation and
improved portfolio quality.
7.1.3   The project design included an evaluation of three large-size NGOs and a selective number of small and
medium-size POs to examine their eligibility to access IDA fund through PKSF. The selection of large-size POs,
namely, Bangladesh Rural Advancement Committee (BRAC), Proshika Manabik Unnayan Kendra (PROSHIKA)
and Association for Social Advancement (ASA) were based on such evaluation. PKSF and IDA also reformulated
the eligibility criteria to ensure selection of good NGOslMFls as PKSF POs. In this regard, emphasis was given to
strengthen governance, such as, prohibition of relatives of the management team to become members of the
Governing Body, and strengthen financial management and accountability.
7.1.4   The design of the project emphasized differential treatment between the large-size POs and the small and
medium-size POs in terms of their access to institutional development services and lending rates. Since the
- 8 -



large-size POs have traditionally received long term capacity building assistance from the bi-lateral donors, this
type of assistance was extended under the project to small and medium-size POs together with preferential lending
rates to help them generate surpluses while they built up their loan absorption capacity, reduce transaction costs
and build up equity to gradually attain sustainability in the medium to long-term. Access to grant funds for
institutional development and access to funds at zero interest rate for improved logistics and building supervision
and monitoring capability were only available to small- and medium-size POs.
7.2 Supervision:
7.2.1   A Quality of Supervision Assessment (QSA4) for FYOO carried out by a QAG panel of reviewers for the
above project rated the project supervision as "highly satisfactory overall". The summary of the panel assessment is
as follows:
"The focus of the supervision missions on development effectiveness was exemplary. They paid particular
attention not only to the implementation results on the ground but also to the long-term sustainability of
microcredit and partner institutions involved, the social impact on beneficiaries and the demonstration effect of
successful non-formal microcredit programs on the formal financial sector. Staff continuity and the skill mix of the
supervision teams greatly contributed to the effectiveness of project supervision. A diversified staff in the country
office, including a social scientist, seems to have worked well as a team to produce results, which will contribute
more broadly to sustainable improvements in institutions providing microcredit and improving the quality of
participating NGOs. A supportive and proactive management team was very helpful. Relations with the borrower,
other stakeholders and other donors were well managed. Social development issues were particularly well handled
with development and monitoring of appropriate indicators. The impact on beneficiaries, by gender and income,
was successfully tracked. Overall monitoring of progress and implementation performance was very effective. As
a result, the supervision of fiduciary/safeguard aspects was rated as highly satisfactory overall."
7.2.2   High quality of supervision was maintained through: (a) regular supervision from the field office; (b)
bi-annual supervision; and (c) mid-term review of the project. Regular field office supervision has been very
effective to resolve day to day implementation issues, which enabled the project to maintain high standards of
microcredit. The bi-annual supervision concentrated on broader implementation issues -- e.g. how to use
supervision resources optimally, whether the training implementation should be contracted out, and policy issues --
which will help in making microcredit programs sustainable. The MTR concentrated on key implementation and
policy issues and also a limited restructuring of the institutional development component to reduce the budget for
construction of buildings and use the savings for microcredit. It also helped design the next operation, the
Microfinance II.
7.2.3   The supervision teams were composed of professionals with appropriate skills-mix to diagnose the major
operational and implementation issues. Therefore, composition of the supervision missions changed depending on
the stage of implementation and the issues that the project confronted. The supervision teams included experts on:
microcredit, financial analysis, financial management, institutional development, MIS, training, poverty reduction,
social development, procurement and disbursement.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
7.3.1 Overall Bank's performance was highly satisfactory. Bank's performance was evaluated in terms of: (a)
soundness of project design; (b) its assessment of the implementing agency in terms of its institutional capacity,
management efficiency, ownership, commitment and poverty alleviation objective; (c) analysis of project
sustainability; (d) quality of supervision; and (e) actions taken and follow up. The QAG review of the project
recognized the soundness of the project design and its in-built flexibility for effective implementation. IDA worked
together with the government and PKSF to build a strong ownership of the project, which resulted in appointment
of a private sector CEO and improvement of management efficiency. QAG concluded that the Bank's performance
in terms of supervision had been exemplary since it was proactive in identifying problems and prompt in initiating
remedial actions on them. For example, the Bank in consultation with PKSF conducted a Management Audit of
PKSF and identified a number of actions to improve PKSF's institutional capacity. As of June 2001, most of the
recommendations made in the audit report had been implemented.
-9-



7.3.2 The Bank was also able to build a sustainable relationship with PKSF and the government. As a
consequence, its role in microfinance has been highly recognized and appreciated by GOB, PKSF, NGOs/MFIs and
the donors. It is now considered to be the donors' main channel to provide funds for microcredit to meet the
objective of poverty alleviation. The Bank's objective to help the microfinance industry become part of the formal
financial market is being gradually achieved by selective POs through NGOs/MFIs institutional development, their
capacity to absorb higher borrowing costs and their ability to access market funds from the formal sector.
Although, a HRD study was not conceived under the Microfinance 1, the need for such study to improve personnel
policy and development is greatly felt. Therefore, PKSF has commissioned a HRD study under Microfinance 11.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
7.4.1   GOB and PKSF actively participated in project preparation. Prior to project preparation, the government
constituted a Task Force in early 1995 for preparing a Poverty Alleviation Project, chaired by the Secretary,
Ministry of Finance. IDA financed a consultant who assisted the Task Force to complete the report on July 5, 1995.
Based on the Task Force report, IDA prepared the project. GOB and PKSF were very supportive during the
preparation of the project. The Secretary, Banking Division directly took part in the preparation and helped in
addressing the issues that arose during project preparation and implementation. PKSF's staff and management
showed strong ownership and commitment to the project. Its staff quality was high and they were very proactive in
providing information, preparing materials and arranging site visits for the project. They also directly participated
in the preparation, pre-appraisal and appraisal missions and provided necessary inputs to these missions. Because
of GOB and PKSF's support, the project took about 20 months from the preparation to the Board presentation
(compared to an average of 24 months).
7.4.2   The project was prepared following a participatory approach. The Managing Director of PKSF
participated in the Task Force meetings and also contributed to the preparation of the Task Force report. PKSF's
Board had several meetings with the Task Force to discuss the modalities of credit delivery services, extent of
PKSF's expansion in terms of outreach and portfolio, and policy measures to avail IDA credit for microcredit.
These interactions were very helpful in terms of: (a) awareness building of the Governing Board members about
the Project's objectives and components in relation to PKSF's future expansion program; and (b) preparation of a
Task Force report, which had broad consensus by the Board members and was used as a key document for
designing the project. Furthermore, PKSF had several intemal discussions among the staff on the project concept
and design in order to examine the quality and implementation of the project. The project concept was further
discussed with the Association of the Development Agencies in Bangladesh (ADAB), representatives of
NGOs/MFIs (small, medium and large-size such as ASA, BRAC and Proshika), civil societies and concerned
agencies. The design of the project benefitted substantially from the outcome of these discussions.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
7.5.1   Government performance was exemplary on various aspect of project processing. It was the government's
strategy to scale-up PKSF's credit program through a soft loan instead of a grant from the government. This was
considered feasible because PKSF's performance in credit wholesaling to NGOs/MFIs had been of high standards.
The Finance Secretary appointed a highly qualified Task Force for preparing the project and assigned the
Secretary, Banking Division to coordinate the preparation work. Moreover, the Government was very proactive in
ensuring adequate and proper coordination between the Goveming Body members of PKSF and IDA to resolve
critical issues on lending rates, modalities to channel funds to large-size NGOs, and project implementation
relationship between PKSF and IDA. The Government decided to negotiate the project in Bangladesh to allow a
larger number of stakeholders to participate in negotiations, which is usually not the case.
7.5.2   The Government made several special provisions under the Project. Some of these are: (a) it on-lent to
PKSF with a highly concessionary rate of interest of 1% with payment term of 20 years, including 5 years grace
period. The foreign exchange risk was also borne by the Government. Such concessionary terms and conditions
were agreed to because the project objective coincides with the Government's poverty alleviation objective; (b) the
Government provided US$5 million as a grant to PKSF to build its and POs' institutional capacity and also
provided an additional loan of US$10 million from its own resources at IDA onlending terms and conditions; and
(c) the Government, on a exceptional basis, kept the entire IDA loan to PKSF outside the Annual Development
- 10-



Program (ADP). Besides, the Government agreed to replace its Chief Executive Officer with a private sector
executive. It also reduced its membership in the Board from 4 to 3 members and during the last two years, it did
not nominate any active civil service members to the Board, so that all the government nominees are now retired
civil servants. This is a clear sign that the government is slowly distancing itself from PKSF's business affairs.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
7.6.1   PKSF's performance has been highly satisfactory. It showed strong ownership of the project during the
design, preparation and implementation. It maintained a strong identity of its own and kept itself outside the
influence of the government. This helped PKSF to earn a good reputation in the microfinance industry and thus is
highly respected by the stakeholders. These results were possible because PKSF's Governing Board was composed
of respected personalities known for their integrity and dedication including Dr. Yunus, Managing Director,
Grameen Bank and Professor Mahmud, ex-Advisor to the Caretaker Govemment (1996). The Board showed strong
ownership to the project by having regular Board meetings and participating in taking major implementation and
policy decisions. Furthermore, some Board members are from NGOs/MFIs, and therefore, provided valuable
inputs to help the Board in resolving issues and formulating policies to develop a sound microfinance sector.
7.6.2   PKSF management also acquired necessary skills during project implementation. It strengthened its staff
capacity, hired additional staff with required skills where such skills were not internally available, and
strengthened supervision capacity by hiring new management trainees for its credit program. Thus, PKSF hired an
MIS manager, a Head of the Internal Audit Department, a Financial Advisor to look into its overall financial
management system and an Economist to oversee the research and development unit. It also separated its
operations and management of large-size POs and small and medium-size POs through separate windows. PKSF
maintained a good POs' monitoring system by regular supervision on a quarterly basis schedule. POs'
performances are discussed at PKSF's monthly coordination meeting under the chairmanship of the Managing
Director. This strict monitoring enables PKSF to undertake timely action on POs that fail to perform, ensuring a
quality portfolio.
7.6.3   PKSF is taking the lead to develop the microfinance sector in Bangladesh to make it sustainable. Because
of its reputation and standing in the microfinance industry, all stakeholders support such endeavor. PKSF is
playing an important role in the coordination process of small, medium and large-size POs. For example, it led the
coordination of all NGOs during the 1998 flood, organized meetings and developed policies to reduce the
overlapping of loans by the borrowers, and initiated the development of microfinance standards for the industry. It
has also developed various useful policies and guidelines for its POs (see para 4.5.2). Implementation of these
policies by all other NGOs/MFIs will have a profound impact on their capacity building and sustainability to access
funds from the formal sector market.
7.6.4   Bangladesh Bank implemented the MFI's Regulatory Framework Study satisfactorily. To ensure broad
based support of the stakeholders, the Govemment constituted a Steering Committee to formulate the legal and
regulatory framework for the microfinance industry by June 17, 2003 [see para 4.2.2 (iii)]. Bangladesh Bank is
taking an active role in coordinating with the government and NGO/MFls to complete the formulation of the legal
and regulatory framework within the stipulated time.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
7.7.1   Overall Borrower performance is highly satisfactory (Para. 2). This has been the outcome of the "PKSF
limited due diligence study" undertaken as preparation for Microfinance 11 (which became effective on March 5,
2001). However, for PKSF to continue leading the microfinance industry in Bangladesh (as it is already financing
the large NGOs/MFIs [BRAC, Proshika and ASA]), it has to further improve its institutional capacity. PKSF's
management and the Board are committed to this and, therefore, further strengthening of PKSF has been
accommodated under a technical assistance component in Microfinance II. GOB's performance has also been
highly satisfactory ( para 7.4.1 and 7.5). Its support to PKSF will continue as it is the only institution, which is
implementing the GOB's poverty alleviation strategy in a successful and effective manner. The partner
organizations' performance has been satisfactory (see paras 4.5.3, 6.1.3 and 6.1.4). The quality of their portfolio is
sound and they have been maintaining a high collection rate (see Annex 1) as required by the Credit covenant. A
large number of POs are now meeting the operational and financial costs and their absorption capacity for
- 11 -



handling a larger portfolio, showing a clear sign of enhanced sustainability (Para. 6.1.3).
7.7.2   The performance of the ultimate borrowers in terms of the impact of the microcredit is also highly positive
(paras. 4.3.1, 4.3.2, 4.3.3, and 4.5.4). There are increased signs of economic well-being of the borrowers in terms
of use of increased loan size amounts, diversification of activities, scaling up of income generating activities to
microenterprise loans, and changes in quality of life in terms of increased income, access to basic needs and
empowerment.
8. Lessons Learned
The following lessons have been learned from implementation of the project:
*   Strong institutional development efforts are needed for POs to become sustainable in accessing market funds.
*   Intensive supervision and monitoring of POs by skilled staff of APEX institutions such as PKSF with
sensitivity to clients is essential for maintaining portfolio quality.
*   A rating system for POs is useful at apex institutions such as PKSF for managing risk related to resource
allocation and provide early warning of problems.
*   A "business plan" showing its strategic goals, expansion plans, institutional development needs, and measures
to attain them, is a useful management tool for apex institutions and its POs (being implemented under
Microfinance II).
*   Evaluation of the creditworthiness, institutional capacity, and empowerment efforts of all POs (small, medium
and large-size POs) is necessary to make a sustainable positive impact on borrowers.
-   Review of the POs' interest rate policy to absorb the cost of funds and to raise capital in financial markets is
essential to achieve sustainability.
-   A human resource development (HRD) policy for apex institutions and POs is required to promote staff
motivation and ensure their career paths for efficiency and sustainability of the sector (being implemented
under Microfinance II).
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
9.1    Project formulation:
The Govemment of Bangladesh (GOB) recognized microcredit's potential as an instrument for poverty reduction
in the early eighties. This was reflected in the creation of Grameen Bank in 1983. GOB also sponsored some
microcredit programs in the eighties, which were being implemented by different government agencies like the
Bangladesh Rural Development Board (BRDB) and the Nationalized Commercial Banks (NCBs) in the eighties.
GOB established PKSF in 1990 in order to promote microcredit largely through NGOs. However, PKSF in its
initial stage could not support the NGOs' microcredit program in a large scale due to fund constraints. In this
context, the Poverty Alleviation Microfinance Project was prepared with the participation of the key stakeholders
i.e. GOB, PKSF, MFIs and IDA during an IDA appraisal mission in November, 1995. The project was negotiated
between GOB and IDA in April 1996 and the credit became effective on October 3, 1996.
9.2    Project Objective and Description:
9.2.1   The project had two key objectives: (a) to reduce poverty through expanding horizontal and vertical
outreach of on-going successful microfinance programs; and (b) to enhance institutional and financial
sustainability of PKSF and Partner Organizations' (POs) credit programs through (i) financing expansion of
lending, (ii) enhancing the role of PKSF from being a financier of small and medium-size POs to becoming an
apex organization that would lend funds to POs of all sizes, and act as a catalyst in mobilizing enhanced levels of
financial support from other donors and eventually frorn the market, (iii) assisting in institutional strengthening of
PKSF and its borrowers by providing resources for training and institution building, (iv) providing insight and
possible solutions to several issues/problems currently facing the microfinance system in Bangladesh by conducting
a range of special studies and associated training, and (v) disseminating best practices for increasing cost
effectiveness of these programs.
- 12-



9.2.2   The project had two components: (i) credit; and (ii) institutional development. Under the credit
component the project provided for lending US$110 million equivalent to PKSF; US$100 million equivalent from
IDA and US$10 million equivalent from GOB for on lending to its small, medium, and large-size POs. Under the
institutional development component, the project allocated US$6 million (US$5 million from IDA and US$1
million from PKSF) equivalent for institutional development, of which US$5.85 million was ear-marked for
strengthening institutional capacity within PKSF and its POs, and the remaining US$ 0.15 million for a study on
regulatory framework which was implemented by the Bangladesh Bank. The project-supported training and
institution building programs were to be focused towards PKSF and small and medium-size POs.
9.3 Project Performance:
9.3.1   Outreach and Impact:
(i)    The overall performance of the project has been highly satisfactory. PKSF, through its POs, provided
microcredit to more than 2 million poor borrowers against the target of 1.2 million. The outreach, thus, was 75%
above the target. The poor borrowers, 90% of who are women, utilized the credit for undertaking various income
and employment generating activities.
(ii)    The project has significantly contributed to poverty alleviation. The microcredit program implemented
under the project has benefited the poor in more than one way. The program has improved their standard of living
through diversification and strengthening of their survival strategies; enhanced their security giving them access to
assets and rights; and augmented their self-respect by providing them choice and independence.
9.4 Instituitional Development:
The implementation of the institutional development component of the project met its objective. Both PKSF's and
POs' staff were trained; MIS has been strengthened; financial sustainability has been enhanced; and accountability
and transparency have been further strengthened. PKSF, however, could not utilize the funds allocated for office
building construction, because of complex government procedures on land transfer to PKSF and delays in
obtaining government approval for PKSF to construct its own building rather than using the government's
department.
9.5 Disbursement:
Disbursement performance of the project was highly satisfactory. Of the credit amount of US$105 million
equivalent at the time of project approval, an exchange loss of US$ 5.93 million took place due to exchange rate
fluctuations between SDR (loan currency) and US dollar. The present credit amount is US$99.07 million
equivalent and the entire amount has been fully disbursed. IDA agreed that PKSF could utilize the entire savings of
the Credit to fund the microcredit component.
9.6    PKSF Partner Organizations (POs):
9.6.1   PKSF implements its microcredit program through its POs. PKSF, as of December 31, 2000 enlisted 195
POs of which 64 were enlisted during the project period. Of the 64 enlisted POs during the project period, 63 were
small and 1 (one) was large. Of the 195 POs, PKSF dropped 17 POs, as they could not meet the operations
standard of PKSF. All funds were withdrawn from the dropped POs. PKSF had 178 POs when the project was
closed in December 2000.
9.6.2  POs have enhanced their capacity to manage microcredit programs over the years, which is reflected in
their performance - their beneficiary coverage has increased substantially and their loan repayment rate to PKSF
has been very high - that is above 98%. About 90% of the POs have achieved financial viability. Many of the POs
are also implementing various social development programs alongside microcredit program. POs have made a
significant contribution to poverty alleviation during Microfinance I.
9.6.3  In view of the experience stated above, the necessity for consolidating the impact gained through the
- 13 -



successful completion of Poverty Alleviation Microfinance Project-I (IDA Credit No. 2922 BD) was urgently felt by
GOB and accordingly the Second Poverty Alleviation Microfinance Project (Microfinance 11) was prepared and
negotiated in November 2000 and the credit became effective in March 2001 (Cr. 3457 BD).
(b) Cofinanciers:
The project did not have any cofinanciers.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
PKSF on a regular basis maintained contact with other NGOs, besides its POs. It provided guidance to other NGOs
on operational and management issues. It also represented NGOs/MFIs interest with the government on matters of
regulatory framework, housing loans, community development, etc. Although its interaction with the private sector
is currently limited, the private sector finds PKSF and its POs as a good network to deliver commercial, financial
and other services. For example, a number of insurance companies have initiated some insurance products
(microinsurance) to bring low-income group under the insurance network. PKSF will have an important role in
overseeing this market as well as other commercial activities that are being initiated by the private sector.
10. Additional Information
None
- 14 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix          L        Projected in last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estirnate
(a) No. of borrowers reached;         1.2 million                           2.19 million
(b) Increase in income and assets of  10% increase per year                 More than 15%
borrowers;
(c) No. of POs attaining Financial viability;   60% by FY2000               86% *
(d) PKSF attaining financial viability on its   Interest income on loans as % of total  Interest income on loans as % of total
credit operations; and                expense: 130%                         expense: 177%
(e) Repayment rates remain at or above 98%  POs to PKSF: >98%               POs to PKSF: 98.53%
for PKSF and 95% for POs.             Borrowers to POs:>= 95%               Borrowers to POs: 98.25%
End of project
*1 8 out of 21 POs are financially self-sufficient, that is, they can fully recover their operating and financial
expenses from the income of microcredit [source: A study on the sustainability of the Partner Organizations of Palli
Karma Sahayak Foundation (PKSF), conducted by IDA, April 1999].
Summary of Output Indicators
Indiicator/Matrix     Measure (Performance                        Actual/Latest Estmate
t _   .  .             ~~~T*a  etsa  
A. PROJECT INPUT
Increase funds available Loan disbursement to POs  PKSF's annual loan disbursement to POs has increased from Tk. 470
to POs                                         million in FY 1995-96 to Tk. 2,272 million in FY 1999-2000 (an
increase of 700%). During the same period, outstanding loans
increased from Tk. 732 million to Tk. 5,848 million, i.e. by 700%.
Increase funds for    Grant funds disbursed    PKSF disbursed a total amount of US$ 2.58 million equivalent as
Institutional                                   grant for institutional development during the project period. It did
Development                                     not disburse any grant fund for institutional development of POs
before this project.
B. BENEFICIARIES: OUTPUTS, OUTCOMES, AND IMPACT
Increase outreach     No. of borrowers reached   No. of borrowers has increased from 0.44 million to 2.19 million
(1.2 million by December  during the project period of October 1996 to December 2000, i.e. an
2000, over 90% of whom   absolute increase of 1 .75 million. 90% of these borrowers are women.
to be women)
Increase loan size    Average loan size is to be  Average loan size of borrowers increased from Tk. 2500 to Tk. 5,800
about Tk. 6-7 thousand   by December, 2000. Average loan size would have increased further,
against the average loan of but instead the number of outreach increased by an additional 75% of
current borrowers of     the target outreach.
PKSF's POs of about Tk.
2,500.
Increase in borrower    Monthly consumption     89% of the borrowers reported improvements in quality and quantity
welfare               expenditure               of food intake.
Health indicator         69% of the borrowers reported improvements in sanitation conditions.
Educational indicator    75% of the borrowers reported improvement in child education.
Increase in income and   Family income increased by more than 15%.
assets (10% increase in
family income per year)
- 15 -



C. PKSF: OUTPUT, OUTCOME, AND IMPACT
Financial Aspects                                        December, 2000
Enhance financial    Maintained collection rates Collection rate has been consistently maintained over 98% during the
sustainability       (98%)                   project period.
Reduction in principal and This amount decreased from Tk. 2.51 million (March 1997) to Tk.
interest on Loans overdue  1.54 million (Dec. 2000).
(0-90 days)
Increase in principal and   This amount increased from Tk. 1.81 million (March 1997) Tk.2.61
interest on Loans overdue  million (Dec. 2000). i.e. loans overdue to loan outstanding ratio
(91-180 days)          decreased from 0.20% to 0.04%.
Increase in principal and   This amount increased from Tk. 11.10 million (March 1997) Tk.
interest on Loans overdue  41.42 million (Dec. 2000). i.e. loans overdue to loan outstanding ratio
over 180 days          decreased from 1.50% to 0.70%.
Bad debt/loans written off Nil
Decrease in administrative This ratio decreased from 4.61% (June 30, 1996) to 1.92% (as on
cost as % of loans     30th June, 2000).
disbursed
Increase in interest income This ratio increased from 90.14% (June 30, 1996) to 176.60% (as on
on loans as % of total  30th June, 2000).
expense (130% by
FY2000)
Increase in net income as  This ratio increased from 2.39% (June 30, 1996) to 3.4% (as on 30th
% of total assets      June, 2000).
Review on-lending rates   On lending rates have been reviewed and increased from 3-4.5% to
4.5% for small and medium-size and from 5% to 7% for large-size
_____________________           _POs under Microfinance II.
Institutional Strengthening
Improve MIS          Conversion of existing  Development of software required for computerized MIS has been
database to computerized  completed. The software has been installed.
system by February 1998
Tighten audit standards Issuance of audit   Issued on April 21, 1996.
guidelines by January 1997
Establish loan       Issuance of guidelines by  Issued on February 26, 1997.
classification policy    March 1997
Strengthen PKSF's    Preparation of medium   Prepared.
financial planning   term financial projections
capacity
Establish financial  Incorporate performance   Incorporated on February 23, 1998.
sustainability      indicators in eligibility
performance standards  guidelines by August 1997
for POs
Establish impact     Periodic Survey reports    Done on February 1999.
evaluation program
Increase training    No. of persons trained and  Before the project, 697 PO staff covering 1394 trainee days were
type of training imparted  trained and no PKSF staff received training. During the project
period, 2736 PO staff covering 8210 trainee days and 163 PKSF staff
covering 2418 trainee days have been trained locally. Training has
been increased by 293% for POs staff. 45 PKSF staff covering 641
staff days have been trained through foreign study tour and training.
Establish program of   Initiate interest-free loan  Initialed on December 3, 1997.
interest-free loans to   program by April 1997
POs, for institutional
building
- 16 -



Formulate guidelines on Implementation of     An  accounting  Manual incorporating  guidelines  on  uniform
uniform accounting    guidelines to POs by July  accounting policies has been formulated for POs in October 1997. All
policies              1997                    POs are following a standard double entry accounting system since
1994. Significant progress has been made with respect to adoption of
an accrual basis of accounting by POs, according to the Manual.
Strengthen audit     Intemal Audit Department An Intemal Audit Department has been created and each PO is being
to audit each PO twice a   audited once in a year by this Department.
year
External Auditor to audit  External Auditor has audited 31% POs in FY1995-1996; 30% in
one-third POs each year   FY1996-1997; 35% in FY1997-1998; 48% in 1998-1999 and more
than 75% of the POs in FY1999-2000.
D. POs: OUTPUT, OUTCOMES, AND IMPACT
Financial Aspects                                         December, 2000
Enhance financial
sustainability of     Maintain loan collection   Loan collection rates have been maintained consistently over 95%
financial services    rates at 95%             during the project period, only 10% POs failed and these were
programs.                                      dropped as PKSF POs.
Decrease total          This ratio decreased from 8.70% (June, 1997) to 4.23% (as on June
admin/operating costs as % 2000) for small and medium-size POs, although for large size POs
of loan disbursed      this ratio marginally increased from 9.51%  (Dec. 1997) to 9.54%
(Dec. 1999)
Increase interest income on This ratio increased from 135.64% (June 1997) to 157.52% (as on
loans as % of total     June 2000) for small and medium-size POs and for large size POs this
administrative/operating   ratio increased from 110.45% (Dec. 1997) to 128.72% (Dec. 1999).
costs
Interest rate charged to    Interest rate charged to beneficiaries was not controlled and remained
beneficiaries should not be unchanged at 10 to 15%.
controlled
Increase number of POs    86% of POs have attained financial sustainability.
attaining financial viability
(60% by FY2000)
Increase savings as % of   This ratio has increased from 35.52% (Sept. 1996) to 49.69% (Dec.
loan outstanding        2000).
Institutional Indicators
Improve Accounting and Increase number of POs    All the POs are following double entry accounting system and using
Audit Standards       meeting accounting      customized subsidiary ledgers suggested by PKSF. Efforts have been
standards              taken to adopt accrual basis of accounting by POs. Significant
progress has been made in this regard.
Increase number of POs   Before the project, only one PO used external auditors; at the end of
using external auditors    the project, 130 POs used external auditor.
Increase number of POs   Before the project, no PO followed loan classifications! provisioning
following loan          guidelines. At the end of the project, all the POs followed the loan
classification/provisioning  classification/provisioning guidelines.
._____ __ _ g uidelines
Number of Participating         178                                       178
POs
E. BANGLADESH BANK
- 17-



Establish proactive  Complete study by July    Bangladesh Bank executed a study on "Establishing an Appropriate
policies and regulatory  1997 and initiate   Regulatory Framework and Institutions for Regulating MFIs Engaged
framework for MFIs   implementation program   in Deposit Taking/Lending and Developing Financial, Institutional
wanting to be formal                         and Regulatory Measures to Assist MFIs in Becoming Formal
financial institutions                       Financial Institutions and Strengthening the Linkage of MFIs with the
Formal Financial Sector (1999)". This study led to the formation of a
Task Force by the government on October 19, 1999 to examine the
need for a legal and regulatory framework for the microfinance
industry. The Task Force in its report of March 30, 2000
recommended the formation of a "Steering Committee".
Establish appropriate   Complete study by July    The government constituted a Steering Committee on June 18, 2000
regulatory framework   1997 and initiate    to develop a legal and regulatory framework for the microfinance
for deposit-taking   implementation program   industry within the next years (by June 17, 2003). A "Microfinance
NGOs                                         Research and Reference Unit (MRRU)" was created in Bangladesh
Bank to help the Steering Committee to undertake the assignment.
- 18 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in USS million equivalent)
I Project Cost By            Appv   WEstimaft                       Actatatest Estimate           Pdr4eif
Component                   US$ In                 d        _       USS in million       _       Apprasa
Local     Foren       Total              Loca     Fore4 n     Total  , __
Credit component    131.00               131.00     96     161.22                161.22    99         123
Institutional      5.00        1.00      6.00       4       2.21       0.15       2.36      1         40
Development
Total             136.00       1.00      137.00     100    163.43      0.15      163.58    100        119
Total Project Costs                      137.00                                  163.58
Total Financing Required                 137.00                                  163.58     _
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ Million Equivalent) ID
Component
Expenditure                          Procurenent Method                              Total Cost
!        Category            ICB                  NCB                 Others
1. Works                    0.00                 3.00                 0.00                  3.00
I0.00)               (2.23)               (0.00)               (2.23)
2. Goods                     0.00                 0.60                 0.45                 1.05
(0.00)               (0.47)               (0.35)               (0.82)
3. Services                  0.00                 0.00                 1.95                 1.95
(0.00)               (0.00)               (1.95)               (1.95)
Total Cost                   0.00                 3.60                 2.40                 6.00
(0.00)               (2.70)               (2.30)               (5.00)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actuall Latest Estimate) (US$ Million Equivalent):
ID Component
Expenditure                          Procurement Method                              Total Cost
Category                ICB                  NCB                Others
1. Works                    0.00                 0.37                  0.04                 0.41
(IDA)                   (0.00)               (0.30)               (0.03)                (0.33)
2. Goods                     0.00                 0.40                 1.27                 1.67
(IDA)                   (0.00)               (0.32)               (1.02)                (1.34)
3. Services                 0.00                  0.00                 1.03                 1.03
(IDA)                   (0.00)               (0.00)               (1.03)               (1.03)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00                 0.00                 0.02                 0.02
(I DA)                   0.00                (0.00)               (0.02)                (0.02)
Total Cost                   0.00                 0.77                 2.36                 3.13
(I DA)                  (0.00)               (0.62)               (2.10)                (2.72)
Notes:
I.     Amounts in parenthesis are IDA financed
- 19 -



2.       In expenditure category 3 (Services) expenditure equivalent of US$ 0.15 million incurred by
Bangladesh Bank is included.
Project Financing by Component (in USS million equivalent)
Local         104.00     10.00         22.00         98-62     10.00        54.81         94.82       100           249
Foreign        1.00        O             O            0.15       O            O             15          
Total         105.00      10.00        22.00         98.77      10.00       54.81           94        100           249
- 20 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Microcredit programs are based on the assumption that the rural poor have the capacity to invest and manage
micro-businesses and that there are opportunities in the rural economy for such investments. All PKSF's POs
provide loans for investments proposed by borrowers. Most investments of microcredit borrowers go to areas such
as poultry and livestock rearing, petty trade of numerous items, weaving/handicrafts/pottery, agro-processing and
rural transport (rickshaw/van) etc. The petty trade may include any item from shop keeping to seasonal trading.
Borrowers are expected to make profits from their investments and repay loan installments from their income.
Additional income is used for consumption and savings. This process leads to improvement in quality of life and
accumulation of assets.
Cost benefit analysis of microcredit activities is complex. As the microcredit loans are typically for one year, the
calculation of the financial rate of return (FRR) or economic rate of return (ERR) would not be a meaningful
exercise. Moreover, cost and benefit streams are not totally accounted for and the costing of resources employed is
often difficult. It is, therefore, meaningful to calculate the benefits of microcredit in terms of the following:
1. evaluation of the impact of microcredit activity at household level in terms of surplus to household income;
and
2. calculation of annual return for a number of microcredit investments by assuming the investments as one-year
term investments and comparing their retums with the microcredit effective rates of interest.
Methodology:
It is possible to estimate the incremental impact of microcredit on household income. This can be done by
developing a receipt-payment profile of the household for a period of one year, and by accounting all cash inflows
and outflows of the household for one year, including the inflow due to microcredit borrowing. Microcredit has two
inflow items in the form of income: net profit from an activity and income earned as a labor of family members
who usually run the activity. In computing the net profit from the activity an expense component has been
estimated for family labor that depends on the amount of time employed by family members and the on-going wage
rate in the area. The inflows to the family have been divided into six main categories: (a) income of the family
from sources other than microcredit investment; (b) gifts received by the family; (c) additional borrowing from
sources other than the PO; (d) contribution from income generating activities such as family labor; (e) borrowing
from PO; and (f) net profit from the income generating activity. The outflows have been categorized into: (a)
household consumption expenses; (b) micro-investment; and (c) loan repayments.
Determination ofannual return: An analysis of 84 microcredit investments has been conducted to determine the
annual return of each of the activities. Each activity has been analyzed to develop an income-expenditure profile.
Net profit has been determined by deducting all expenses including family labor from revenue of the activity. First
of all revenue and expenses have been determined for one cycle of business and then annualized based on the
number of cycles that can be realistically completed within one year leading to determination of annual profit. The
annual return has been determined using total investment in the activity, both equity and borrowing from the PO.
Aside from computing the annual return for each of the activity, an average annual return for each group of
activities has also been determined.
- 21 -



Sample areas, activities and data collection: The nature of micro-investments out of microcredit is that they are
numerous and of similar types, involving more or less similar amount of money, and are spread over throughout
the country. A total sample of 105 borrowers has been randomly selected from four major areas of concentration of
PKSF's POs. However, the final analysis was conducted for 84 borrowers. Sample activities have been taken from
five broad categories: small trade, poultry and livestock, agro-processing, rural transports and services. The
analysis requires information related to income and expenditure, and loan and equity for each micro-project. As
normally microcredit borrowers do not keep records of transactions, estimates may contain over or understatement
of financial figures because borrowers provide this information from their memory. Since loan disbursements and
repayment are made throughout the year, the annual income and expenditure cash flows of borrowers have been
prepared accordingly. An estimated cost of family labor has been deducted from revenues. The family labor
component is taken as income to the family while constructing cash flows for the family.
Impact on households: All 84 families included in the study have generated or are expected to generate surplus
(receipts minus payments) during the year. This is considering the loan repayments already made to the PO and
micro-investment made during the year. Since the families will be generating surplus, it is expected that they will
be able to repay the remaining loan installments as well. Families spend on an average Tk. 21,751 as
micro-investment. The contribution of microcredit to family income has been found to be significant. On an
average it contributes Tk.83,000 per year as additional income in the form of family labor and profit. The
proportion of contribution from microcredit to total family income is also very significant and has been found to be
sometimes as high as 98% (Table 1).
Table 1: Contribution of Microcredit on Family Income
Tailoring                   2          37,195         96,351           20,396            56.6
Rickshaw/van                3          24,496         62,816           21,763            46.3
Scooter (motorized 3        1          68,245         109,900          12,988            36.3
wheeler)
Paddy husking               3          30,442         86,619           56,844            80.2
Grocery shop                9          41,408         99,759           23,338            68.0
Small trading              24          32,027         80,287           28,825             69
Milch cow                   6          20,028         41,457            6,064            31.3
Broiler/cattle fattening    7          33,826         124,268          11,820            34.1
Chick rearing/poultry       2          11,143         41,482            8,303            21.3
Fish farming                2          30,594         78,976           22,484            35.4
- 22 -



Furniture making/          6          37,989         87,690          35,653            58.7
bamboo products/
pottery
Handloom/embroidery        3          27,123         71,216          30,027            65.7
Restaurant/sweet shop      4          56,345         99,389          33,014             58
Veg./agro-processing/n     9          19,599         65,777          16,990            40.6
ursery
Services (painter/         3          28,784         99,028          53,200            98.4
welding
shop/blacksmith
Total                     84
Average                              37,832.6        83,001          25,447
Annual return of microcredit investments: Average value of investment varied between Tk.6,000 and Tk.28,000
(in one case Tk.80,000) and the equity contribution was about 58%. PKSF's average loan size was about Tk.8,400
(Table 2). All microcredit investments studied have produced profits. The annual return varied between 36% to
226%, which is expected in case of such family managed micro-investments. The overhead cost and hired labor in
most of these investments are zero, leading to a very high rate of return. It has been observed that activities with
short business cycles, where money could revolve over and over within the year (e.g. trading, grocery shops, and
restaurants) have very high retums in the short run. On the other hand, activities having long business cycles like
poultry, fish farming, and cattle fattening have relatively low annual return. Importantly, the annual return in all
cases has been found tc be higher than the effective rate of interest on microcredit.
Table 2: Annual Return of Microcredit Investment
Type of activity     Number  Average  Average   Average   Average net    Total
of cases   Equity    PKSF   Investment   income          Annual
(Tk.)     Loan       (Ti.)    from IGA   Return on
(Tk.)                            Investment
(%)
Tailoring                      2       7,525      5,500      13,025      25,529        196
Rickshaw/van                   3        1,000     6,667      7,667       10,350        135
Scooter (motorized 3           1       70,000    10,000      80,000      28,800         36
wheeler)
Paddy husking                  3        2,000     9,000      11,000      45,650        415
Grocery shop                   9       19,611    8,556       28,166      46,192         164
Small trading                 24       12,104     8,792      21,250      39,950         188
Milch cow                      6       16,700     9,333      26,037      13,279         51
Broiler/cattle fattening       7       32,757    11,000      43,757      27,829        63.6
Chick rearing/poultry          2        1,750     5,000      6,750        7,560         112
Fish farming                   2        5,000     11,500     13,000       8,320         64
- 23 -



Fumiture making/ bamboo    6       4,417    8,167     11,583     22,124      191
products/pottery
Handloom/embroidery        3       4,667    8,333     13,000     28,730      221
Restaurant/sweet shop      4       9,000    10,250    19,250     32,148      167
Veg/agro-processing/nursery    9   3,014    7,278     10,125     12,758      126
Services (painter/welding  3      14,000    7,667     21,666    48,965       226
shop/black smith)               I         I
Total                     84      12,729    8,402    21,751     26,546
-24 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle               No. of Persons and Specialty            Performanc    in
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)  _   Implementation   Development
Month/Year   Count           Specialty                     Progress       Objective
Identification/Preparation
2/95                       4   EC, PFS, PO, FAD                   S              S
Appraisal/Negotiation
7/95                       5   EC, PFS, PO, FAD                   S              S
11/95                      3   EC, PFS, FAD                       S              S
Supervision
12/96                      2  EC, PFS                             S              S
9/97                       5  EC, FA, MS, CON                     S              S
4/98                       3  EC, FA, CON                         S               S
7/98                       5  EC, SS, MS, MCS, MC                 S              S
4/99 (MTR)                10  EC, PFS, FAD, FMS, SS, IS,          S              S
EA, PS, DB
11/99                      9  EC, FA, FMS, SS, PS, DB, CON        S              S
7/00                       4  EC, FA, FMS, DB                     S              S
4/01                        7  EC, FA, FMS, SS, PE, PS, DB        S               S
ICR
5/01                       6   EC, FA, FMS, SS, PS, DB            S              S
Note: EC: Economist; FA: Financial Analyst; FAD: Financial Advisor; PFS: Principal Financial Specialist;
FMS: Financial Management Specialist; MS: MIS Specialist; MC: MIS Consultant; SS: Social Scientist;;
MCS: Microcredit Specialist; DB: Disbursement Officer; PS: Procurement Specialist PE: Poverty
Economist; IS: Institutional Specialist; EA: Environment Advisor; CON: Consultant
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                  Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation              45.4                     207.57
Appraisal/Negotiation                    6.3                     112.68
Supervision                             85.8                     274.95
ICR                                     13.2                      26.30
Total                                  150.7                     621.50
- 25 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                        O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
E Sector Policies                       O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
O Physical                              OH OSUOM *N ONA
O Financial                             O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
[ Institutional Development             O H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
OI Environmental                        O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction               O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
a Gender                          O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
E Other (Please specify)          OH  OSUOM  O N  * NA
0 Private sector development            0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
0 Public sector management              0 H  O SU O M  0 N  * NA
O Other (Please specify)                O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
- 26 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                   Rating
El Lending                                            OHS *S  OU  OHU
O Supervision                                         OHS OS  OU  OHU
O Overall                                             OHS OS O U O HU
62 Borrowerperformance                                Rating
O Preparation                                         OHS Os   O  U  O HU
a Government implementation performance               O HS O S   0  U  0 HU
O Implementation agency performance                   OHS OS  O  U  O HU
a Overall                                             OHS OS O U O HU
- 27 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Report on Poverty Alleviation Microfinance Programme, M. Syeduzzaman, Coordinator of the Government
Task Force, Ministry of Finance, July 5, 1995.
Microfinance I: Poverty Alleviation Microfinance Project, Back to Office Reports, 1996-2001, SAR and
DCA, August 14 & October 2, 1996 respectively.
Establishing an Appropriate Regulatory Frame-work and Institutions for Regulating MFIs Engaged in
Deposit Taking/Lending, and Developing Financial, Institutional and Regulatory Measures to Assist MFIs
in Becoming Formal Financial Institutions and Strengthening the Linkage of MFIs with the Formal
Financial Sector, prepared by the Development Planners & Consultant (DPC) for the Bangladesh Bank,
January 1999.
Institutional Audit of the Palli Karma-Sahayak Foundation (PKSF), prepared by M. Syeduzzaman, et. al.
January 1999.
Microfinance I: Mid Term Review (MTR) Report of the Poverty Alleviation Microfmance Project, April
20, 1999.
A Study on the Sustainability of Partner Organizations of Palli Karma-Sahayak Foundation (PKSF), A
Bank financed study, conducted by Dewan Alamgir (consultant), Reazul Islam (Bank staff), et al., April
1999.
A Study on the Impact of Microcredit on Borrowers of Partner Organization of PKSF, a Bank financed
study, conducted by Dewan Alamgir (consultant), Reazul Islam (Bank staff), et al., April, 1999.
A Background Study of Microenterprise Development through Partner Organizations of PKSF, a Bank
financed study, conducted by Dewan Alamgir (consultant), Reazul Islam (Bank staff), et. al, April, 1999.
A vision document "PKSF: 2010" (December 28, 1999) was prepared by PKSF and approved by its
Governing Body on PKSF's future role in the microfinance sector, including its plans to attain
sustainability for PKSF and POs. This vision document has been substantially used to prepare the project.
Various documents, issue papers, project background papers, etc., prepared by PKSF during the
Preparation and Pre-appraisal mission (April, 1999 to September, 2000).
Microfinance II. Limited Due Diligence of PKSF, A Bank financed study conducted by V. Barrios
(consultant), S. Ahmad, M. Hoque and R. Islam (Bank staff), May 2000.
Microfinance II. Limited Due Diligence of Big Partner Organizations, ASA, PROSHIKA and BRAC, A
Bank financed study conducted by V. Barrios (consultant), S. Ahmad, M. Hoque and R. Islam (Bank
staff), May 2000.
Profitability Analysis of IGAs of Microcredit Borrowers of Partner Organizations of Palli Karma-Sahayak
Foundation (PKSF), prepared by Reazul Islam and Dewan Alamgir, July 2000.
Microfinance II: Second Poverty Alleviation Microfinance Project, Project Appraisal Document (PAD),
December 14, 2000.
- 28 -



Comparison of Microcredit Impact on Borrowers of PKSF's Partner Organizations, a Bank financed study,
conducted by Reazul Islam (Bank staff), et. al, March 2001.
- 29 -



Additional Annex 8. Comparison of Microcredit Impact on Borrowers of PKSF's Partner
Organizations
Introduction:
1.   In March 1999 the World Bank conducted a rapid assessment of the socio-economic impact of microcredit
program on 675 PKSF borrowers. The same group of borrowers was studied after 2 years in March 2001 to assess
the changes in their socio-economic status. There were some dropout of members from the first group of 675
borrowers. The second round of survey could reach only 549 borrowers. The main reasons for drop-out in
membership have been the following: (a) some members became self-reliant and decided to leave the credit
program; (b) some members migrated from the village to other areas; (c) some members lost their membership,
because they were irregular in making repayment; and (d) some members tried to access loans from many
NGOs/MFIs and, therefore, their memberships were canceled. The survey used same structured questionnaire to
collect the relevant data.
Objectives:
To undertake a comparative analysis of changes in the socio-economic indicator of the same group of
borrowers between March 1999 and March 2001,
Investment by the members:
2.   The borrowers' capacity to use amount of loans has increased, together with POs capacity to handle more
credit funds for disbursement. At the beginning, the average amount of the first loan was Taka 2,188 and 61 % of
the borrowers received up to Taka 2000 as their first loan. The average loan size was Taka 7,472 in 1999 and it has
increased to TK. 9,298 in 2001, i.e. an increase by 24.4%. In 2001 more than 55% of borrowers received more
than Taka 8,000 per person compared to 30% in 1999.
3.   There has been very little shift in the type of microcredit investments. The most common area of investment
has been small business (petty trade and shops), about 34.81% borrowers invested in these activities in 1999 and
32.42% in 2001. There has been substantial increase in the share of paddy husking activity, which increased from
3.7% in 1999 to 21.49% in 2001. Milch cow and cattle fattening, and land leasing activities also significantly
increased, sharing 18.76% and 10.93% of the total activities respectively. Diversification of activities by designing
innovative credit delivery systems will be crucial for sustainability of microcredit and to avoid saturation of
activities.
Impact of microcredit:
4.     The impact of microcredit has been assessed as follows: (a) to study the impact of microcredit, opinions
of borrowers were gathered regarding the benefits or contributions of microcredit on: (i) the income of the family,
(ii) nutrition, clothes, housing conditions, and sanitation, and (iii) land ownership; (b) the borrowers were asked
to categorize the conditions of current housing and that of before joining PO and the contribution of microcredit on
the housing improvement; (c) borrowers evaluated their overall current family status and compared that with the
status before joining the PO; and (d) an attempt was made to estimate the value of assets formed by the borrowers
after joining the PO based on their opinions and compare that with their current debt to find their net worth.
Overall assessment of impact of the credit program:
5.     Overall, socio-economic indicators to assess the impact on borrowers in 2001 showed better performance
than in 1999. A comparative assessment of impact of credit program by sample borrowers is as follows:
- 30 -



*   income increased in 1999 for 97.93% of borrowers and in 2001 for 98.72% of borrowers. Only 7 borrowers
(1.28%) in 2001 reported same level of income and no one reported any decrease in income;
*   quality and quantity of food intake by the family members improved for 88.59% of the borrowers in 1999 and
98.72% of borrowers in 2001;
*   clothing improved for 87.85% of borrowers in 1999 and for 98.91% of borrowers in 2001;
*   housing conditions improved for 75.26% of borrowers in 1999 and for 85.97% of borrowers in 2001;
*   child education improved for 75.41% of borrowers in 1999 and for 87.7% of borrowers in 2001;
*   sanitation conditions improved for 68.74% of borrowers in 1999 and for 83.24% of borrowers in 2001; and
*   quality of life improved for 94.96% of borrowers in 1999 and for 95.63% of borrowers in 2001.
Change in land ownership:
6.     Increased land ownership in rural areas signifies improved economic conditions of a poor family. The
land ownership of borrowers increased from 28.44% in 1999 to 54.56% in 2001. The average land ownership
increased to 44.64 decimals in 2001 compared to 30.56 decimals of land as reported in 1999, which is significant
for a poor family. Nationally, 55.23% of rural households own less than 49 decimal of land and 36.46% own land
between 5-49 decimals [Household Expenditure Survey 1995-96 (Summary Report)].
Changes in housing conditions:
7.     A significant improvement in borrowers' housing quality has been reported between 1999 and 2001,
compared to conditions before joining the POs. Housing conditions have been classified in 4 categories: (a)
thatched houses (jhupri); (b) houses with wall and roof made of sub-standard materials; (c) houses where the wall
is made of sub-standard material and the roof with Cl sheet; and (d) wall and roof both made of CI sheet.
Ownership of category (a) houses was only 2% of the total in 2001 compared to 4.59% in 1999, while it was
36.74% before joining the POs. Ownership of category (b) houses was 9.65% of the total in 2001 compared to
15.11% in 1999. On a nationwide scale for rural areas, 75.2% households use jute/bamboo/mud (sub-standard
material) as wall material and 31.8% households use similar sub-standard material as roofing materials. However,
in the case of borrowers, only 15.11% of households use such lower quality materials for roofs and walls. On the
other hand, only 12.2% households for the natiion as a whole use tin as wall materials, whereas 36.0% of
borrowers use tin for walls and roofs, a significant improvement over the national characteristics (Demographic
and Health Survey 1996-97). Thus, borrowers have better housing conditions than others in rural areas.
Self-evaluation of family conditions:
8.     Microcredit interventions have been able to significantly reduce food deficit of the borrowers. The number
of families experiencing food deficits (and other incidental expenses) have been reduced from 82.22% to 9.63%
over a period of 5 to 6 years. This was evaluated by seeking information on their family conditions based on six (6)
categories: (a) Chronic deficits throughout the year; (b) occasional deficits; (c) no deficits; (d) adequate supply; (e)
surplus to be used to pay for children education and other purposes, and (f) surplus to be used for investments. In
1999 only 0.59% of borrowers reported that they experienced chronic deficits and 9.04% reported that they
experienced occasional deficits during the year, which compares favorably with 3 8.07% and 44.15% and
respectively before joining the PO. Currently 77.33%of families of borrowers have either an 'adequate' or better
situation [summation of categories of (d), (e) and (f)] compared to 4.75% before joining the PO. Category (f)
shows dramatic improvement, reaching 36.0% in 1999 and 62.84% in 2001.
Services of POs
9.     All members (100%) received credit. All POs provide basic orientation as a core activity before starting
credit. However, not all POs provide some services in particular skill training. Nevertheless, there have been
improvements in this area: 42.62% in 2001 reported they received some kind of skill training compared to 32% in
1999.
Microenterprise loans:
- 31 -



10.    The demand for microenterprise loans among the borrowers is widespread. Of the 549 borrowers, 88%
asked for larger loans, of which 38.07% requested loans of more than Taka 20,000 to scale up their enterprises.
Conclusion:
11.    The rapid impact survey is conclusive in suggesting that microcredit interventions have been able to
improve socio-economic standing of the borrowers. The comparative study shows consistent improvement almost
in all significant indicators between the two periods. This can be supported by some comparison of national
indicators to the indicators established by the study.
- 32 -



