Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2922 BD
Development Credit Agreement
(Poverty Alleviation Micro-Finance Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated October 2, 1996
CREDIT NUMBER 2922 BD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 2, 1996, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
Page  2
(b)
the second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
 
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations".
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Bangladesh Bank" means the Bangladesh Bank established by the Borrower's 
Bangladesh Bank Order, 1972 (President's Order No. 127 of 1972) for the purpose of 
carrying out the business of central banking;
(b)
"Beneficiary" means a person having a land holding or annual income below 
a threshold established by PKSF (as hereinafter defined) under its Statement of Policy 
(as hereinafter defined) and to whom a PO (as hereinafter defined) has made or 
proposes to make a Micro-credit (as hereinafter defined);
(c)
"Eligible Activity" means an income generating self-employment activity 
as specified by PKSF to be carried out by a Beneficiary utilizing the proceeds of a 
Micro-credit;
(d)
"Fiscal Year" means the Fiscal Year of the Borrower beginning on July 1 
of a calendar year and ending on June 30 of the following calendar year;
(e)
"Memorandum and Articles of Association" means the Memorandum and 
Articles of Association of PKSF as amended to the date of this Agreement;
(f)
"MFI" means a Micro-Finance Institution established in accordance with 
the laws of the Borrower for, inter alia, carrying out Micro-credit programs;
(g)
"Micro-credit" means a loan made or proposed to be made by a PO to a 
Beneficiary for an Eligible Activity; 
(h)
"PKSF" means the Palli Karma Sahayak Foundation, an apex financing 
institution registered as a private non-profit organization under the Borrower's 
Companies Act, 1994, as amended;
(i)
"Sub-loan Agreement" means an agreement to be entered into between PKSF 
and a PO  providing for a Sub-loan (as hereinafter defined);
(j)
"PO" means an MFI which is a partner organization of PKSF and to which 
PKSF has made or proposes to make a sub-loan; 
(k)
"Special Account" means the Account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(l)
"Statement of Policy" means the statement of lending policy as adopted 
and approved by the Governing Body of PKSF as amended to the date of this Agreement;
(m)
"Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by PKSF out of the 
proceeds of the Credit to a PO for financing a Micro-credit; 
(n)
"Subsidiary Loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by the 
Borrower out of the proceeds of the Credit to PKSF for financing a Sub-loan pursuant 
to the provisions of Sections 3.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement;
(o)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement dated July 24, 1996, 
entered into between the Borrower and PKSF, satisfactory to the Association, for 
purposes of carrying out Parts A and B.1 of the Project; and
(p)
"Taka" and "Tk" mean the currency of the Borrower.
 
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Page  3
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to seventy two million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
72,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) 
amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be paid) through PKSF to a PO  
on account of withdrawals made by a Beneficiary under a Micro-credit to meet the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for an Eligible Activity in respect of 
which the withdrawal from the Credit Account is requested; and (ii) expenditures made 
(or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost 
of goods and services required for Part B of the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in Bangladesh Bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
June 15 and December 15 commencing December 15, 2006 and ending June 15, 2036. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on June 15, 2016 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and  outstanding from time to time, 
Page  4
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. (a) For purposes of Parts A and B.1 of the Project, the Managing 
Director of PKSF, or such person or persons as he shall designate in writing, is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purpose of taking any action 
required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions; and
(b)
For purposes of Part B.2 of the Project, the Governor of Bangladesh Bank, 
or such person or persons as he shall designate in writing, is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purpose of taking any action required or 
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and 
Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Description of the Project;
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project or cause the Project to be carried out with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and 
micro-credit practices and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall: (i) onlend a portion of the proceeds of the Credit to 
PKSF for purposes of providing Sub-loans to POs  under Sub-loan  Agreements in order 
to finance Micro-credits under Part A of the Project; and (ii) provide a portion of  
the proceeds of the  Credit as a grant to PKSF for implementing a program of 
institutional development of PKSF and POs under Part B.1 of the Project, all in 
accordance with the provisions of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement containing the 
procedures, terms and conditions and implementation arrangements approved by the 
Association which shall, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, continue to 
include those set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall carry out or cause the Project to be carried out in accordance with the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower shall: (i) exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof; and (ii) ensure that, 
unless the Association shall otherwise agree, Sub-loans and Micro-credits will be made 
in accordance with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future sustainability of the Project; and
Page  5
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to monitor and record the progress of the Project and to reflect 
in accordance with sound
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the 
Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out 
the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than nine months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain or cause to be retained, until at least one year after the 
Association has received the audit report for the fiscal year in 
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
The Subsidiary Loan Agreement or the Sub-loan Agreement shall have been 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived without the prior approval of the 
Association.
(b)
The Memorandum and Articles of Association of PKSF shall have been 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and 
adversely the operations or financial condition of PKSF or its ability to carry out 
the Project or to perform any of its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Page  6
(c)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of PKSF or for the suspension of 
its operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely, that the events specified in 
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and is legally binding upon the 
Borrower and PKSF in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary or the Additional Secretary or any Joint Secretary, 
Deputy Secretary or Assistant Secretary of the Economic Relations Division of the 
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Economic Relations Division
Ministry of Finance
Government of the People's
   Republic of Bangladesh
Dhaka, Bangladesh
Cable address:
Telex:
 
BAHIRSAMPAD
642226 SETU BJ
Dhaka
Facsimile:
8802813088
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
Facsimile:
2024776391
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
Page  7
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By /s/ Shah Kibria
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ D. Joseph Wood
Regional Vice President
South Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated        % of
                            (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)  Micro-credits under       69,250,000      92% of amounts
     Part A of the                             disbursed
     Project
(2)  Civil works under          1,520,000      75%
     Part B.1 of the Project
(3)  Goods under                  550,000      100% of foreign
     Part B.1 of the                           expenditures,
     Project                                   100% of local
                                               expenditures (ex-
                                               factory cost) and
                                               80% of local ex-
                                               penditures for
                                               other items
                                               procured locally
(4)  Consultants' services                     100%
     and training under:
     (i) Part B.1 of the        1,280,000
         Project
     (ii) Part B.2 of the         100,000
           Project
          TOTAL                72,700,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
Page  8
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made: (a) in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and (b) in respect of a Micro-credit unless the Micro-credit has been made 
in accordance with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) Micro-credits under 
Part A of the Project; (ii) civil works under contracts costing less than $100,000 
equivalent; (iii) goods under contracts for Part B.1 of the Project costing less than 
$75,000 equivalent; and (iv) services under contracts costing less than $100,000 
equivalent for employment of consulting firms and $50,000 equivalent for employment of 
individual consultants, under such terms and conditions as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are:
(i)  to expand outreach of on-going successful micro-finance programs and 
improve their operations; (ii) to enhance the financial sustainability of PKSF and 
Micro-Finance Institutions; (iii) to enhance the role of PKSF for lending and 
mobilizing increased levels of financial support for micro-finance programs; (iv) to 
assist in the institutional strengthening of PKSF and Micro-Finance Institutions; and 
(v) to strengthen linkages between Micro-Finance Institutions and the formal financial 
sector.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Micro-credit
 
The financing through PKSF and POs of Micro-credits to Beneficiaries.
Part B:
Technical Assistance
 
1.
Carrying out a program of institutional development of PKSF and POs in the 
areas, inter alia, of auditing and financial standards, financial sustainability, 
staff development, impact evaluation and computerization through the construction of 
an office building for PKSF and the provision of equipment, training and consultants' 
services.
2.
Carrying out of studies and training for:
 
(a)
establishing an appropriate regulatory framework and institutions for 
regulating MFIs engaged in deposit taking/lending; and
(b)
developing financial, institutional and regulatory measures to assist 
MFIs in becoming formal financial institutions, and strengthening the linkage of MFIs 
with the formal financial sector.
*     *     *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
General
 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Page  9
Part B:
Procurement Procedures
 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
 
Except as provided in paragraph 2 of this Part, goods and all civilv works for 
Part B.1 of the Project shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
 
Goods for Part B.1 of the Project estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent 
per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
3.
Procurement by Beneficiaries
 
Goods and works to be financed under Parts A of the Project shall be procured 
under local private sector or commercial practices in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 3.12 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Procurement Planning
 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
 
With respect to: (a) each contract for civil works under Part B.1 of the Project 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, and (b) each contract for goods 
under Part B.1 of the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of $75,000 or more, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. 
3.
Post Review
 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the
Association.  Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the 
Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Association shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts 
for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each.  
However, said exceptions to prior Association review shall not apply to (a) the terms 
of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Association, (d) 
amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract 
value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent 
or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Page  10
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall submit to the Association all information, statements and 
reports promptly after receiving them from PKSF pursuant to the provisions of the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
2.
The Borrower shall cause Bangladesh Bank to: (a) carry out the studies under 
Part B.2 of the Project under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association; (b) 
by December 31, 1997 submit  to the Association for review the completed studies 
together with a time-bound plan of action for implementing the recommendations of such 
study; and (c) taking into account the Association's comments thereon,  implement such 
plan of action in a manner satisfactory to the Association.
3.
The Borrower shall:
 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, by August 31, 1998, a report integrating the results of 
the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to subparagraph (a) above, 
on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the  objectives 
thereof during the period following such date;
(c)
review with the Association, by October 31, 1998, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) above, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association's views on the matter; and
(d)
cause PKSF, at the request of the Association, to exchange views with the 
Association with regard to the performance of its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
SCHEDULE 5
Procedures, Terms and Conditions and Implementation
Arrangements Under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
for Providing Sub-loans in order to Finance Micro-credits
Part A:
Subsidiary Loan Agreement
 
1.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
shall, inter alia, provide that:
(a)
The Borrower shall onlend a portion of the proceeds of the Credit as a 
Subsidiary Loan to PKSF for purposes of carrying out Part A of the Project.  Such 
Subsidiary Loan shall be denominated in Takas. Interest shall be payable on the 
principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at 
a simple interest rate of 1% per annum.  The amortization period shall be 20 years 
with a grace period of 5 years for each disbursement from the proceeds of the Credit 
onlent to PKSF as a Subsidiary Loan.  Prepayment shall be permitted at any time 
without penalty.  The foreign exchange risk shall be borne by the Borrower.
(b)
The Borrower shall provide a portion of the proceeds of the credit to 
PKSF as a grant for purposes of carrying out Part B.1 of the Project.  Toward that end 
PKSF shall undertake a program of institutional development aimed at enhancing 
financial sustainability, strengthening accountability, improving staff skills and 
establishing an impact evaluation program.
(c)
PKSF declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project and to 
maintaining its financial viability, and shall conduct its operations and affairs in 
accordance with sound financial standards and practices, with qualified and 
experienced management and in accordance with its Memorandum and Articles of 
Association and its Statement of Policy.
(d)
PKSF shall establish and maintain satisfactory procedures and operational 
polices for supervision and monitoring of Sub-loans and Micro-credits in order to 
Page  11
ensure the achievement of the objectives of the Project, and shall maintain a loan 
recovery rate of 98% on a quarterly basis.  Where, however, such recovery rate is not 
achieved in exceptional situations of natural calamities or emergencies, PKSF shall 
take such measures, satisfactory to the Association and the Borrower, to promptly 
restore such recovery rate.
(e)
PKSF shall ensure that the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan shall be 
utilized to make Sub-loans to POs  under Sub-loan Agreements for financing 
Micro-credits in accordance with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set 
forth or referred to in Part B of this Schedule.
(f)
PKSF shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and 
each Sub-loan  Agreement in such manner as to:
(i)
protect the interests of the Borrower and PKSF;
 
(ii)
comply with its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
and such Sub-loan  Agreement; and
(iii)
achieve the purposes of Part A of the Project.
 
(g)
PKSF shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement and each Sub-loan Agreement.  Except as the Borrower shall otherwise agree, 
PKSF shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of assigning, 
amending, abrogating or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any Sub-loan 
Agreement or any provision of any such Agreement.
(h)
PKSF shall, at the request of the Borrower, exchange views with the 
Association with regard to the performance of its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(i)
PKSF shall promptly inform the Borrower of any condition which interferes 
or threatens to interfere with the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit or the 
performance by the PKSF of its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.  The 
Borrower and PKSF shall consult and take such measures as may be necessary in order to 
overcome such condition.
(j)
PKSF shall maintain procedures and records adequate to monitor and record 
the progress of Parts A and B.1 of the Project and to reflect in accordance with 
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations and financial 
condition of PKSF.  PKSF shall have such records for each Fiscal Year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Borrower.  PKSF shall furnish to the 
Borrower, as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after the 
end of each such Fiscal Year, a certified copy of the report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and  in such detail, including such other information on such 
records and audit thereof as the Borrower shall from time to time reasonably request. 
Such report shall include the auditor's opinions on, inter alia, quality of PKSF's 
general accounting practices, adequacy of MIS and internal audit/control systems, 
adequacy of loan classification and provisioning policies, accuracy of loan recovery 
rates and overdues, and accuracy of the periodic reports submitted pursuant to 
paragraph (m) of this Part.
(k)
PKSF shall provide to the Borrower all information, statements and 
reports in respect of the Subsidiary Loan, Sub-loans and Micro-credits as the Borrower 
shall reasonably request.
(l)
PKSF shall provide to the Borrower: (i) quarterly and annual reports on 
the progress of carrying out Parts A and B.1 of the Project and include in these 
reports, inter alia, information on agreed project performance indicators; and (ii) 
prior to the start of each Fiscal Year, its approved business plan outlining detailed 
financial, operational, and institutional plans for the following Fiscal Year and 
broad goals in these areas for the remaining Fiscal Years until the completion of the 
Project.
(m)
PKSF shall provide to the Borrower periodic reports indicating the 
aggregate amount of financing provided to POs during such period based on the reports 
provided by POs pursuant to paragraph 2 (k) of Part B of this Schedule, the sources of 
such financing and the amount to be financed as Sub-loans from the proceeds of the 
Subsidiary Loan.
(n)
The Borrower shall provide to PKSF a loan equivalent to $10,000,000 from 
Page  12
its own resources over a period of two years in two equal installments at the 
beginning of each Fiscal Year commencing with Fiscal Year 1996-97.  Such loan shall be 
denominated in Takas. Interest shall be payable on the principal amount of the loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a simple interest rate of 1%.  The 
amortization period shall be 20 years with a grace period of 5 years for each loan 
installment.  Prepayment shall be permitted at any time without penalty.  The foreign 
exchange risk shall be borne by the Borrower.
(o)
The Borrower shall suspend or terminate the right of PKSF to the use of 
the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan upon:
(i)
failure by PKSF to perform any of its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, or upon notice by the Association to 
the Borrower that it intends to exercise any of its remedies under 
Sections 6.02 and 7.01 of the General Conditions or Article V of 
this Agreement; or
(ii)
upon notice by PKSF that it intends to terminate the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement, or upon the actual termination of the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement, whichever occurs first.
2.
Each request by the Borrower or on behalf of the Borrower for authorization to 
make withdrawals from the Credit Account for onlending the proceeds thereof to PKSF as 
a Subsidiary Loan shall be based on the reports required to be provided by PKSF and 
POs  pursuant to the provisions of Part A.1 (m) and Part B.2 (k) respectively, of this 
Schedule, and contain a summary description of such reports and such other information 
as the Association shall request.
Part B:
Sub-loans
 
1.
PKSF shall utilize the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan to make Sub-loans to POs 
that meet and maintain the following eligibility criteria:
(a)
Small/Medium PO:
 
(i)
the PO  has a demonstrated track record of running a successful 
Micro-credit program, or, in the review of PKSF, demonstrates the 
potential to do so after technical assistance and capacity 
building;
(ii)
the minimum loan recovery rate is 95%;
 
(iii)
the PO possesses adequate manpower for intensive supervision, and 
has a good management committee; and
(iv)
the PO is using a standard double entry accounting system, or is 
willing to adopt it with PKSF's assistance.
(b)
Large PO:
 
(i)
the PO  is operating a successful Micro-credit program for a 
minimum of 5 years;
(ii)
it has at least 100,000 borrowers with a strong potential for 
expansion;
(iii)
it has at least Tk. 100 million of equity (including foreign 
grants, surplus etc.) of its own on the program;
(iv)
the debt-equity ratio does not exceed 2.5:1;
 
(v)
it maintains a strong and transparent accounting, MIS and internal 
audit system;
(vi)
it has its accounts audited by a reputable external auditor on an 
annual basis; and
(vii)
the minimum loan recovery rate is 95%.
 
2.
PKSF shall enter into a Sub-loan  Agreement with each PO for making Sub-loans 
and such Agreement shall, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, provide, 
inter alia, that:
Page  13
(a)
PKSF shall make Sub-loans to the PO for purposes of financing 
Micro-credits under Part A of the Project.  Such Sub-loans shall be denominated in 
Takas.  Service charge payable on the principal amount of the Sub-loan withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time and the period of amortization shall at a minimum be as 
follows:
(i)
Small/Medium POs: maturity of three years and differentiated 
service charges as follows: (A) 3% service charge for POs when 
cumulative loan sanction from PKSF does not exceed Tk. 5 million; 
(B) 4% service charge for POs when cumulative loan sanction from 
PKSF exceeds Tk. 5 million but does not exceed Tk. 75 million; and 
(C) 4.5% service charge for POs when cumulative loan sanction from 
PKSF exceeds Tk. 75 million; and
(ii)
Large POs : the service charge shall be 5% and PKSF shall decide 
on the maturity and grace period, based on a review of the POs  
ability to repay from its surplus and reflows.
(b)
The PO declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project and shall 
conduct its operations and affairs in accordance with sound financial standards and 
practices, with qualified and experienced management and in accordance with its 
Charter.
(c)
The PO shall establish and maintain satisfactory procedures and 
operational polices for supervision and monitoring of Micro-credits so as to ensure 
the achievement of the objectives of the Project. 
(d)
The PO shall ensure that the proceeds of Sub-loans shall be utilized to 
finance Micro-credits in accordance with the proceduresand on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in Part C of this Schedule.
(e)
The PO shall exercise its rights under each Sub-loan Agreement in such 
manner as to:
(i)
protect the interests of the Borrower, PKSF and the PO;
 
(ii)
comply with its obligations under the Sub-loan Agreement; and
 
(iii)
achieve the purposes of Part A of the Project.
 
(f)
The PO shall duly perform all its obligations under the Sub-loan  
Agreement.  Except as PKSF shall otherwise agree, PO shall not take or concur in any 
action which would have the effect of assigning, amending, abrogating or waiving the 
Sub-loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
(g)
The PO  shall, at the request of PKSF, exchange views with PKSF with 
regard to the performance of its obligations under the Sub-loan Agreement and other 
matters relating to the purposes of the Micro-credit.
(h)
The PO shall promptly inform PKSF of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit or the 
performance by the PO of its obligations under the Sub-loan Agreement.
(i)
The PO shall maintain procedures and records adequate to monitor and 
record the progress of Part A of the Project and to reflect in accordance with 
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations and financial 
condition of the PO.
(j)
The PO shall provide to PKSF all records, documents and information in 
respect of Sub-loans, Micro-credits and other activities as PKSF shall request.
(k)
The PO shall provide to PKSF at regular intervals specified by PKSF 
reports indicating the aggregate amount of financing provided under its Micro-credit 
program during such interval, the sources of such financing, and the amount to be 
financed as Micro-credits from
the proceeds of Sub-loans.
(l)
The POs shall provide to PKSF their medium term business plan within the 
framework of which Sub-loans shall be made.
(m)
PKSF shall suspend or terminate the right of the PO to the use of the 
Page  14
proceeds of Sub-loans upon:
(i)
failure by such PO to perform its obligations under the Sub-loan 
Agreement, or upon notice by the Association to the Borrower that 
it intends to exercise any of its remedies under Sections 6.02 and 
7.01 of the General Conditions or Article V of the Development 
Credit Agreement; or
(ii)
upon notice by the PO that it intends to terminate the Sub-loan 
Agreement, or upon the actual termination of the Sub-loan 
Agreement, whichever occurs first.
Part C:
Micro-credit
 
1.
The PO shall utilize the proceeds of Sub-loans to finance Micro-credits to 
Beneficiaries for Eligible Activities.
2.
Micro-credits shall be denominated in Takas.  The interest rate on Micro-credits 
and their maturity, as well as other terms and conditions and procedures shall be 
determined by the PO in accordance with its usual practices.
3.
The PO shall ensure that Beneficiaries purchase goods and services to be 
financed out of the proceeds of Micro-credits in accordance with the provisions of 
Part B.3 of Section I of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
4.
The PO  shall ensure that Beneficiaries provide all relevant records, documents 
and information in respect of Micro-credits and Eligible Activities as the PO shall 
reasonably request.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) (i) 
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $8,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association 
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to $3,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to 
or exceed the equivalent of SDR 20,000,000.
2.
(a)
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
(b)
Each payment (including a payment under a letter of credit) for an 
eligible expenditure in an amount equal to or less than the equivalent of $250,000 
shall be made exclusively out of the Special Account.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Page  15
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify  by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied 
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special  Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account:
(i)
was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or
(ii)
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, 
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) 
provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; 
or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to 
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible 
or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
Page  16
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
