Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CR .  16 2 3 -r
Report No. 5523-IN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
WEST BENGAL - FOURTH POPULATION PROJECT
June 17, 1985
Population, Health and Nutrition Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its centents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank auhorization.



CURRENCY ZQUIVALENT
US$1.00       =       Rupees (Rs) 12.00
GOVERNHENT OF INDIA FISCAL YEAR   April 1 -March 31
MEASURE (METRIC SYSTEM)
1 meter (m)     =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km) =  0.62 miles (mi)



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS
ADIED          Assistant District Health Education Officer
AIIEPH         AU-India Institute of Hygiene and Public Health
AIR            All-India Radio
A1(            Auxiliary Nurse Midwife
B.Ed.          Bachelor of Education Degree
BEE            Block Extensiou Educator
CBR            Crude Birth Rate
CDR            Crude Death Rate
CHC            Cobumity Health Center
CKD            Chief Medical Officer
CMS            Central Medical Store
CTI            Central Training Institute
DHEO           District Health Education Officer
DES            Director of Health Services
EPI            Expanded Program of Imminization
&NM            General Nurse-Midwife
GOI            Goverzmmnt of India
cm             GDnvermet of West Bengal
EAF            Health Assistant (Female)
EHAM           Health Assistant (Male)
EED            Health Education Officer
HFWTC          Health and Family Welfare Training Center
ICE            International Competitive Bidding
ICDS           Integrated Child Development Services
IEC            Information, Education and Comnimication
IUD            Intra-Uterine Device
LCB            Local Competitive Bidding
mCm            Maternal and Child Health
nEs            Managenent Information and Evaluation System
mH             Ministry of Health
MOHFP          Ministry of Health and Family Planning
1I)FW          Ministry of Health and Family Welfare
ENM            Multipurpose Worker Female
mPWm           Multipurpose Worker Male
11T            Medical Termination of Pregnancy
NIElCi         National institute of Health and Family Welfare
NRR            Net Reproductive Rate
OTC            Orientation Training Camps
PHC            Primary Health Center
PWD            Public Works Department
RH             Rural Hospitai
SBHI           State Bureau of Health Intelligence
SFWO           State Family Welfare Officer
SHC            Subsidiary Health Center
SHTO           State Health Transport Organisation
SIHNW          State Institute of Health and Family Welfare
SRS            Sample Registration System
SwO            Social Welfare Officer
TFR            Total Fertility Rate
T&V            Training and Visit
VHG            Village Health Guide
This document has a resticd distibuion and nmy be used by repients only in the prformance of
teir official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be didosed without World Bank authorization.



DEFINITIOS
Current Contracep-      Proportion of eligible couples estimated to be currently uslng a
tive Prevalence        method of (modern) contraception.
Effective Contracep-    Current contraceptive prevalence adjusted for the relative effec-
tive Prevalence        tiveness of contraceptive methods (sterilization and oral con-
traceptives are assumed to be 1OOS effective, IUDs 951 and con-
ventional contraceptives 501); abays somewhat lower than current
prevalence.
Crude Birth Rate        Number of live births per year per 1,000 population.
Crude Death Rate        Number of deaths per year per 1,000 population.
Rate of Natural         Diff rence between crude birth and crude death rates; usually ex-
Increase               preased as a percentage.
Rate of Population      Rate of natural increase adjusted for (net) mdgration, expressed as
Growth                 a percentage of the total population in a given year.
Age Specific            Number of live births to women in a given age group  per 1.000 women
Fertility Rate         in the saoe age group, in a given year. It is usually calculated
for five-year age groups.
Total Fertility         The average number of live children that would be born per moan if
Rate                   she were to live to the end of her childbearLng years, and bear
children according to a given set of age-specific fertility rates.
The Total Fertility Rate often serves as an estimate of the average
number of children per fatdly.
Net Reproduction        The number of live-born daughters a cobort cif femles would bear
Rate                   under a given fertility schedule and a givenT set of survival prob-
abilities, from birth to the end of the childbearing years.
Infant Mortality        Annual number of deaths of infants under one year per 1,000 live
Rate                   births during the sae year.
Maternal Mortality      Number of msternal deaths attributable to pregnancy, childbirth, or
Rate                   puerperal complications (i.e., within six weeks following child-
birth), per 10,000 live births.
Life Expectancy         Average number of years expected to be lived by children born in a
given year if mortality rates for each age/sex group resin the same
in the future.
Age Dependency          Ratio of population 14 years and under plus population 65 years and
Ratio                  over to population aged 15 to 64 years.
Equivalent              An index of overall family planning performace calculated by adding
Sterilizations         the number of sterilizations performed over a period of tin., one-
third the number of IUDs inserted, one-eighteenth the musier of
equivalent conventional contraceptive users (condoms, diaphragms,
etc.), and one-ninth the number of equivalent oral contraceptive
users.  These weights are derived from an assessoent of numbers of
births averted by different contraceptive methods in India.
Equivalent              For oral contraceptives and condom, the tmubers of equivalent users
Acceptors              are calculated as the number of oral contraceptive cycles distributed
divided by 13 and the number of condom divided by 72; used by the
GOt to report achievements for these methods, rather than the numbers
of individual acceptors.
Dai                     Traditional Birth Attendant.
Panchayat               A local government body usually covering a large village or several
ssaller villages
Tehsil/Taluk            Subdivisions of districts.



INDIA
STAFF APPRAISAL OF A FOURTH POPULATION PROJECT - WEST BENGAL
BASIC DATA1/
Total Area                                                     3,287,263 km2
Total Population (March 1981)                                  685.2 million
Density per km2 (March 1981)                                   216
Rate of Natural Increase of the Population (1971-81)           2.25%/annum
Crude Birth Rate (1982)                                        34/1000
Crude Death Rate (1982)                                        12/1000
Life Expectancy at Birth (1982)                                55.0
Infant Mortality Rate (1981)                                   110/1000
Maternal Mortality Rate (1972)                                 50/10,000
Urban Population as Percent of Total Population (1981)         23.3%
Adult Literacy Rate (1981)
Males                                                      47Z
Females                                                    25%
Primary School Enrollment (1980)
Males                                                     100%
Females                                                    66%
Age Structure (1981)
0-14                                                       39%
15-60                                                       55%
60 and over                                                 6%
Population per Physician (1977)                                3,135
Population per Nurse (1976)                                    6,320
Current Contraceptive Prevalence (1984)                        32.3%
Effective Contraceptive Prevalence (1984)                      29.2%
Per Caput Gross National Product (1982)                       US$260
'I Latest official GOI estimates.



INDIA
FOURTH POPULATION PROJECT - WEST BENGAL
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            India, acting by its President.
Beneficiary:         The State of West Bengal.
Anount:               SDR 51.5 million (US$51 million equivalent).
Terms:                Standard.
Relending            As part of Central assistance by the Government of
Terms:              India (GOI) to the State for development projects
on terms and conditions applicable at the time. At
present, Central assistance for health and family
welfare activities is provided on a grant basis.
GOI will bear the exchange risk.
Project               The project would have as its major objectives a
Description:       reduction of fertility and infant, child and maternal
mortality in the State of West Bengal. It would
assist the Government of West Bengal (GWB) in ac-
celerating the development of its family welfare
program generally in the State and specifically
in four selected districts with a total population
(1985) of approximately 12.2 million.   It would
comprise the following major components: (a) service
delivery; (b) demand generation, including informa-
tion, education, and comzmnication activities and
population education; (c) training; (d) monitoring
and evaluation; and (e) project management.
Project risks pertain to the difficulties of persuad-
ing some 2 million couples to change their attitudes
toward the acceptance of family planning and maternal
and child health practices aimed at improving the
health of children and limiting family size. In view
of the experience gained from previous Bank Group
projects in India, and th2 project support to be pro-
vided by GWB and GOI, risks associated with project
implementation are expected to be minimal.  With the
strengthening of GWB's ability to design and implement
more effective operational strategies, together with
the considerably expanded demand generation, achieve-
ment of projected levels of contraceptive prevalence
should be possible.



Estimated Costs:                          Local        Foreign        Total
-( (US$ Millions)    --
Service Delivery               44.1            4.4         48.5
Demand Generation               4.7            0.3          5.0
Training                        8.7            0.8          9.5
Monitoring and Evaluation        1.1           0.1          1.2
Project Management              4.0            0.2          4.2
Total Base Cost              62.6            5.8         68.4
Physical Contingencies           1.9           0.2          2.1
Price Contingencies             18.2            1.2        19.4
TOTAL1/                      82.7            7.2         89.9
Total net of taxes
and duties                   77.2            7.2         84.4
Financing Plan:                           Local        Foreign        Total
-===-    (US$ Millions)
IDA                            43.8            7.2         51.0
GOI Grant/
GWB Contributionsi/            38.9             -          38.9
TOTAL                        82.7            7.2         89.9
Estimated                                   (US$ Million)
Disbursement:         FY 86   FY 87   FY 88   FY 89   FY 90   FY 91   FY 92
Annual:          1.0     3.9      8.4    12.8    15.0      8.9      1.0
Cumulative:          1.0     4.9    1S.3    26.1    41.1    50.0    51.0
Rate of Return:         Not applicable.
11 Includes about US$5.5 million of taxes and duties.



STAFF APPRAISAL OF A FOURTH POPULATION PROJECT - WEST BENGAL
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.        POPULATION CHARACTERISTICS                                   1
A.    All-India Trends                                      1
B.     Project State and Districts                          3
II.       NATIONAL FAMILY WELFARE PROGRAM                             4
A.     Background, Current Policies
and Future Prospects                             4
B.     Fandly Welfare Program Organization                  6
C.     Delivery of Family Welfare Services                  7
D.     Program Support Activities                           9
E.     Program Constraints                                 10
F.     Financial Resources                                 15
G.     Bank Group Role and Strategy in India's
Population Sector                               16
III.      THE PROJECT                                                 17
A.     Concept, Design and Objectives                      17
B.     Summary Project Description                         21
C.     Detailed Description                                22
IV.       PROJECT COST, FINANCING, DISBURSEMENT AND PROCUREMENT    39
A.     Costs                                               39
B.     Financing                                           41
C.     Procurement                                         42
D.     Disbursements                                       44
E.     Accounts and Audit                                  44
V.        PRWECT IMPLEMENTATION                                      45
A.     Organization and Management                         45
B.     Mbnitoring and Reporting                            46
VI.       PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS                                 47
VII.      ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS                             48



Table of Contents (Continued)
MNS
1.        Schematic Representation of Block-Level Health Services Model
to be Implemented by the Year 2000
2.        Strategy Paper
3.        Illustrative Performance Indicators
4.        Criteria for Location of Health and Family Welfare Facilities
5.        Illustrative List of Evaluation and Operational Research Studies
6.        Project Policy and Steering Committees
7.        Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project Files
TABLES
1.        Selected Demographic Data
2.        Population Projections, 1985-2025
3.        Selected Socio-Economic and Demographic Data for
Project Districts, West Bengal and India
4.        Population Projections under Two Assumptions of
Fertility Decline
5.        India and West Bengal : Family Welfare and Maternal and
Child Health Service Statistics, 1979/80-1983/84
6.        Project Districts : Family Planning Service Statistics,
1979/80-1983/84
7.        Health Facilities : New Coustructions
8.        Health Facilities : Improvement/Upgrading
9.        Project Districts : Projected Requirements for and
Availability of NPWFs, 1984/85-1990/91
10.       Implementation : Information, Education and Communication
11.       Implementation : Population Education
12.       Estimated Costs by Component and Year;
Estimated Costs by Expenditure Category and Year; and
Estimated Costs by Expenditure Category and Component
13.       Estimated Disbursements Schedule
CHART
1.        Project Management Organization
11        Implementation Chart - Construction
MAP
IBRD 18664 - India, Showing Location of Project Districts



I.   POPULATION CHARACTERISTICS
A.  All-India Trends
Population Size and Growth
1.01       India's 1981 census population was 685.2 million (Table 1),
second in the world only to China's. After adjustment for the estima-
ted undercountl/, the figure was close to 700 million and by mid-
1985, according to World Bank projections, will rise to 765 million.
Although the 2.25Z intercensal growth rate for 1971-81 is modest com-
pared to that of many developing countries, the sheer numbers added
each year (an estimated 16 million annually over the 1980s) represent
a serious constraint for India's development effort.  The 1984 World
Bank projection indicates that, assuming fertility will fall to re-
placement level by 2010, the population will rise to over 1.36 billion
by 2025 (Table 2).
Fertility
1.02        The best estimates indicate that India's total fertility
rate (TFR) declined slowly from something over 6.0 during 1951-61 to
around 5.8 in 1972 and since then has declined more rapidly to about
4.8 in 1983. Rising female age at marriage has made some contribu-
tion, but a fall in marital fertility is primarily responsible for the
decline; this can be attributed in large measure to the family plan-
ning program, which has been instrumental in increasing effective con-
traceptive prevalence from 11% in 1971 to 291 in 1984. The national
figures mask substantial variations among the States: reported TFRs
ranged from 3.0 in Kerala to 5.8 in Uttar Pradesh (1980), while effec-
tive contraceptive prevalence varied from 15Z in Uttar Pradesh to 47Z
in Maharashtra (1984).  The crude birth rate (CBR) is estimated to
have fallen to about 34 by 1982, although decline In the CBR has in-
evitably slowed in recent years as a reduced number of births has
meant that women of childbearing age have constituted a larger propor-
tion of the total population.
Mortality
1.03      The long-term decline in mortality in India has slowed over
the last several decades, with the crude death rate (CDR) about 13 and
life expectancy edging towards 55 (1982).  Infant mortality was esti-
mated at about 135 in the early 1970s, although by the latter part of
the decade the Sample Registration System (SRS) reported fairly sig-
nificant declines in mortality, including infant mortality, which fell
to around 110 by 1981. The chief causes of infant mortality are known
to include respiratory and diarrheal diseases and neo-natal tetanus.
Greater attention to specific maternal and child health (MCR) inter-
ventions is required if mortality declines are to be sustained.
1I Census of India 1981, Report on Post Em ration Cbeck, Paper 4 of 1982.



-2-
Age and Sex Distribution
1.04      The population of India is a youthful one, with about 40Z of
the population currently under the age of 15. India is one of the few
countries In the world still characterized '6y higher mortality rates
for females at every age until about 40, with the result that there
are more males than females In the population (Table 3). Traditional
preferences for sale offspring as well as discrimination against
females in terms of access to food and medical care appear to under-
lie this phenomenon, which is more pronounced in the northern than in
the southern States.
Urbanization
1.0i      The population was 232 urban in 1981 (Table 3), up from 20%
in 1971, and projections Indicate that urbanization will exceed 30%
by 2001. Although this is not a particularly rapid rate of urbaniza-
tion for a developing country, In absolute terms it Implies a doubling
of urban numbers, from about 165 million in 1981 to 330 million by
2001. For India's cities and towns, whose infrastructures are already
strained, providing for this additional burden represents a task of
staggering proportions.
Consequences of Population Growth
1.06      The links between rapid population growth in India and cur-
rent difficulties in the areas of urbanization and housing, pressure
on natural resources, and literacy and education are discussed In
Vol. II, Chapter 4 of Situation and Prospects of the Indian Economy -
a Medium Term Perspective (Report No. 4962-IN dated April 16, 1984).
The consequences of future population growth for India can be con-
sidered from a variety of soclal and economic perspectives. Table 4
illustrates the consequences for three groups of particular concern to
the family welfare program: young children 0-4, women 15-34 (the prime
childbearing ages) and elementary school children (6-11). Two alter-
natives for the achievement of replacement fertility (NRR-1) are con-
sidered, by 2000 and by 2010; the first approxisates the current
Government of Indla (GOI) goal whlle the second represents the World
Bank's present "best guess' projection. The results indicate that If
through program and related efforts replacement fertility could be
achieved 10 years earlier than anticipated In the World Bank alterna-
tive, the consequences would be substantial. Achievement of replace-
ment fertility by 2000 rather than 2010 would mean reductions of 6,
21, and 10 millions in the numbers of young children, women of prime
childbearing ages and elementary school children respectively.



-3-
Compared to current (1985) numbers, replacement fertility by 2000
would mean that by 2015 the number of children 0-4 would fall by 12%
and the number of elementary school children by 2Z, while if replace-
ment fertility were not reached until 2010 the number of young chil-
dren would fall by only 6X and the number of school children would
rise by 7Z. Even under the optimistic GOI assumption the number of
women 15-34 would rise by 50%, but under the World Bank alternative
the increase would be more than 80X. The World Bank alternative would
also mean that by 2015 India would have to construct and staff approx-
lmately 85,000 additional family mlf are subcenters to achieve the
current target of one per 5,000 population coverage, while only 71,000
new subcenters would be required under the G00 projection.
B.  The Project State and Districts
1.07      The project will be Implemented in West Bengal.  West Bengal
Is India's fourth most populous State (population 54.6 million  in
1981), although In terms of area It ranks only eleventh among the 22
States (Table 3).  The resulting high population density (average 615
persons per sq. km in 1981) is second only to Kerala (655) among the
States.  Although Calcutta, the capital of West Bengal, is India's
largest city, the proportion of urban population in the State in 1981
(26%) was only slightly greater than for all-India (23Z), and the
growth of urban population between 1971 and 1981 (32X) was substan-
tially less than that for all-India (46%). Overall literacy and female
literacy (41Z and 30% in 1981) are somewhat higher than in India as a
whole (36% and 25Z in 1981). According to the census, 33Z of females
5-9 were enrolled in school in 1981 (32% for all-India). Crude birth
and death rates for 1982 were reported as 34 and 11 respectively, both
slightly lower than the comparable all-India rates. Reliable estimates
of fertility are not available for West Bengal, although a  decline in
the child-woman ratio between 1971 and 1981 suggests that fertility
has fallen over the period. Census figures indicate 38% of the popu-
lation of West Bengal was below the age of 15 In 1981, as compared to
39% for all-India.
1.08       The State's family welfare program (Table 5) has achieved a
level of effective contraceptive prevalence (28X in 1984) close to the
all-India average (29Z) despite poor subcenter coverage (47% of the
estimated requirements as against 64% for all-India in 1982).   The
Indian family planning program has relied heavily on sterilization in
recent years (para. 2.18), and this is especially true in West Bengal:
in 1984 sterilization accounted for 94% of effective prevalence and
64% of new/equivalent acceptors In West Bengal, as against 86% and 43%
for all-India.



-4-
i.0^      Four districts - Bankura, Birbhum, Bardhaman, and Puruliya -
have been selected for infrastructural strengthening under the project
(para. 3.05).   They form a contiguous block in Bardhauan Division
bordering Bihar State and together constitute 20% of the State's popu-
lation.   Three of thm  are overwhelmingly rural (about 92X); only
Bardhaaan has a substantial urban population (29%). All four districts
have proportions of scheduled caste and scheduled tribe populations
(average 35Z) higher than the State average (28%), while female liter-
acy is exactly the State average. Effective contraceptive prevalence
in these districts ranged from 31X to 38% in 1984, somewhat higher
than the State average (Table 6). As in the State as a whole, the
family planning program in the project districts relies heavily on
sterilization, with 95Z of effective contraceptive prevalence and 64%
of new/equivalent acceptors in 1984 due to sterilization.   Existing
subcenter coverage varies widely, from about 26% of requirements in
Bardhaman and Puruliya districts to 54% and 89% in Bankura and Birbhum
districts respectively (average of 46% for the four districts). Never-
theless, the number of equivalent sterilizations per thousand popula-
tion achieved in the four districts in 1983/84 was quite similar:
about 8.5 in Bankura, Birbhum and Bardhaman districts and 6.5 in
Puruliya district.
II.   NATIONAL FAMILY WELFARE PROGRAM
A. Background, Current Policies and Future Prospects
Background
2.01      India was the first developing country to recognise a poten-
tial population problem  and in 1952 inaugurated a national family
planning program aimed at slowing population growth. Serious efforts
to implenent a nationwide outreach program were begun in the mid-1960s
but encountered a series of setbacks. Neither a campaign to popular-
ize intra-uterine devices (IUDs) nor a mass vasectomy camp effort
achieved sustained success, and when family planning emerged as a
political issue in the aftermath of the 1975-77 Emergency period, it
was widely feared that the program had been seriously comDromised.
However, all of India's governments since 1977 have reiterated support
for the program's basic goals, and lost momentum has been recovered.
Since 1977 family planning and MCH have been combined under a redesig-
nated Department of Family Welfare with the objective of integrating
the delivery of family planning and MCH services. Numbers of new fam-
ily planning acceptors are currently at record levels, and over the
last three years (1980-84) effective contraceptive prevalence has ris-
en an encouraging average of 2.2 percentage points per year to 29.2%.



-5-
Although the program continues to rely on sterilization (para. 2.18),
figures for 1983/84 indicate that government efforts to promote use of
temporary methods have had a discernable effect.
Population Policy
2.02       The GOI clearly and firmly supports a national population
policy, the goals of which are the reduction of fertility through the
implementation of a family planning program and the support of social
strategies known to contribute to fertility decline. Family planning
is an essential part of the Governaent's overall health strategy
"Health for All by 2000 A.D.". The strategy calls for the restruc-
turing and reorientation of the health care system to achieve objer-
tives that include the integration of family planning and basic health
services; emphasis on promotive and preventive rather than curative
care, particularly those aspects designed to protect and promote the
health of mothers and children; emphasis on provision of services to
those currently underserved, particularly in rural areas; and the in-
volvement of local communities.
2.03      With respect to family planning, the Government supports the
adoption of contraception on an entirely voluntary basis and the equal
promotion of all contraceptive methods, male and female, the choice to
be left to individual couples.  The National Health Policy document
(1984) calls for the program to achieve the following demographic
targets by 2000:
Crude Birth Rate                       21 (per 1000 population)
Crude Death Rate                        9 (per 1000 population)
Infant Mortality Rate            below 60 (per 1000 live births)
Life Expectancy                        64 (years)
Net Reproduction Rate                   1 (female child per woman)
Immunization Coverage            above 85%
Effective Contraceptive
Prevalence Rate                       60Z
2.04       The GOI is currently utilizing international assistance to
undertake family welfare projects (based on a "Model Plan" derived
from the experience gained from the first Bank-assisted population
project) in selected districts of 14 States ("Area Projects") that
are intended to achieve targeted levels for facilities, staffing and
training within five years.   These projects are designed to bring
about measurable improvements in health status and rintraceptive
prevalence as well as to provide insights into program improvements
that might be more widely adopted.



-6-
Future Prospects
2.05        The progress of the family welfare program over the past
several years, while quite encouraging, provides no grounds for com-
placency. On the one hand four States (Maharashtra, Gujarat, Punjab
and Haryana) have achieved effective contraceptive prevalence of at
least 40%. There is as yet no sign of the 'plateau' phenomenon that
has slowed the rise of contraceptive prevalence in some developing
countries, and if everage 1980-84 achievements can be maintained, the
GOI goal of 60% effective contraceptive prevalence can be reached by
1998. On the other hand, the northern band of States (Bihar, Uttar
Pradesh and IRajasthan), which constitutes 30% of India's population,
continues to lag far behind the rest of the country. The constraints
responsible for the current low levels of effective prevalence of
these States (15X-18% in 1984) constitute the largest stumbling block
to continued overall program progress. Many of these constraints can
be identified (paras. 2.16-2.25). The GOI and the Government of Uttar
Pradesh will undertake a management survey in May/June 1985 that will
focus on these difficulties in the State and recommend possible reme-
dial measures.
2.06       While it is clear that in the short term it is contracep-
tive prevalence that will determine the pace of fertility decline,
planners recognize the potential longer term effects of other social
measures.   The most important of these are the education of females
and population education.  The well-documented correlations between
female education on the one hand and age at marriage, contraceptive
use and infant mortality on the other, suggest that immediate efforts
to increase female school enrollment could have a significant impact
on these factors, and through them on fertility, that would begin to
become apparent in 10 to 15 years. Population education is the natural
complement of the more narrowly targeted information, education and
communication (IEC) efforts within the family welfare program.  The
Government has recognized the importance of including population
education within regular school curricula in all the States and is
currently utilizing UNFPA assistance for this purpose.  College and
university students, especially future teachers, as well as adults
participating in non-formal education programs constitute additional
target groups that also should be reached by population education
efforts (para. 3.41).
B.  Family Welfare Program Organization
2.07       Policy-naking for the family welfare program is the joint
responsibility of the States and the Central Government, while program
implementation is primarily the responsibility of the States aud Union



-7-
Territories. Since the family welfare program is considered of high
national iiportance, it is funded entirely by the Central Government.
The central Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MOHFW) is respon-
sible for overall program direction, guidance and evaluation. Within
the Ministry, the Department of Family Welfare is headed by an Addi-
tional Secretary to the GOI.   In each major State there is a Regional
Director for Health and Family Welfare responsible to the Centre for
coordinating with and advising State governments on program implemen-
tation as well as feeding back information.
2.08      In West Bengal the Director of Health Services (DES), who is
ex-officio Secretary to Government, is the technical head of the
health and family welfare program. He is assisted by the State Family
Welfare Officer (SFWO) supported by Assistant Directors. There are 16
districts in West Bengal, but two have been split for administrative
purposes because of their large populations, resulting in 18 health
and family welfare districts.  At district level, health and family
welfare services are under the charge of a Chief Nedical Officer (CMO)
assisted by district family welfare officers.
C. Delivery of Family Welfare Services
2.09       The draft Seventh Plan calls for a pattern of infrastruc-
ture and staffing, to be implemented uniformly in all the States,
which continues Sixth Plan efforts to expand and strengthen service
delivery in rural areas (see Annex I for a schematic representation).
The pattern will be India-wide, although the extent of the implemen-
tation of the norms in different States will depend on existing pat-
terns of service delivery, which are uneven.  Overall, however, the
pattern represents a rationalization and expansion both desirable and
feasible. Even so, it does not approach levels which could be regard-
ed as entirely satisfactory, particularly at the peripheral level
where coverage will be only half that regarded internationally as
ideal for effective service.  A three-tiered structure of (a) sub-
centers, (b) new primary health centers (new PHCs), equivalent to old
subsidiary health centers (SHCs), and (c) old PHCs, of which two in
four will be upgraded to community health centers (CHCs), will serve
approximately 5,000, 30,000, and 100,000 population respectively.
(Smaller populations will be covered in hilly, tribal or sparsely
populated  areas.)    Old  and  new  (Seventh  Plan)  terminology  are
summarised below:



-8-
Population                    Old                    New (Seventh Plan)
Coverage                      Terminology           Terminology
5,000                      Subcenter              Subcenter
30,000                      Subsidiary            New Primary Health
Health Center         Center (New PHC)
(SHC)
100,000                      Primary Health        Old Primary Health
Center (PHC)          Center (Old PHC)
Community Health      Community Health
Center (CHC)          Center (CHC)
(1 in 4)              (1 in 2)
The supervisory ratios therefore will be approximately five separate
subcenters under one new PHC and two new PHCs under one CHC/old PHC.
A subcenter will be staffed by one female and one male multipurpose
worker (MPWF/MPWM).  A new PHC will be under the charge of a medical
officer and staffed by male and female health assistants (HAMs/HAFs)
responsible for the supervision of the multipurpose workers posted at
the subcenters under the new PHC2/. An old PHC will be staffed by
three medical officers, three nurses, a block extension educator
(BEE), pharmacist, laboratory technician, statistical clerk, male and
female health assistants and male and female MPWs. CHCs will provide
specialist services in pediatrics, surgery, and obstet-rics/gynecology.
2.10      Under a GOI program int-roduced in 1975 (although still im-
perfectly implemented), the delivery of family planning and MCH servi-
ces is integrated at all levels and is carried out primarily by male
and female M4PWs. Female MPWs are the linchpin of the family welfare
program, providing MCH services to mothers and children in their homes
and at subcenter clinics, conducting deliveries, conveying family
planning information, providing conventional contraceptives, and re-
cruiting acceptors for IUD insertion and sterilization. MPWs support
village health guides (VEGs) and trained dais (traditional birth at-
tendants) at the village level. VHGs are selected by their comimni-
ties, given training by CHC/PHC staff in basic preventive and promo-
tive health care, and paid an honorarium by government to treat minor
ailments, report communicable diseases and vital events, provide basic
health education and promote family planning acceptance.  The draft
Seventh Plan calls for enhanced dai training that will expand the role
of dais in the provision of pre- and post-natal services as well as
family planning promotion.
2/ In West Bengal multipurpose subcenter workers are referred to as health
assistants and field supervisory workers are referred to as health super-
visors.



-9-
D.   Program Support Activities
2.11      The delivery of family welfare services in all States is
supported by three major sets of activities: IEC efforts, pre-service
and in-service training, and monitoring and evaluation.
Information, Education and Communication
2.12       At CHCIPHC level, information  education and comumnication
(IEC) efforts are organized by the BEE_/. The BEE works under the
technical direction of the Assistant District Health Education Officer
(ADHEO) at sub-district level who in turn reports to the District
Health Education Officer (DHEO). IEC efforts in the past have largely
been confined to use of the mass media, although it is now recognised
that interpersonal communication is an essential component of success-
ful demand generation. A variety of constraints must be overcome if
IEC is to realize its potential contribution to the program (paras.
2.24-2.25).
Training
2.13      Medical officers are trained in India's extensive network of
public and private medical schools, largely along conventional western
lines with emphasis on curative rather than public or preventive
health care and with little consideration of the management functions
required of doctors in government service.   General Nurses and Public
Health Nurses are trained in hospital-based schools; they staff hospi-
tals and form the nurse-tutor cadres. The fpmale MPWs (formerly known
as  Auxiliary Nurse-Midwives  (ANKs)) receive  their basic  18-month
training at female paramedical training schools. Male MPWs received
training specific to the vertical program (malaria, leprosy, etc.) for
which they were recruited and have been given conversion courses to
enable them to adapt to the multipurpose program.  New recruits are
now given an 18-month basic training course at male paramedical
schools. Supervisors are promoted from the male and female MPW cadres
and given a six-month upgrading course.
2.14         Under the family welfare program, a number of training
institutes have been established. The National Institute for Health
and Family Welfare (NIHFW) in New Delhi is the apex institution for
health and family welfare training.    Seven existing institutions
throughout the country have been designated as Central Training Insti-
tutions (CTIs). There is need to promote better linkages between the
NIHFW and the CTIs to enable them to utilize the professional skills
available at the NIHFW more widely and effectively. Within each State,
from three to five Health and Family Welfare Training Centers (HFWTCs)
are responsible for a wide range of in-service and trainers' training.
3/ In West Bengal the BEE is termed Social Welfare Officer (SWO).



-10-
The UFWTCs have carried out iuch of the retraining entailed by the
conversion to the MPW scheme.   However, there is  need to make the
refresher training, intended to maintain and upgrade skills or intro-
duce new ideas, more systematic. A recent Bank mission examined the
situation of in-service training at national and State levels and
identified a number of problems (para. 2.22).
Monitoring and Evaluation
2.15      Responsibility for nonitoring and evaluation rests with the
Evaluation and Intelligence Division of the Family Welfare Department
at the Center, and at State l%vel with the Demographic and Evaluation
Cell. The primary function of this cell is the compilation of family
planning and MCH service statistics.   These are collated from sub-
center reports at the CHC/PHC level, further consolidated at the dis-
trict level, and then forwarded to the State Cell; figures for the en-
tire State are subsequently sent to the central MO0FW. Other health
statistics are collected in a parallel fashion and compiled at State
level by a vital statistics unit within the Health and Family Welfare
Department. Approach Papers prepared in the process of formulating
the Seventh Plan indicate the need to strengthen and integrate these
systems, supplemented by regular surveys and studies.   Almost all
evaluation projects carried out by the State Demographic and Evalua-
tion Cell are organized by the Central Evaluation and Intelligence
Division, which also contracts for evaluations with other organiza-
tions, primarily the 16 DemDgraphic Training and Research Centers
around the country.  These are attached to universities and are wholly
funded by the Government. Important program evaluation work is car-
ried out by an evaluation unit in the Planning Commission.
E.  Program Constraints
2.16      Although India has achieved a basic consensus about popula-
tion policy and encouraging family planning results over the past
several years, there is general acknowledgement that the program has
major constraints.  This judgement is supported by the substantial
variation in contraceptive prevalence among the States (from 47Z ef-
fective prevalence in Maharashtra to 15% in Uttar Pradesh in 1984).
Whilst socio-economic factors underlie these differentials, there is
increasing evidence that program management factors also play a major
role. Some of the difficulties, such as the management of peripheral
services, have parallels in other Indian development program; others
arise from the special circumstances of the family planning effort.
The nost important include inadequate coverage of services, over-
reliance on sterilization, and weaknesses in management, training,
monitoring and evaluation, and IEC capacities, all of which are
evident in West Bengal.



-1l-
Coverage of Services
2.17       The development of rural health and family welfare infra-
structure in India since Independence is, by any standards, a remark-
able achievement for a large, poor and mostly rural country: from vir-
tually nothing In 1947 to 7,400 old PHCs, 4,000 new PEC. (old SHCs)
and 83,000 subcenters in 1985. However, the proportion of the popula-
tion using a facility or reached by subcenter workers falls off rapid-
ly with increasing distance and with only 64% of subcenters required
to meet the coverage goal (one per 5,000 population) established by
1982, the need to expand infrastructure and service availability con-
tinues. Subcenters are often located in sub-standard rented premises,
and equipment and vehicles are, all too often, old and unusable. Sub-
center coverage is particularly unsatisfactory in West Bengal (para.
1.08), where only 47% of required subcenters had been established by
1982. Contraceptives, supplied free to clients from central supplies,
are generally well distributed, although in some areas IUDs and oral
contraceptives have been in short or intermittent supply in recent
years. A program for the subsidized co mercial narketing of condoms
has operated successfully since the 1960. and is about to be expanded
with USAID assistance (para. 2.27).
Reliance on Sterilization
2 * 18     Since the early 1970., the Indian family planning program,
and in particular the program in West Bengal (para. 1.08), has relied
almost entirely on sterilization.   The emphasis is now largely on
female sterilization (85X of all sterilizations in 1984), a shift from
the opposite proportions a decade ago. In term of effectiveness and
the most efficient use of scarce resources, sterilization has been an
appropriate choice for the program. However, at the program's current
stage of development, continued emphasis on sterilization alone is a
serious constraint to the achievement of rapid increases In contracep-
tive prevalence. If couples who have no or only one child, or wish to
delay adoption of a permanent contraceptive method, are to be brought
into the program, it uast be as users of temporary methods.
2.19        The use of temporary methods has increased significantly
since 1982 (Table 5), primarily because of the high priority vhich the
GOI has accorded their promotion.   However, particularly at field
level, many staff have still not perceived the Importance of tempo-
rary methods for Individual clients or for the achievement of con-
traceptive prevalence goals.  The orientation of these workers has
largely been towards sterilization. Temporary methods are also not
well-known among the target population; the aid-term survey (1983) in
the second population project districts of U.P., for example, showed
that altbhoigh more than 80 of eligible couples were aware of steri-
lization, only about 35% knew of condoms, oral contraceptives and/or



-12-
IUDs. Although sterilization will continue to be an important part of
the national program, promotion of temporary methods must continue to
be actively fostered at all levels.
Management
2.20        Management deficiencies are particularly apparent at dis-
trict and block levels where management is the responsibility of
medical doctors whose professional training provides little or no
preparation for this function. Staff vacancies and frequent transfers,
the need to respond to emergencies and personal problems of housing
and children's education are some of the real problems which doctors
face in rural areas, all of which inhibit effective management.
In West Bengal, large district populations, low subcenter coverage
(para. 1.08) and the frequency of serious flooding and associated
epidemics add to program management difficulties.   Management prac-
tices also need improvements that would enable more effective res-
ponses to client and program needs.   Management support systems,
particularly IEC and monitoring and evaluation, need to be improved
and systematized.   Program performance targeting as a planning and
monitoring tool has long been a feature of the Indian family welfare
program. Although previously it has been a mechanical exercise, the
.-OHFW has introduced improvements in the last two years by determining
targets on the basis of the long-term demographic goals of each State,
after suitable consultation. Each State has then allocated targets to
districts which, in turn, have set them for lower administrative
units.   But this process is still largely mechanical and done with
little or no consultation.  As a result, field staff are unable to
understand the rationale behind target setting and view targets as
imposed from above, which in turn leads to an emphasis on quantity.
There is need to redefine the targeting system and extend the con-
sultative process to lower program levels so that all staff use the
system constructively to improve program performance.
Training
2.21       In view of the generally poor health status of the popula-
tion, India needs a medical professiou oriented towards public and
preventive health care rather than urban-based clinical work. A re-
orientation of medical education will be required to achieve this, a
long-term national task widely recognized to face many and difficulc
obstacles. Pre-service training of nurses and field-workers is gen-
erally well organized, although field-worker training needs a more
practical focus, with more field practice, and should include comr
munication skills and concentration on priority tasks and clients.



-13-
2.22       Attention needs to be paid to developing systematic train-
ing and retraining programs which take particular account of existing
levels of skills and knowledge, the need for professional management
and IEC skills, and future program directions and strategies.  Con-
comittantly, existing training potential, in terms of both human and
physical facilities, should be determined. The linkages between the
various levels of training (para. 2.14) require review in order to
strengthen them. The NIBFW, as the apex institution, should function,
with policy guidance from the MOHFW, as the coordinating focus of the
national training effort and as the primary vehicle by which training
capabilities at lower level are strengthened.    At all levels, the
training provided should be seen by the participant to have a direct
relationship to career prospects and relevance to work situations. In
addition to improved facilities and training equipment, the quality of
the staff assigned to State HFWTCs should be significantly improved.
There is a critical need for State-level training institutions to
develop well-defined strategies and programs, to supervise their im-
plementation, and to provide systematic continuing education.   These
improvements require planning and coordination so as to reflect local
needs and priorities as well as overall strategies, to be carried out
as close to work locations as possible, and to be related to other
activities within the framework of integrated service delivery. West
Bengal provides a good example of the problems connected with training
(para. 3.50).    One of the CTIs, the All-India Institute of Hygiene
and Public Health (AIIHPR), a post-graduate medical institution in
Calcutta, provides some inservice training for State health and family
welfare staff, but these activities are not of central concern to the
AIIHPH nor does it provide planning or coordination for program train-
ing activities.  An advisory committee, chaired by the GOI's Health
and Family Welfare Secretary, has recently been appointed to strength-
en AIIHPH's contribution to the program. The Government of West Bengal
(GWB) is implementing plans to improve the functioning of the three
HFWTCs in the State.
Monitoring and Evaluation
2.23        The compilation of program performance information at the
subcenter level has typically been a cumbersome and time-consuming
burden that occupied an inordinate amount of field-workers' time with-
out providing data in a form fully useful to either administrators or
the workers themselves. To address this issue, the first Bank-assisted
project developed a management  information  and  evaluation  system
(MIES) designed to provide accurate information quickly to program
managers, who could then use it to monitor performance, and provide
subordinates with appropriate feedback and plan future activities.
Project experience has been mixed: in Andhra Pradesh the system has
functioned well both as a reporting system and a management tool;



-14-
however, in Uttar Pradesh while it works well as a statistical device,
its management potential has yet to be realized. The GOI has recom-
mended that a MIES be introduced by all the States, but response has
been uneven and the implementation throughout India of such system,
linked to operational research focused on program coverage and qual-
ity, is far from being achieved. The collection, collation and analy-
sis of statistics in West Bengal has not been systematized in line
with GOI recommendations. Program research and evaluation in India
has tended to be demographic rather than operational in orientation.
The population centers established under the first project have made
some valuable operational studies, as have academic research centers.
The GOI has recently analyzed research findings and will provide
Directors of research institutes with guidelines to produce more
operationally-oriented program studies.
Information, Education and Conamication
2.24       While IEC efforts in India have led to widespread aware-
ness of family planning, there is still a considerable gap between
awareness and practice. IBC has tended to rely on the sas media and
on centrally produced materials that are often unsuitable in local
circumstances. Advertising and marketing skills, highly developed in
the private sector in India, have rarely been used. The GOI now recog-
nizes that demand generation requires an interpersonal comumication
approach, although usny State and district-level program managers
still have little notion of the contribution that IEC is capable of
making to program performance. The second 3ank-assisted project has
demonstrated that decentralized development of IEC strategies and
related materials is possible by a fully staffed and appropriately
trained (or retrained) IEC cadre.  The use of orientation training
camps (OTCs) for local leaders to promote understanding and acceptance
of fimily planning is proving particularly effective.
2.25      However, the replication of such IEC approaches elsewhere Is
constrained by a shortage of staff and lack of professional leader-
ship. Many sanctioned IEC posts at State, district and block levels
go unfilled or are filled by individuals with no IEC background or
training. What is more, TEC staff are under the administrative control
of medical officers who often use them for a variety of non-IEC func-
tions.  Lack of suitable staff is particularly felt at State level
where IEC strategies to directly support priority program interven-
tions ust be planned and managed. If IEC efforts based on campaign
strategies and oriented towards interpersonal coumnication are to be
successfully implemented, the twin problems of poorly trained and or-
ganized staff and failure by program managers to appreciate the poten-
tial of IEC uust be addressed. In West Bengal the direction of IEC
activities is more professionally competent than that of most other
States. The major gap is at district level, where IEC officers to plan
and coordinate activities and supervise block level staff have not
been appointed (para. 3.39).



-15-
F.  Financial Resources
2.26      The family welfare program is considered of national impor-
tance and expenditures for family welfare incurred by the States are,
therefore, met almost entirely from GOI funds, derived from both Five
Year Plan and non-plan annual budgets. Plan budgets are the source of
funds for incremental staff and new programs, whilst non-plan budgets
cover the maintenance of existing staff and programs. Expenditures on
family welfare Increased from US$92 million in 1978/79 (actual) to
US$330 million in 1983/84 (revised estimates) at an average annual
rate of about 252 in real terms. They have also been increasing as a
percentage of the total consolidated expenditures, but even in 1983/84
the percentage (0.8x) was insignificant compared to the total, and
family welfare represented only some 14Z of the total expenditures on
health and family welfare. As a percentage of GOI total expenditures,
the proportion spent on health and family welfare in 1983/84 (5.7%)
was similar to that in Bangladesh (5.3Z) and higher than that in Nepal
(4.5% in 1982) and Pakistan (3.9% in 1980).  However, in per caput
terms GOI expenditures on health and family welfare in 1983/84 amount-
ed to only about US$3.23. In West Bengal, the proportion of the State
budget spent on health and family welfare is the same as the average
for all States (about 10Z); and although in 1978 West Bengal had the
lowest per caput spending on family welfare of the 15 major States,
family welfare spending since then has quintupled, whereas health
spending has risen at only half that rate.
2.27      International assistance has supported population activities
in India since 1967.   In the Sixth Plan, external assistance was
estimated to be about US$205 million or about 19% of the family
welfare budget.  Support has core from the UNFPA, UNICEF, WHO, and
IDA, as well as the governments of the United Kingdom (ODA), Norway
(NRAD), Denmark (DANIDA), Sweden (SIDA) and the United States
(USAID). The Area Projects program (para. 2.04) is being assisted by
UNFPA, IDA, ODA, DANIDA and USAID.   NORAD is assisting in expanding
the postpartum family planning program to 400 sub-district hospitals.
USAID is providing US$20 million to fund the family welfare activities
of private institutes and organizations.   In addition, the GOI has
signed an agreement with USAID to provide US$32 million for a scheme
for the commercial marketing of contraceptives.   The International
Planned Parenthood Federation provides financial support to the Family
Planning Association of India, a voluntary organization. Among pri-
vate organizations, the Population Council, the Ford Foundation and
the Rockefeller Foundation support, inter alia, dewographic and bio-
medical research.



-16-
G.   Bank Group Role and Strategy in India's Population Sector
Experience with Past Lending
2.28       The Bank's first, largely experLiental, population project
in India became effective in 1973 and was completed in 1980 (Project
Performance Audit Report No. 3748, dated December 31, 1981). Cover-
ing five districts in Karnataka and six in Uttar Pradesh, it was
funded through an IDA credit of US$21.1 million and a SIDA grant of
US$10.6 million.
2.29      The second India population project covered six districts in
Uttar Pradesh and three in Andhra Pradesh. Supported by an IDA credit
of US$48 million, the second project became effective in 1980 and will
be completed by December, 1985. The project provides for the exten-
sion of services to inadequately covered rural areas and focuses par-
ticularly on demand generation through IEC activities, on professional
and management training, and on improving reporting and evaluation
systems to strengthen planning and manageuent capabilities. In Uttar
Pradesh the role of the Population Center, Lucknow, established under
the first project to provide a research and evaluation capability, has
been expanded to include management training. In the Andhra Pradesh
project districts, MIES has been used as a planning and management
tool as intended, and the system will be extended to the entlre State.
The local development of IEC materials has been Impressive. There has
been increased acceptance of non-terminal contraceptive methods, and
much improved coverage in key MCH activities in the project districts
of both States.
2.30        The third population project, covering six districts in
Karnataka and four in Xerala and supported by an IDA credit of US$70
million, became effective in May 1984. The third project moved from a
narrow district focus to a broader State perspective with support for
demand generation, MIES, and to some extent training activities on a
State-wide basis. Experience from the second project was particularly
useful in organising pre-project activities, and project implementa-
tion is currently ahead of schedule in some areas. Rapid completion
of surveys of gaps in the knowledge and skills of paramedical staff
has led to proposals for extensive in-service training programs and
has pointed the way to a review of basic training for these workers.
2.31         Recent Bank-supported restarh in demography and family
planning in India has included a comparative study of fertility in
Kerala and Karnataka.   The population centers established in Uttar
Pradesh and Karnataka under the first population project have carried



-17-
out a variety of research and survey projects. The Bank has also sup-
ported analysis of data from the Narangwal (Punjab) nutrition and pop-
ulation research projects.   Other studies have included an overall
review of demographic, health and nutritional status as well as the
family planning program in India (1978), a summary of experimental
health, nutrition and family planning projects in India (1982), and a
study of the possibility of adapting the training and visit (T&V)
system for family planning, health and nutrition programs (1984).
Bank Group Strategy
2.32       Recent discussions with the GOI have resulted in a request
for project assistance in each of the next four fiscal years that
would expand the basis of Bank support beyond the Area Project frame-
work.   In addition to the fourth population project in West Bengal,
the proposed pipeline includes a metropolitan cities (Calcutta, Bombay
and Madras) project, a second project in Uttar Pradesh State, and a
national training project. Assistance to West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh
will be directed to the entire State program, although available fi-
nance and absorptive capacity will constrain infrastructural develop-
ment to selected rural districts.   The proposed metropolitan cities
population project would be the first project to focus specifically on
urban areas, a priority suggested by expected urban growth over the
next two decades that would almost double the populations of Calcutta,
Madras and Bombay. A recent mission that began work on the scope and
content of a possible national training project identified weaknesses
suggesting that high priority should be given to assistance in this
area. At State level, expanded support for training can achieve sig-
nificant improvements. Because States differ in needs and resources,
there is no universally applicable formula, but the training component
of the West Bengal project will provide insights for further develop-
ment. In these projects, priority will be given to ameliorating the
constraints identified in paras. 2.16-2.25.    Substantive work has
started on the preparation of all the proposed projects.
III.   THE PROJECT
A.   Concept, Design and Objectives
3.01       The proposed project is another in the series of the GOI's
Area Projects (para. 2.04) but represents a further shift from the
original Model Plan's exclusive focus on strengthening selected dis-
tricts to support for the program at State level.   Experience with
previous Bank-assisted projects has shown that an approach limited to



-18-
district level is unlikely to do more than create the necessary infra-
structure. If program direction is weak at State level, program ac-
tivities in the district will also be weak. In the third project, IEC
(including population education) and monitoring and evaluation activi-
ties were strengthened at State level.  The proposed fourth project
takes this approach further and, inter alia, strengtheus these activi-
ties not only at State level but also at district level throughout the
State.  Construction of all facilities and staff quarters required
throughout the State, however, cannot be included  in the project
because of financial constraints and the size and complexity of the
civil works program that would be needed.
3.02      Project design is based on the approach papers prepared for
the Seventh Five Year Plan (1985-1990), which call for sustained
program development, improved coordination with voluntary agencies,
greater attention to MCH programs, and better and more relevant basic
and continuing staff training.   Experience with previous projects
(para. 2.28-2.30), the socio-economic characteristics of West Bengal
and the particular problems of the West BeLal family welfare program
(paras. 2.16-2.25) have also been taken into account. On this basis,
a project strategy paper (Annex 2) emphasizing qualitative program
improvements, particularly in the areas of training, IEC and service
delivery, has been prepared.
3.03      There is more emphasis in the proposed project than in pre-
vious projects on training.  Surveys of the knowledge and skills of
field staff, undertaken by Karnataka and Kerala as a preliminary ac-
tivity of the third project, pointed to the need not only for sys-
tematic retraining but for improvements in basic training as well. A
general review of training by the Bank in 1984 indicated a serious gap
at State level. Measures included in the proposed project to improve
the coverage and quality of training in West Bengal incorporate the
results of both investigations.   The proposed State Institute of
Health and Family Welfare (SIMFW) will be a major training development
in India and could serve as a model for the creation of similar insti-
tutions in other States.
3.04       Experience has shown that IEC activities are critical to
improved program performance and the project is designed to strezgthen
them considerably; expenditure on IEC will increase from the present
level of US$217,000 to about US$830,000 annually. Under the project,
the professional skills of old and new staff will be improved, and
both interpersonal communication approaches and the mass media, which
are well developed in the State, will be used in support of the pro-
gram. The project is also designed to work through existing insti-
tutions in the State to initiate broad-based programs of population
education for adults as a means of generating community support and
translating family planning awareness into prlctice.



-19-
3.05       For strengthened service delivery, four districts have been
selected by the GWB vith the concurrence of the GOI and the agreement
of IDA. To facilitate implementation and supervision, district selec-
tion was focussed on the soutnern part of the State.   The four dis-
tricts--Bankura, Birbhtiu, Bardhaman and Puruliya-form  a contiguous
block within the administrative division of Bardhaman. They fall out-
side the Calcutta metropolitan area, which is likely to come under the
purview of the propouzd metropolitan cities project.  As with other
States being assisteJ by the Bank, the selected districts form the
first phase of infrastructural development.
3.06      Service delivery levels in the districts selected for infra-
structural strengthening will follow those recommended in the GOI
planning document 'Health for All by 2000 A.D.',  wkh'ch are to be in-
corporated in the Seventh Five Year Plan. In West Bengal, emphasis
since Independence has been on the secondary level of facilities,
which includes PHCs and rural hospitals; the subcenter level needs
considerable strengthening.   Studies in rural ar.-s of West Bengal
have indicated that expanded coverage is a key to improved program
performance; the project will, therefore, concentrate on the estab-
lishment and staffing of subcenters. In support of expanded service
coverage, the four districts will receiLe priority in the development
of State-wide support activities. These inputs in the selected dis-
tricts, which have levels of contraceptive prevalence somewhat above
the State average, make it possible to expect substantial program
achievements, approaching the GOI goal of 60Z effective contracep-
tive prevalence (paras. 2.03 and 3.07).  The quality of the program
will be carefully matched against the expectations set out in the
strategy paper (Annex 2), and family planning anu NCH performance will
be monitored in terms of quantitative goals.  Given that the GOI's
objective of reaching 60Z effective contraceptive prevalence is only
15 years away, project efforts in the selected districts will provide
important guidelines for the State program.
3.07       The establishment of specific goals for the project, oo-
ever, is difficult. In West Bengal, as in India as a whole, family
planning achievements since 1979/80 have been good (paras. 1.08-1.09),
but it is not possible on the basis of existing knowledge to relate
program inputs to these results systematically. The difficulty stems
to some extent from the provision of services such as sterilization
and immunization on a camp or mass basis rather than as part of on-
going care.  In addition, the project emphasizes qualitative as well
as quantitative improvements, and these cannot be measured in the same
fashion. Nevertheless, it is possible to estimste the numbers that
would be necessary to achieve approximately the GOI's goal of 60Z
effective contraceptive prevalence. For the four project districtu,



-20-
an average annual increase of about 11% in the number of new/equiv-
alent acceptors would be needed to achieve 49% effective contracep-
tive prevalence by the end of the project (1990) and 57% prevalence
two years later (Annex 2). (Since some facilities will not be complet-
ed until the final project year, and in any event institutionalization
of project strategies will require time, the full impact of the proj-
ect in terms of achievements will not be felt until at least two years
after the end of the project.)  These are ambitious goals, but the
fact that the average annual increase between 1979/80 and 1983/84 was
about 25% suggests that they are not impossible. For MCE *argets, the
situation is even less satisfactory, since it will not be possible to
estimate current levels of coverage until the baseline survey (para.
3.53) is completed. Until these data become available, project goals
will be set ia terms of the GOI goal of 85% immrnization coverage
(para. 2.03), which the GWB believes can be achieved for other MCR
services as well.
3.08      The objectives of the proposed project are to:
a.    reduce fertility and infant, child and maternal
mortality in West Bengal by focusing on specific
program interventions and generating demand for
services;
b.    ameliorate program constraints by improving ser-
vice coverage and quality, management, train-
ing, and monitoring and evaluation; and
C.    provide experience of replicable program improve-
ments which will support the national family wel-
fare program and the attainment of its population
goals.
3.09      The project will achieve these objectives by:
At district level:
a.    providing trained staff and facilities to
achieve levels of service delivery consonant
with need and with financial and human resources;
At State level:
b.    improving professional, managerial and technical
skills to upgrade the quality of service delivery by
programe of in-service training and by the establish-
ment of a SIHFW to coordinate, upgrade and monitor in-
service training;



-21-
c.    concentrating program strategies on specific interven-
tions including non-terminal methods of contraception,
identification and treatment of high-risk mothers and
babies and young children who fail to thrive, as well
as the use of oral rehydration to treat diarrheal dis-
eases, in order to accelerate fertility, morbidity and
mortality declines;
d.    developing IEC strategies which will reinforce and
support program interventions, leading to an increased
demand for services, and strengthening the capability
of the State to generate and implement such strategies;
e.    generating involvement in the family welfare program by
comimmity leaders, panchayat (local government) organi-
zations, voluntary organizations and private medical prac-
titioners, both in terms of demand generation and service
delivery; and
f.    improving the monitoring and evaluation system and
strengthening the capability of the State to collect,
analyze and provide program managers with timely in-
formation.
B. Summary Project Description
3.10        The project, which will be implemented over a five-year
period from September 1, 1985, will have five major components:
a.    Service Delivery (US$48.5 million)4/
The construction, refurbishing, or provision of
rental accommodation where necessary, of subcenters,
new PHCs, old PHCs, CHCs, and maintenance workshops;
provision of furniture, equipment and vehicles; costs
of incremental staff; and maintenance of equipment and
vehicles to extend and improve the coverage of family
welfare services in four districts;
b.    Demand Generation (US$5.0 million)
(i)   Provision for community education, IEC materials
including the production, printing and distribution
of films, costs of incremental staff, furniture, and
equipment and the replacement of vehicles; staff re-
training and study tours to support service delivery
activities and generate demand for family welfare
services;
4/ All figures in paragraph 3.10 exclude contingencies.



-22-
(ii)   Provision for allowances for trainers, operating costs
of lectures and seminars; costs of materials produc-
tion, incremental staff, furniture, equipment and
vehicles to introduce population education in B.Ed.
and teacher training colleges, workers' educational
programs, panchayat organizations and adult education
groups in order to involve comunities in the family
welfare prograr. and reinforce demand generating ac-
tivities;
c.    Training  (US$9.5 million)
The construction, furnishing and equipping of one SIHFW,
one General Nurse Midwife (GMN) training school, one super-
visor (RUF) training school, and 24 field training annexes;
salaries of incremental staff; operating and maintenance
costs and vehicles to provide basic training for incremental
staff and systematic retraining to upgrade professional
skills throughout the State;
d.   Monitoring and Evaluation (US$1.2 million)
The introduction of a MIES throughout the State, including
costs of incremental staff, equipment and vehicles; provi-
sion of funds for longitudinal sample surveys and operation-
al research to monitor and evaluate project and program per-
formance as well as indicate new approaches; and
e.    Project Management (US$4.2 million)
Provision of furniture, equipment and vehicles and
the salaries of incremental staff required to imple-
ment the project.
C.  Detailed Project Description
Service Delivery
3.11       Project Facilities.  Following the pattern of service de-
livery outlined In pars. 2.09, the infrastructure will be expanded and
upgraded in four selected districts (Table 7). There are now 872 sub-
centers functioning in these districts, 162 in purpose-built facili-
ties and 710 in rented accomodation; according to the norms, a fur-
ther 1,037 are required to achieve the desired coverage. The panchayat
system of local government is well organized in West Bengal, and all
gram panchayats (the lowest tier of the system) have their own build-
ings which provide a focus for community activities. The project will



-23-
provide for the construction of a subcenter at each of the 752 gram
panchayat compounds so that services will be available at important
community locations and the program will be more readily identifiable
with the community. To complete the pattern of coverage needed to ex-
tend services to peripheral rural areas, 412 subcenters will be estab-
lished in rented accommodation5/ (T8ble 7).  Both purpose-built and
rented subcenters will be provided with the necessary staff, furniture
and equipment.
3.12      To strengthen the referral chain and provide closer supervi-
sion of subcenter staff than hitherto possible, existing dispensaries
at which a doctor and supporting staff are posted will be converted
into new PHCs (old SHCs) to cover an average population of 30,000 and
serve about five subcenters.  Of the 280 required, 248 are already
functioning  in  purpose-built facilities.    However, they lack  an
operating theater and laboratory and the number of beds available
varies considerably. To complete this important tier of services, the
project will provide 32 new pur,ose-built facilities, improve 77 by
providing a minimum of six beds (following the approved State pat-
tern), a laboratory and smell operating theater, and improve a further
171 with a laboratory and small operating theater only (Table 8).
Where necessary, incremental staff will be provided together with
furniture and equipment.
3.13      Of the 94 blocks in the project districts, three do not have
purpose-bilt old PECs   because of recent redistribution of block
boundaries; new facilities will be provided for these blocks. Because
of the concentration on development of facilities at block level in
West Bengal, several rural hospitals and old PHCs with 60 beds have
been established which correspond to the CHC of the all-India pattern;
there are 12 such facilities in the selected districts. At the pro-
posed Seventh Plan level of one CHC to two blocks, a total of 47 CHCs
would be required. Because of the existing strength of facilities at
this level aud the costs of improving 35 old PHCs, the project will
upgrade old PHCs to CHCs on the basis of one in four, which will re-
quire the upgrading of only 12 old PHCs (Table 8). For this purpose,
the old PHCs will be provided with a small operating theater, X-ray
facilities, laboratory and facilities for 10 in-patients to bring them
to the standard of a CHC. The remaining 67 old PHCs will be improved
by the addition of a laboratory, small operating theater, and accommo-
dation for IEC and statistical staff.
3.14       Program Quality.  In addition to expanding service delivery
facilities, particularly at the peripheral level, the project also
stresses improvements in the quality of program services. Strategies
on which these improvements will be based are summarised in the proj-
ect strategy paper (Annex 2); they are built on the concepts of prior-
ity activities, priority households, and effective supervision.    In
5I Birbbum district has 169 gram panchayats but as the district requires the
establishment of only 42 subcenters to meet the norns, 127 constructed sub-
centers will replace rented facilities (see Table 7).



-24-
terms of family planning, the project will emphasize temporary contra-
ceptive methods.   In West Bengal, including the project districts,
sterilization currently accounts for about 95Z of effective contracep-
tive prevalence and 64Z of new/equivalent acceptors (para. 1.09). How-
ever, sterilization is not appropriate for about a third of eligible
couples: those who wish to delay first pregnancies, space second preg-
nancies, or delay sterilization until a second child is at least two
years old. Much more attention must be given to promoting the use of
temporary methods by such couples if project goals are to be achieved.
IEC efforts in the project districts will, inter alia, focus on reach-
ing potential users of temporary methods with appropriate messages in
order to support the efforts of multipurpose workers. Promising ef-
forts to expand the use of oral contraceptives are being made in West
Bengal by voluntary agencies with Government support and provision
will be made for the introduction of similar schemes in the project
districts.
3.15      Under NCR, priority will be given to expansion of pre-natal,
post-natal and immunization coverage as well as the proportion of de-
liveries conducted by trained dais, Sample surveys conducted in 1981
indicate that the incidence of neonatal tetanus in West Bengal (14.9/
1000 live births) is high compared with Andhra Pradesh (8.5/1000) and
Kerala (2.4/1000). In the project districts, about 701 of deliveries
are presently conducted at home by untrained dais. Only about half of
the needed dai training has been carried out in the project districts,
and the project provides for the remainder on a priority basis. Once
trained, dais are equipped with kits provided by UNICEF but there are
problems with their supply and refilling.   The project proposes to
supplement these kits by providing simple pre-sterilized disposable
packets containing a blade, cord-tie and antiseptic lotion. The mate-
rials will all be supplied to suitable groups such as mothers' clubs
to assemble in semll plastic bags which can be sealed and sterilized.
Assembly of the packets at mothers' clubs, encouraged by a small hon-
orarium, will provide an opportunity for disseminating information
about safe birth practices. The packets will each cost about Rs.0.50
(US$0.04) and will be made available to all pregnant women as well as
dais.
3.16       Priority will also be given to interventions that address
diarrhea and pneumonia, which account for most of the preventable
deaths of infants and young children.  Emphasis will be on oral rehy-
dration therapy and on measures that mothers can take to lessen the
risk that common colds will develop into serious respiratory illness.
Ongoing child care by multipurpose workers will be based on periodic
weighing and the use of growth charts; children who fail to thrive
will be identified and referred if necessary. Child care efforts will
be coordinated with the Department of Social Welfare's Integrated
Child Development Services (ICDS) program in those blocks where it is



-25-
being implemented and full use made of the ICDS supplementary feeding
component. In order to strengthen the ongoing Expanded Program of Im-
munization (EPI), the project makes provision for refrigerators at new
PHCs.   Until now, they have been available only at old PHCs, which
cover approximately 120,000 people.   Storage at a center covering a
population of about 30,000 will enhance the potential life of vaccines
and reduce the distance between storage point and immnization center.
3.17        The identification of priority households and individuals
will be based on the updating of the eligible couple registers main-
tained at subcenters so that multipurpose workers will be able to
identify those who should receive priority attention and thus make
more efficient and effective use of their time and resources. The key
to this approach is the incorporation of family planning motivation
into the cycle of MCH care, which will shift the focus of family plan-
ning efforts to younger, more fertile women and will also increase the
use of temporary methods. Identification of priority households/indi-
viduals is also essential to the reduction of infant and young child
mortality, so that high-risk pregnancies and/or malnourished infants
and young children can be assured of special attention.
3.18        If the strategies discussed in these paragraphs and sum-
marised in the project strategy paper (Annex 2) are to be successfully
implemented, strong support from supervisors at all levels will be re-
quired. Emphasis will be on supervision in the field rather than in
offices and on supportive and listructlve rather than critical super-
vision. The project provides for launch workshops (para. 3.57) that
will acquaint all project managers and supervisors, from the highest
levels down to field supervisors, with the content and rationale of
project strategies and will discuss the role of supervisors in their
implementation. The strategy paper will be discussed at these work-
shops and widely disseminated in English and Bengali to ensure that
all staff are fully acquainted with the project's objectives and
strategies.
3.19      By extending basic coverage and developing the three-tiered
system (para. 2.09), with its concomitant strengthening of superviso-
ry staff, the provision of referral services will be improved.  At
present, the equipment at peripheral facilities for the care of new
born babies with complications is inadequate. In support of the pri-
ority to be given to high-risk pregnancies (para. 3.17), the project
makes provision for a mucous aspirator and crib at each subcenter and
an incubator at each old PHC and CUC where feasible.
3.20       The GWB provides subventions for the support of the family
welfare program by a variety of voluntary agencies, such as the Red
Cross, Ramakrishna Mission, and several service-oriented organiza-
tions. Such projects provide good examples of community involvement,



-26-
cross-sectoral coordination and low-cost service delivery in urban and
rural areas. The GWB has recently established a Voluntary Agency Cell,
headed by the Additional Director (Administration) Health Services,
which will be responsible for planning and coordinating voluntary
agency assistance (including private practitioners from all medical
disciplines), monitoring activities, ensuring service quality, im-
proving financial support and payments, and coordinating innovative
schemes which agencies develop.
3.21      The various elements which comprise the multipurpose worker
scheme are not completely integrated within the Directorate of Health
and Family Welfare. Consistent with GOI policy, the Directorate should
be reorganized to permit the effective direction of a rural health
program integrating family planning and MCH.   The GWB has issued an
Order which will transfer existing responsibilities within the Direc-
torate for MPWMs, EPI and nutrition to the Additional Director (Family
Welfare).
3.22       Mobility.  In addition to extending and improving service
coverage, the project also addresses the problem of mobility, which
has a direct bearing on referral and supervision.  The State Health
Transport Organization (SHTO) of West Bengal is responsible for the
operation and maintenance of health and family welfare vehicles.  Of
the Health and Family Welfare vehicles in the State, 35% are not
serviceable; in the project districts, 31% of vehicles are unusable.
Many of the remaining vehicles are old, costly to maintain and un-
reliable. The Directorate has prepared proposals for the reorganiza-
tion of the SHTO with UNICEF   assistance,  and  the provision for
vehicles, workshops and staff in the project is consonant with that
proposal. The 12 old PHCs to be upgraded to CHCs will each be provid-
ed with one four-wheel drive vehicle and one ambulance. For each of
the 67 improved old PHCs and the three newly constructed old PHCs, one
four-wheel drive vehicle will be provided. The new PHCs form an impor-
tant supervisory focus and need transport for referral cases. In the
third population project in Karnataka, motorcycles were provided for
the medical officers.  In West Bengal, however, because of the heavy
monsoons and extensive flooding which often follows, motorcycles are
unsuitable and four-wheel drive vehicles will be provided for the 32
new PHCs which are to be constructed.  The project provides for the
operating and maintenance costs of the new vehicles as well as the
salaries of drivers as required.
3.23      Maintenance.   The proposal to reorganize the SHTO calls for
new workshop and storage facilities in Calcutta and regional workshops
at Bankura, Murshidabad and Siliguri to provide a State-wide network.
In addition, each district in West Bengal will have a mobile workshop.
The project will contribute to the reorganization by constructing new
workshop facilities at Bankura and Murshidabad which will be equipped



-27-
by UNICEF and staffed from existing resources. The workshop at Bankura
will cover Bankura and Puruliya districts, and that at Murshidabad
will service Birbhum and Bardhanan.  Each workshop will be provided
with a four-wheel drive vehicle and a breakdown vehicle.
3.24      The Central Medical Stores (CMS) in Calcutta is responsible
not only for the procurement of drugs, supplies and equipment but also
for equipment maintenance. At present there are no regional equipment
workshops, but these will be established in conjunctLon with the
vehicle maintenance workshops. The project will provide for construc-
tion, furniture, equipment and vehicles for equipment maintenance
workshops at Bankura and Murshidabad serving the same districts as the
vehicle workshops. Their initial capability will include the service
of refrigerators, sterilisers, and operating theater equipment as well
as IEC equipment.
Demand Generation
3.25      Despite an effective prevalence level of 28% for West Bengal
as a whole and 33% for the selected districts, the task of changing
age-old attitudes to gain acceptance of a two-child family must still
be accomplished. Not only have services to be made more readily avail-
able, but a much greater emphasis than hitherto must be placed on de-
mand generation. In West Bengal, as recently as six years ago a sur-
vey of rural areas around Calcutta showed that about one third of all
married women 15-49 years were unaware of family planning, and that a
further third, although aware of family planning, did not wish to
practice contraception.  Among the latter, the most often expressed
reason was a desire to have more children, followed by spouse dis-
approval and belief that family planning was inconsistent with reli-
gious beliefs.   The average desired family size was 3.5 children,
although this varied with the sex composition of the family since a
desire for sons is very strong.
3.26       The project would  use two separate but complementary ap-
proaches to stimulate demand for family planning and MCH services
throughout West Bengal. Firstly, it provides for an intensification
of the existing IEC program, developing strategies which support
priority service interventions (paras. 3.14-3.17 and Annex 2) and
addressing them to specific community groups. Secondly, the project
will provide for the introduction of population education in selected
influential groups and organizations throughout the State. Existing
organizations will be strengthened to enable them to carry out both
approaches effectively.   Maximum use will be made of existing re-
sources and of the distinctive features of Bengali culture. To pro-
vide the necessary flexibility required by programs which seek to
change attitudes, strategies will be developed on an annual basis.



-28-
Assurances have been obtained during negotialons that the GWB will
furnish detailed, annual demand generation strategies to the Associa-
tion for its review and comments no later than two months before the
start of each financial year (para. 7.01(a)).
Demand Generation - Information, Education and Communication
3.27      The overall objectives of this component are to:
a.    generate demand, through mass media, community
education and community involvement techniques,
for the immediate acceptance of family welfare
services and ultimate acceptance of a two-child
family norm;
b.    develop positive attitudes towards the family
welfare program on the part of formal and in-
formal opinion leaders which will lead to their
support of the program;
c.    ensure the integration of family planning communi-
cation activities within the broader content of MCH
care; and
d.    coordinate the activities of government departments
and voluntary agencies in a cohesive, well-directed
and well-supported demand generation program.
3.28      The component addresses acknowledged barriers to comunica-
tion in West Bengal, including low literacy levels, resistance to
change, low penetration of mass media, and social and linguistic di-
versity. To counteract these barriers, messages will be simple, di-
rected to specific target audiences and delivered in the appropriate
language or dialect. Messages to be given priority are specified in
the project strategy paper (Annex 2). A combination of approsches -
co"mmnity education, community involvement, and mass media - will be
used to convey them, and their effectiveness will be monitored and
evaluated.
3.29      Community Education and Involvement.  The primary tactic to
reach communities through their leaders and provide basic information
about family welfare goals and services will be the OTCs that are
being employed successfully in the second and third projects. Partic-
ipants will be selected from panchayat officials, school teachers,
private medical practitioners, religious leaders, leaders of coopera-
tive societies and other village notables. The project provides for
holding 16,500 OTCs and 6,600 follow-up camps throughout West Bengal.



-29-
OTCs will be supplemented by family welfare advisory committees de-
signed to Involve communities in the program. Although such commitees
have been a feature of national pollcy, little effort has been made to
establish them in West Bengal.   The project makes provision for the
development of committees at subcenter, block, district and State
level; their objectives will be to stimulate organized community in-
volvement, develop links with family welfare staff, provide feedback
for program managers, and create a broad-based constituency favouring
small family norms.
3.30         Tape recorders, filmstrip projectors and public address
systems are essential to IEC staff, but not all the SWOs have been
adequately equipped. The project makes provision to supply equipment
that is currently lacking.
3.31      Over 41,000 village health guides (VHGs) have been recruited
and trained in West Bengal, and the project makes provision for educa-
tional kits  and communications material to help them in person-to-
person contacts with their fellow villagers.   School health is the
responsibility of the State Health Education Bureau, but little IEC
work has been done to support the activities of the medical officer
responsible for school health in each district.    The project will
provide health education display materials for the 20,000 primary
schools in West Bengal, instructional material for use in the schools,
and pamphlets to be taken home.
3.32       Traditional folk singers and dancers are an important part
of the cultural life of West Bengal.   Recent years have seen a re-
surgence particularly of jatra, folk plays performed by small troupes
that perform anywhere with a minimum of equipment.  Jatra and other
types of folk media lend themselves to the delivery of family welfare
messages, and the project will provide for script preparation, per-
formances and worksbops for folk media producers to facilitate the in-
troduction of these scripts into their repertoires.
3.33       Mass Media.    Specific messages relayed by interpersonal
communication and community and extension education will be reinforced
through mass media in order to: (a) demonstrate to a wide audience the
GWB's commitment to family welfare; (b) extend awareness of the need
for family planning and MCl; (c) direct attention to service outlets;
and (d) provide a supportive environment for the activities of family
welfare staff. The project makes provision for the widespread distri-
bution of family welfare messages through a variety of media includ-
ing public displays, films and publications.
3.34      Film viewing is one of the most popular forms of entertain-
ment in West Bengal and the project makes provision for the produc-
tion, printing and screening of ten new commercially produced films.



-30-
Sufficient prints will be made to make these film available coumnr-
cially, and they vill also be shown by the district audiovisual vans.
These vans, however, were supplied 15 years ago and are no longer
serviceable; the project, therefore, provides for one new van in each
of 17 health districts. (The van in the remaining district was recent-
ly replaced.) No provision is made for services, generators or projec-
tlon staff since they are available.   Film  with a family welfare
theme which my be appropriate for West Bengal are also produced by
the GOX and by organizations In other States. Provision Is, there-
fore, made for the purchase of family welfare film produced outslde
the State and for dubblig ln Bengall.   o engage the lnterest of cor-
*ercial flmn makers, provision Is made for an annual seminar of pro-
ducers to discuss the possibillty of lncluding family welfare theme
in their film, and an annual cash award incentive scheme will be
established.   Cluema. are required by law to show government slides,
and provision is wade for the production of family welfare slides for
distribution to cinemas throughout the State.
3.35       In order to spread family welfare wassages In newspapers,
magazines and special publications whlch serve local readerships, the
project makes provision for workshops designed to make editors and
writers knowledgeable about and supportive of the goals and services
of the family welfare program. Cash awards will be offered annually
for the best treatment of population and fauily welfare themes in
these publications. In addition, provision is made for cash awards to
wlnaners of writing and debatlag contests.
3.36       There is a need to create and maintain program aw%reness
among f8ily welfare staff and also pollcy makers, senior clvil ser-
vants, political leaders and lndustrial and commrcial leaders. For
thls purpose, the project provides for the production of a quarterly
riblicatlon whlch documents program performance, draw attention to
current IEC strategles and hlghlights  new and innovative develop-
ments. It will also be used to reinforce contacts with journallsts
and fils producers, encouraglig them to use family welfare events and
theme in their film and publlcations.
3.37       Folders and posters with family welfare massages will be
produced for use ln schools, OTCe, servlce facilities and panchayat
centers. These materials, together with the quarterly publication,
are printed departmentally.  The State hs an offset press obtained
with Swedlih aid ln the early 1970s which now requlres a larger cmamra
and a modern compositor with Elndi and Bengall capacity to improve Its
operations. These will be provided by the project together with a
modern addressograph that will Increase the efficiency of the mass
m*illng unlt.



-31-
3.38        IEC Organization and Staffing.  Communications activities
are now carried out by two units in the Directorate of Health and
Family Welfare, the Mass Education and Media Division of the State
FaiLly Welfare Bureau and the State Bureau of Health Education. The
staff of these units have similar skills, their activitles have much
in common, and their roles are complementary.  To maximize their ef-
fectiveness in planning and implementing IEC strategies, assurances
have been obtained during negotiations that, by December 31, 1985, the
GWB will establish and maintain a committee to coordinate the func-
tions of the Mass Education and Media Division with the State Bureau
of Health Education, which will have membership, functions and powers
satisfactory to the Association (para. 7.01(b)).
3.39      The project makes provision at State level for essential ad-
ditional staff including outdoor publicity, song and drama, and audio-
visual specialists.  The staff of the offset press and mass-mailing
unit will be strengthened and provision made for three audiovisual
mechanics to service equipment at the proposed equipment maintenance
workshops (para. 3.24). The most serious gap in IEC staffing is at
district level where there is no one in position to supervise and
direct the existing staff. Provision is,  _tterefore, made for 18 IEC
program officers.
3.40       The project will also address the need to improve the pro-
fessional quality of existing staff, particularly the SWOe at block
level,  At no level have staff been retrained or exposed to modern
comnmications techniques for at least ten years. Training facilities
in liest Bengal are inadequate to cope with the proposed training
load. Block and district level staff will probably be trained at the
Ga=dhigram Institute in Tamil Nadu where IEC training for the second
Bank-assisted project was successfully carried out. Provision iB. made
for senior staff to visit Gandhigram to assess its suitability and
discuss the development of training curricula that will Include na-
terial supportive of the program.  Provision is also made for study
tours within India and to selected foreign countries to obser" suc-
cessful IEC program and attend short courses at appropriate iLstitu-
tions.  In order to provide staff with opportunities to keep up-to-
date professionally and to promote dialogue between staff at all
levels, the project provides for annual district and State IEC con-
ferences.
Demand Generation - Population Education
3.41       To complement IEC activities, the project makes provision
for the introduction of population education activities as a direct
stilmulus to demand generation.  Assistance for population education
in primary and secondary schools is available through UNFPA.   The
project activities will be directed at four audiences among adults



-32-
who have (or will shortly play) an important part in formulating
community opinions - college teachers and students, adult learners,
industrial workers, and panchayat members - as follows:
(i)   Experience from the second project in Axdhra Pradesh
has shown among college teachers and studeuts that the
levels of awareness of populatior issues and the need
for adoption of the small family norm are remarkably
low. The project will, therefore, provide for activi-
ties in the governaent and private degree colleges in
the State with a potential audience of some 100,000
lecturers and students. The 15 teacher training col-
leges covering some 15,000 potential teachers will
also be included. The Director of Public Instruction
would be responsible for these programs;
(ii) An additional audience, untapped thus far, is
the adult learner, some 200,000 of whom are en-
rolled in State Rural Functional Literacy Projects.
The project makes provision for the training of
about 450 staff of these projects and the intro-
duction of population education into the curricula.
This component will be impleaented by the Directorate
of Adult Education;
(iii) West Bengal State has a well established workers'
education system for industrial workers, and the
project will be implemented by the West Bengal Labor
Welfare Board in its 54 Labor Welfare Centers and the
Centers of the GOI's Directorate of Workers' Education
in the State. Through this component, for which the
Secretary for Labor will be responsible, 50 Labor Welfare
Officers, 500 worker teachers and 300,000 workers will
receive population education; and
(iv) In West Bengal the panchayat system is well estab-
lished and plays an important role in community life;
the lowest tier (gram panchayat level) covers some
45,000 elected paachayat members. The population education
program will be directed at the office bearers and mem-
bers of the various panchayat bodies. Implementation
will be the responsibility of the Director of Panchayats
in the Ministry of Community Development.
3.42        For each sub-component, the project provides for a small
number of additional staff, furniture, equipment and vehicles as well
as provision for training courses, training kits and educational ma-
terials such as pamphlets and folders directed specifically at each
audience. Provision is also made for the evaluation of activities.



-33-
Training
3.43       Basic Training.    There are four government schools and a
private school in the project districts training MPWFs which will be
able to train most of the approximately 1,400 additional MPWFs requir-
ee by the establishment of new facilities plus normal attrition (Table
9). Project strategies (Annex 2), including priority approaches, MIES
and training in IEC skills, will be incorporated into the training.
To improve the practical field content of the training, the project
provides for the construction of 24 training annexes with equipment,
furniture and caretaker staff to be sited at each of the 24 CHCs. The
annexes will provide simple dormitory and classroom accommodation for
group of trainees doing field work at village and block-level facili-
ties.   With the exception of leprosy workers, all male unipurpose
workers in the State have been given a one-month multipurpose conver-
sion course.
3.44      Some MPRFs in West Bengal have received promotee HAP train-
ing to these supervisory posts, but the posts have not been filled be-
cause the qualified MPWFs are not willing to assume supervisory duties
unless an appropriate pay scale is provided. Assurances have, there-
fore, been obtained during negotiations that, by March 31, 1986, the
GWB will take all measures to appoint the required number of HAFs
(para. 7.01(c)). There is no facility for training HAFs in the proj-
ect districts. The project will provide for the construction, equip-
ping and furnishing of a school for the training of 60 HAEs annual-
ly. The school will be established initially in rented quarters so
that additional HAFs will be available as of the end of the first
project year. ANMs already retrained as supervisors combined with the
output of the new HAW school will be sufficient to staff the 374 new
PHCs and old PHCs/CHCs that will have been established by project-end.
The GRB has already issued a GovernmenL Order by which the West Bengal
Nursing Council sanctioned the objectives, curriculum and administra-
tive details of HA training, which are appropriate. Project strate-
gies (Annex 2) will also be included. Adequate numbers of male super-
visors will be available.
3.45      General nurse-midwives (GNMs) provide clinical nursing ser-
vices at new PHCs, old PHCs and CHCs/rural hospitals. Staffing is cur-
rently adequate, but only because some ANMs have been diverted into
clinical work. It is estimated that the number of such ANKs in the
selected districts is about 350. Depending on theLr qualifications,
they will go either for training as female supervisors (HAYs) or for a
condensed two-year GNM course.   In addition to these positions, a
total of about 650 GNMs will be needed to staff the new PHC8, old PICs
and CHCs to be improved, upgraded or constructed under the project.



-34-
Including a leave reserve and allowance for normal attrition, the
total number of additional GNMs required during the project will be
approximately 1,100.  Sanctioned improvement of existing GMN schools
in Bardhaman and Bankura districts will proceed immediately, increas-
ing the annual output of these schools, now at 65, to 100 by the final
year of the project. In addition, the project will construct a 300-
place GNM school in Puruliya district. The school will be established
initially in rented quarters and will train existing ANKs, allowing an
annual out-turn of 150 GNMs from the second project year. The small
shortfall of about 50 GUMs under the project will be made up by gradu-
ates from schools outside the project districts.
3.46       There is no shortage of physicians, dentists, medical spe-
cialists and laboratory technicians to staff the additional require-
ments of the project.
3.47       In-service Training.   In addition to project support for
basic training, MPWs will be given in-service training to upgrade
their professional skills and ensure that program goals and strategies
are clearly understeod. To be able to identify significant gaps in
the skills, rknowledge and practice of the staff delivering family
m2efare services, surveys were carried out at the beglnning of the
third population project. The surveys had a simple design and were
carried out expeditiously. They showed, inter alia, serious gaps in
staff knowledge, poor patterns of supervision, and lack of IEC
materials, particularly at subcenters.  The project makes provision
for a similar survey to be carried out in the selected districts by a
teau- coTprising a physician, public health  nurse, senior health
inspector and trainer chosen for their experience and competence.
Assurances have been obtained during negotiations that the GWB will,
by March 31, 1986, (a) complete a survey to identify any significant
gaps in the skills, knowledge and practices of family welfare staff as
a basis for the reorientation of the staff in the Project Districts;
and (b) promptly furnish the results of the said survey to the Asso-
ciation for its review and comments (para. 7.01(d)). The information
from the survey will be used by the Directorate of Health Services to
develop curricula for retraining courses and to direct the attention
of program managers and supervise-v  to areas which noed strengthening
(see Annex 2, Section F). Assurances have been obtained during nego-
tiations that the GWB will, not later than two months before the start
of each financial year, furnish annually curricula and a timetable for
the re-training of staff in project districts to the Association for
its review and coments (para. 7.01(e)).   Apart from the costs of the
survey, no incremertal provision for in-service training is required,
since the staff involved receive regular salaries and allowances which
also apply to training courses.



-35-
3.48       Most interpersonal communication in support of family wel-
fare activities is carried out by MPWFs and MPZMs at the subcenter
level, but neither they nor their supervisors have been trained in
commnications. In-service training for multipurpose workers (para.
3.47) and supervisory training (para. 3.44) will pro'vide for simple
training in IEC techniques, and supervisory training will also In-
clude emphasis on the importance of providing support for demand
generation activities.
3.49       To improve the management skills of doctors in charge of
health facilities at district and block (old PUC/CIC) levels, the
project will provide management training.   The training, which will
draw on similar training programs developed in previous Bank-assisted
projects, will be based on public health materials and will be problem
solving in orientation. The Indian Institute of Management in Calcutta
has staff with experience in health services management and will be
offered a contract to develop and carry out project management train-
ing along the required lines. About 120 doctors, drawn from district
and block level staff, will be trained during the project period.
3.50       The present pattern of in-service training is described in
para. 2.14 and weaknesses. outlined in para. 2.22.    In West Bengal
there is no family welfare in-service training facility at State
level, which is a serious gap in training resources, nor is there any
existing facility in the State which cold be institutionally devel-
oped into such a facility. The project, tberefore, provides for the
construction, equipping, furnishing and staffing of a SIHFW to be es-
tablished in a suburb of Calcutta. The objective of the SlEFW is to
provide the State Directorate of Health and Family Welfare with a
strong and highly professional capability designed to improve the
quality of staff and their services, and provide support for planning,
research and information dissemination. To allow for administrative
flexibility, the SIHFW would follow precedent and be registered under
the Societies Act as a semi-autonomous institution. It would, however,
retain strong connections with the GCB and especially the Directorate
of Health and Family Welfare, the Director of which would be Chairman
of the Governing Body. The SIEFW would be headed by a Director with
the rank of an Additional Director of Health Services who would be
supported by four deputy directors with the academic rank of profes-
sor.  Deputy directors would each be responsible for training, re-
search, planning and field services and would draw on the services of
specialist units including demography, MCR and fanily planning, en-
viromnental health, etc. The outreach capacity of the SIHFW will be
strengthened on an experimental basis by the establishment of district
training units and the addition of training staff at the CHC training
annexes in the selected districts.   These staff will ultimately be
responsible for organizing in-service training requirements, monitor-
ing the effectiveness of the training provided, and feeding back their
findings to trainers and project managers so that problems can be cor-
rected.



-36-
3.51        In the first project year, a nucleus will be established
either in rented accommodation in Calcutta or at the Kalyani HFWTC in
Nadia district.   The SIHFW will be permanently established  on a
government-owned site at Salt Lake, a suburb of Calcutta. The GWB has
prepared plans setting out the objectives, functions, staffing and
facilities for the SIHFW.   In the first population project, two new
Population Centers were established but the development of an institu-
tional capability took far longer than anticipated. This experience,
documented in the Project Performance Audit Report-India First Popu-
lation Project (Report No. 3748 dated December 31, 1981), suggests
that it would be unrealistic to expect that the SIEFW will be able to
contribute more than marginally to in-service training needs during
the project period. By the erd of the project, however, West Bengal
will have a well-established SIHFW capable of playing a pivotal role
in the planning and development of the State's family welfare program
which will serve as a model for replication in other States. Since the
completion of the first project, responsibility for running the two
Population Centers has been assumed by the respective State Govern-
ments.  Staff, however, continue to be employed on a temporary con-
tract basis, which has led to recruitment and retention problems.
Assurances have been obtained during negotiations that the GWB will
(a) by June 30, 1986, appoint a nucleus of senior staff positions as
agreed with the Association; and (b) by March 31, 1988, fully staff
the SIHFW as agreed with the Association and thereafter maintain all
the SIHFW staff positions on a regular basis (para. 7.01(f)).
Monitoring and Evaluation
3.52        The project will strengthen the capacity of the State to
monitor and evaluate program performance along lines developed under
the previous projects. Under the first project, a MIES was developed
that replaced rumbersome and time-consuming methods of collecting per-
formance stacistics and also provided a management tool through use of
the data compiled to monitor performance and the prompt feedback of
results.  Experience in the first and second projects has indicated
that the introduction of MIES in only a few districts does not permit
the system to function as intended and that responsibility for the
system must be clearly located.   In this project, as in the third
project, MIES will be implemented State-wide in phases; the first
phase will include the project districts with the remaining districts
to be covered in two subsequent phases. Implementation of MIES will
be preceded by a series of training and orientation sessions starting
at State level and proceeding down to subcenter level. After approxi-
mately six months, refresber training for field staff will be carried
out to correct any difficulties in implementation that may arise. The
project makes provision for the printing of forms, equipment to aid
data collation and analysis at district and State levels, and evalua-
tion of the system's effectiveness. Plans for the introduction of a
State-wide MIES have been made, and the Statistical Unit of the
State's Family Welfare Department (para. 3.55) will be responsible for
the implementation and functioning of the system.



-37-
3.53      To make possible quantitative assessment of program achieve-
ments, the project makes provision for three surveys-baseline, mid-
term and final-to be carried out in the four project districts and a
control district. The lack of demographic parameters and related data
by district is a major program handicap throughout India. Although
performance figures are readily available and are used to calculate
contraceptive prevalence rates, there is no basis for the estimation
of district-level vital rates or NCH coverage rates; the numbers of
eligible couples or young children can only be estimated crudely and a
breakdown of eligible couples in terms of age, parity, age of youngest
child and family planning status is not possible.   Baseline survey
results, which will be available by March 1986, will provide estimates
of these numbers for the project and control districts and will also
make it possible to measure changes in vital rates, health status and
attitudes to family planning and health services. The data also will
provide more precise values for the project indicators (Annex 3) on
the basis of which agreement will be reached with the Bank on this
project's quantitative goals; they will also be used for final project
evaluation.    The Demographic and Evaluation Cell (para. 3.55) will
have overall responsibility for implementation of the surveys and
dissemination of the results.    Survey design, field work and data
analysis will be carried out by the Demographic Research Center of the
Indian Statistical Institute, Calcutta, which has already been in-
structed by the GWB to finalize plans.
3.54      Operational research is an important means of supporting the
Implementation of a complex program. It serves to highlight existing
problems and to develop alternative approaches for dealing with them.
Ongoing operational research is currently being carried out by the
Population Centers in Bangalore and Lucknou established under the
first project. In this project, research and evaluation will be co-
ordinated by the State Statistical Unit. Annex 5 gives a preliminary
list of evaluation and operational research topics. The staff of the
Statistical Unit will be strengthened to increase its research capa-
bilities. The Unit will also eventually coordinate with the research
and evaluation section of the new SIHEFW (para. 3.50). In addition,
funds are provided to permit some of the research program to be car-
ried out on a contract basis by other qualified organizations, of
which there are many in the Calcutta area, as appropriate.
3.55       The statistical, monitoring, evaluation and research capa-
bilities of the State's Health and Family Welfare Department will be
strengthened.   There are two units in the Directorate of Health and
Family Welfare which deal with   statistics.   Health statistics are
collected, collated and analysed by the State Bureau of Health Intel-
ligence. The Demographic and Evaluation Cell is similarly responsible
for family welfare statistics and will be responsible for the imple-
mentation of the MIES. The monitoring and evalution capabilities of



-38-
this cell will be strengthened by the provision of ten statistical
staff at State level and one statistical officer in each district
together with supporting staff.   Essential equipment, including a
mini-computer, will also be provided to mBet the requirements of the
introduction of the MIES and extend the cell's capacity for operation-
al research and evaluation activities. Much of the data, however, are
of common literest and value and there is need to improve the coordi-
nation of the activities of both units. Assurances have been obtained
during negotiations that, by December 31, 1985, the GWB will establish
and maintain a committee to coordinate the functions of the Family
Welfare Demographic and Evaluation Cell with the State Bureau of
Health Intelligence, which will have meabership, functions and powers
satisfactory to the Association (para. 7.01(g)).
Project Management
3.56       Project activities will be coordinated by a Project Coordi-
nator in the Secretary of Health's office. He will be supported by an
Additional Director of Health Services to liaise with Directorate
Staff and monitor the project's program inputs as well as progran
performance and quality in the selected districts. Project officers
based in each district have been found to be most useful in previous
projects. Drawn from the revenue cadre, they will be responsible for
site selection and acquisition and once these functions are complete
will be replaced by medical officers to assist with program implemen-
tation. The Project Coordinator has been appointed and four officers
with administrative and land acquisition experience are being recruit-
ed from the State civil service cadre.  The project makes provision
for the salaries of 52 project management and support staff, including
accountants at State and district level, furniture, equipment, vehi-
cles and rented office accommodation.
3.57       Project activities will be carried out as part of the on-
going program by the various departments of government responsible
(para. 5.03). These will be suitably strengthened, as described under
each component, to cope with expanded activities on a permanent basis
and not merely supplemented by temporary project positions. The civil
works program will, however, require the temporary strengthening of
the Public Works Department (PWD) and provision is made for 96 addi-
tional engineers and architects at State, district and sub-district
levels during the construction period of the project. To ensure that
the project's objectives are clearly understood, provision is made for
project launch workshops at which the strategy paper (Annex 2) will be
used as the basis for discussions.



-39-
IV.   PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, DISBURSEMENTS AND PROCUREMENT
A. Costs
4.01        The total estimated cost of the project is US$89.9 million
equivalent of which the indirect foreign exchange component is esti-
mated at US$7.2 million, or about 8% of total costs. Taxes included
in total costs are esti-ated at about US$5.5 million. Capital costs
for construction, furniture, equipment and vehicles account for
US$45.5 nillion, or 67% of base costs.   Incremental operational and
maintenance costs total US$22.9 million, or 33Z of base costs. Cost
estimates by expenditure category, detailed in Table 12, are sum-
marized in the following table:
INDIA : PROJECT COSTS BY EXPENDITURE CATEGORY
(In Millions)
ROM________ _           1US$          Zof       Z aE
Locl Foreign Total    Local FoePgn Total   Fobe        Total
Thd!    lae (bost
L   (tal Coss
QIvtl Wbns                  421.5  51.5  473.0      35.1   4.3  39.4    11          5B
Fweitwe, Fpwut ani
Vebidles                   65.8   7.3  73.1        5.5   0.6   6.1    10            9
Subotel, Caita'l Doo        487.3  58.8  546.1      40.6   4.9  45.5    11          67
IL  Izcxzintal Faawuivt Cbsts
Salades                     183.2   -    183.2      15.3   -     15.3     -         22
COts, I  Materals, and
mintewre Costs             80.1  10.2  90.3        6.7   0.9   7.6       -         11
,aatl imxt
Pcrret Costs              263.3  10.2  273.5      22.0   0.9  22.9       4         33
&*total, Re costs           750.6  69.0  819.6      62.6   5.8  68.4      8         100
a    f
PIysca1                      23.3   2.8  26.1        1.9   0.2   2.1    11           3
Price                       217.9  15.4  233.3      18.2   1.2  19.4      8         28
Sikocal, cootigyes          241.2  18.2  259.4      2D.1   1.4  21.5      8         31
IDAL                         991.8  87.2 1079.0      82.7   7.2  89.9      8        131



-40-
4.02        Project costs by functional category are shown in the fol-
lowing table. The largest share of project funds, 71% of base costs,
is allocated to the improvement of the delivery of basic health and
family welfare services. A further 14% is for training, 7% for demand
generation activities, 2% for monitoring and evaluation, and 6% for
project uanagement.   Pre-project activities  in all components (not
shown separately) account for 1% of project base costs.
INDIA: PROJECT COSTS BY FUNCTIONAL CATEGORY
(In Millions)
___ __ ___ __US$                      Zof        Z X E
I=cal Fore4p Total.   boaL Foreig  Total   FobIe4      Total
Thw,ge   Base Ct
Base Costs
Service Delivery               528.7  53.5  582.2     44.1   4.4  48.5       9         71
Demad Generatims
(1) iC                         46.4   2.4  48.8        3.9   0.2   4.1       5          6
(2) Poplatim FAwratm            9.4   0.8  10.2        0.8   0.1   0.9       8          1
Trainirg                       104.5   9.3  113.8      8.7   0.8   9.5       8         14
Mordoring and Evatio            13.6   0.7  14.3       1.1   0.1   1.2       6          2
Project a                       48.0   2.3  50.3       4.0   0.2   4.2       5          6
Sutotal, Base Costs         750.6  69.0  819.6      62.6   5.8  68.4      8         100
PIsca1                        23.3   2.8  26.1        1.9   0.2   2.1    11            3
Price                          217.9  15.4  233.3     18.2   1.2  19.4       8         28
S&total, Cwtinncies         241.2  18.2  259.4      2D.1   1.4  21.5    11          31
TEtM                              991.8  87.2 1079.0      82.7   7.2  89.9      8        131



-41-
4.03       The costs of construction and furniture are based on a re-
view of building costs in West Bengal in November 1984 and comparisons
of costs of similar civil works in previous projects. Cost estimates
for equipment, vehicles and supplies are based on November 1984 price
quotations.   Salaries, allowances, stipends, and vehicle operating
costs are based on standard government scales as of November 1984.
4.04      The contingency allowance of US$21.5 million (24% of total
project costs) includes: (a) physical contingencies for unforeseen
factors estimated at 5% of the base cost of civil works, furniture and
equipment; and (b) price contingencies averaging 33Z of base costs and
physical contingencies. Price contingencies for local costs are cal-
culated on the assumption of an 8.5Z annual inflation rate throughout
the project period. Price contingencies for the indirect foreign ex-
change component were calculated on the assumption of a 5.0% annual
inflation rate for CY 1985, 7.5% for CY 1986, and 8.0% for CY 1987-90.
B.  Financing
4.05      The total project cost (US$89.9 million) would be partially
financed by the proposed IDA credit of SDR 51.5 million (US$51.0
million equivalent), or about 60% of total project costs net of
taxes.  The balance of US$38.9 million (including US$5.5 million of
estimated taxes) will be contributed by the GOI and the GlB.
Financial Feasibility
4.06      Virtually all of India's share of project costs during the
project period (FY1985/86 to FY1989/90) will be borne by the Central
Government. As a percentage of total Central Government expenditures
in the health and family welfare sector, project costs would be neg-
ligible; hence, the question of financial feasibility during project
implementation does not arise.  After project completion about two
thirds of continuing recurrent costs will be met by the Central
Government and one third by the GWB from its non-plan budget.  In
FY1990/91, the first year after project completion, project-related
costs will be US$8.5 million.  Of these costs, US$5.75 million will
cover the family welfare, IEC and research and evaluation components
and will be met by Central Government revenue expenditures. The re-
maining US$2.75 million will be met by State non-plan revenue expen-
ditures. To assess the probable impact of these costs on the Central
Government and GIB departmental budgets, it is necessary to project
the growth of these budgets to FY1990/91.



-42-
4.07       Projections of the GOI revenues and expenditures were made
through an application of a model of India's public finance sector.
The projections assume that GDP will grow at 4Z per year through FY
1986/87 and 5% thereafter and apply historical elasticities for rev-
enues and expenditures. GWB receipts and expenditures were calculated
on the basis of growth coefficients derived from the aodel's projec-
tions for the State sector as a whole and then applied to West Bengal.
As a proportion of projected GOI revenue expenditures on health and
family welfare, post-project costs accruing to GOI in FY 1990/91 would
be less than one half of one percent. The Statets share would be less
than one percent. Thus, the project would be financially feasible for
both GOI and GWB in the sense that the project-related cost would
result in only a small increment in total revenue expenditures. While
the per caput expenditure (US$4.27) under the project on service de-
livery in the selected districts is slightly more than the present av-
erage governmental expenditure for the country as a whole, the figure
is very comparable to that already approved (US$4.20 in 1983/84
prices) in the third population project in India, and it is appro-
priate in view of the rate which the Governmnt is now expanding Its
expenditures on the program (para. 2.26).
C.   Procurement
4.08      Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below:
(US$ Millions)
Proaurezmet ltboINd            7btal
Io        L(3     Otler     N..L    Cost
cLvil Works                            39.4     -         -        39.4
(29.6)                     (29.6)
Furnite                     -           1.9     -         -         1.9
(1.3)                       (1.3)
Equipent                     1.5        0.6     -         -         2.1
(1.5)                                  (1.5)
heices                       -          2.1     -         -         2.1
(1.5)                       (1.5)
Salares                     -           -       -         15.3     15.3
(7.6)    (7.6)
bterials, awFPe,.
Operatingaod Naiitentre     -          7.5     -         -         7.5
Costs                                 (3.8)                       (3.8)
TOML                         1.5      -51.5     -15.3              683
(1.5)     (36.2)             (7.6)   (45.3)
Ibt- Flpres in  aw ra the respective ainms flniwi  1r the Baik



-43-
Contracts for civil works, including the construction of 752 sub-
centers, 32 new PBCs, 3 old PCs., 24 training annexes, 2 small train-
ing schools and a SIHFW, the lmprovement of 248 new PHCs, 67 old PHCs,
and the upgrading of 12 old PICs to CHCe, as well as the construction
of 4 workshops, would be small and widely dispersed In tim and place;
they would not be suitable for International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
procedures.  These contracts would, therefore, be let according to
local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures of the State which are ac-
ceptable to the Association.  Difficulties have been experienced in
previous projects in retaining contractors to work on smll buildings
in isolated rural areas, and some of the civil works, not more than
20% of the total, would be carried out departmentally under the
supervision of the PWD construction units.
4.09        Contracts for furniture and vehicles will be let through
State LCB procedures, which are acceptable to the Association.  Be-
cause of difficulties in transport and the need to use local tlber
suited to the climate, foreign firms are unlikely to be interested In
bidding for furniture. The sawe is true of vehicles, because of the
need to consider fleet compatibility and to provide for adequate main-
tenance and after-sales service.    All the furniture and types of
vehicles required are available from local manufacturers. Contracts
for the purchase of furniture estimated to cost less than the equiva-
lent of US$25,000 may be awarded on the basis of prudent shopping,
with solicitation of price quotations from at least three suppliers,
up to a maximum aggregate value of US$250,000 equivalent.
4.10       The bulk of the equipment in the project (by value) Is made
up of a large number of Items whose Individual values are very  mall.
Therefore, the practicality of packaging the equipment In lots large
enough to attract foreign suppliers is limLted, and a combination of
ICE and LCB procedures will be used. Contracts for the purchase of
equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more each
will be awarded on the basis of ICB. Contracts for the purchase of
equipment below US$100,000 equivalent each, but in aggregate not ex-
ceeding US$2,000,000, may be awarded on the basis of LCB. Contracts
for the purchase of equipment below US$25,000 equivalent may be award-
ed on the basis of prudent shopping, wlth solicitation of price quota-
tions from at least three suppliers, provided the aggregate value of
such contracts does not exceed the equivalent of US$500,000.
4.11      For equipment procured under ICB, preference will be accord-
ed to local manufacturers of equipment at 15% of the c.i.f. bid price
of such goods, or the amount of customs duty and other import taxes
levied on a non-exempt Importer, whichever Is lower.
4.12      Equipment contracts exceedlng US$100,000 equivalent will be
subject to pre-review and approval by IDA.



-44-
D.   Disbursements
4.13      Disbursements under the Credit would cover: (a) 75  of ex-
penditure for civil works (US$29.6 million); (b) for equipment, 100%
of foreign or ex-factory expenditures, or 701 of local expendltures
(US$1.5 million); (c) 70Z of expenditures for furnlture and vehicles
(US$2.8 million); (d) 50Z of staff salaries (US$7.6 million); and (e)
50Z of expenditures on materials, supplies, operating and maintenance
costs (US53.8 million).  An amount of US$5.7 million would be un-
allocated. The project provides US$0.5 million of retroactive financ-
ing for expenditures incurred after November 5, 1984, for establish-
ing construction units, initiating baseline surveys and MIES activi-
ties, establishing a project cordinator's office and other project-
related expenditures. A six-year schedule of estimated disbursements
is given in Table 13. It is based on the actual disbursement experi-
ence of the second Bank-assisted project adjusted for Rupee devalua-
tions.  The final disbursements would be made by August 31, 1991,
twelve months after project completion.
4.14      With the exception of contracts awarded under ICB procedures
for which full documentation would be required, disbursements would be
made against certified statements of expenditure to be supplied by the
DHEFW.  Supporting documents would be retained by GOI for inspection
by IDA during the course of project review missions.
E.  Accounts and Audit
4.15        The project would be subject to normal COX and CUB ac-
counting and auditing procedures which are considered satisfactory to
IDA.  The State project coordinator would maintain separate project
accounts.  Project accounts would be inspected regularly by special
area projects accounts staff from the MOEFW, New Delhi, and a quarter-
ly statement of expenditures provided to IDA.  Assurances have been
obtained during negotiations  that the GUB will (a) maintain separate
records and accounts to reflect, In accordance with sound accounting
practices and procedures consistently applied, their resources, expen-
ditures and operations related to the project; and (b) furnish to the
Association copies of its accounts and financial statements for each
financial year, certified as to their accuracy and authentlcity by an
independent auditor acceptable to the Association, as soon as avail-
able but in any case not later than nine months after the end of eacb
such year (para. 7.01(h)).



-45-
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
5.01      The MOHFW has a division which is responsible for coordinat-
ing and monitoring the implementation of all area projects Including
those assisted by IDA.  Staff are assigned to specific projects and
visit States frequently in addition to working closely with IDA review
missions.   GOI representatives attend Governing Board and Steering
Committee *eetings in each State. These arrangements, by which close
contact Is maintained with State projects, have proved satisfactory in
previous projects.
5.02       The committee system established in previous projects has
worked well in directing a high degree of attention to project objec-
tives, removing bottlenecks, and ensuring effective coordination of
the various departments of government involved.   In West Bengal, a
Governing Board will be established; it will comprise concerned
Secretaries and be chaired by the Chief Secretary (Annex 6).  The
Board will meet quarterly to review progress in implementation and
program performance, ensure effective coordination and resolve prob-
lems. The decisions of the Governing Board will be accepted as de-
cisions of the State and will not be subject to further review by
deprtmental  officials.   To  deal  with  routine  implementation,  a
Steering Comittee will meet monthly to provide program reports to the
Governing Board, monitor progress and performance, and provide an
ongoing technical review of all project and program activities.
Cibared by the Secretary of Health, the Steering Committee will
comprlse staff mostly concerned with project lmplementation and the
District Magistrate of each of the selected districts (Annex 6). The
COI would have representation on the Governing Board and the Steering
Committee. For eacb district, a committee will be established chaired
by the chairman of the district panchayst and Include government
officials and the chairmen of the district health and family welfare
committee (Annex 6).
5.03       As stated In para. 3.56, responslbillty for project *anage-
ment will be vested in a Project Coordinator.  The project will be
implemnted through the departments of government normally responsible
for activities Included In the project (Ministries of Health and
Family Welfare and Publlc Works for family welfare and labor, Educa-
tion and Comumnity Development for population education), and staff
recruited speciflcally for the project will be kept to the minimum
necessary. The Project Coordinator will have the financial and admin-
istrative powers of a head of department, reporting to the Secretary
of Health. These arrangements will provide for adequate llaison and



-46-
inter-departmental coordination and preserve the customary flow of
instructions and orders.   A simplified organogram  of the project
organization is given in Chart I, and Implemutation Schedules are
given in Tables 10 and 11 and CQart II.
Implementation of Civil Works
5.04       To implement the civil works program, a construction cell
has been established in the Directorate of Health and Family Welfare.
Beaded by a chief engineer who is responsible to the Project Coordi-
nator, the cell comprises one executive engineer, one assistant en-
gineer, and one sub-assistant engineer, and has planning, estimating,
designing and monitoring functions.   Two existing PWD construction
circles at Birbhum and Bardhamen, each headed by a superintending
engineer, will be temporarily expanded to handle the civil works
program, as will the construction divisions and sub-divisions in each
of the four districts. A total of 96 enginers and architects will be
required.  As the work proceeds, staff no longer required will be
released; any temporary staff in position at the end of the project
will, if the Chief Engineer has vacancies, be absorbed in the PWD's
regular budget. As with other project activities, funds will be drawn
from the Project Coordinator's ledger account.
5.05      Criteria for the location of all facilities to be construc-
ted, improved or upgraded 'ave been agreed (Annex 5). Schedules of
accomodation have been prepared and preliminary designs for 11 of the
14 facilities have already been prepared and reviewed. Equipment and
furniture lists for each type of facility have also been agreed. Sites
are already available for the 752 subcenters and the SIEM; only sites
for 32 new PECs, three old PECa, two workshops and two training
schools need to be located. The construction standards used by the PWD
for health facilities have bee reviewed and found to be satLafactory,
economic and in conformity with the State's socio-cultural environ-
wnut. One of the first functions of the construction cell, in col-
laboration with project and district health and family welfare staff,
will be to carry out a site selection exercise and a survey of all
facilities to be upgraded. A planning group with engineer, architect,
surveyor, and medical doctor representatives has been formed to
finalize accommodation schedules and preliminary designs for all
facilities.
B. Monitoring and Reporting
5.06         The project coordinator will prepare monthly progress
reports for the State Steering Committee.  Based on these reports,
which will cover construction, training, staffing, implementation of



-47-
IEC activities, project expenditures, monitoring and evaluation activ-
ities, and performance indicators, the project coordinator will pre-
pare a quarterly report for transmittal to the GOI and IDA within two
months after each quarter. Performance indicators will follow those
set out in Annex 3. Assurances have been obtained during negotiations
that the GWB will (a) complete a mid-term review of the progress of
each component of the project and of the performance of the family
welfare program in West Bengal with particular reference to the se-
lected districts; and (b) furnish by April 1, 1988, the results of
said review to the Association for its comments, and thereafter take
all necessary actions as agreed with the Association (para. 7.01(i)).
VI.  PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
6.01       The project focuses on facets of the State Family Welfare
program, the improveimnt of which is essential if the program i.s to
attain its objective of 60% effective contraceptive prevalence by
2000.   Attention is paid to:  (a) strengthening and restructuring
organizational capacity; (b) planning effective strategies; (c) in-
volving a wide variety of conmunity 1haders and organizations; and
(d) providing the essential hardware a-- baftware for program develop-
uent. Performance will be improved State-wide by accierating efforts
on priority interventions, improving the quality of services by more
efficient training, and creating a more efficiently mnaged organiza-
tion.
6.02      The selected districts cover about 12 million people (1985)
or 2OZ of West Bengal's population. An effective peripheral coverage
of services will be provided. As these districts are above the State
average in effective contraceptive prevalence, the project presents an
opportunity to see how quickly performance can be accelerated to eet
GOI goals. By the end of the project the level of prevalence in the
districts is expected to rise from about 33% to about 49Z, implying
more than 600,000 new sterilization acceptors and more than 100,000
additional IUD insertions over five project years (Annex 2). Deliv-
eries attended by trained personnel should increase from 30% to 60%,
whilst targets of   85Z   pre-natal co-smrage, anemia and Vitamin A
prophylaxis, and i4unnization of children aged 1-5 should be reached.
Because there are no data on infant mortality levels for the dis-
tricts, targeting will have to await the results of the baseline
survey which will, in itself, produce information not previously
available at district level in West Bengal.



-48-
6.03      The GOI program overall will benefit from the experience of
expanded demand generation and monitoring and evaluation activities
on a State-wide basis.   The project will also provide the first ex-
perience in any State of implementing the service delivery levels of
the Seventh Five Year Plan.  Most importantly, the establishment of
the SIHFW represents a significant new direction in training strategy
and will provide a model for replication in other States.
Risks
6.04      Risks attendant on the implementation of project activities
are seen as minimal in view of experience with previous projects and
the backing which the project will receive from the GWB and the MOHFW
of the GOI. The primary difficulty will be to gain acceptance by pro-
gram staff of the strategies set out in the project strategy paper
(Annex 2), particularly with regards to the promotion of non-permanent
contraceptive methods.  Once staff is motivated, the difficulties of
actually motivating couples are minimised, but even with effective
demand generation support it will still be difficult to raise preva-
lence to target levels of 55-60%. The selected districts have a high-
er proportion of disadvantaged communities than the State as a whole,
and this poses additional problems. A final difficulty will be in es-
tablishing an institutional capability at the SIHFW. It is unfortu-
nate that no existing institution can be developed since de novo
institution building is always difficult and time consuming. There
is, nevertheless, considerable experience to draw on, and there are
several management and training institutes in West Bengal and India
which can be relied upon to help as a capability is developed.
VII.   ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, the following assurances have been ob-
tained that the GWB will:
a.    Furnish detailed, annual demand generation strategies to
the Association for its review and comments no later than
two months before the start of each financial year (para.
3.26);
b.    By December 31, 1985, establish and maintain a committee
to coordinate the functions of the Mass Education and
Media Division with the State Bureau of Health Education,
which will have membership, functions and powers satis-
factory to the Association (para. 3.38);



-49-
c.    Take all necessary measures to appoint the required
number of HAFB by March 31, 1986 (para. 3.44);
d.    By March 31, 1986  (a) complete a survey to identify
any significant gaps in the skills, knowledge and prac-
tice of family welfare staff as a basis for the reorien-
tation of the :.aff in the project districts; and
(b) promptly furnish the results of the said survey to the
Association for its review and comments (para. 3.47);
e.    Furnish annually curricula and a timetable for the re-
training of staff in project districts, not later than
two months before the start of each financial year, to
the Association for its review and comments (para. 3.47);
f.    (a) Appoint a nucleus of senior staff positions by June 30,
1986, as agreed with the Association; and (b) by March 31,
1988, fully staff the SIMFW as agreed with the Association
and thereafter maintain all the SIHEW staff positions on a
regular basis (para. 3.51);
g.    By December 31, 1985, establish and maintain a committee to
coordinate the functions of the Family Welfare Demographic
and Evaluation Cell with the State Bureau of Health Intel-
ligence, which will have membership, functions and powers
satisfactory to the Association (para. 3.55);
h.    (a) Maintain separate records and accounts to reflect, in
accordance with sound accounting practices and procedures
consistently applied, their resources, expenditures and
operations related to the project; and (b) furnish to
the Association copies of its accounts and financial state-
ments for each financial year, certified as to their ac-
curacy and authenticity by an independent auditor acceptable
to the Association, as soon as available but in any case
not later than nine months after the end of each such year
(para. 4.15); and
i.    (a) complete a mid-term review of the progress of each
component of the project and of the performance of the
family welfare program in West Bengal with particular
reference to the selected districts; and (b) furnish by
April 1, 1988, the results of said review to the Associa-
tion for its comments, and thereafter take all necessary
actions as agreed with the Association (para. 5.06).
7.02      Subject to the above assurances and conditions being met, it
is recommended that the proposed project would constitute a suitable
basis for an IDA credit of SDR 51.5 million (US$51 million equivalent)
on standard terms to the Government of India.



INDIA : FOURTH POPULATION PROJECT - WEST BENGAL
SCHM4TIC REPRESENTATION OF BLOCK-LEVEL HEALTH SERVICES HDDEL TO BE IMPLMEINTED BY THE YEAR 2000
BLOCK "A"                                                                    BLOCX "B"
Sc  SC               SC  SC                  SCS  SC  SC                                                         SCS
nlew                                     n
PWIC      \PHC                                                           PHC/                                      PHC
new                   new       .                     ;1                                           new~~~~~~~~~ne
_ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PHC ^PC< H
BLOCK "C"                                                                    BLOCK "D"
Note:  The arrows represent referral/support lines.  There are coimnlty-bised Village Health Guides nd trained
Traditiocal Birth Attendants below (and supported by) subeenters.



-51-
AMNEX 2
INDIA : FOURTH POPULATION PROJECT - WEST BENGAL
STRATEGY PAPER
A.  Project Goals
1.       The goals of the project are to achieve rapid reductions in:
a.   fertility, by means of increases in contraceptive
prevalence rates (CPR); and
b.   infant, child and maternal mortality and morbidity,
by means of increases In the coverage and quality of
maternal child health (NCR) care.
B. Project Strate8ies
2.       Prior to the start of project implementation, the Govern ent
of West Bengal (GWB) mill take im,_diate measures to reiedy defi-
ciencies  in program  organization,  staffing and  training.   These
Include:
a.   coupletion of dai training in the project districts;
b.   training of appropriate femle workers in IUD
insertion;
c.    taking of all measures to appoint and train
the required number of R&Fs;
d.   ismmdiate start to construction of all facilities in
the project districts for which sanction has been
received from GOI; and
e.   reorganization of the Directorate of Health Services so
that all sections concerned with mltipurpose workers,
Expanded Program of Immunization (8PI) and nutrition come
under Family Welfare.



-52-
ANNEX 2
3.        The project will provide substantial additional resources in
terms of physical facilities and staff. By project-end, subcenter cov-
erage will reach the Government of India's (GOI) goal of one per 5000
popilation (one per 3000 in tribal areas) in the project districts, a
dramatic improvement over the present generally poor coverage at vil-
lage level, while the capacity of referral facilities will be signif-
icantly improved as well.
4.        However, while facilities, trained staff and appropriate or-
ganization are necessary, they will not be sufficient to achieve proj-
ect goals. This is clearly demonstrated by the example of the project
districts, where in 1984 subcenter coverage ranged from 25Z to 89Z of
required facilities while the number of equivalent sterilisations per
thousand population was almost identical in three of the districts and
only somewhat less in the fourth. Project results will depend on the
extent to which all staff understand project strategies and thus are
able to utilize the resources available to them under the project to
achieve its goals.
5.         This paper outlines strategies relating to three areas of
primary concern for the project:
a.    delivery of family welfare services;
b.    demand generation; and
c.    program management.
The strategies are based on the integrated delivery of family welfare
services and are consistent with GOI policies; they represent at most
changes in emphasis or priorities. Nevertheless, they imply signifi-
cant changes in existing orientation and practices and can be imple-
mented only with strong, sustained and informed support from senior
managers at State and district level.
C. Delivery of Family Welfare Services
Priority Activities
6.          The tasks and responsibilities of multipurpose workers as
described in the GOI manuals are extremely comprehensive.   Workers
will have to focus on a limited number of priority activities - family
planning, MCH and information, education and communication (IEC) - if
project goals are to be achieved.
I,;



-53-
ANNEX 2
7.         Family Planning.   Good progress has been made in the proj-
ect districts in recent years, and by the end of 1983/84 effective
contraceptive prevalence rates were over 30Z in all four districts.
This relatively favorable base, combined with the additional resources
that will be available under the project, make it feasible to set as
a project goal the achievement of prevalence rates approaching the
GOI target of 60Z effective contraceptive prevalence.   Since some
facilities will not be completed until the final project year and in
any event institutionalization of project strategies will require
time, it is assumed that the full impact of the project in terms of
achievements will not be felt until at least two years after the end
of the project in 1990.   Setting expectations  for Bardhaman and
Puruliya districts somewhat lower (55Z) than those for Bankura and
Birbhum (60X), the project therefore will aim to achieve approximately
57% effective contraceptive prevalence (average for the four dis-
tricts) by 1992, which would mean prevalence of about 49% by the end
of the project in 1990.
8.         The project will continue to promote the adoption of perma-
nent methods by couples with two or more children. However, it will
not be possible to achieve rapid expansion of contraceptive use with-
out substantial increases in the use of temporary methods, which are
likely to be the only methods acceptable to younger couples. Use of
temporary methods has lagged in the project districts (as in all of
West Bengal), accounting for only 5% of effective prevalence (14% for
all-India) and 36% of new/equivalent acceptors (57Z for all-India) in
1983/84. The project will aim to increase the proportion of temporary
acceptors to 50% of all new/equivalent acceptors and will particularly
stress increased use of IUDs.
9.          The table attached to this Annex gives year-by-year esti-
mates of the numbers of new/equivalent acceptors by method that would
be needed to achieve average effective contraceptive prevalence of 57%
in the project districts by 1992; by that year IUDs will represent 20X
of all new/equivalent acceptors, conventional contraceptives 25%, and
orals 5%, as compared with 4%, 29% and 3% respectively in 1983/84.
The resulting effective prevalence levels for temporary methods will
still be modest: a total of 8% (5% IUDs, 2% conventional contracep-
tives and 1Z orals) vs. 49% sterilization. Nevertheless, the increases
in the numbers of acceptors required to achieve these prevalence
levels will be large: since temporary methods have much lower continu-
ation rates than does sterilization, proportionately larger numbers of
temporary acceptors are required to achieve a given increase in
prevalence. Compared to 1983/84 figures, by 1992 the number of IUD
insertions will have to increase by more than 10 times, the number of
equivalent acceptors of orals by more than 4 times, and the number of
equivalent users of conventional contraceptives by a factor of 2. The
figures in 1983/84 and goals for 1991/92 are summnrized in the follow-
ing table.



-54-
ANNEX 2
_______________________________________  1991/92
Iftbod           Pc percm  of  Effectie              uer cerot of  Effective
Nvi        M*al NW/                    ---  dTtal (NX)l
-          -       hw~~~m                     FqcirvalmomWst   fteam
AccmpWrs      (Z)                      kAcepWvs      (2)
aSr.ti   90910              64           .30         161038         50           .49
IUD           6313           4            -          64521           D05
CC           40576          29           .01         80718          25          .02
O0s           3684           3            -           16160          5           .01
TMlL         1U483         -i           -SIT                       100          .57
aI Da  to iu of a s_mlht lmr estlute of the   ofr   elile cxies, f estimate of effective
ptve paewj lem   tur b s _amit I   tim the Gbumui nt estimet.
These challenging objectives can be achieved only if senior program
administrators and medIcal officers take the lead in vigorously
promoting temporary methods.
10.       Maternal and Child Hsalth (NCM).  Priority will be given to
expanding pre-natal and  post-natal care and immunization, with the
alm of achieving universal coverage. Pre-natal care, including tetanus
immmuization and the supply of Iron ant follc acid tablets to prevent
anemia, eliminates neo-natal tetanus and reduces the incidence of
pregnancy complications. It also permits the identification of high-
risk pregnancies.
11.       For Infants and young children, priorities are imuunization
through the GOI's EPI (in support of which the project provides cold
chain facilities), treatment of co-ion diseases, and growth nonitor-
ing. Diarrhea and pneumonia account for Dost of the preventable deaths
of infants and young children. The single most Important mea sure is
to reach mothers wlth the message that these diseases are treatable if
help Is sought promptly. Diarrhea responds well to oral rehydration
therapy (ORT), which can be carrled out by mothers at bore if they
receive proper lnstructlon. Health mesages will also Include measures
that can be taken to lessen the risk that common colds will develop
into serious respiratory Illness.   Ongoing child care by multipurpose
workers is based on periodic weighing and the use of growth charts.
This continuing contact with mothers provides opportunities to convey
messages about the Importance of breastfeeding and adequate supplemen-
tary feeding; children who still fail to thrive should be referred
promptly.
12.       Information, Education and Communication (IEC). It is often
assumed that INC refers solely to mass media publicity and to the ac-
tivitles of IC staff.  In fact, the outline of priority activities



-55-
ANNEX 2
given above makes it apparent that demand creatlon, conveying new in-
formation and teaching new skills - in other words, IEC - are all cen-
tral to the activities of multipurpose workers. While the work of IEC
staff is also a project priority (paras. 23-25), it is essential that
all field staff, indeed all program staff, recognize that interperson-
al commwnication is usually the most effective means of conveying in-
formation and bringing about behavioral change.  Staff must receive
appropriate training that will give them the skills and experience to
carry out effectively this crucial aspect of their work.
Priority Households
13.         Given the wide scope of even priority activities, multi-
purpose workers must be able to limit their potential workload by
identifying priority households and individuals. The eligible couple
registers kept at each subcenter must be continuously updated and kept
current (para. 28) so that workers have accurate information about all
households, and the reasons for establishing priorities must be clear-
ly understood. In identifying and monitoring priority households and
individuals, workers should coordinate their activities with those of
trained dais and village health guides (VEGs), drawing on their know-
ledge and avoiding duplication of work they have already accomplished.
14.       Family Planning and MCM. In a subcenter population of about
5000, there will be approximately 800 couples eligible for family
planning (wife 15-44). On the one hand, nearly a third of these will
not be family planning targets at all, because one spouse has been
sterilized and/or the last birth was more than five years ago.  (The
baseline survey will provide specific estimates of these and related
numbers.) On the other hand, family planning recruitment has usual-
ly focused on older women with high numbers of births. This priority
should be shifted towards more fertile younger wouen: contraceptive
acceptance among women under 30 who have three or fewer births averts
roughly one and a half times the numbers of births that would be
averted by contraceptive acceptance among older women.
15.       By organizing their activities in terms of the cycle of NCR
care, workers will easily be able to shift their focus to younger wom-
en and will also find appropriate opportunities for family planning
motivation, since providing pre-natal or post-natal/child care servi-
ces will bring them into contact with potential family planning accep-
tors. There are clear guidelines for the type of advice to be offered:
a.    temporary methods are appropriate for those with
fewer than two children or the second child not yet
two years of age; and
b.    pernent methods are appropriate for those with two
or more children and the second child more than two
years of age.



-56-
ANNEX 2
This approach will allow field-workers to move away from a frantic
search for sterilization acceptors at the end of the year and in-
stead to provide both MCH and family planning services on an inte-
grated and continuing basis.  It should also result in substantial
increases In the use of temporary methods.
16.         Identification of priority households/individuals is also
essential to the reduction of infant and young child mortality. Spe-
cial attention needs to be given in cases of high-risk pregnancies
and/or malnourished infants and young children. Trained dais and VRGs
will be involved in the identification of high-risk pregnancies so
that all problem cases can be brought to the prompt attention of
multipurpose workers and referred, if necessary.
17.        Information, Education and Communication (IEC). Currently,
the wide range of tasks and the large numbers to be covered make it
difficult if not impossible for multipurpose workers to undertake
educational and motivational activities on a systematic basis. Workers
sbould identify as priority households only as many as they can visit
regularly, with sufficient time for IEC work. Attention will also be
given to the use of group meetings to convey and reinforce IEC
messagee. The Directorate of Health Services (DES), together with the
chief medical officers of the project districts, will carry out a re-
view as to how household visits, group meetings, subcenter clinic work
and other activities by multipurpose workers can best be organized and
scheduled.
Supervision
18.        The changes in priorities and practices required by these
strategies imply significant reorientation at the field level. Such a
reorientation can be accomplished only with strong support from super-
visors at all levels. Initially, the support of senior administrators
at State and district levels, whose priorities set the incentives for
all staff below them, will be particularly lmportant.
19.       Supervisory Routines.   Changes in attitude cannot be order-
ed from above but must be developed over time through demonstrations
of supervisors' support for them. The new approaches discussed here
cannot be implemented successfully without assistance to multipurpose
workers through regular, on the job supervision.   DES, together with
the chief medical officers of the project districts, will review
existing field supervision schedules to determine whether they provide
for frequent, regular and sufficiently lengthy supervision visits.
Schedules will be revised as necessary and priority given to ensuring
that they are adhered to.



-57-
ANNEX 2
20.        Supervision as Support.  Supervisors should adopt a manage-
rial style that emphasizes responsiveness to problems and support.
One important step is regular supervision while workers are on the job
In villages, rather than summoning them to subcenter, PHC or district
offices. A further step will be a more balanced allocation of time du-
ring supervision visits, between checking performance (which now re-
ceives greatest attention), eliciting field-workers' problems, and
giving lnservice training and advice.
21.       IEC Supervision.  The project provides for the strengthening
of the professional IEC staff. However, it is regular program super-
visory staff, who are not IEC specialists, who will determine in prac-
tice the time and emphasis that field-workers will give to IEC. Super-
visors themelves, therefore, most appreciate the contribution that
IEC can make to program effectiveness and be able to convey this to
those they supervise.   It will be necessary to develop quantitative
measures of assessing IEC activities by multipurpose workers, but it
will be equally important to supervisors to find out whether workers
know and understand key IEC messages, to discuss reactions to mes-
sages (paras. 23-24), and to provide advice in adapting messages to
meet specific circumstances.
D.   Demand Generation
22.        In addition to family planning mass media campaigns, it is
now increasingly recognized that interpersonal comumication is usual-
ly the most effective way of conveying new information and changing
attitudes. Recognizing that effective demand generation efforts which
include interpersonal communication are essentlal to project success,
the project provides support for both the IEC couponent of the family
welfare program and for population education.
Information, Education and Communication
23.          IEC efforts should be coordinated to the maximum extent
possible with the other components of the family welfare program at
all levels.   IEC staff and field-workers should be aware of each
other's activities, so that the messages conveyed through orientation
training camps (OTCs), mass media campaigns, etc. correspond to field-
workers' needs and support their work. Both IEC and field staff should
be informed about the population education program directed at gram
panchayat members (para. 26) and should seek to reinforce and supple-
ment the impact of this program through OTCs and personal visits.
Informational efforts coordinated with promotion by field-workers will
have a crucial role in expanding the use of temporary contraceptive
methods.  At OTCs and similar forum  the legal mdninmm ages for mar-
riage (18 for women, 21 for men) should always be stressed. The open-
ing of a new facility (1,037 subcenters, 32 new PHCs and 3 old PECa



-58-
ANNEX 2
will be established under the project) should be the occasion for an
IEC promotion to mke everyone in the area avare of the 1ocation of
the new facility and the services available. IEC staff can also be of
great assistance in making village comunitles aware of their famLly
welfare achievements, for example, the percent of children lmunized
or the level of contraceptive prevalence attained.
24.       NCR work in particular requires far more IEC support than It
has received. MCH messages that need to be communicated through a va-
riety of IEC channels include:
a.    the importance of seeking early treatment for
Infants and young children with diarrheal or
respiratory illnesses;
b.    the use of oral rehydration therapy (ORT) at horn;
C.    measures to prevent common colds from becoming
serious respiratory illnesses in infants and
young children;
d.    the importance of pre-natal care, Including tetanus
imunization, for pregnant women;
e--    the importance of having infants and young children
immunized;
f.    the importance of breastfeeding; and
g.    the importance of adequate supplementary feeding for
infants.
25.        The new strategies introduced under the project, the great
variety of activities planned, and the new equipment that will be av-
ailable combine to require retraining of present IEC staff at all
levels.
Population Education
26.       Population education, a motivational and educational effort
to develop informed attitudes concerning family size and quality of
life, is the natural couplement of more narrowly focused IEC efforts
within the family welfare program. The project has specifically tar-
geted young adult age groups because of their potential for immediate
fertility impact, and will, therefore, include population education
through colleges (especially for student teachers), through adult edu-
cation programs, and through workers' education program. A program
to reach elected officials from gram panchayat to zila parishad levels
is more directly linked to the rural family welfare program and should
make a sajor contribuetion to project IEC efforts (para. 23).



-59-
AM= 2
Z. Naragement
N Canageut Training of Medical Officers
27.       The mdlcal officor ia chare of a comminity health center
(CdC) or old primry health center (NIC) covering a block with a
population of more than 100,000, let alone the medical officer in
charge of health and fmily welfare services for an entire dlitrict
with a population of several millions, has very substantial adminLe-
trative and mnagement responsibilltles for hibch he Is unlikely to
have received any forml training. Recognizing the key role that ef-
fectlve managemut and leadersbp at district  an  block levls will
play in the achievemet of project goalo, the project will provide
training that will aseist medical offic ers to successfully carry out
their management responsibilities. The trainiog, which will draw on
siilar training progrm_ developed In previous Jak-as.ietted popula-
tion projects, will be baed on public health materials and will be
problem-solving in orientation.  It will reviem project strateie  mad
the role of senior mdical officers In their iSplemontation, and will
stress the use of the management Inforzation and evaluation system
(HIES) as a manages_nt tool.
Hmnagement Informaton and Evaluation $Mtm
28,        A MIES will play a major role La the project.  M1S sAll.
have a dual functlon. It Is first a unified data collectLoen systm:
multipurpose workers will be provided wLth a standad uet of reglimers
and reporting form  that will replace any otbor forr am In use, tCom
elimtnating duplicatLon and reducig the tie that multipurpose work-
ers must devote to record keeping.  The bslc lIES register, the
eligible couple egLiter, will be updated as quickly as possble and
will be kept current to assist multipurpose workers In Identifying
priority households (para. 13).
29.        Second,  RS Ics  a mnage met tool.   Data on acevements
wIll be analyzed In a fashlon that wvll reflect project MCM and fdly
pllanig priorities. The results will be fed bock proqptly, thus al-
loing staff at all levls to comare their currnt peormc  wth
their own previous performnce as .11 an that of other faclitie  or
area. CEC/old PIC and district medical officers should use this in-
formatlon to spot particularly good or bad facilltes ad In the lat-
ter case take remedial measures.  The analysis of perforune from
MIES should form the baeis for discussions at weekly and monthly staff
meetingm.
30.          Implementation of KIES will be preceded by a serle  of
traluLng and orientation sesions startlng at State leel end proceed-
ing down to subcenter level. After  prozxictely sx months, refrehb-
er training for field staff will be carried out to correct ay dIffi-
cultleA In laplem_ntation that may arsle.



-60-
ANNEX 2
F. Focus on Training
31.       Up to the present, in-service training bas not been popular
among family welfare staff. Facilities have been inadequate, and the
training provided has not been considered to be very practical or to
have much relationship to future career prospects. In view of the
crucial role that training plays in all of the project components,
this situation must be remedied and training activities must be fully
supported by supervisors at all levels. The project provided substan-
tial support for training, including the establisbment of a State
Institute of Health and Family Welfare (SIHFW) that will serve as a
focus for in-service training in all program areas for the entire
State.  Training capacity will be strengthened further through the
provision of training units at district level and training annexes at
CUCs in project districts.
32.          The Directorate of Health Services will draw up plans,
beginning with training of trainers, for in-service training for all
field staff in project districts and for other categories of staff as
appropriate. This will be a large exercise, and project success will
depend to a great extent on whether this training will be able to con-
vey to workers and supervisors the content of project strategies, the
rationale that underlies them, and how they can be- implemented in
practical terms.
33.        In planning this training, the results of the brief survey
to be carried out at the beginning of the project in order to assess
gaps in field-workers' knowledge, skills and priorities in the areas
of famLly planning and MCE will be taken into account.  The survey
will include questions concerning workers' priorities, wok routines,
IEC activities, and the character and frequency of supervision.
34.       DUS will ensure that multipurpose worker pre-service train-
ing and supervisor promotee training also are revised to include proj-
ect strategies.
G. Follow-Up
35.       Proposals to initiate and continue action in the context of
the strategies set out in this paper for the four project districts
will be prepared by the State of West Bengal in consultation with the
Government of India and reviewed with the Association each year.



-61-                          ANNEX  2
Attachment 1
ACCEPTOR ESTIMATES FOR PROJECT DISTRICTS
FOUR PROJECT DISTRICTS
83/84    84J85   85/86    86/87    87/88    88/89    89/90    90/91    91/92
PYI      PY2      PY3       PY4      PY5
------- -------- -------------- ------------ ------------------------- _    _- _ _-- __ - _- __- _--__-
EST. POP   119.07   121.60   124.18   126.52   129.52   132.27   135.08   137.94   140.87
EST. EC  1905120  1945600  1986980  2029120  2072320  2116320  2161280  2207040  2253920
STERILIZATION (CONT RATE =  93%)
Cant            524980   565816   624099   686672   750612   815570   893784   972696
New    90910    63424   105258   114259   120437   126345   145489   152126   161038
Total   564495   608404   671074   738357   907109   876957   961058  1045910  1133734
C. Prey     0.30      0.31     0.34     0.36      0.39     0.41      0.44     0.47      0.50
E. Prev     0.30      0.31     0.34      0.36     0.39     0.41      0.44     0.47      0.50
IUD (CONT RATE =  45X)
Cant              41E10     4876     6783      8981    12310    16496    24083    33147
New     6313     6654    10197    13176    18373    24326    37032    49577    64521
Total     9289    10834    15073    19959    27355    36635    53518    73661    97668
C. Prev      .00      0.01     0.01      0.01     0.01     0.02      0.02     0.03      0.04
E. Prev      .00      0.01     0.01     0.01      0.01     0.02      0.02     0.03      0.04
CONVENTIONAL CONTRACEPTIVES
Eq Ac    40576    38382    49159    52315    57251    62131    71269    76063    80798
C. Prev     0.02      0.02     0.02     0.03      0.03     0.03      0.03     0.03      0.04
E. Prev     0.01      0.01     0.01      0.01     0.01     0.01      0.02     0.02      (.02
ORALS
Eq Ac     3684     3951      5060     7542      8204     8903    10668    14606    16160
C. Prev      .00       .00      .00       .00      .00      .00       .00     0.01      0.01
E. Prev      .00       .00      .00       .00      .00      .00       .00     0.01      0.01
TOTAL
C. New   141483   132411   169675   187291   204265   221705   264458   292374   322516
E. New   120879   112888   144585   160475   174546   189423   226972   251664   278612
C. Total   618044   661572   740366   818173   899919   984626  1096513  1210241  1328359
E. Total   597292   642048   715277   791357   870374   952344  1059027  1169731  1284734
C. Prev     0.32      0.34     0.37     0.40      0.43     0.47      0.51     0.55      0.59
E. Prev     0.31      0.33     0.36      0.39     0.42     0.45      0.49     0.53      0.57



-62-
ARM 3
IWA: YOuT  rO LATXON PROc  - WIsr IAL
11LUSURA22VE VOIAUME IJCAMMS
fro jctfcbsist                    Objectve                    PErfomce ndctors                   Data Sources
dlxa Pouation Vroject IV         srow hbalt ad fdaly         Chans In Infat md child           Bae line aurveys,
mlfae status of th  pa-    mortality and  riqbiity rates.    follw up survey|  .
pulation by racing           _aternal mortality rate, ad
wrtality, tairdity mad       fertity ad wrtality rates.
fertility.
Chap   in proxi_ta determinants  Service statistics,
of fertiity (cotraception,        periodic prevalence
abortlm).                        surveys and studies.
Project Comaets
A.  hyiecal fcilUtila            To isqove accessibility     N? r (ad percentage) of:
ad   _qr                     ad utillatiln of h_sltb
ad faly plannig serv-    - Registered  tbhers for ante-    Service Statistics.
ices,                          nstal care.
- Average 'viLts for each antber. Follow-up Surveys.
- HDtbers  ccinated aglant        Supervisio  and
Tetama (TT).                    Evaluation Reports.
- Deliverles by health team.
trained dais, and others.
- Delivery cases referred to
othr hospital.
Pot-at  visits.
Contraceptive acceptance.
Clinic Attadmce.
-Imuistailo for DPT, polio.
Tll, etc.
tMrbldity statistics according
to diagnosis.
-Cuses of infant and ddld
S. Training C omet               To staff NCWFP arvices.    - Iqroved staffing.                 Evaluatio  of
trining progra.
To improve the qualty of    - Uawledge, attitude and
NIWIPP srvices.                sdll of the trainee.            Service statistics.
- Iacrease in the number          Special studies.
of cllents served.
- CIS"nts' satisfaction
with servies.
C. Cmunicaton CAqcet             To inureas the kmelede       - Chnes in kheledge about         Special surveys and
abeut besfits and avail-      HlUW iss e.                      studies.
ability of D  servi.
Service statistics.
To crete a supportive en-   - Changs in kuwlndge about
vi t for WE serUvces.    HIFI services.
To incre e recopit           - Coimuty's respose to HFW
of WIu program as ma eass-    staff.
tial coqioset of develop-
mt by the aff of other   - Partlipatiom of leader, in
de _elopint departmts.         planming ad i.leamtatio
of HFW program.



-63-
ANNEX 4
INDIA: FOURTH POPULATION PROJECT - WEST BENGAL
CRITERIA FOR LOCATION OF HEALTH AND FAMILY WELFARE FACILITIES
Criteria for Subcenters
1.        A subcenter in normal ground areas will serve approximately
5,000 population. Those in backward hilly or tribal areas will serve
approximately 3,000 population.
2.        No subcenter should normally be located within 8 km of an
upgraded primary health center (PlC) or taluk hospital or 5 km. of a
new PEC unless there is an unbridged crossing or very concentrated
population unit requiring an exception.
3.        No subcenter or village should normally require the multi-
purpose worker to walk more than 3 kas.
4.        Five subcenters will come under the control of a new PlC.
5.        Subcenters should, as far as practicable, be located in vil-
lages connected by roads to new PHCs or tehail or district headquar-
ters.
6.        A subcenter should be located preferably in the biggest vil-
lage in a catehment area so as to make services available to the
largest numbers.
7.        Subcenters should be sited in villages where other public
service buildings, such as post offices, school markets, etc., are al-
ready located.
8.        All subcenters shall have their own source of water and
electricity whenever possible. Whenever this is geographically iw-
possible, they should be located within 100 metres of a clean and per-
manent water source.
9.        Sites to be considered should either be donated by the vil-
lage commmity or be situated in public land.
10.       The catchment area for a subcenter should, as far as pos-
sible, not have any unbridged crossings.
11.       The site should be accessible from a main road and should
need no culvert or approach road.
12.       The site should be free from flooding, be well-drained and
be free from water-logging.



-64-
ANNEX 4
13.       The site selected in tribal or hilly areas should be near to
single teacher school locations or housing clusters whenever possible.
14.       Sites consisting of made-up ground, black cotton soil or
soil containing excessive quantities of salts are to be avoided.
Trial pits are to be dug and soils analysed by the engineering depart-
ments whenever this occurs.
15.       A district site selection comsittee is to be formed early in
the project period to formally approve all sites. This committee is
to be chaired by the district magistrate and include the district
medical officer and district engineer or superintendent engineer.
Criteria for New Primary Health Centers (NPHC)
and Old Primary Health Centers (OPHC)
16.       Each NPRC will serve approximately 30,000 population or
20,000 in the case of hilly or tribal areas. Each OPEC and/or comr-
munity health center (CEC) will serve approximately 100,000 popula-
tion.
17.       The criteria for selection of subcenter locations will also
apply generally for major works.
18.       A clean and permanent water supply will be made available
for all uajor buildings. This will include overhead storage tanks and
piped water supply.
19.       An assured electric supply to all major buildings mast be
provided.
20.       A hard weather permanent approach road should be provided.
This road is to connect to a main road providing year round accessibi-
lity to otber major buildings such as district hospitals.
21.       The selected site shall have sufficient space for future
expansion.
Criteria for Community Health Centers (CHCs)
22.       The proposed CHCs will be centrally located with respect to
new PECs in the catchment area and will be connected by all weather
roads for each referral access.
23.       A CHC site will have the largest concentrated population in
its vicinity.
24.       A CHC will not normally be located within 10 km of district
headquarters.
25.       Every taluk of a district will normally have a CRC.



-65-
ANNEX 4
Other Buildings
26.       Sites for multipurpose workers training annexes will be lo-
cated at CHCs. Equipment and vehicle workshops will be located at
divisional or district headquarter towns which are centrally located
not only to the project districts but to the State as a whole. These
sites need not fall within the project districts and should be located
where the maximum coverage will be possible.
Site Acquisition
27.       A mapping exercise will be undertaken when locating new
health structures, which would relate to population catchbent and
other key facilities such as NPHC and OPHC locations, post offices,
police stations, water supply, electricity supply, etc.
28.       A project officer to be appointed in each district will be
initially responsible for land acquisition, in particular subcenter
locations. This person would form the nucleus of a site selection
comuittee to the district and be assisted by the district medical
officer and executive engineer.
29.       Site plan layouts, together with soil test figaires, exist-
ing building surveys, water and electricity supply source and adjoin-
ing properties would be produced by the office of the district execu-
tive engineer at the divisional level. Layouts of subcenters would be
undertaken at this level. All major works, upgradings, and new build-
ings would be undertaken by the staff of the central construction
cell, in Calcutta, after receipt of basic site information.



-66-
ANNEX 5
INDIA :FOURTH POPULATION PROJECT   WEST BENGAL
PRELIMINARY LIST OF OPERATIONAL RESEARCH AND EVALUATION STUDIES
1.        Preliminary proposals for operational research aud
evaluation studies to be undertaken under the project include the
following:
a.    continuation of current follow-up of laparascopic
sterilization acceptors to ascertain follow-up by
fieldworkers, side effects and failure rates;
b.    increasing use of oral contraceptives in a block or
blocks through a distribution scheme utilizing vil-
lage health guides (VEGs);
c.    increasing use of IUDs in a block or blocks through
increased availability of services (all female multi-
purpose workers (MPWFs) to be trained in insertion)
combined with increased promotion (MPVFs to be special-
ly trained in identifying and recruiting potential ac-
ceptors);
d.    in conjunction with the State Mass Education and
Information Office, evaluat'.ou of maternal and child
health (MCH) message campaigns;
e.    increasing pre-natal coverage in a block or blocks
through payment of stipends to trained dais for
identification of pregnant women;
f.    intensive evaluation of management information and
evaluation system (MIES) implementation In select-
ed blocks;
g.    organization of multipurpose worker activities with
emphasis on hope visits and group meetings on a
highly structured basis in a block or blocks; aid
h.    evaluation of selected in-service training.



-67-
ARMEX 6
INDIA: FOUR   POPUUWIOIN PROJCT -S  BNGIAL
PROJECT GOVERNING BOARD AND STFURINC CONNITTZES
Governing Board
1.  Chief Secretary, Governmnt of WeSt Bengal   - Chairm
2.   Secretary, Health and FamLly Welfare           - Vice Chalrmen
3.   Secretary, Finance                             - NAmber
4.   Secretary, Publlc Works                        - NAber
5.   Secretary, Land Rleenue                        - Nmber
6.   Secretary, Social Welfare                      - NUmber
7.   Secretary, Education                           - Mouber
8.   Secretary, Labor                                 N - Umber
9.   Secretary, Panchayats and Commmity Day't.    - Nmber
10.  Secretary, Developmnt and Planning             - Nmber
11.  Land Reforms Colssioner                        - MNmber
12.  GOI Nominees                                   - Nmber
13.  Director of Health Services                    - Nmber
14.  Project Coordinator                            - Umber-Secretary
State Level Steering Coiltte.
1.   Secretary, Health and Family Welfare           - Chairmn
2.   Secretary, Finance                             - Umber
3.  Director of Health Services                     - Nmber
4.   Chief Engineer, Project                  .    - Nmber
5.  District Magistrates of the Proj. Districts        Umber
6.  GOI Nominee                                       Number
7.  Project Coordinator                             - Nmber-Secretary
District Level Steering Committee
1.   Sabbadhipati Zilla Parishad                      Chairmen
2.  District Magistrate                             - Working Chirman
3.  Karuadhakhya Jan. Swasthya Coommttee            - Nmber
4.  District Chlef Medical Officer of Health        - Number
5.  Executive Engineer, Public Work Dqpartm.nt  - Nmber
6.   Project Officer, IPP IV                        - Nmber-Secretary



-68-
ANNEX 7
INDIA : FOURTH POPULATION PROJECT - WEST BENGAL
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
Government of India
Family Welfare Yearbooks through 1982-83
Health for All by 2000 A.D. (New Delhi, 1981)
Health Statistics of India, 1983
Seventh Plan Working Group Papers
Government of West Bengal
Project Proposal (October 1984)
Monthly Fanily Welfare Reports, Demographic and
Evaluation Cell, State Bureau of Family Welfare
Health on the March, West Bengal, 1980
World Bank
J.P. Ranken, Consultant, Report on Training Needs in India
and West Bengal (July 1984)
T.S. Mehta, Consultant, Report on Population Education
(December 1984)
R.P. Worrall, Consultant, Report on Information, Education
and Communication (December 1984)
F.H.E. Walker, Consultant, Report on Civil Works,
Equipment, Furniture and Vehicles (December 1984)
S. Bhatnagar, Consultant, Report on Family Welfare Service
Delivery (December 1984)
M. Preymann, Consultant, Report on the Development of
State Institute of Health and Family Welfare (January 1985)



-69-
TABLE 1
INDLIA: POURTH POPULATION PROJECZ - WEST BENGAL
SELECTED DDqXKAPRIC DATA
Census         Census              Decade         Average          Estimted        Estinated
Years          Population          Increase       Annual           Crude           Crude
(Millions)            (Z)          Growth Rate     Birth Rate      Death Rate
(1)           per 1,000       per 1,000
Population      Population
1901           238.3
1911           252.0                 5.73           0.56            49.2             42.6
1921           251.2                -0.30          -0.03             48.1            47.2
1931           278.9                11.00           1.06            46.4             36.3
1941           318.5                14.23           1.34             45.2            31.2
1951           361.0                13.31           1.26             39.9            27.4
1961           439.1                21.64           1.98             40.9            22.8
1971           548.2                24.85           2.20             41.1            18.9
1981           685.2                24.99           2.25             33.9a/          12.5a/
: Sample Registration System (SRS) estimates.
Solrce: Visaria and Visaria, India's Population: Second and Growing, Table 2.



-70-
TAM   2
IOUI        UI POPOW=0  NOJUCT - VWS BENGAL
IWMIATI    RE DS 1985-2025/
TeaW           Projected          Aua  Ans.1           Crude Birth       Cru"De Iath
Pulatimi           Nate d fNtural       Rate per 1000      Rate per 1000
(id  IS            Ie)   _                (XL)i            Population
1960            687
1980-65                            2.15                 34.2              12.7
1965            765
1965-90                            1.97                 31.0              11.3
1990           6a"
1990-95                            1.73                 27.5              10.1
1995            920
19952000                           1.55                 25.0               9.4
2000            994
2000-05                            1.37                 22.5                8.8
2005           1065
2005-10                            1.16                 20.0               8.4
2010           1128
2010-15                            1.06                 18.9               8.3
2015           1190
2015-20                            1.00                 18.1               8.2
2020           1250
2020-25                             .91                 17.3               8.2
225            1309
-J CaimISted on te a_eWtio that N  - 1 by 2010
Source: World Bak populaio   projection.



-71-
TRBIZ 3
IDIA: FWMH POPULATIO  PROJECT - WEST BENGAL
SILCUED SOCIO-ECONIC AND DIIMLAPHIC DATA
FOR P PET DISCTS, WEST EMGAL MND INDIA
Project             wet             All
Districts           Bengal          India
Area (sq.ka.)                                            24,718              88,753         3.3 mln.
Population (willions)                     1981            11.16                54.6       685.2
Population Desoity (per oq.ka.)           1981              451                 615         216
Percent Urban                             1981               17                  26          23
Crude Birth Rate per 1000 pop.            1981              n.a.                 32          34
Rate of Natural Increase
per 1000 pop.                           1981              n.a.                 12          13
Tnfant Mortality Rate
per 1000 births                         1981              n.a.               n.a.         110
Percent Literacy (Male)                   1981               44                  50          47
(Fewale)                 1981              30                  30          25
(Total)                  1981              37                  41          36
Percent Growth                           1971-81           19.7                23.2        24.7
Average Anumal Growth Rate (Z)            1971-81          1.81                2.10        2.25
Sex Ratio (FI100GA)                       1981              933                 911         933
Percent Keligion (Hindu)                  1971               84                  78          83
(Muslls)                                   15                  20          11
(Qiristian)                                 -                   1           3
(other)                                     1                   1           3
Percent Scheduled Caste                   1981               26                  22          15
Percent Scheduled Tribe                   1981                9                   6           7
Hospital Bed/Population Ratio (Govt.)    1981             2,097               2,369       2,081
Doctor/Population Ratio (Govt.)           1981           17,245              17,289



-72-
TABLE 4
INDI&: FOURTH POPUIATION PROJECT - WEST BENGAL
POPULATION PROJECTIONS UNDER T1W ASSIIFPIONS OF  EILIT   DECLINE
Percent Change
1985           2000           2015           1985 - 2015
TOTAL POPIJLATION                                  (In Millions)
NRR- 1 by 2000                          765             951           1120              446
NRR- I by 2010                          765             994           1190              +56
CfIJ, Q    0-4
NRR- Ilby 2000                          111              90             98              -12
NRR  I  by 2010                         111             110            104              - 6
NOM  15-34
NRR- I by 2000                          122             175            183              +50
NRR - 1 by 2010                         122             175            204              +82
EJL&ENARY SCIZ0L CBILUEN (6-11)
NIR - 1 by 2000                         117             115            115              - 2
NRR -1 by 2010                          117             131            125              + 7
Source: IWrld Beak population projections.



-73-                                      TABII   5
INDIA: F1022  POPU[ATION PROJECT - WST lEGAL
INDIA.  esT BENGAL : FAMILY 1CLFARC AND MArRUAL AND CHILD HEALTH SERVIC  STATISrICS.
1979/80-1983/84
1979-60    1980-01    1981-82    1982-83    1983-4 /
ALL-INDA                                                        (In Thoumnds)
FAMILY PINING
Steriligaticos                                 1778       2053       2792        3988       4493
Vasectolees                                   473        439        573         584
Tubbctosl .                                  1305       1614       2219        3404
IU  Inoerttons                                  635        628        750        1096       2104
oral Pillll/                                     82         91         120        178        525
CbnvsntioiiZ Contracptivus2/                  2987       3718       4433        5775       7319
gquivalent Sterlizartions3r                    2165       2479       3301
111 Prooedures                                  360        388         427                   43h
Percent Eligible Couples
Currently Procected                          23.6       24.4       25.7        28.3       32.3
Ktf.ctively Protected                        22.3       22.7       23.7        25.9       29.2
MATNAAL AND  1D HEALT!
Tetanus (ST)                                   4746       5275       6547        6951       7453
Diptheria/Prtueis/Tetanu  (DT)                 6829       7147       9110        9220      10158
Dlptherla/T.atuse (DT)                        10731      10227       10745       9252       9716
Nutritional AD-la Praphylaicd (I_na)          11484      11065      11807       14474      15572
-;tritional Anemia Prophylaxis (COdldren)      9950       9558       12175     1WJb6       14187
Vitado A                                      16963      16643       17354      17965      15477
*T BDrAL
FMILY PlANNN
SterilUzations                                  156        210        217         270        369
v*Jectoalus                                    62         81         66          75
Tubectoedes                                    94        129         151        195
IUD lnsrtion.                                    21         31         32          39         45
Oral Pills'/                                    655          7          7           8         17
Crswntionl CoutraceptivI.2/                     106         91         109        132         32
Equivalent Sterilzatlone3r
NV Proc dur.                                     25         20         31          34         10
Percont ELiible Coples
Curretly Protected                           22.6       24.1       25.1        26.5       29.8
Efaectively Protected                        22.0       23.5       24.4        25.7       28.0
MATENtAL AND CHILD HEAL7N
Ttaws (Tr)                                      378        397        422         571        561
Dptberia/tPertusi/s'.tanue (DPT                 349        368        317         299        299
Diptheria/etas (UT)                             901        726        613         500        533
lAtritlinal Anema Prophylais (ln)              2192       1939       2068        2216       2364
Iatritltal Anda Prophylaxi  (Childre)         2089       18U1        1961       2298       2209
Vltaedn A                                      1356       1039        1124        985        860
LI Equivalet nml. more; calated as mber of cycles distrlbuted/13.
Z/ Equivalet munual _mNra; calculated as nmer of plees distributed/72.
7t C  cisted as amber of sterilstLon  plu nwbor of IUD ineertlos/3.
plea nmber of eqfivalent plll usrs/9  pin.umber of equivalet urs of
cuawatiosal comtraoeptIve/1l8.
A/ Provisionaal.
Souxce: Fmly Wblfam Pr_grin In Ina& Yearbooks.



-74-
TABIl 6
IDIA  FOURTH POPMUATIOW PROJECT - WESIU BEL
PROTECr DISTRICTS  FAMILY PEIANNC; SEMRICE STATISTICS, 1979180-1983/84
1979-80       1980-81       1981-82       1982-83       1983-64/
Sterillzatios                                     15370         19420         20364         27983         40531
VsectomLes
TubectomLes
D1D insertins                                       676          1A27          1271          1429          1950
Oral P1u                                                                        551           832           1910
Cnventionl Contraceptives                          6402          5566          8890         13793         16064
Equivalent Sterilizations
Percent Eligible Couples
Effectively Protected                                                        25.9          27.8          31.2
BRtBHIU
Sterilizatioas                                     6369         10277         10529         12998         17751
Vasectomdes
ThbectoLes
IUD InsertiLns                                                    647           650          1612          2206
Oral Pills                                                                      287           356           453
C:ventional Contraceptives                         3801          3779          5296          5127          7368
Equivalent Sterilizations
Percent Eligible Couples
Effectively Protected                                                        30.2          31.7           34.9
EANUN
Sterizations                                     948$         10748         13145         18006         21077
VmctomLes
Tubectosdes
-w  lisert4os                                       235           258           424           608           701
Oral Pills                                                                      261           405           486
Conventional Contraceptives                        4259          3147          2751          4032          4432
Equivalet Sterilizations
Percent Eligible Couples
Effectively Protected                                                        32.7          35.0          37.7
PURMIRUI
Sterilizations                                     5797          6455          6266          8870         11551
VmctouLes
Tbbectouies
DID insertions                                      783           526           348           623          1456
Oral Pils                                                                       107           278           835
Caventionl Contraceptives                          4115          3370          6573          8229         12712
EquiLvalet Sterilizations
Percent Eligible Couples
Effectively Protected                                                        25.9          27.8          31.2
FODR DISTRIClS
Steriliations                                     37022         46900         50304         67857         90910
Vasectomies
Tubectomiem
MD lInsrtions                                       783           526           348           623          1456
Oral Pills                                                                     1206          1871          3684
Convautional Comtracepties                        18577         15862         23510         31181         40576
Equivalent Sterilizatios
Perct Eligible Couples
Effectively Protected                                                        28.5          30.2          33.3
"I  Provisol.
Swume: Dez2grapbic and Evauatioan CeU. State Bureau of Pami1y Wklfare,
Dlrectorate of Eealtt Services, Goverment of Whst Bengal.



-75-
TAME 7
INDIA  POURTH PFJLAltZION PIOJZC  - WEST rDEGAL
HEALtH FACLITIES: NEWl CNSTI   IONS
Braziwra   Blrbtai     Bardhian   Pzu1iLya   Total
Populatin (mid-1988 in lIakbe)
lural no-tcrbal                                   22.73       20.50      36.31       15.53    95.07
kAral tribal                                       2.68        1.52        3.22        4.03     11.45
Total                                             25.41       22.02       39.53       19.56    107.52
dministrative Thlcs
Subdivisions                                          2           2           5           1        10
Quanchayats                                         190         169         224         169       752
Blacks                                               22          19          33          20        94
Overl Requiremet
t   s ter Q'  1/5000                                455         410         726         311
Total subeeaers / e 1/3000                           89          51         107         134
Total                                               544         461         833         445      2283
Old 5ACs (New PHCs)                                  67          57         104          52       280
PTu/cEA/RHs (- No. of Blacks)                        22          19          33          20        94
Tota2/                                               89          75         137          72       374
Separate Stbcenters                                 455         385         696         373      1909
Separate Subceuters
hquirmwnts                                          455         385         696         373      1909
wurrently Constructed                                63          34          45          20       162
Ourrently Rented                                    183         309         146          72       710
Currently Fznctionlng                              246         343         191          92       872
To be Established                                   209          42         505         281      1037
To be ConhLructed (- No. of Crepa;ncbsayats)3/      190         169         224         169       752
To be Rented                                         19          -          281         112       412
Old   Cs C(Km PliCm)
laquirensunts                                        67          57         104          52       280
Cwurently Constructed                                60          51          92          45       248
3urrently Rated                                      -           -           -           -
Currently Phctloning                                 60          51          92          45       248
To be Constructed                                     7           6          12           7        32
Old PUCs
Currently ibmctiooing                                22          19          33          20        94
COrrently Rented                                     -            2           1          -          3
To be Constructed                                    -            2           1          -          3
Suiammy - To be Constructed
Sublontecs                                          190         169         224         169       752
Old SUBC (New FILCI)                                  7           6          12           7        32
Old PHCs                                             -            2           1          -          3
t/  Incaiss both separate subeenters and those that are part of SCIPHCE/cM/Me.
2/ The   -   pHC/Wst/Rb  Lu deteruned by the nmber of blocks (one per block).  As per te drnft
Seventh Plan, the total nuber of supervisory institutions (cr SWEA or PliCH/CD/RIb) reqred
ha been. caculated on the bsis of apprxistely one t pervLoory Institution for five   parate
bcoenter. (or one supervisory iutitution for iil total uubcentera. The nmber of PRO/CM/RlI
ha  then been calculated by subtraction and in thls case  Drks out to absht cm PWIC/RII for
amzy three old SHCO.
3/ Calclated c  the bsis of  oin cnsrwted. searte submuter for each gra_pmcluat. On thi
buis lirbhh    district bas 169 Sran peuchayt but _  the district require  the eatabliblmt of
ooly 42 suhoeters to weet the nom. 127 constructed subeeters will replace rented fadUtis.



-76-                                      TAMZ   8
INDIA: FOURTH POPUIATION PROJECT - WST BENGAL
I}ALTH FACILIT=IKS:  IMD PQUPADATION
Barkr      Birbhsm    Bardbahan    urmijya Total
Old St3Cs (New P ) improvent I (6 BedtOT/Lab)1/           10           35         17          15      77
Old SHlCe (New PHCs) Improvetnt II (OT/Lab)I/             50           16        75           30    171
Old PHCB Currently Constructed                            21           14        26           18      79
Old PHCB Crrently Rented                                  -             2          1          -        3
CHC/RHs Currently Constxucted                              1            3         6            2      12
Old PHC/(EC/RHs Crrently Functioning                      22           19        33           20      94
Old PEHC to be Coostructed                                -             2          1          -        3
CEC/Nis requiretarit (1 of 4 Old PHC/(ZC/RH s)             6            5         8            5      24
Old PHGs to be Upgraded to CHC/RBs2/                       5            2          2           3      12
Old PHCs to be Improved2/                                 16           12        24           15      67
t/ UaLU also be refurbished.
1 Calculated as: No. of COC/AEs required less No. of CEC/RBs currently cemstructed.
3/ Calculated as: No. of fuLctioolng PHC/CHCs - (No. of CKs required plus No. of OLd PECs
to be constructed); win also be refurbisbed.



-77-
D:NE  9
Ir =  a: EC UXMA D5EXM - W   W,
PRO=C  DISIICS  IUaC1JU  FMUEN FMAN AVAUABMLL1  CI  Mt
1984/85   1965/86    1986/87    1987/88   1968/89   1969/90   1990g91
PFY       P12        PB         PY4        P15
Toal Addatwl        _ter tOD be StafEad1/        -         -          83         177        178        178       44
b .of Ws Repied (lb. ef SC   p1u ad               -          -         91         195        196        196       48
ND. .f IEtN    atri-g oE Yewr                   13662/    1643        1681       1927       1951       2183     2194
5% ktrriti                                        68        82         84          9          98        109      110
16. of MCWs at Bad of Year                      1298       1561      1597        1831       1853       2J74     2084
Ner Ws  mailable                                 345        121       330         120        330        120      330
TOCal Nb. of IWS at Eb3d Of Tear                1643       1681      1927        1951       2183       2194     2414
Total Adit1a1 MMIa RPulzd                         68         82        175        291        294        305       158
f=itm    p    Aditimal Staff Reued)
SLWPIW                                           277        38        155        -1713/       36      -U53/    172
S-ZpAs Net                                       252        35        141                     33                  156
a.ofRm*edR 93botr to beIstblisd                  252         35        125         -          -              -   -
(Tam  of 412 PAqulzd)
S-Ipus Net OEZatJ                                 -         -           16         -          33        -        156
2/ Seprte suoate  to be staffed (0-83-166-166-166-44) p   old    s to be staffed (0-0-10-11-11) plus old 1HCS
to bp. staffd       --i)               of sepcarte atent    tD be staffed Is it of dxoe   st=W isubekters
in Erdrtm district tiat il raplacor y rented oubaters; see Tb1e 7. Staff Is proviod In tbe year follw-
Lug cmetniction.
2, Fl= mVped to sissi  by Duty D11Rirg.
3/ i-Fits Im tse yeaa ca be mmde qp thru           aiditia,al tridng cira   at tainiDg scools  itside t}e project
districts, If nary..



-76-
TADIZ 10
tiB : Foam  POPMIATIaU IDIE  - EST HEAL
MIWIATIlOU: DWOUTII, EImCA    AND (DUIICATION
-twzcr Nan   l       RDA=   U            MOJZ.U               I RWECB   W             ECV R IRa
1                   2                    3                   4                    5
1. Orisaai        3305 ea".           3305 follo-p          3305 follw-up       3305 folow-up       3305 follow-p
Taing                              cAW.                  cams.               cam.                cAs.
2. F_ly           9200  eubtentr      11600 subater         14000 submter       16400 subcanter      18800 subeanter
lifar.         level maetin.       leel metingo.         level mtins.    level meting.           Itel metinp.
Adviory        682 blc& level      682 block lewl        682 blodc level     682 block level      682 block lewel
Contet         m_eting.            metin.-               mecing.             meting.             -metng..
hatngs        36 district         36 district           36 district         36 distrlct         36 district level
lewl metilnp.       level meting..       level metings.    level metinp.          eting.
2 State levl        2 Ste lewl           2 State levl         2 State leve        2 State level
metings.            metnap.              meting..             metingp.            meting.
3. VW             Supply of famly    Supply of fad ly       Supply of f  {ly    Sapply of f  sly    Supply of fmly
Ibteuials      welfare bad-        weml1ae band-         wlfare baud-        welfare bcad-       welfare band-
out mterial,        out material         out mterl            out material        out mterial
edutional           to YIEa.             to UIC..            to VE..              to VHC.
kits ad vll-
low regters
to IUG.
4. Primry         Provi.io  of        Provision of          Provision of        ProwLsion of         Provsin of
o              health educa-       helth eoduca-        health edwba-        health educa-       health educa-
Hbterils       tic  display        tion display          tien display        tlon display         tics displa
mterial to            aterial to         mterial to           mterial to          mterial to
primary             primay               primary              prIany              pri_ ry
schools.            schools.             schools.             schools.            schools.
S. Folk Msdim     Jatra perfor-       Jatra perfor-         Jatra perfor-       Jatra perfor-       Jatra perfor-
mason. in-          anons in-            n  ce  In-           Mces tn-            mances In-
Corporating         corporating          corporatinq corporating                  corpating
family mmlf re      fanfly wel-          fao1ly wel-          fmily wel-          famly wel-
m-sesag.            fare messages.       fare ceaage.         fare maussas.       fare masges.
6. Publlc         Produhction Of      Productien Of         Production Of       Prodection of       Production of
DLsplays       MaU painting maetal tablets              nrtal tablets        metal tablets      motl tablets
boarding.           and bs boards.       and bus boards.    and bus boards.       and bum boards.
artal tablets
ad bua boards.
7. Film           Production of       Production of         Productidn of       Production of        Production of
film  and           film  and            film  and            film and            film  aid
cn   slides.       cincle slided. cinemaslde.                clnen slides.       dnamlide.
8. Print Nadia    Advertisement       Advertiement          Advertlsement       Advertiement        Advertient
in  ewspapers.      in neMwppero.        'L-  walpapers.      in neimpapers.      In UmaspaperS.
Wbrkabops for       Wbrkhbops for        Wbrkshaps for        Wbrkshops for       lbrkshbps for
editors nAd         edtors and           editors and          editors mad         editors atd
writer. Quar-       writers. Cuar-       uriteru. Quar-       writers. Quar-      writers. Quar-
terly family        terly fadily         terly faily         terly fauily         terly family
welfare publics-   welfare publics-      welfare publice-   welfare publica-    welfare publica-
tiors.              tions.               tons.                tians.              tics.
7ANI              Tour by senior      Training/Re-          Training/Re-        TrMaiSAg/le-
offieors       training of          training of          trainng of
to arrnle out-    ZEC. staff.            Dt: staff.          IW staff.
State retrain-
ing of INC
staff (pre-
project).
Training/Re-
training of
INC staff.



-79-
TABLE 11
INDIA :FOURTH POeULATION PROJECr - WESr BENWAL
IMPLEMENTATION   POPULATION EDUCATION
PROJEC~r YEAR       PROJECr 'RER          PROJzEcr YEAR       PROJCr xYa           ROJECr YEAR
1                   2                    3                    4                   5
Degree            Training of         Training of           Lecture-cu-         Lecture-cum-        Lecture-cas-
Colleges/         college lec-         college              disoussion          discussion           discussion
Teacher           turers. Pre-         lecturers.           sessions. Con-       sessions. Con-      sessions. Con-
Education         paration of         Lecutre-cum-          tests and de-        tests and de-       tests and de-
reading books.      discussions.         bates.  Evalua-      bates. Evalua-      bates.  Evalua-
Preparation         Contests and          tion.               tion.               tion.
of teaching         debates.
kits.
Adult             Training of         Training of           Production of       Evaluation.
Education         project             project               folders.
officers and        officers and         Evaluation.
supervisors.        supervisors.
Curriculum          Production
development.        of training
Preparation         kits. Produc-
of training         tion of
kits.               folders.
Worker            Training of          Orientation of       Orientation of      Orientation of       Orientation of
Education         Labor Welfare       worker-t eachers.     worker-teachers.    worker-teachers.    worker-teachers.
Officers.           Preparation           Orientation of      Orientation of      Orientation of
Orientation         and distribu-         pla- :-level        pLant-level         plant-level
of worker-          tion of pai-         worker-teachers.    worker-teachers.    worker-teachers.
teachers.           phlets. Produc-
Preparation         tion of kits.
and distribu-
tion of pan-
phlets.
Preparation of
kits.
Panchayst         Orientation of       Orientation of       Orientation of      Orientation of
System            Zila Parishad       granpanchayat         Zila Parishad       graqsanchayat
Sabhapatis.         members. Prepa-       Sabhapatis.         members.
Orientation of      ration and            trientation of
gram-safiti         Dtstrtbutton          gra -samntt
S&bbapatis.         of folders.          Sa.4hapatis.
trientatlon of                           Orientation of
grampanchayat                             grai,manchayat
pradhans. Pre-                           pradh.ns. Orien-
paration of                               tation of gram
training anual.                          panchayat enn
bers. Distribu-
tion of folders.



-80-                              TA2BLE   12
INDIA    FOURTH POPULATION PROJECT - WEST BENGAL
ESTIMATED  COSTS BY COMPONENT AND YEAR
(In Hundred Thousands of Rupees)
(Rs.)                              (USs '000)                     Z Total
-  Foruign   Base
Local        Foreign         lotal          Local  Foreign   Total    Exchange    Costs
-=5- - --~~2==2=  ==  -  --= 5=_== --=  ;=S===  =3==
A. SERVICE DELIUERY                        517,875,149.56 52,990,803.57  5700765P953.12 43,156.26 4,407.57 47,563.83          9       71
B. IPEORhATIONt EDUCATION I COIIHUNICATION   45492i,236.32  293239991.66    47P916,227.99  34791.02  193.67 3,984.69          5        6
C. PWPULATION EDUCATION                      9,2639731.06    772,729.84    1,036,460v90    771.98   64.39   836.37            8        I
DB TRAINING                                1020347,7Eh04  9,154,532.07   111,502,510.11  8,529.00  762.88 9P29l8B             8       14
E. RESEARCH I EVALUATION                    139247v545.91    777,84879    144025P394.70   1,103.96   64.82  1,168.78          6        2
F. PROJECT NANASEHENT                       47010,137.10  2,234,068.50    49,P244205.61   3.917.51   186.17 4,103.68         5        6
Total BASEUNE COSTS                          735,236,778.00 68,153974.43   8039390,752.43  61,269.73 5679.50 66,949.23          8      100
Physical Contingnwies                      22,765,279.07  2,796P181.03    254561.460.10   1,897.11   233.02 2,130.12        11        3
Price Continrencies                       226,852,787.96 18,981,046.34  245M703.834.30  18,904.40 1,570.92 20,475.32         8       31
Total PROJECT COSTS                          984,854.845.03 89,801,201.81 1,074,656.046.90 82,071*24 7,483.43 899554.67         8      134
=== ___._-__---_5 =- u         = := =C=   2 = _ =   C Q



-81-                                   TABLE  12
INDIA    FOURTH POPULATION PROJECT - WEST BENGAL
ESTIMATED COSTS BY EXPENDITURE CATEGORY AND YFAR
(In Hundred Thousands of Rupees)
(Rs.)                           (USS 0003                    I Total
2 Foruisn  Base
Local       Foreign        Total         Local  Foreign  Total    Exchane   Costs
I. INESTIENT COSTS
A. CIVIL liORS                         412i816.842.86 SO.902019.88  4630718,8627*4 34,401.40 4,241.83 39.643.24    11      58
B. FURNITURE                            20,299082.14 2.002.875.60   22.301.957.74  1691.59  166.91 1,B98.50         9       3
C. EDUIPIENT                            224189656.36 3,018,725.20   25,20BP381.56  1.849.14  251.56 2100.70       12       3
D. UEHICLES                            22,006.202.95 2.171,327.50   24,177.530.45  1,833.85  180.94 2,014.79        9       t
Total INUSTNENT COSTS                    477,311,714.32 58094,948.17  535,406,732.49 391775.98 4,S41.25 44617.23     11      67
II. RECURREUT COSTS
A. SARIES                             179,479,299.26          -  179,479,299.26 14,996.61       - 14,956.61        -       22
B. UEJICLE OPERATION I NAINTENANCE      2,0l;-394.60 6,0469096.22    8.064,490.92    169.20  503.84   672.04      75        1
C. OTHER OPERATIONAL I NAINTENMCE COSTS  76,427,299.82 4,012.930.04   90,440,229.96  6,368.94  334.4 b 6.703.35    5       10
Total RECURRENT CSTS                     257,924'9"3.68 l0,059026.26  267,984,019.94 21,493.75  138.25 22t332.00       4      33
Total BASELINE COSTS                      735,236,778.00 68,153974.43  803.390P752.43 61i269.73 5679.50 663949.23       8     100
Physical Contingencies                  22,765.279.07 20796.181.03   25,561,460.10  1,897.11  233.02 2.130,12       11       3
Price Contingenies                      226v852,787.96 18.9510446.34  245,703,834.31  18.04,40 1,570.92 209475.32    8      31
Total PROJECT COSTS                       984.854,845.02 89,9019201.81 1.074.6564046.80 82,071.24 7,483.43 89,554.67    8     134



-82.-
TABLE 12
INDIA    FOURTH  POPULATION PROJECT - WEST BENGAL
ESTIMATED COSTS BY EXPENDITURE CATEGORY AND CGMPONENT
(In Hundred Thousands of Rupees)
Pmical
INFORNITIONi                                                               Contingencies
SERVICE    EDUCATION I  POPUATION                RESEARCH t   PROJECT
DELIVERY  WO UNICATION  EDUCATION   TRAINING  EVALUATION  WNAECENT   Total             2    AKount
I. INVESTHENT COSTS
A. CIVIL HORKS                               4 000.01              -            -    637.18            -            -   4,637.19    5.0  231.86
9. FURNITURE                                   161.39              -         0.40     50.76         5.94         4.53     223.02    5.0   11.15
C. EQUIPMENT                                   189.48          13.70         3.78     21.00        20.24         4.88     252.08    5.0   12.60
D. YENICLES                                    144 .90         26.48         6.06     31.25         1.75       31.33      241.79    0.0    0.00
Total INUESTHENT COSTS                          4494,79           40,18        10.24    740.19        27.93        40.75   5,354.07    4.8  255.61
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. SALARIES                                 1.007.15          61.50        12.33    307.29        36.45      370.08   1,794.79    0.0    0. 0
9. VEHICLE OPERATION I 9IAINTENANCE            42.14           0.63         4.02     11.94         1.26       20.67       80.64    0.0    0.00
C. OTHER OPERATIONAL I NAINTENANCE COSTS    163.59           37c.85        73.78     55.62        74.62       60.95      804.40    0.0    0.00
Total RECURRENT COSTS                           1.212.BB         437.98        90.13    374.84       112.33       451.70   2,679.84    0.0    0.00
Total BASELINE COSTS                             50707.66         478.16       100.36  1,115.03       140.25       492.44   8,033.91    3.2  255.61
Prhsical Continsenczes                          217.49           0.69         0.21     35.45         1.31         0.47     255.M1   0.0    0.00
Price Continsencies                           1,797.92         128.15        24.84    336.74        34.91      134.41   29457.04    2.8   69.84
Total PROJECT COSTS                              7.723.07         607.00       125,41  1.487.21       176.55      627.33  10.746.56    3.0  325.46
R--=:  _C=   _      ___S    _ =:   _===   8_~~~~~~~--z -  ==   =e
Taxes                                          512.63           29.03         6.43     87.70         7.58       12.40    6b5.76    4.0   26.31
Fareign Exchange                                70 .39          25.68         9.57    120.03         9.41       27.94      89.01    3.9   35.11



-83-
TABLE 13
INDIA: FOUEM POPULATlON PROJECT - WEST BENGAL
ESTIMATED DISBURSEHIIS SCHEDULE
(USs Mllon)
IDA Pnancing
AMDxmt           Cuiulative
FY 1986
December 31, 1985                            .2                .2
March 31, 1986                               .4                .6
June 30, 1986                                .4               1.0
FY 1987
September 30, 1986                           .6               1.6
December 31, 1986                            .8               2.4
March 31, 1987                              1.0               3.4
..i^ 30, 1987                               1.5               4.9
F- 1988
September 30, 1987                          1.5               6.4
December 31, 1987                           2.0               8.4
March 31, 1988                              2.3              10.7
June 30, 1988                               2.6              13.3
FT 1989
September 30, 1988                          3.0              16.3
December 31, 1988                           3.0              19.3
March 31, 1989                              3.3              22.6
June 30, 1989                               3.5              26.1
FT 1990
September 30, 1989                         3.5               29.6
December 31, 1989                           4.0              33.6
March 31, 1990                              4.0              37.6
June 30, 1990                               3.5              41.1
FT 1991
September 30, 1990                          3.0              44.1
December 31, 1990                           2.5              46.6
March 31, 1991                              2.0              48.6
June. 30, 1991                              1.4              50.C
FT 1992
September 10, 1991                          1.0              51.0



-84-
CHART I
ID1IA: 1EUWH FOULATON PROJECr - W.Sr  GAL
PF4Ucr MANEr  aANION
PamAr   w
c-~~~ .       X  ~*r _e                                         _
93mamm              Dn     TE OF'       STEmm amrrEWTARAHNE&1 aUR a
(PO. Exr N           wmErAff HLqZH                                    Pi
DEMEME ar                                  LtAIUR IMFARE
D:                   AD= eUCTN                   I                      ML            (ma9mo
PAN2IA TS          (POP. EMION)          9ECiL WJMEKARt         (PiP. EwJAT[O
(Pap. EILATI)                             (RDJE       T
AWIrWOAL DDECMR
!WALx AND
FAMILY WEFARE
(Staff g. trdngr, IDC,
servle statisti,, aad
proauu2unt of vehicles,
edlnpm= sod fumiture)
EALTH AND FAMKY  WEFABE GFICEI
Dscr
-RW LFnCEJ_



(I) &L iOlMIiIf
I_III                                                                                                                  (Z)  dxpVq         vJ ijm
_zcm                               l                                                 T(t9X)a                                                          P           3
(C)) 344m MU M
__ ~~I I I                                                                                                                                                       11                                                                                           (1Xm
vx_ncocr- -------I2                                                                                                                                                                                                 (il) 1 1  1d 11       3.x
-- -         I-   -                                                -----  - --:I   II n wMamlm
- - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - -   -   -   - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - -   -   -   - - - - - - -,



* *,   I.)...JHIMACHAE L    ~   W                    IIBRD 18664
n,,_>    oJ   woz   (    PRAOESH' .
a.3        PAKISTAN              PJNIJAB                                     C H I N A
A~~~~~~. ~ .
-I..-    *~~~~C.
/   _ H~ARYANAjd                        _r
}~w~.{  > "  S      o.    N F PAL
LITTAR PRADESH    ..(n@h.fBHUTAN
RAJASIHAN         -    .--
I-'-^ B_g       >                    IHAM '--ANGLADESH
R  GUJARAT       aaJxinn
(, 5 ~~~~~~MADHY A PRADESH ^r>^ 
.   ' -    e                                   <      r v    sc^>-.t -e  ar-
a1                      ,_ v    MA H A R AS H rR A AmAR,ASHTRA
Bay Of Bsengal
|~                                           /         
'Nydwaba            v'
ANDHRAINA
A r abin hD .                                              POPULATIOJN PROJECT IV
ttS _||&, 1 _ ~~~~~~~PapuIaIsP'cetWNprcetodIatgIcw
S t at             X                          )   ~    PSJntl90|# cw
IK A A T              A AM                   tWld 1Ol_ now31. 1UM
^MILTAIL NADU                    0  Natonal capital
-                   k}                |             ~~~~~~~~~~~~- - DNT&Ct DOunft""
K   L Al                              Swu aft_s  Unlion Xwtoy bouktr"
I n *- terntinal boundn r
0      200     4        n0                            SRI
Kidlers                                    LANKA
January 19Yt






